lunges. 30 and then 15. 25. 25 and 12. Begin when ready. Slow lunges. There's no rush to complete these. The purpose is the pain. 22 doing great guys. 23. Nice to slow on the way down. Gentle touch with the knee. 24. 25. Stay facing forward. Face the camera. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. Couple breath. Great guys doing great. We got two more sets left. And that's the whole workout. 25 and 12 again. Slow. Gentle touches of the knee. Begin now. 24. 25. Okay. Bonus round. I want you to squat and stay at the bottom with your chest upright until I say up. That's how every squat is going to work until we're nice and cook. Good to go. Down. Up. Heels and toes. Tyler, there you go. Down. Chest up. Up. Down. Hold. Up. Up. Down. Hold. Up. Again. Slow. Chest up. Up. And last one. Slow. Up. Up. And last one. Slow. Up. And last one. Slow. Up. Up. Up. Hold. Keep your chest up as much as you can. Stick with me. Stick with me almost there. Up and done. Good shit fellas. That hurt. That was solid. That hurt me watching. Good stuff. Good stuff. Good stuff. Here's our stuff. Feels overqualified. Look at them legs. Couple observations. About elite level crossfit. One is as far as I can tell they don't have a gas tank. I don't know where the stuff comes from, but they just keep going. It's strange. Nothing is nobody really took a lot of big breaths the entire time. Nobody's out of breath. Again, very strange. Another thing. They do tend to revert back to sport style technique of getting the job done quick and efficiently versus exposing the muscles. So there has to be lots of queuing to make sure we do things on purpose inefficiently to get the target muscles hit versus just doing the job. That being said, these guys take instruction like machines and zero complaining. And at the end of every set at which I thought they were for sure going to die. They were just like, yeah, that sucked. And then they just kind of walk off. It's weird. It's surreal. This is not their first workout. It's not their first 1500th workout. Unbelievable. Gentlemen. An honor. An honor. And I'm sorry about what happens to your legs in the next few days. Are you guys competitive bodybuilders now? Is it official? Oh, yeah, we're there. This is the transition. This is all the attorney's 22. Yeah. So what do you guys think of a workout? It's good. It's hard. Definitely something I'd be to do more of just what you've got. It was left knee just where I tore that man's head and just tried to strengthen everything around it. You know, just like you're saying, we do more sports specific stuff. A efficiency. It's not really worried about isolating a particular muscle or older I get. And it'd probably be more advantageous even when I was younger to do more target. Sure. I think you know, fine things that are going to target and strengthen things around that knee. Sure. Any type of injury? That's something I've learned with this shoulder. You know, I've got a couple of stairs on the rotator cuff just from 13 years of competitive CrossFit. I get it's going to happen. So I can strengthen the delt, the packs, the rhomboids, everything around it. Keep serving. It's everything stable. So that's something that I've learned over the last. I'm not. I've known it. I just don't like to revert back to that. I think it's not as fun as it's not as easy as what we do. I want to come in here and hurt because that's where the way we're programmed. And so it's good to do this type of stuff. Slightly more focused. Yeah more focused. Think about what muscles are getting, uh, innovative and, you know, a little bit of kinesthetic awareness of thinking about, all right, we're no, I'm trying to target something here. I'm trying to, you know, strengthen and grow. Yes. Different science. Yes. What's the secret to the hair? Why is it so luscious and why is it so full of volume? I don't know. I haven't said it in a while. Just genetics. Just raw talent. Yeah. Thanks, Mom. Yeah. Of course. Cheating. Um, I'll have hair tips later. You guys know this. I'll see you in the hair channel. Yeah. What are you asking me? I'm like, look, I'm trying to get to that. I'm just gifted. Yeah. I'm just saying. Gentlemen, thank you so much for your time. Thank you for humoring my absurd nonsense of humor. Thank you.

We've got all the time in the world for crying. Let's fucking get it on. I'll tell you what I tell everyone. The better your technique, the harder it is, the less you got it to do. Dear division of competition. Wellness. Also wellness? Do you think it would be what your shit? Matt, yeah. No. Matt, ever. I'll take care. You don't you worry, I'll. I'll. Don't worry. Don't worry. Don't worry. I'm not going to say it. Watch. You get to go? Hey folks, doctor Mike here and well, that's I'm your pro-Jair Puebler's usual. Today we have two special guests. Tweet. And Kayla. Tweet is a competitive wellness. I mean, I'm talking about athlete and she looks well. What up? Kayla. Is a woman of international mystery. I was like, hey, do you compete? She said, don't you worry about what I do? And I was like, what division? She's like, why don't you get out of my face about that shit? And I was like, listen, are we cool? And she's like, yeah, as long as you don't get shanked up in this amount of fucking, she's a stabbing. I recovered luckily. She doesn't even have shit to say. You want to find out about her good luck? But she's here to show us how real training works. If she feels like it though, maybe not. And then I should have a mystery. She's going to do what she does. We're going to do a workout that has glutes. It has hamstrings. It has quads. And it also has a lot of pain. We don't you ladies worry about that. Don't worry. So for stiff leg and deadlift, we're absolutely hitting the ham's. And the glutes and the best way to do that is to pre-stretch by making sure to and to really tilt the pelvis. You want to push that butt back, tummy out, chest up, and descend ultra slow. It's going to be a temptation to let your knee slide forward. Don't do that. Keep your knees back just slightly out of knockout. That will put all the real stress on your hands. You're going to feel deep stretching pain. When you do, get a little bit into that pain. Hold it for a second. And then come back up. That's the way to do these. Set the five to ten. Yeah, let's do it. The chest is just a little bit back. A little bit back. Last one. Big chest. Far close. John told to come back up. And then as if you're going to do another and just put it down. Big chest. Slow. Good. Oh. Ha ha. Let's go two more. Slow. Flut up. Gentle touch. Up. Good. One more. Slow. Back to open. It's open. Yeah. Open the way up too. Up. There you go. As if another slow flow. Chest up. Back. Slow. And rack. Good job. Yes. Yes. Yes. As if another slow. Big chest. Yeah. And that's a good stop. Good stop. This will get your lower back on. Part of the exercise. Again. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, slow, slow, slow, slow, slow. Oh yeah. Gentle touch. And up fast. And then as if another go down slow. Pretend you got another one coming. Big chest. Yeah. There you go. Slow. Control. Control. Control. Let go. Holy shit. That was awesome. Wow. Wow. There you go. There you go. Front, front, elevated. Smith machine, lunges. That was like a lot of stuff. And it is. But this is an excellent, excellent, glute exercise. A couple of things to keep in mind here. One, we elevate the front foot to stretch that front glute the most. That means the front glute is the target. That means your rear foot is going to be used only for stabilization purposes. All of your weight or as much of it as possible is on that front foot. Don't get too shy about using the rear foot. But especially on the way down just use it as a time little point to control your weight. And on the way up if you need to help people use it a little bit. Generally speaking, you want to use it as little as possible. It's really almost a single leg movement. This will stretch the living. Grab out of your glutes. One last big piece of advice is go slow on the way down. Slowly stop at the bottom. Give it a shot. Let's see how these ladies do. We're sharp on that front leg. Not bad. Back legs for stability. We'll need if you need an extra help. Good. Especially on the way down gentle on the back leg. All in the front. Let's go tweak. Last two reps here. Up. Last rep. Go. Right now. Slow. Control. Jensen's holding on right here. It's not going to fall. Oh, oh, oh, oh. Rack. Oh, yeah. Oh shit. How fun. That was not a pause. Do it again. Let's go slow. The sand. Slow. Slow. Wait. Up. Yeah, Rack. We're learning all our pauses today. Good stop. Good stop. About 10 seconds. I can tell we'll hit it again. Slow. Pause. Up. Two more. Slow. Front foot. Front foot. Front foot. Good pause. Up. One more. Last one. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Pause. Wait. Up. You did it. That should give us the distrustful eyes. After she unwrap that, she's like. I hate everyone. That's it, right? I got it all. Okay. I heard this looking at you. I kind of. I don't even work out. Whatever. I literally don't. Wow. Come on. Go. God damn it. Get up. Two. One last one. Careful with the swearing God's listening. Slow. Slow. Wait for it. Up. Go. Go. Rack. Go stop. Stop. Go. Up. Two more. Two more on your done. The last two sets of this exercise. Last two reps here. Up. Pause this one for me. You're taking it. Come on. Take it from me. I'm right here. Slow. Slow. Pause. Up. Go. Go. Stop. Out of trouble. Stop. Got damn it. I'm crawling away. Boom. It's okay to lay down. You're just all gonna make fun of you for a little bit. Yeah. Oh my god. One more Kayla. Let's fucking go. Use that front leg. One now. Good. Take it time. Good stop. Pause on the stretch. Not on that back knee. Pause right there. Knock them up. Test. Let's go. Let's go. Pause. Drop. Front leg. You got one more. You got one more Kayla. Let's go. Deep stretch. Pause on the stretch. Come on. Oh. Oh, he hit that. You know Craig. I'm not crying. Are those tears again? Second person to cry on the channel. Amstring. Done. Glutes. Done. Quads. Let's finish them off. The lower back is gonna be a little tired. Amstring's posterior chain is a limiting factor. That means something like a squat could work. But we're gonna play it safe and make sure that quads of limiting factor with full range of motion. Leg presses. That's a 10 to 20 reps. Ladies. Good luck. Press. Two more. Let's go. Slow control. Deep pause. Up. One more down. Right away down. Slow. Chest up. Pause it. Pull. Up. Oh. Fuck it. One more. Hey, you're right. Go. Slow. Slow. Control. Wait for it. Up. Go. Go. Go. Okay. On the way up. Open. Yeah. Two more. Two more. Don't you look for those handles. Same thing. You're gonna use your foot. Great. Control. Control. Control. Control. Control. Up. Go. One more. Down. Down. Suffering time. Embrace it. Embrace it. You're the fucking shit. You're the fucking shit. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Fuck down. There you go. Good. Good. Good. That was great. And it was hard. That was really good. That was really good. She's gonna make it. It's got to move it. Cheers out at least. Let me do it. It's not sure about you. I'm not sure. We lost a few people like Hammer before. We'll notify your next of kin. We'll close together. So it's really going to have some interesting after this. Okay. Daddy. As soon as you're done with these leg presses, you're going to get up right here. You're going to face that way and you're going to go like this. And you're going to do bodyweight squats. At the bottom, you pause when you come up. You go right back down. Oh, boy. We're sorry. Michael loves it. Okay. Michael loves it. The YouTubers love it. Yeah. And that thoughts all there is in my world. Oh yeah. One three. One two. So rest breathe right there. Lock it out. Rest some breathe. Two left. Two left of a whole day. Hit it. Let's go. Go go. Go go. Pause. Pause. Press. Hit open. That's what I'm going to go. Now. Slow. Up. Go go go go go go go. Rack. Get on the way. I'm going to go. Stand right over here. Full squats only. Down. Go go go go slow. Pause. Up. Down. Slow. We're the fucking shit. You're a fucking warrior. Got it. Stand up. Go. One more go. Nobody's in quick. We just. Slow. We just on the way up. Up. One more go. Go go go go go go. She's going to be quad in this level. Don't make any weight. Weight. Weight. Stand up. That's it. You're done. I'm sorry. What's going on? Let's go. I was going to do it. I was going to do it. I was going to do it. I was going to do it. I was going to do it. I was going to do it. That was dope as fuck. You're the shit. You take all the time you need down there. Right back down. Come on. We want you to suffer. That's why we're here. We're not here. We're not here. We're not here. You're not here. We're here to push you. You can do this. Poor. Let's go. Let's go. Press. Right back down. Burn that shit. Press. Come on. Right back down. Yes. Go. Strong. Push. Push. Push. Push. Block it out. You're good. Just walk it out. Come on. Come on. Begin. Control. Deep. Press. Yes. Control. Deep. Go. Move it. Go. There we go. Drag. Up. Stand up. Right up. Right up. Right up. Up. Down. Slow. Control. Control. Control. Control. Up. We've got all the time in the world for crying. Let's fucking get it on. I'll tell you what. The better you've got. The harder it is, the less you've got to do. Wait. Up. One more. Go. Slow. Open. Down. Hold on. Spulsive. Wait. Up. Up. And I sit here down here. Good. We're done. We're done. We're done. We're done. We're done. We're done. We're done. We're done. We're done. We're done. There's no pressure for you to stand up. You can stay awake. Seed in her laying as long as you like. Oh, Scott. Make sure you're getting all this. This is fucked up. This is a Christian jam. You're my old man. Mommy. My mouth is so dry. You're wetting my mouth. I'm just putting your mouth but I don't have any foot. Oh my god. I'm just putting your mouth but I don't have any foot. Oh my god. All right. So things happened. Leg training was done. Here's the thing. These ladies were on a plane super early in the morning to come over to Vegas. They get off the plane. And one of them has like a flip phone. And it's like, he's just like, you know what up. It is Jared. He's like, you got boost mobile. She's like, yeah, I got that whole thing. Anyway, come to the gym right now. We're going to do a leg session, bring your girl and tweez. All right. That's the start. Now, tweez is the VIP type of type of girl. So she closes the shit. She throws her phone away because she only uses one phone at a time. Ever. I never used the same phone twice. Let's direct tweez. And then Kayla came through and she was like, watch this. She pushed another girl right out of the way. And just did the most technical, beautiful leg workout. Anyone ever third, how you ladies feeling? Great. Yeah. They're convincing for feeling great. They're like barely able to stand as evidence guys waiting not got out of the park. Jared and you last final parting thoughts. I was also, if you'd paint like that and she's going for a pro card next year. So she did one show. She just real. You're gonna show three of which you know we're on. I did like six shows with what the hell girl. Anyway, if you're someone nice for life, you want to go hard train like a girl. We'll see you guys next time.

Am I reading this right? Holy shit. This container, when I do not have very large hands. 22 grams of protein, pretty good. 11 grams of carbs, piece, 21 grams of fat. Scott, this is 150 calories. Nemchia's better taste like semen in my mouth. That I've just been regular semen. I mean the semen of a man who's accomplished something. Like a dock worker or a lumberjack. A man that works with his hands will not a macro friendly food. Hey folks, I'm Dr. Mike. I used to be a professor of exercise and nutrition. And I am trying a bunch of different protein chips so that I can suffer for your entertainment. I mean recommend great brands. Let's do it. Quest Original Style, protein chips, cheddar and sour cream flavor. Let me take a look at the macro. But first, I actually just got done working out an hour from this video. So I have my Gatorade here, 60 grams of carbs from Gatorade powder. I need carbohydrates and protein. I'm going to get some protein from just trying these chips. But I need a little bit of a protein boost. The genius shot is a product that actually had a hand in creating. It has 23 grams of protein, zero grams of carbs, zero grams of fat. It's kind of incomparable. And so any meal that you eat with plenty of protein and maybe not so much protein, but plenty of fats and carbs, you can just spike it by having one of these. Scott, you ever had Quest before? What would you think about it? So these chips are some of the best macros you can get in a chip. It's a 19 grams of protein, four grams of net carbs and five grams of fat. 140 total calories, that's real good. And the cheddar and sour cream flavor, I must admit I've had before. No, it worked. I must have worked out so hard before this that I got really weak. Alright, so I'm going to be evaluating these chips on pure nonsense because I'm not a food critic and I've no clue what I'm talking about. I do like to evaluate on appearance and texture and taste and after taste as well. I'm not a appearances dope. They look like stars, right? This got stars in the sky. Let's do it. Very crispy, very crunchy, very good. Now, if you're expecting a grain type of feel, you won't get it. But I got to say, these are just good. Plus, always makes good share. Last, you're my people. This is awesome. Let's do the next one, Scott. Mmm. Oh, alright. The Atkins' Proting chips Ranch flavor, 13 grams of protein, not a ton. We got four grams of net carbs, pretty good. Seven grams of fat. Seven grams of fat isn't terrible, but the macros are not as good. Straight up as the crust chips, so I'm macros. I would use these like a sea. Let's find out how they taste. It's claimed they are baked and not fried, which is nice. I'm highly managed to bake seven grams of fat into this thing. I kid, I kid. Alright. Mmm, smell like much of sea. Ooh, they're Scott. They're kind of puffy. No, I'm the colors interesting. No, I suppose, I'll off-yellow. texture-wise they're very good. They're crunchy, but very, very fluffy and light. For those of you folks that are being regular chips or crisps that you call them on the rest of the world, none of these are going to taste like freedom-laze, or whatever, they're not. But if you assume that they taste like disgusting, terrible protein medicine, you'll be very pleasantly surprised, because once you get over the initial shock, they're not actually like competitive with actual chips and tastes, they're good, man. These are good. I have no complaints. No. Very good. Now, for macros, not great. For texture and taste, quite good. Alright, Atkins. Not terrible. Next. Natural endurance, plant-based protein chips, not your flavored. Made without a cotta oil, because white people exist. 14 grams of protein, 6 grams of fat, definitely something I have a genius shot with, because that's not a lot of protein to fat ratio. Plenty of carbs, actually. I can believe that it's plant-based. Oh, hey Scott, it's kosher. Nice. Oh, for you. Thank God. It's made of pea protein, soy protein concentrate, lentils, flour, etc. Kind of nice, so the protein quality here won't be as high, so while you're eating 14 grams of protein, it really probably converts more like 10 usable grams for getting a jacked. I do, I got to say, I do love the color. Blake Scott, isn't this the kind of orange that you just want to put inside of yourself? Yes, nice bag. And feel happy. It's very nice bag, the black and orange. Oh, wait, hold on. Yeah, Matt, that's right. It's like a stealth bag. They say they have a little corporate thing here. Whatever your passion is, be sure to pack a bag of natural endurance, protein chips, along for the ride. I love these conditional statements. Do you do things, aren't even not do things? Well, yeah. Well, you'll love our protein chips just in case you exist. And if you don't exist, it's two chips for free. That is a lot of corporate speak for let's get it going. The bag is crunchy. Ooh, this smells like some of those weird Asian jerky protein products we try to prefer. Oh. This smells like the back of an old barn, where there's not any horses anymore, but you know, horses have been there a long time, and it's kind of caked into shit. Relatively lifeless, very very earthy looking chip. Not quite as orange as it appears on the cover, but, you know, should bees like that? The crunchiness out of control. The crunchiest chip I've tried so far. Feels like it's filling me up. I don't taste anything natural related to be completely honest. Those real talk. Are they bad? No, they're quite good. The avocado oil and stuff, it's dope. This probably one of the healthiest chips you've ever eaten. So if you're into natural endurance and health and being a vegan, translation your Caucasian, this is your chip. Have a few more. They're not bad at all. Roan. Wild is the first one bold enough to craft a delicious chip from one or percent natural chicken. Our spicy casso blends hints of smoked chip poke-late, and roasted jalapeno with a deliciously-melty-aged cheddar cheese. It's a kefiesta for your taste buds. Saver-freely crunch wildly. All right. It's very exciting. This is a very robust back. You can... Can't even break the chips open. This is dope. All right. I would say that's the second most well-constructed container of all the chips we have here today. Oh, there's an even more well-constructed one. Yes. That's intense. Ah, Scotland's wrong with me. What's this for? I guess they're really control your intake by just not letting you open the bag. Am I mistreating an instruction? Cut! Go to commercial. The RP-i-perchofi app has dozens of pre-meed workout templates. No, hold on. Hold on. I got a hack. Yeah. Yeah. Scused my way into that one. Ooh. Oh, wow. They're colored very, very interestingly as compelling. Ooh. They smell really good. They smell like actual case, though. What the hell? 13 grams of fat they had better. Holy shit. They're spicy. Wow. Stop. These are really good. I mean, should be. If you're not having one of those macros days, or if you just want to get some genius shots and a couple of bags of these, so you bounce out the protein, make it worthwhile for the fats. This is dope. That's like a more fat than a fried chip. Like two-today chips. You got in the store. Yeah. We got damn fat tastes good, because holy shit guys, these are legitimately good. But they're just good. Because I'm Russian and to me, pizza is spicy. So it was black pepper. These are very spicy. But for most people, I think they would just be pleasantly spicy. And I usually don't like spicy food, but... Man. Try what these chips are like. Come home with someone. You just need it a night with another human. You know, just you just need a touch. They don't look so attractive. Oh, just don't. 13 grams of fat. What the hell? I don't know. A couple of sumer wrestlers. But they put it on you. And you're like, Damn, if I've been doing my whole life without you in my life, this is good. Scott, these are good, bro. And afterwards, you don't even have to just you don't even have to do the awkward thing. We're like, and she gets out out of the bed. It's like a saddening. She's like, I gotta go. You don't even have to be like, Oh, but you just like reach out. You're like, pound it, respect. You're in my phone anytime you need to unleash the beast. Can we call them a protein chip, though? So what I'm gonna call them? One protein to fat ratio. Here's what I'm gonna call them. Oh. Yeah, I heard it in the right. It's a little bit lame. It's not ideal. I say this. There are protein chip, but like 210 calories per bag, your team grams are protein, 13 fat, seven carbs. I wouldn't really call them macro friendly. You got to figure out a fitness journey. And you're trying to like, cut some fat, lose some weight. Probably not your number one choice. But if you want some protein, you have it a fun night with snacks. You're high in edible marijuana. If you're even smokeable. She's looking to this. While you guys did a great thing. Hit me. Good. Why more is something that we can't do? We can't. Oh my god. Power crunch. Protein crisps. Barbecue flavor. This is like the, um, once you pop, you can't stop. What are those called? Pringles. Pringles. And Scott, remember Pringles commercials from back in the day? Dude, they're great. Do you have to quote if Pringles had a low fat Pringles? I would hammer them. Pringles. Someone from corporate. Please, for the love of God, make a very low fat version of your chips. We will sell them because Pringles are superior. Oh my god. No disrespect power crunch people. You guys are great. This container. When I do not have very large hands. Am I reading this right? Holy shit. It turns out there are two servings per canister. And so when you combine them per container for this canister right here. 22 grams of protein. Or do you good? 11 grams of carbs. Dice. Pretty low carb. 21 grams of fat. Not a macro friendly food. And probably some of the lowest food volume to calorie ratios I've ever seen. Because it says 150 calories per serving. But a serving is half of a canister. Let me show you what that looks like. Right. Where do I start? They're not exactly Pringles' esque. Because like, I think they kind of fell apart in there. Something like, yep. Scott, this is 150 calories. Yeah, rough. Nemchia's better taste like seamen in my mouth. But I've just been regular seamen. I mean the seamen of a man who's accomplished something. Like a dock worker, lumberjack. A man that works with his hands all day long. Just thinking about sex and just dealing his balls with that sweet, sweet goodness. What the hell am I saying? Saying exactly comes to mind and it turns out your boy's not 100% straight. So the, I will say other than the broken chips with which they are not many. This is a high quality product right here. This is excellent manufacturing. We call that to standard in the industry. I'm very orange. Ooh, wait, I didn't even check the flavor. Barbecue, okay. So in advance, I don't love barbecued flavor. I know, get at me in the comments. You don't smell like much turns out. It smells fine. It's fine, Chip. That worth the macros. Ooh, folks, one of our biggest things on this channel is other information we just get wrong through ignorance and stupidity. We will never lie to you. I've liked plenty of times in my life. I'm sure I'm never going to lie to you guys because everything is about integrity on this channel. And I think the world may, so I'm going to be straight up. I've tried these before. 12 grams of protein, which is an a ton. 12 grams of carbs, cool. Same carbs and protein. Six grams of fat. So it's pretty low fat. These are not questions which are so far go to non macros. But I've got to tell you, they are so good for some other beautiful. And it's just gorgeous. Pure protein makes a lot of good shit. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. It's got to give me a minute, huh? Mmm. Should I leave the room? Mmm. You need to be allowed to throw that? Scott, can you just shut up for a second? I'm trying to jump into it. You don't have to respond to everything. What a dick. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. These are so good. They're just good, Scott. If I bought these at the store and they were just regular chips, we can order the pop chips aisle. I wouldn't know. I would be like, these are really good pop chips. The sweet chili flavor, as the kids say, has lots of consensual intercourse. You get your genius shot or two. Get your couple bags of these. Paradise. Genius shot will buffer up the protein. The macros on the rest of the star amazing. I could eat the whole bag, but I want pure protein. You guys are awesome. Whoa, what's this? Here could we barbecue natural flavored protein chips. Plat-based P protein airpop never fried. Wonder slim protein crisps. 10 grams of protein, 10 grams of carbs, four and half fats. See the roughly scale to the same macros as the pure protein chips. Pretty good. P protein, lentil flour, et cetera. Okay, so this is going to be lower quality protein. So I would say definitely have a genius shot or two with these if you're going to eat them from meal. Just 23 extra grams of pure protein, all the stuff. But getting a shot now, but in any case. Oh, Scott, it's something about the vegan shit smells different, bro. If it does, you're right. Oh, it smells like the feed storage room in a zoo. It's like the Tang plant mouth. Yeah, yeah, detritus. Then we'll fence one of your slim, honesty first. What do we near, Hickory barbecue? The chip looks good. Good crunch, good texture. The after taste is pretty gnarly, Scott. The after taste is like it smells. The initial taste on those, I was decent. I guess my constructive feedback is vegan products. Got a bit of scaling to do to taste really good. So far with heavy irony, I think. The ones made of real chicken, the k-the-the wild caso chips. They were like some of the best-tasting chips, but they're like actually made of like literal animals. And the plant chips all kind of smell off. So, ah, vegans keep it up. You're doing great. A little bit tastier, a little bit better macros, a little higher quality protein. And no one will ever need to eat animal protein again. I really do believe that. Scott, another one. More vegan chips. Y'all have fence vegans. Scott, you know what's interesting? I always say no fence vegans, but vegans never get offended, right? This is shit. Yeah. Kibo. Chickpea chips. Peaco de Gio flavored. With six grams of protein. And our first rather incorrect plain, no offense, Kibo. Six grams of protein. Claimed. Good source of protein. That is incorrect. Six grams is not a good source of protein. Your typical two slices of whole grain bread have more than that. And it's made of chickpea flour. Pea protein. And a few other ingredients. So the protein quality is going to be lower. So it says six grams of protein. But it's really probably like four, three to four, which I would actually say is just a nominal amount of protein. I would say this is not really a protein product. Scott, tell me this is the worst macros of all the chips that we have as far as protein content. It's the lowest. The lowest content here. It's got 13 grams of carbs and four grams of fat. Very low fat. The carbs are decent, but you definitely want a genius shot or two with these because this is just not really any meaningful protein here that you can count in any significant way. So the tastes see their peak of the guy offlayered. I don't ever eat peak of the guy. I don't know idea what this is going to taste like. And the reason I don't eat peak of the guy I was because I have some sort of autism that prevents me from eating a wide-range of foods because of their textures. I think salsa is like a nightmare food that if someone were to time me up in torture me with, I would give up every secret I have in order to never have to pence salsa in the mouth. Scott, is peak of the guy like basically salsa or something like that? Yeah, it's a chunky one. Good. I'll think about it. Let's take flavors. Ooh, it's the first vegan chip that doesn't smell like horse barn. Hmm. Kebo, you guys are awesome. Don't take this the wrong way. I'm not a person who is qualified to be working on food. I have no idea why we do the show. I've strange tastes. I don't love this. It's not very flavorful, but just taste grainy, which is good. It's a grainy taste. But yeah. Ooh. Ooh, these stand independently. Goodness plant, crunchy, protein chips or 10 grams of protein, barbecue flavor, and they have a cup of coffee of claims about them. Vegan friendly, plant protein. By the way, Scott the plant protein has a dumbbell icon. Oh, good Jack on it. Yeah. Zero trans fat, cholesterol-free, non-gimo, which is stupid because gimoes are probably better than regular food, certainly not worse, and then non-MSG. By the way, MSG is typical dose is not bad for your health. This is for when you are real health-nut. And you need something that tastes like something, but you can't put anything into your body because you spend your entire life scared of poisons that probably don't exist. 10 grams of protein, 6 grams of carbs, quite low carb for a vegan chip, and 10 grams of fat. Me, that's not great. Let's get out to school. Hey, to their credit, awesome, easy open situation. Stuff for idiots like me. Barbecue flavor, a lot of barbecue foal will leave shit. What the hell is it? What the fuck? Horse-marin, smells like horse-marin. Scott, what is this? Interesting. These aren't really chips. It kind of look like animal feed. Cheers. To these aren't I'm really sorry, guys. These are not good. It's like the aftertaste comes during the taste. Yeah, they're all kinds of good things vegan, plant stuff, white people shit. A sure shit. Do not taste like barbecue. It smells like horse-marin, tastes like horse-marin. Goodness plant. I'm sure you guys are great folks with all the right intentions, but if I said only nice things about all the products of your review can the whole me try not to bullshit everyone the whole time and yeah. Positiveity? It's a work in progress. I'll work left to do. These go somewhere else. Into the rankings. Those chips taste like a horse-staped on a lot of stuff and then stepped on those chips and then stepped on more stuff. And you pick up a two-finew. That's got nutrition in it, I guess, but not a lot of non-GMO stuff in the world to make me happy about that. Keybo chips, a lot of work to do, Pika to guide didn't like but nothing too offensive and the very low calories, so that's nice. The power crunch protein crisps are actually quite good if you're into high fat, high calorie foods and not getting too full because they're very, very small amount in your stomach. This is it. Otherwise, for macros stuff because these are protein chips and thus we care about fitness and macros nutrition, a big good. It loses a lot of points on that one. A little bit up in how it hits is the Wonder Slim protein chip tastes fine. You're not bad, not bad, no huge downsides. The natural endurance protein chips, not your flavor to pretty good, the macros are quite a bit more decent than all these chips so far and the taste is okay. So much better, also very, very sturdy package. It looks like you feel like they care. Then we have the Atkins chips, which macros lies on that good, but tastes pretty goddamn good and are very, very, very softly crispy, which is nice. The wild chips have not so great macros at all, but they are good, like, they taste really, really good. Next up is a tie. I know crazy, but sometimes that's how it works. The quest protein chips, you're going to see everywhere for a reason, they are superior, they have excellent macros and actually made mostly of milk protein for the protein so it's high quality protein. Very little fat, very low carbs, plenty of protein. They're just good and their tasty is just really difficult to beat. And the only way you could get a tie is pure protein came in to the space with not as good macros, like these have one gram extra of fat, they have, she is 8 grams extra of carbs and are 7 grams short on protein, but they are so tasty and so crunchy that I found myself unable to stop myself from eating them. And yes, these are made of pea protein and, et cetera, so even the macros are overstated, but because they're plant based and these are not. If you're a happy to be a vegan king, vegans, this is your new religion, it is your mantra, it is your flag. When you go in conquer and tire worlds and slaughter and tire races of people, you should do it under this banner. These are all fine companies, they're doing a goddamn good job trying their best and I have a suspicion that each and every single one of these chips over multiple yearly cycles of improvement and going to get better and better and better. So until next time, I'll see you next time.

When you're quite good supplement, doesn't even match up to about half-way to create a team, you know that like testosterone boosters earn a bad way. Basically, these are not really test boosters, they're test teasers, they flirt with your endocrine system, whispers sweet, mechanistic nothings in your ear, and then ghost you when it's squat day, which is kind of true at socks. So a lot of things natural test boosters, and we've been saying this in the industry for a long time, just kind of don't work you guys. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for our P-Straight. And today we're going to talk about test boosters, ways that you can take some kind of supplement, usually natural one, and increase your test testosterone and thus increase your muscle mass and maybe even get leaner. And the question today is our test boosters, hype, or they fact, or they hype? Let's find out. So I had an interaction with like doctor, or he was like, hey, you have to stop using OpenAI's O3 model in AI to help do research for the video. And you know what I did? I slapped him across the face with my white glove that I call me and carefully took off. And tell him, hell no. So I had a huge help in this from OpenAI's O3 product, which lives inside of the chatGPT platform. And if chatGPT could live inside of me or I inside of it, I think that would be ideal, but for now this is good enough. I can't recommend these tools enough. However, after aggregating knowledge and filtering through my science brain that I went to school for, put together this presentation for you. So today we have kind of a lot. Five testosterone boosting supplements, okay, named testosterone boosting supplements. Do they do things? Do they not? Let's figure this out. And I'm going to be using some gold standard of comparison. Cree a teen is the supplement that actually works to gain muscle mass. And of all the supplements you can take that aren't like drugs or not just like more protein that you can get through food or through genius shots. And I write, um, creatines the best. It really is kind of the best muscle of the supplement there is. So on a ranking scale that ends in Cree a teen at like 10, where do these kind of stack up? And, um, fat loss we can use the rank of 10 being turzapatite, which is at five milligrams per week kind of the gold standard fat loss drug. And you know, oh, like if these really do boost testosterone in a very meaningful way, you would think that they would be at least comparable to Cree a teen in muscle growth potential. And at least somewhere on the scale of turzapatite for fat loss potential Scott, if I tell you a supplement can increase your testosterone and you think I'm not a charlotte and I'm being serious. Do you think on average you would say it works less well than Cree a teen about as well as Cree a teen or at least better than Cree a teen? Oh my god. And you're not a charlotte and I'm not a charlotte. I would say it would have to be better than Cree a teen, right? Like because you're messing with your hormones and you already pay money for Cree a teen, some of these supplements are more expensive. Let's find out how they stack up. So our first supplement is de-a-spartic acid. And the hypothesized mechanism by which it works is probably like it increases genetic tropin releasing hormone, which has some downstream effects and basically increases your natural testosterone production. And that's all cool and it actually probably does do that, but reality has some erode blocks for us here. A lot of the very optimistic stuff that came out about de-a-spartic acid a while back was an animal studies. And animal studies are great and they usually transfer very well to human studies, but not always. So ever since they started testing it in humans, they realized that it does have a testosterone boosting effect, but then your own pituitary detects the higher testosterone and clamps it back down. So after about two weeks of taking it and getting a rise in testosterone, that's actually quite small, usually for most people the test goes just right back down to normal. And some randomized control trials in trained men who are taking de-a-spartic acid showed no change or even a slight drop in testosterone at six grams of the supplement per day, which is a robust dose. And the cricket emojis going here, this is not good. The strength of the evidence isn't very high, which is a good thing if you think there's still maybe studies that are going to discover de-a-spartic acid as awesome. It's a bad thing if you think the supplement works well and you know science backseat because that shouldn't be true. There's one systematic review that basically found that it's promising in rats, which is nice, rats are very excited about this and they're flexing in the mirror right now, shaving each other and picking up posing trunks, but it basically the same systematic review find that's mostly inert in humans. Like, Scott can you imagine paying money for the shit and you read that study and you're like, I'm not a rat. Splinter is getting all kinds of gaze. Can we get splinter thrown up on the screen? He's kind of jacked. That boy's on de-a-spartic acid for sure. And the effect magnitude in the best case would potentially be something like a 30% rise in serum testosterone if you were untrained and sleep deprived. And the chronic effect of de-a-spartic acid over enough of a time frame weeks and weeks and weeks to grow appreciable muscle, hovers anywhere between 0 and 5% and actually could hover into negative 5% because sometimes it reduces your testosterone production. So on the creatine scale, it doesn't even reach a 1 out of 10 on the potential to get you jacked side, which really, really sucks. Now, if you are a subferredal man, you need TRT, but if you don't have any TRT, this might help you in short bursts. I'm sure I'll assure you why you would need that, but your adaptation of your body kills the bump that you get in test and brings it back down. The strength and body composition data are basically flat lines, nothing's happening. And yeah, you're just consuming a cool tasting sour thing for pretty much no games. So so far, de-a-spartic acid, number one are our lists. It's the big axe, I think. Big red X. But there are more Avengers assembled. The first one got swatted away by the evil monster. The next one, though, is got crazy superpowers and is from Greece. And his name is Fennu Greek, which I don't think is anything to do with Greece at all. But it's got Greece in the name. Allegedly, supposedly, Fennu Greek works by reducing your sex hormone binding lobulin, liberating more free testosterone to do its called testosterone things to your muscles. And might even inhibit a romatece and 5 alpha reductase enzymes. Again, to give you more actual testosterone to do a good job with. But in reality, a lot of what you get with a supplement is a proprietary blends that may or may not have a certain amount of Fennu Greek in them. And you get usually tiny trials fewer than 50 subjects, which you can't conclude stuff with, but not a lot. And a lot of the studies are funded by company selling the axe rack, which isn't a bad thing. But independent studies would be a really good thing to corroborate the evidence here. And it turns out the total body of evidence isn't very strong. I would give it like a three out of ten or something like that, where a ten would be creatine, whereas like hundreds and hundreds of studies, all pointing and roughly the same direction. The effect magnitude here is to see something like a nine to 14% increase in free testosterone. With a teeny, barely detectable, but I guess detectable increase in lean mass over something like eight weeks of novice lifting. And that gives it a rank on the creatine of again, very low single digits. Maybe a one, maybe a two out of ten, maybe even lower if you look at it from a certain perspective. You might see like some of the subject studies subjects in the study saw, a consistent uptick in a little bit of extra reps to failure and glycogen recynthesis. It's generally well tolerated, so you're probably not going to have any bad outcomes from this. But in free, sorry, in untrained lifters, the effect shrinks substantially. And free testosterone bump is not big enough to really affect your strength or muscle mass in a huge way. And that's why we see that it kind of doesn't. The other thing is like apparently your sweat can swell a smell a little bit like maple syrup when you're on this. Scott, have you ever made love to a man in a bedroom and like just be like, wow, you really do smell like maple syrup. And I love that. Yeah, that sounds like a plus. A huge plus. I take it this for that alone. Yeah, but that's it. And that's all you're going to get because it barely does anything at all. Again, nine to 14% increase in free testosterone isn't something crazy to write home about. It could be effective. It's probably not bad for you, but it ranks way below creatine again, to way below creatine and how much muscle it's going to get you in most cases. But you can as like, hangers, as some with your hormones for so little muscle, not ideal. So fenagreek, better than de-esparna casse, probably, but still not amazing. Tribulus trustrous is our next one. Number three, I've been around a while. I've heard about Tribulus for my entire lifting career. And what it can do is it increases loot-nazing hormone potentially to get your testosterone produced more naturally by your balls. I believe that's the technical term. And the sapinins that compose this thing are kind of maybe a raw stare at backbone on which your body can make more testosterone. But unfortunately, it runs into some roadblocks of its own and has very poor oral bioavailability. So a lot of it, you're just not getting into your body. Most of the human trials show it doesn't do hardly anything. And if you take a higher dose to try to get the bioavailability over and over com, then you're likely to run into gastrointestinal issues. So it's kind of like just kind of hemmed in all over. The strength of the evidence is not very strong. There's handful randomized control trials. And the effect is largely null in athletes. Like just not really anything happens. A recent study on erectile dysfunction, which I struggle with hourly. And due to your probably struggle with yourself, I know you come on your struggling. Stop. You know you are. Scott? No, never. Never. Never, ever, ever. People who have eddy and they were older hypogonaddle men, it did bring their testosterone up by 16 percent. But like if your hypogonaddle, you need like two or three x the testosterone in those cases. 16 percent is not going to cut it. You're like still hypogonaddle just a little bit less. And so the effect magnitude on muscle gain here is approaching no detectability compared to creatine. So like if you tell someone tribulus, trustless, gains you muscle, you're probably more incorrect than you are correct. I mean, if you have less than 300 or 350 nanograms per deciliter of testosterone, which means you need TRT, by the way, you can get a modest improvement in libido and erectile function from tribulus potentially. But like that's such a very different thing than being pretty normal and healthy and athletic and trying to get more jacked that I don't even know we're talking about anymore. O3 calls it like, errogogenic, very dust at best. And I tend to agree of that. So yeah, if you're looking for results, tribulus trustless is probably not the place you're going to be getting them. For muscle growth, that's for damn sure. Next up is a little sleeper. It's ashwaganda again. And we've done videos in ashwaganda before and it actually looks like it works. And it does. It's an adaptogen. It lowers cortisol. It has some loot-nazing hormone activity. It's an antioxidant potentially. And it has GABA urgent stuff. So it interacts with the brain. So I'm really, really good stuff there. And especially its cortisol reduction is a big, big deal. But remember cortisol seeks to kind of reduce your muscularity. Testosterone seeks to increase it. So ashwaganda actually doesn't seem to boost your testosterone much. But it does as most of its beneficial effects come from reducing cortisol. That it does quite well. Probably a five out of ten on strength of the evidence, multiple randomized control trials. There's even a systematic review sorry, a narrative review, which we actually are covering on this channel as well. Either did or will. We already have filmed that video. And the magnitude of effect is probably like the best of these botanical supplements. It is still much smaller than creatine. But it's something. It may be in some studies, can it be interpreted as like a five out of ten on the creatine scale. So this is some cool stuff. And it does have reproducible perks on reducing stress. If you are sleep deprived, it can help you experience less cortisol and all that stuff. And it can have some synergies there. But if your stress is well managed, your gains plateau out pretty fast. And it's just not a thing that even really increases your testosterone enough to do all those, you know, testosterone boosting things. So it's more of like a testosterone effect modulator than it is testosterone booster, which is why it does make our list and is actually quite good. But again, it doesn't even when you're quite good supplement doesn't even match up to about halfway to creatine. You know that like testosterone booster is an a bad way. But don't worry, we have one that sucks even more, just kidding. But it sucks. The old tongue cut alley, which I just thought was someone's name, but apparently is a supplement. It might increase loot-nazing hormone. It might release bound testosterone. It might blunt sex hormone by an eniglobulent and it might lower your cortisol a little bit. And there's a lot of mites there because there are very few high quality human trials. There are variable, alkaloid concentrations and products that they actually put out in the market of this, you're not really 100% sure we're getting any time. And there are real, but rare reports of liver toxicity in the actual literature of people taking it. So like you're getting not a whole lot of anything, but you're getting a hurt liver is really, really bad news. The evidence strength isn't terrible. It's a three out of ten. There's a 22, 22 meta analysis that is available. It's small, but causes a significant rise of testosterone. And here's the thing, in middle-aged men, you can see 30 to 100 nanogram per deserliter rise in testosterone. 100 nanograms per deserliter has pretty trippy. However, unfortunately, the body composition data is functionally negligible, which means yes, it can boost your testosterone a little bit. But it doesn't seem at least in the studies we have so far to have really yielded a lot of fat loss or a lot of muscle gain. Let me say that differently. Detectable fat loss or detectable muscle gain, which is much worse than a lot because it may be hardly anything at all. Now, it might boost your libido, your sacstrile, which is cool if you want to bang more, that's fun. It might increase your mood a little bit and it might make your stress markers better. But, you know, and they've been using this a long time in Southeast Asia, so you know, it doesn't just kill people for no reason. But unfortunately, in Hugo Nattal athletes, folks that are not hypergonatol, it has almost no effect, and it seems to not room muscle, and the liver enzymes worth monitoring is a thing I would say is worth the trade off for like oral antibiotics, steroids, or sarms. But like, you know, with something like ligandrol, that's a really effective sarm, you're going to get like, well, I don't know, a hundred times or anything at any time's more muscle gain from this. I mean, ligandrol grows more muscle than creatine does, and it does have a liver effect. And I would say if you have a comparable liver conversation in your head about something that has arguably no effect on muscle gains versus something that is revolutionary for muscle gains, why are you taking that one thing? Why would you take Tonkata Lee? You could take it for maybe a little stress management, maybe a little libido boost or something like that. Again, these aren't very big effects either, but at least they're tactical. For muscle gain, I just wouldn't even bother with the shit, because it's probably going to do a whole lot of nothing at all. So if we look over our whole list, boy, it's really hard to make this seem good. So just to go through it really quick, I'm going to scroll all the way back up. DSpartic acid is a flat that I wouldn't take it. Fenigreek, you can take, um, it's just not going to do a whole lot, but it's not bad for you, and it's worth a try. Maybe if you have spare money, tributalist trastresses gigantic waste of your money in time, Ashmogand is actually a fine supplement, but don't expect to revolutionize your gains in boost or testosterone through the roof. And Taukata Lee functionally does nothing at all. So that's kind of the summary. And what O3, the AI from ChatchipiT or OpenAI said about this was basically these are not really test boosters, they're test teasers. Uh, not only do a whole lot, the joke that OpenAI's O3 model said is they flirt with your endocrine system, whisper sweet, mechanistic nothings in your ear, and then ghost you when it's squat day, which is kind of true at sucks. They're at a 90% hype, 10% hazard. It's unlikely they're going to screw you up, but it's very unlikely you'll have any kind of benefit at all. Ashmogand aside really, none of these supplements really make my list of anything you can take. And the Ashmogand stuff doesn't even really work through the testosterone pathway. So honestly, natural test boosters, and we've been saying this in the industry for a long time, it's kind of the work you guys. This is the get-t-r-t get you, t-r-t plus if you know what I mean, which means, you know, the other side of the dark side aisle. And, and, and, and other than that, then, you know, good sleep, good food, good recovery, good stress management is the way to keep your test levels really, really high. Um, creatine costs a nickel a day, uh, it'll never file for divorce, and it'll whisper not sweet. It's nothings in your ear, but sweet, out of all like somethings. Get you some creatine, get you some protein, get you jacked, take the test boosters, throw them in the garbage, better yet don't buy them at all, because throwing money in the garbage is a bad idea. You guys like test boosters? Yay! How am I gonna give him a name? Comments? See you there, and I'll see you guys next time.

Whoa, Scott, it really smells like fruit loops. Cheers. You guys have a place Sonic that hedgehog to not say a Genesis, the chemical plant zone. This was bottled there. It's just the level in a blended form. Fruit loops were not harmed during the making of this protein. It gets smells like fruit loops, but it tastes like you're dying. Do you can't Sam? I'm busy tonight. Hey guys, you voted for the best and worst protein shakes for me to try, and now I'm going to try them. Let's get into it. All right, number one is the optimum nutrition gold standard double rich chocolate. They named it after Mr. Nick Shaw the CEO of RP Strength, because he's not rich. He's double rich. This is the protein we all grew up on. Scott, do you remember this protein taking you to school and helping you walk your dog? And it would always wave to the male man. America grows up on optimum nutrition protein, because it's awesome. It's got 120 calories in standard serving. We're just doing one scoop for all of these by the way. 24 grams of protein, which is a lot. This is really good. Just one and a half grams of fat, which is very little, only three grams of carbs. This is extra high-quality way protein. Really what we're looking for is low fat content, low-carb content, high-protein content, and overall low calorie content. From the nutritional perspective, that's how we're measuring these proteins. Obviously, of course, if the way proteins that means are high-quality already. And we're going to be doing for all these proteins is a protein to calorie ratio. How much protein you're getting per scoop for how many calories? And that's really our core index on the nutritional side of like which one of these is better on that side. But it says nothing about taste, texture, and all the artisinal things that I was trained at at the Scott at the Academy for our tisinal protein Somalia. I did years in that academy. I didn't see daylight for weeks. All I had was protein. Let's find out if my education actually meridon anything. The protein to calorie ratio for this one is point two. And that sets a gold standard. Exactly, I just remember it mixes incredibly well. Incredibly amazing texture. Mix is super, super easily. And it isn't ultra overflavored or ultra sweet. Scott, isn't that nice every now and again, not to get a protein and try to punch you in the face with sugar? It's like neutral, a little. It's neutralish. It's off sweet. And I really like that one way I like to consume this is if I need a way shake in the evening with some nuts or something like that because I need some proteins and fats. I like to actually have this in hot water. And then it's like an off-sweet hot chocolate. If you throw in a couple marshmallows in there, it bounces out really awesomely. Man, gold standard is the gold standard for a reason. This is sweet. Our second contender is the rise. Skippy peanut butter protein. Well, cool. It's loaded protein with premium way protein with MCTs interesting. So there really shouldn't be getting a nice peanut butter texture because the medium chain triglycerides in here are a nice healthy fat, but there is quite a little bit more fat in here than the traditional protein product. And a little bit more carbohydrate. The protein to calorie ratio here is scoring in a point one-seven substantially lower than our gold standard. So you'll get a few more carbs and fats in here, which to me means the taste expectation has gone up. You guys know what I'm saying? If some shit is gonna be not as ideal protein nutrition for you, it had better taste good. Oh, Scott, this smells legit like Skippy peanut butter like for you. Whoa, so here's the thing, when I'm dieted down to the bone, peanut butter super tasty. When I'm maintenance or mass mode, I hate peanut butter because it's just too much. This is, I love this package too. There's a lot of happy things going on. There's nuts and butter and not butter. Anyway, cheers. Wow. This tastes about as close as you can get to like water down sounds bad. 100 down blended peanut butter. In the best way possible, it's very sweet. It's very peanut buttery. It's incredibly thick and smooth. This is some high quality shit. You guys, if you like your way protein to be a little bit higher in calories, maybe for like an evening shake or meal replacement, and you love it to be really sweet and you're obsessed with peanut butter all that's forms, rise really knock this the way the hell out of the park. This is really good stuff. I'm not personally in to super sweet things because I'm not eight years old, but I'm also not allowed to be around eight year olds for a variety of reasons. Rise you're doing great work. We're gonna do it. We're gonna do it. We're gonna do it. We're gonna do it. Number three is the transparent labs, blueberry pancakes, protein, isolate. So the really cool thing about this one is it's only using protein isolate, which is very high quality protein source. We can expect the macros on this to be phenomenal and indeed they are. 28 grams of protein, two grams of carbs, just half a gram of fat for serving. 28 protein, and that few carbs and fats is a god tier territory transparent labs is doing something right. A protein to calorie ratio of 0.22, this is our highest protein to calorie ratio so far. So if you reel it on that macro game, if you really thin to get that abshit going and flex the ladies and have them say, that's cool, but like I'm not into like my fellow guys, you want transparent labs. This is one of these aspirational type of flavors, it's got you feel me where they're like, not just blueberry, not just pancakes, but blueberry pancakes, tough to get such a complex flavor in a powder. Yeah, but it's hard to taste like pancake, oh, it tastes butter, I'm gonna taste so. I'm gonna taste blueberry, yeah, that's the thing. Yeah, you know what my favorite taste is with pancake, Scott? It's the taste that reminds me of the fact that I'm sitting in a diner all alone in Saturday morning and just the weeks just keep getting tougher, man. And I just don't even know what's going on anymore. Just cry into your pancakes. Yeah, use the sock up your tears. And the waitress calls you honey and sweetie a lot. You know, she doesn't mean it. Let's try this protein. Whoa, Scott, they're getting the smells right on these. This the most blueberry shit I've ever smelled in my life. Cheers. Okay. Okay. Okay. You can't really drink blueberry pancakes, can you? The negatives first. Eee, it's not blueberry pancakes. It tastes very sweet, very rich, which is crazy as my faddenet, very smooth. And maybe one of the most like blueberry things I've ever tasted. And so it is actually phenomenally tasty protein. It's like really tier one taste. It's just, I don't know. If you're expecting blueberry pancakes, I just don't know what you're expecting. You're not gonna get it from this protein. But what you're gonna get is arguably a whole lot better than blended up blueberry pancakes. So this is one of these ones that's good all the time. It's good when you're dieting, and it's good when you're mass gaining because it's super easy to take. If you like it on the sweeter side and on the more flavorful side, but it's still not watery, it's very rich. This is it, man. I give it a 10 out of 10, it's sweet. And nutritionally, it just kills. So what do you think? What do you think? Number four is the muscle sport lean way come at me, canole. A, A. Finally, Scott, I get to do my Italian guy accent. A, you got a problem with canole? Listen, I've been the, the prison I am of, I'm a criminal. I'm a chef looking me. Scott, you see the guy in the career? I do. Good kidding me. My grandmother invented way protein. And my great grandma was a literal, concao, don't call her a concao, need 130 kcal, 25 grams of protein solid. Two grams of fat a little bit on the higher end. These are pretty stringent criteria. Four grams of fat, a little on the higher end. So we got a point one nine on the protein, sorry, four or four carb on the protein to calorie scale. We got a point one nine, which is below the reference frame of gold standard, but pretty damn good, pretty damn good. And with 25 protein per serving, you're well on your way here. It supports fat burning. Uh oh, so like caffeine in here, some shit. And then it's keel friendly. Let me make sense. It has almost no carbs. Leane, weight, fat metabolizing matrix, got MCT powder. Okay, so for full transparency, there's almost no MCT powder, because it's only two grams of fat. And MCT's just burned themselves. They don't burn in an additional fat. That has to be something that's said. And then there's soluble corn fiber and L-carantine tartarate and CLA conjugated to little like acid. That's interesting. You're getting a little bit of CLA. It's not enough to really do anything, but it's a nice thought. Cheers. Whoa. They got a little chocolate jibblots or some shit in here. I can taste those. Incredibly sweet, incredibly rich, incredibly smooth, incredibly sweet, even the aftertaste is good. This is amazing tasting protein. We did not grow up like this. I forced spoonfuls of dry protein down my throat as I walked uphill in the snow in the summer time. And I wasn't even going to school. We didn't have school when I grew up. This is super tasty. I love it. And I think I'm Italian now. All right. Our fifth protein of the day is the core nutritionals death by chocolate. Darling. On the technical quals, it has 140 cows, 25 protein, three fat, two carbs, which is quite a bit of fat in carb. It's good to go into amount of protein, too. It gives it a point when protein to calorie ratio, which is on the lower end of the proteins we've been trying so far. So that's how this works. Is it had better taste, damn good? No fillers, full disclosure, way, casey and blend. Oh, that's right. The milk protein is casey in it. So this is going to be less of a postwork out thing and more of like a meal replacement protein, which is cool because then it has more fats and carbs. That's nice. Let's put this to the test. I've got to say before I get into this, I am a chocolate. I love chocolate, especially gelato and dark chocolate. Scott does that mean I'm a white female. Absolutely. Sure does. I'm like getting like, hi, I'm this. Am I totally up? Drag it out. Scott, I can just keep doing this all day then. Can I get one more? Is it okay to get one more? Oh, it's paradise, you guys. I don't give a shit how this tastes man. Corn and sugar, all of you guys did it man. It's a smell alone, it's good enough for me. Let's try the taste. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no. Amazing. And when you drink it, it's actually way too sweet, but it's got tons of chocolate packed into the punch. I only critique as it could have used more chocolate. But then again, I'm an aximalist and you would end up just having a piece of chocolate cake in there. If you want a meal replacement protein that you pair with like a handful of almonds, this is like kink shit. And I gotta tell you, I haven't tried this yet, but if you use hot water to mix this, hot water, some walnuts and a little Scott a little, a little mint leaf for accentuation on the plate. Perfect. I can't critique this at all. This is wonderful. Number six in our list of proteins is the ghost Oreo protein. So shout out to the ghost people for getting a collab with like a real major legit food company. Oreos are, you know, yeah, just put them in this stuff. You gotta get a lot of approval. They have legit Oreos in here. It is going to be 150 calories. 25 protein, two fat, seven carb, which is way on the higher end, giving a protein to calorie ratio of 0.17, very much on the low end. So this protein is going to have to just pack way above its weight in actual flavor and taste and texture. And the thing is, I've had this before and I already know it's amazing. We'll say with all due respect, when you mix ghost protein, you want to put water in first, then protein, then water otherwise you get a clump like that at the bottom. Then you've just essentially annihilated your shaker because that's never coming up. It's good. The protein itself tastes very good. The best part of the Oreo ghost protein is that it actually has Oreo chunks. So this protein actually probably wouldn't drink. What I would do is if I was a sugar hall, I'd like all of you. I would get whatever breakfast cereal you like the most to have post workout for a little bit of milk in there. And then for this Oreo protein in there, you're going to get tons of glycimate carbs, very low fats, tons of high quality protein and the Oreo chunks crush. So there's literal Oreo pieces in there, which is unbelievable. Obviously that hurts the macro side, then it helps taste side. This is good. It's very good. I gotta say though, I've never had any of the other proteins except for our first one on this list. And those are competitive if not kind of punching above their weight, even above ghost. Factoring in the macros, of the best protein so far that we've tried, Ghost is hanging in there, but by a thread, those are the proteins that we tried. Man, they were really, really good and I was just really pleasantly surprised. So Ghost is just a goal. They get, it's just like, it's awesome. And everyone knows it's awesome. Mad respect to the Ghost people. It's a great brand. The calories are pretty high and the taste is good, but some of those other proteins give it a run for its money, I'd say. All right, next up is the muscle farm banana milk. Very cool. It has 130 calories, 24 grams of protein, two fat, two carbs, which gives it a ratio of protein and calories of 0.19, which isn't at our gold standard. It's just below, but it's pretty damn good. And I typically absolutely detest banana flavored things, but it's tested for bad substances, which is really dope. I love the supergreen caps, God, doesn't that just jump out at you? Pops. Yeah. Anything that's supergreen, I'm into. Scott, then I'm gonna tell you how much I eat banana. Fake banana flavors for us. Fake banana flavors, the worst. What's wrong with you people buying this stuff? Oh, here we go. Textures great, sweetness is great, dust taste milky, and the best way possible. It's got that full-bodied dairy feel. If you want a banana tasting protein, you're gonna get it from this. Also farm, you guys are awesome. Raw, dark chocolate, protein isolate, and it's grass fed, all the good stuff in this. It has 130 calories, 26 protein, one fat, three carbs for protein to calorie ratio of 0.2, which is right at our gold standard. This is amazing stuff. It's in form sport, man substance tested, which is great. If you're drug free athlete, you can have as much of the shit as you want. Dark chocolate, I typically futs with heart. Yeah, I know what the problem is. It's good. In my opinion, it's not great. Why? Because it's naturally sweet. You guys, there is a logical fallacy for the shit, called the naturalistic fallacy, the argument for nature. Assuming natural things are good and artificial things are bad. It's not a categorical rule. You can apply it a food or pretty much anything else. So it's flavored with stevia. Yeah, it's all grass fed and natural on shit like that. Taste like it. It seems like the cow was red and grass with a little bit more sadness in it than usual. It's a good protein. The naturally sweet shit just hits the lips all wrong. And I've even rep for brands that were natural. I just tell people straight up. If you're into that white people type of shit, don't it's great. And for this, I mean, they have real white container. So dope. But is it the best tasting protein we've tried? No. Granted that it's made with stevia, isn't very good. Yes, because stevia usually tastes like dogs. Not bad. Time for number nine protein for today. Six star fruit loops. Very cool. Where is two cans? To let me know that everything's going to be okay. Um, just fall by nose into corporate propaganda. Woohoo. I'm as pro corporate as a get so I approve. I got all say 170 calories a lot of calories. 30 grams of protein's really good, but at 2.5 grams of fat and 8 grams of carbs, the protein to calorie show isn't our worst at point one eat. But it's on the low end. So this had better taste damn good. Let's go for the smell first. Two cans, Sam. Yeah, never let me down. Don't start now. Whoa, Scott, it really smells like fruit loops. Uh, cool. Like a legitimately like exactly like fruit loops. Cheers. You guys are a place sonic the hedgehog to on Sega Genesis the chemical plant zone. Scott, you know what I'm talking about? Hey, sure. This was bottled there. It's just the level in a blended form. There's absolutely nothing about this in my opinion that tastes like fruit loops. Fruit loops were not harmed during the making of this protein. We're at all touched as far as I can tell. Nope, no fruit loops in here and I can share a shit tell you that. Now, it smells exactly like fruit loops for the grand delusion. But in reality, it tastes like semi-sweetened chemicals. Yay, I guess fruit loop truly is made of semi-sweetened chemicals. Haskot, even the real cereal. Yeah, how does it look like? Yeah. So the taste is accurate. I would say this does not come close to being a tasty protein. It smells nice. But for eight grams of carbs and two and a half grams of fat, a lot of other proteins on this list are doing good work. Two cans, Sam. I'm busy tonight. Our next protein comes from the nation of Japan. In so for cultural equity and inclusion purposes, I have summoned my Asian wife. Are you laughing at the Asian people's generally or are you just racist? What part of Asian culture is funny to you, Gavara? I know you grew up in the Bay Area and so you look down on Asian born Asians. Super-team. Yeah. Crystal I went to Japan on vacation and we found this and we couldn't put it down because holy shit, how often do you get a soup protein? If the ingredients list looks like this, and now my wife will read it. You ready to try this stuff? Let's do it analysis first. You have a pleasure to play with us. Yeah, yeah. So it's a soup protein. I think it's a pleasure. It is clam chowder flavored, which is an interesting flavor of protein. I will say on the nutritional end, a very small serving size. And it's like half the serving of irregular protein. So basically scale to a normal serving, it would have 23 grams of protein, two grams of fat, and almost nine grams of carbs, which is kind of a lot that gives it a protein to calorie ratio of 0.16, officially making it our least high protein to calorie ratio protein. It's cold. Isn't that how clam chowder is supposed to be? Wait a minute, your Asian and you're saying that? Oh shit! Oh shit, something died in here, girl, are we sure about this? It's actually not bad. I knew you were actually not bad. It's like, it's like durian. Once you get past the smell, no, once you get past the smell, durian rots in your mouth and destroys your memories of childhood. This is nonsense. Soup. It's soup. It's literally soup. It's like a really good clam chowder soup. You'll legit like, I could totally get some rice and some meat and pour this in. Yeah. Like a concentrated version, it would up the protein and like. Give you some flavor. So it's Scott, the send it up being decent bro. I'm actually surprised. It's so skeptical. Scott, is it possible that crystalline I could potentially kind of like maybe tie you up, throw on some satanic music and pour this all over your body or is that like too much? That's great. Let's do it. If you're not going anywhere, you're sticking around for our last protein, aren't you? Oh boy. Because we have a story about this one. Oh, yeah. Folks, our last protein for the day number 11 is from the Aeroom store, which is a chain of stores mostly in Southern California, that here's how the brand started. White people love to overpay for organic natural shit so they can feel nice about themselves after colonizing and slaving the entire world. 210 calories. 20 grams of protein. 9 grams of fat in 11 carbs, giving us a protein-to-calorie score of 0.10 way out of distribution as the absolute lowest nutritional value for protein per calorie of any of the proteins are trying. Maybe any proteins I've ever heard of. Crystaly rate of try the stuff. Let's do it. It looks green in there. Now what kind of it's cacao flavored? Uh, yes, cacao flavored. Yeah. That's another test of rich elite whiteness. You don't eat chocolate. It's cacao. Cacao. No. This tastes like nature. Oh wow. Very earthy. Okay. Like, you can tell plants have been ground up and like in there. God, that's awful. And I like certain vegan proteins because sometimes I do like that kind of grass. You let the f- you lawnmower. Let's get them out of the menu. No, the mouth feel is like sometimes I enjoy the mouth feel but this taste plus the mouth feel is terrible. It's sour. Yes. Okay. It's got literal bits of can grass in it. It clogs your teeth. I have no idea where the cacao or chocolate is in there. For 210 calories, I feel robbed. I want my money back. I want my money back. TLDR. If you're into like actual nutrition and good taste and things that are healthy for you and have a ton of protein with very low calories, you want to get shape. All of the earlier proteins do this about in the finnity times better than this one. But if you want to be seen with the glitziest and most glamorous and Beverly Hills, go to air one and at least the chocolate chip cookies look good. If you have like a gazillion dollars. I'm going to put this in the fridge. All right, folks. Time for the ratings. My wife left me so I'm alone. This I do by myself. The ratings are kind of just kind of hand-wave the integration of macros, protein to calorie ratio, taste, smell, texture, mouth feel, that whole thing. Mostly just vibes. My number one ranking. Very surprisingly to me is the transparent labs, blueberry pancakes, the nutrition is outlandish. The amount of protein relative to calories is frightening. And it tastes like I don't even like blueberry you guys. I don't like blueberry pancakes and every eat them. God made this and apparently sold it to transparent labs. I would just buy this right now if I were you. This is unbelievable. Core protein, death by chocolate, is going to be the best death you ever had. This protein tastes unbelievable all the way from smell to afterchaste. This is the chocolateiest thing I've ever had in my life. I want more of it. I'm actually keeping this after the shoot. No one's getting it. Scott's video guys not getting it. This is all going down the color. This is amazing. Rise. I don't even like peanut butter that much. But you guys blew this one completely out of the water. This is phenomenal. Yes, it has a few more calories and shell like that. But if you want peanut butter, this tastes more like peanut butter than peanut butter does. Unbelievable. Hey, you better rate this high or else phenomenal. Excellent all around. Again, I don't even like canoli. I like it now. Ghost, you guys do great work. Your protein's awesome. I'll never have anything bad to say about it. We'll clumpy little high in calories. People come to respect that sort of thing. If you mix this with a cereal or something like that, it turns into damn you're the best shit you've ever had in your life. The ghost is a little scary. Please change the logo or I'll never buy it again. You never ever, ever, ever, ever, ever. Mess with a classic. Surprisingly good. Do not put it into your workout shake. But if you want to add this to your natural soup, it'll boost the protein as far as compared to real foods. The macros are dope. Japan has never missed a day in their lives. This is a really good protein. It honestly hits exactly what you want in the nutrition is just spot on. I love the branding. I love the green. Muscle farm is a great company. This is really really good stuff. I hate banana with every ounce of my being. That is the only reason it is ranked lower. Stop putting stevian into shit. Again, I've been associated with brands that put stevian in it. But if you just because white people need to feel good about themselves, and have a lot of naturalistic fallacy. Seriously? It gets smells like fruit loops. But it tastes like you're dying. Do you guys know why we don't have a whole container of this? We couldn't afford it. The shit costs like $90 per container. Just eat grass clippings. That's all I have to say about that. Alright folks, that was really fun. I love tasting the proteins. I have three takeaways from this. One, natural loving white people. You just gotta really start reading more science and stop getting ripped off. It's getting sad. You're all super smart and educated. You can do better than this. Stop buying the stew but overpriced nonsense. No offense, any particular brand. Number two, if you're gonna make a protein that claims to taste like something delicious, try. Number three, almost all the proteins on here. We're so good. It's got an eye we're talking off camera like we did not grow up with this kind of protein. Almost all the protein on this list is like the best protein I've ever had. So as far as powdered proteins go like you guys are living in just an absolute utopia. The top five top six proteins on today's list are just all killers. They're amazing and I'm legit gonna keep a bunch of these cans and just snort these in my own free time. Anyway, if you guys want me to try some other weird protein foods or something, let us know in the comments. Otherwise have a great day and go buy yourself some excellent way of protein.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pyridization. And today my tip for you is so nice. And it's going to be so nice to hear. I want you today tomorrow and pretty much every day of the r After to relax for an hour, every day at least. Relax for an hour, every day. That sounds like the Hubertman podcast. Wake up. Stay at the Sun for 15 minutes unabated and then relax for an hour. CEO tips, you know, an entrepreneur success tips. That's what this channel is going to become. How to make millions of dollars by standing at the Sun. In any case, fatigue is a concept in training that many people have an intuitive understanding of, but I was lucky enough, bragging time to get a formal education and sport science, PhD and all that stuff. So we studied fatigue for a very long time. And here's something that we learned that some people don't know. And it is this. There is something called physiological fatigue where it's just like your cells are getting beat up. Your bones, micro fractures when you lift really hard, your blood vessel sometimes burst a little bit. Your muscles get torn, tendons, connective tissues, all that stuff. And that's kind of obvious. Like after you do a few sets of 10 in the squat, you don't have to be a rocket scientist to be like, something is broken inside me and hopefully we'll get fixed at some point. Try to walk up the stairs or down the stairs like, my body, my body has sustained damage. And that makes sense. And that's definitely a thing. But there's another fatigue that stacks on top of that, which is psychological fatigue. Your brain is a machine. It's a thinking machine. And during it's thinking processes, if you force it to think really hard or focus psychologically and create a lot of psychological stress, it also accumulates both physical awareness and care. For example, some of your neurotransmitter pools can get heavily reduced such that the transmission through various neurons are from one to another. Isn't as reliable as it always is. It's kind of when you feel spent, like at the end of a three hour long squat workout, your brain is tired. Someone's like, try hard at anything. And you're like, ugh, I can't, right? That psychological fatigue is also a separate layer to the physical fatigue. Here's the trippy part. Psychological fatigue, there are two more things to say about it. One is you can sum up psychological fatigue from other sources that are not training. You can get physiological fatigue from training or from like spending all day on your feet. Like that, who absolutely physiological fatigue is well, even though it's not training. So you know that when you're going hard on the gym, you have to make sure to manage your physical activity, not doing any kind of super stressful work. If you're really serious about training, you got to try to work around, minimize, etc. so that you can pour everything you have into training. Psychological fatigue absolutely comes from other sources. In the main fact, much of it may come from other sources. If you have a really stressful day at work, you come home and you yell at your partner for a little bit, you can't believe I'm saying partner, 2023 shows this, your wife, man, like, God intended. If you do that, that may sum up more psychological fatigue than three hour long psychotic squat workout ever could. That's the first point about psychological fatigue is it comes from a bunch of different sources, mostly your daily life. And then secondly, psychological and physiological fatigue mix and affect each other into total fatigue. So here's the big point there. If you have physiological fatigue that you have accumulated, as you rest and recover physically, like you move less. Over time, that physiological fatigue starts to drop off. Perfect, your body's healing itself. How if during that time, you're stacking a lot of psychological fatigue on top. And that psychological fatigue is high and continuing, like as you go Monday through Thursday through the week from your first leg workout on Monday, everyone knows Monday's leg workout. To your second leg workout Thursday, physiologically under the hood you're healing. But if that entire week is finals week at school, you're breaking up with your girlfriend who had a misunderstanding and killed your dog so you're grieving for Wolfie. And at the same time, your boss is like one millimeter away from your face while you're working. And he's like, you better do these goddamn spreadsheets right or god, damn it, you're like, do I have a drill sergeant? Boss, how does that work? I thought I worked for a software company. And all of that psychological fatigue is high and not reducing because it's just continuously being presented Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. Your degree of healing physiologically, your tissues in your legs, the healing will slow down a ton so that by the time you get to Thursday, you may still be under recovered, where normally you would be totally fine. And it wasn't because you were more active. It wasn't because your nutrition was off. You may even have gotten just as much sleep as usual. It is because your psychological fatigue infects and bleeds into it affects your physiological fatigue and importantly, your ability to bring down that physiological fatigue. And in training, if you give a shit, your ability to train hard to provide adequate nutrients and to bring that fatigue of hard training down as fast as completely as possible between sessions is kind of the trifecta of getting really good results. And of course, sleep is the biggest part of bringing down that fatigue and also not continuously running around the block and something more fatigue, so sleep and lower physical activity, but a big modulator of that ability to recover is the degree of psychological fatigue that you have. So the title of this video, I don't know, I don't make the titles or the thumbnails, by the way, blame Scott the video guy and technically speaking, we outsourced some of the thumbnail, so blame the thumbnail people who I've never met, sight unseen. God knows what they're coming up with next. Whenever this video ends up being titled, the topic of the video is to try to relax for an hour every day. It's not just one of these shit I'm telling you guys that's like some like, you know, like one of those like health podcasts, where it's like everything's about mine, body and soul, and you've got to take care of yourself spiritually because like, no one's going to do that for you. And like training has a place and it's good to give my souls, but you've really got to just like nurture the soul. Fuck that, fuck the soul. Quote me. JK, here's the real talk though. If only your concern is to treat yourself like a machine, to become the best athlete that you can be, to become the best hypertrophy person that you can be using our hypertrophy app, shameless plug, Lincoln bio, a Lincoln description. If that's your only goal and you're mentally strong, you don't need mental health advice from went of culture or whatever, no disrespect, the relaxing for an hour every day is one of the ingredients of that purely athlete-centered physiological approach. When they ran training camps in Bulgaria on a whole crap load of the rest of the Soviet Union, when they made weight lifters as good as possible for the glory of communism, turns out not to be so glorious, these were communist people in charge of a weightlifting team. They're care about human rights with negative, they think disdain for human rights. When they had their lifters out in training camps, the lifters trained hard twice a day. The rest of the day was spent in as much physical and psychological relaxation as possible. Why? They should have just had a lift weights and then do a clerical work or do a work camp or some shit like that communism while farming together. They didn't because they realized the physical element was going to interfere with training, but they also quickly realized the psychological element is going to interfere. If you can relax truly deeply, I think there's a term for it, non-sleep, deep rest, which I think stands as ASMR or something, I'm kidding, I'm getting out of here. If you can do an hour of that at least an hour, every day, it takes all the psychological fatigue and you're going to have some no matter how easy your life is and zaps it so far down that it creates the environment for you where now your physiological healing mechanisms have a crap load of breathing room to really work as well as they could. So this isn't just some hokey pokey, earthy, vucking guy as love, get a jam and hang it on your fucking neck to ward off bad spirits type of bullshit. This is real Soviet sport science, shit that works. So how do you relax? What are some tips on how to do that? Bucify no, I'm kidding. I got a couple things to say about that. One is the hour a day is a make belief number, but what I have found, many people have found is if you can dedicate an hour every day to truly deep relaxation, where you like fling off all your cares of the world, that can do a lot. Can two hours do more? Yeah, shit, yeah, can, but two hours risks another thing. One at risks me alienating the fuck out of you guys because you're like, I have kids in a day job of the fucker. Well, how am I supposed to two hours of what are you crazy? So it's just like advice you can't take and also some people including myself like two hours every day of relaxation got you that's a lot. Like after an hour and a half I'm like, I could be doing more work. Like I can't relax for that long. Sometimes I can sometimes I can. Sometimes I can. Many of you is like an hour a day is realistic for almost everyone and it's a wap or dose. It's enough to make a difference because like I've seen stuff on the internet, like make sure to take at least 15 minutes a day for just for you like 15 minutes. That's as long as it takes me to to preload the tabs and pour an hub. I don't even get to touch myself yet. I'm kidding. Oh, Scott, what's the new thing? Pour an agarise evil and masturbation's terrible somehow. It's unclear. So an hour seems like a good thing and here's the first tip for how to do it. I would recommend in most cases not all. If you can, take that hour as the last thing you do before you begin your bedtime routine. That's for a few reasons. One, it is a very much easier to psychological relax if you know you have nothing ahead of you. Because if you know you have stuff to do later, like who the hell takes an hour at 3 p.m. and then gets back to work at 4 p.m. I don't know anyone that can do that. Some kind of robot, maybe he or Buddhist monk, but if I'm trying to relax between work sessions, like one of the crazy things to me and if you can do this is awesome, but like people who go out to lunch and take a two hour lunch at work and then come back and go to work. Like to fly on and they order a bunch of food and they relax. So we'd like drinks in the middle of the day at lunch. But oh my god, how could you just switch off? Like, I'm, I don't work. I take my lunch at my fucking desk and I have a desk in the office and this very home and which we're recording this that I will eat my food and do video review stuff and or I'll just sit at a kitchen table and eat my food while doing social media work and then just get right back into it. I can't relax in the middle of the day and many people can't. So if you take your relaxation at the end of the day, it greatly enhances the potential for you to be able to relax because you don't have anything to worry about because you go to sleep after. The second huge benefit of that is that you are able to get into a relaxed state and that potentiates your sleep ability because if you work, work, work, work, work, work, work, work, and then you're like, oh it's 11pm. I got to go to sleep. You do your bedtime routine. You go to sleep. You're trying to sleep in your lane there. I got a spreadsheet charts, data streams, data streams. You forgot to turn on your brain machine interface or turn it off rather. It's tough to fall asleep and you can be wired and then also if you fall asleep, you dream about work and it's crazy shit. It doesn't feel restful. But if you take your hour is the last thing you do before you go to sleep. Then the probability if you just be in like, who saw a shit after that hour and then you go to sleep, you're like, oh, this is just an Ramadan. This makes sense. So you just two birds with one stone. Now you're taking an hour of relaxation or at least an hour and then you're also getting your, you're potentially eating really high quality sleep. That one to punch is something my wife and I do every single bucket. And as other, if work gets crazy sometimes, we generally just work till 11pm and go to sleep. That's pretty rare. Almost always we section off a little bit of time. At the end of the evening, we'll watch like one or two episodes of some stupid reality show or the Mandalorian, which is sok. I love that show. And that is our relaxation time. So that brings me to the sort of second part of the discussion is what should you do for relaxation time? What doesn't does not count? And the thing here is a rousal. Now I know what you're thinking you're already getting in the comments and seeing, oh well, Dr. Mike, a rousal, that's GR. That's GR. Not talk about that kind of rousal. The strict psychological term of the degree of psychological excitement that you have, the psychological profundity of your emotions. So you can have a high degree of arousal in the negative sense of your really, not the angry or you can have a high degree of arousal in the positive sense. We're like, this is amazing. Let's party. Woo. Or you can have a high degree of arousal in the other sense and I won't make those impressions because they're disturbing for me to make. It's the sexual arousal. You don't want to see my sexual arousal face. I assure you my psychiatrist is still recovering with his own psychiatrist after I showed him that face. He never asked me to show it. My parole officer says that's one of the many things I do to keep myself in the system. He says in any case, what you want to do is take that arousal and decrease it. So things that you can and should do. Let me tell you guys about the RP hypertrophy app with over 28 preset programs already in the app. You can choose to make your own. You can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs exactly as they were written by a person on this app programs everything for you. Exercises weights sets reps frequency, the whole thing. After every single workout on every single week, the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now you're pretty interested in the app, download the RP hypertrophy app today. First, compassionate touch, which means if you have someone to touch you physically that's not repulsed by your body. My wife signed a few contracts saying she's legally not, but in reality she hates this whole thing. Backrobes, headrobes, whatever hug just cut a lot of the couch with somebody. Anybody, a dog, a cat that actually does count by the way unless you make it sexual and then you need to go to jail. Compassionate touches a big deal because humans are wired to need some touching every now and again. It don't mean necessarily sexual. I mean literally compassionate like another human holds you and rubbs you or something like that. If it turns sexual, sweet, but don't turn that into a marathon rock star cocaine all night sex session. Do your business, keep it light and airy and then not or not, not whatever, get back to relaxing. You could probably do all that in 30 seconds. I'm kidding of course. It only takes 15. So compassion a touch totally works and or compassion a touch while doing other relaxing activities. Like for example, sitting on your porch and watching the sunset. The birds, the birds, oh my god. Listen to birds and shit watching the trees wave and the wind. Shit like that. Just sitting on your porch and neighborhood watching people go by like you know having a drink and hand and something just just wax. Watching TV, but the kind of TV matters. Don't watch thrillers or crazy, serial killer documentaries watch something light and just something that you can just switch the brain to low mode. Like my wife and I watch a lot of love island and shit like that like singles shows, they're hilarious. There is no thought required. As a matter of fact, the more thought I give to the show, the more hurts me to actually watch the show. So something that is relaxing, something you enjoy, maybe a reruns of signfeld or something that you've seen a trillion times. Scott the video guys, is that you there does not? Oh yeah. It works every time. So something nice and easy. You could read a book that is like a fantasy book that's relaxing. It's engaging but in a low key way, you can try chatting on the phone to friends and family in a way that does is doesn't arouse you, friends and family arousing in the psychological way of that doesn't get your heated. Anything that relaxes you as the TLDR and the reason I'm saying that is because there are other ways to engage in leisure activity. People think okay relax for an hour but they usually think relax means leisure activity and in that box of leisure activity that are things that are relaxing and things that are not relaxing. And some leisure activity is curious because you end up not feeling like you're at least at all. Here's one. If you get on social media, some people will spend just social media scrolling for an hour. I think a lot of people just scroll as a matter of habit and they get little dope means hits out of it. It doesn't really truly relax them. It's a really cool thing to pass the time if you're on an airplane and it's boarding and you have another 15 minutes and you're going to start working. Pull up your laptop so you're starting your phone. They're going through TikTok. You're like, Bitch with titties, Bitch with titties, Bitch with titties. Guy who's balancing in beer bottles had Bitch with titties. That's TikTok. It's why I'm not on any more. Give a flying fuck. JK, I'm on TikTok. I post on there. I do not watch TikTok anymore. It's like five minutes of TikTok ever. That's all I saw and I was like I'm out. If you read articles on social media or on your favorite blog, you read the comments and it pisses you off and you get in there and start debating people which is what I used to do. That's not relaxing. So nothing to piss you off. A lot of people will watch the news. The news is designed to piss you off. It is designed to around you because arousing news is something you're going to continue to do. So make sure that you're picking truly relaxing activities. There's a trillion of them to pick that are both physiologically and psychologically relaxed. Do that for least an hour, potentially even more. Every night of the week, at least weekends, whatever fucking do it every week, plus plenty of leisure time and week. But every work night, slash school night, my wife and I do that for an hour, it pays enormous, enormous dividends. You may find that any more than 45 minutes drive you crazy. You may find that you really benefit the most from two hours and here's the final thing I'll say. If you're super diligent about work, school, child care, everything at all your responsibilities, you organize your daily and weekly structure with to do lists and deadline and you're very, very on task when you're on task. You can crush out all of your responsibilities during the workday and save an hour or two for the evening to relax every evening. I've had a little bit of success in my life at various things and I've talked and been around lots and lots of successful people. Very few of them are grinding every single day all day long, potentially none in the long term and almost all of them have a really good balance of work life. The thing is a work life balance doesn't mean you work for three hours a day and you go for 16 hours. It means that you work as hard as you can up until your work is no longer productive in the long sustainable term and then you schedule it as much relaxing time as it takes to bring down a ton of that fatigue. And if you're training really hard and you care about your results and you're really care in the sense that you're willing to shift life priorities a little bit for it then you have to take all their stuff that you do per day, squish it down a tiny little bit. That doesn't mean to do it faster, that probably means take out some unimportant shit that you shouldn't be doing and that of the time is less. It's meant a little bit more time in the evening relaxing and that will refresh you and recharge your battery so well that by the end of the week you're not going to feel devastated and just completely out of it. You're training sucks and everything sucks and you're sleep sucks. You're going to feel a little bit tired but pleasantly you're going to be like, I was really great week and I don't feel totally devastated. Then after the weekend you can feel totally recharge and almost totally in a good rush another amazing week of work and another amazing week of training and things are really good. Give some thought to what I said and let me know if you have any questions in the comments. I'll try to get to a few folks like subscribe. We have a member section which I give usually much more detail nerdy talks. We have a team for on-form come join us for that all this advice and videos and technique analysis and of course the RP hypertrophy app is a thing and you can use it to train with them. I built it myself these own two hands in the team of developers and it's awesome and I use it my training every day and I think it's the best training app in the world. So give it a shot. Link in description. See you guys next time.

Hey, folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization, and getting the basics right in your training and in your diet is responsible for the vast proportion of your gains. The rest of it most just comes down to your genetics. So if that's really the case, what does it mean to get the basics right? It's nice to say that term, the basics. I've got to get feeling about it. Rbells and handlearmostaches and lifters from the 50s. I don't know what that I'm saying. What are the basics? How do you know you're doing the right stuff to nearly guarantee most of your results will be unlocked? Well, don't worry. We have a three point list in training. The basics means the following things. First, your technique is that at least targeting the muscle that you want. You're getting a pump and a burn and tension in the target muscle. And the technique doesn't wreck your joints to where you can't do the same exercise two weeks in a row because you're too beat up. Anything within that is good. Now there's always the better and better technique, but at least technique that's stimulus target muscle and doesn't wreck the joints. You may have gone to the average gym and seen maybe about 25% of people, not even check those two boxes. You'll watch a lady doing something with a cable and you're like, exactly what muscle does she think that's working? Who knows? You can watch somebody deadlift with the most crooked shit you're ever seen. You're like, that guy's never going to be back at the gym because he's going to be living at the hospital from now on. So make sure you get those two right. That our technique is better, but at least make sure you're hitting the target muscle and not just having instant injury results. Next, your relative effort has to be high, which means you have to be pushing the bar or the cable or the dumbbell to where it slows down in your sets regularly. If you can do a set of 10, same pace, put down, walk off. You're not training hard enough. You are not hitting the basics. But if you get even one rep until that grind zone, you're good to go. You're going to be getting a lot of results and a big fraction of the results you've got coming to you anyway with genetics and some of the other variables. If you intend on continuing to make things challenging, as you get stronger, the amount of weight and the reps required to get you to grind will go up. So this automatically takes care of progression. As long as you're training with a high relative effort, getting into that grind zone for your working sets on average, progression takes care of itself. Next is volume. Very simple. At least two to three sets per muscle group per session and frequency is at least two sessions per week. Two to four sessions per week and three to ten sets per muscle group per session. If you just about the optimum results per any muscle group that you want to train. If you want to get really big legs and you tell me you're relative effort as high your technique is decent. You train your legs with anywhere between three and ten working sets per muscle. Let's say your quads get four working sets per session, anywhere between two and four sessions a week. You're going to be gaining a lot of leg size. Anything I can tell you on top of that will just be details that can only help you a lot in specific context. But mostly they'll only help a little, which is why getting the basics is so important. They actually do such a holistic job in making sure you get really close to your optimum results. Next, what does it mean to have a basically good diet that will get you most of the results you got coming to you? Three to six high protein meals per day, non-agosiable. When you're trying to gain your eating in a calorie surplus and thus gaining when you're trying to lose fat, you're eating in a calorie deficit and thus losing fat. Most of your eating is in healthy foods, which is to say lean meats, veggies, fruits, whole grains and healthy fats. If you're not eating total junk food all the time and one meal a day with no protein, you're well on your way. If you're doing just these basics, any finer details to your diet are going to be details and only a small percentage of your gains will be explained by them. Point number three is on recovery. How do you make sure you get the basics of good recovery? Well, it's really not that many things. First, you get enough sleep. Seven to nine hours on average, but enough to feel rested. Lower psychological stress environment, just try not to be in a divorce 24-7. Lower physical stress environment, if you want to get really jacked legs, don't also be a marathon runner. And lastly, proper deluding, take an easy week when you get tired and can't hit PRs anymore. Active rest, at least once a year, go away from fitness altogether for two weeks and just chill and other fatigue management features that are really basic like taking an off day here and there are really good and just about as much complexity as you need to get most of your gains. The take home here from this entire chat is that if you just do a good job with these basics as listed in this presentation, you'll get most of the gains over time that your genetics allow. My Nusha, specific techniques, specific periodization schemes, make a minute difference. And some special circumstances when they're really limiting factor are really scoring them up, they make big differences. But that's not usually the case. Usually it makes small differences. If you compete, if you're really trying to milk it out, if fitness is your career or a really enveloping hobby, hey, listen, get them a Nusha if you like, just be prepared for them to give you very small dividends. But if you're not into the my Nusha and you just do these basics, you're going to get excellent excellent results without having to worry about all these crazy details. If you do like to worry about crazy details, stop worrying, enjoy our members situation here in YouTube, the members area of the channel, you get extra videos and not videos that will appear on the regular channel, the extra extra bonus bonus. They're not any better, they're just different, they're nerdy and more technical, because they're so real. And if you really want that next level, you're really, really fitness is a big deal to you and you want all the help you can get, help with coaching, help with plans, help with peel, inspect your plans for you, help with people looking at your videos of your technique and really making it better. Come join us on the team full-romb forum. I'll be in there myself answering weekly live questions. All of those links are below. See you in the comment section, like, subscribe and I'll see you next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NSUNS Pyridization. Welcome to video number 11 in our 12th part series about how to build and maintain and use and benefit from your high-perrophy workout plan. To that end, we have an app, the RP high-perrophy app, and it does all these things for you. It allows you to build a plan and to auto-regulate a plan and to finish the plan, and then to restart and make your new plan. It does all this. It's really cool. If you get in the year, it's like 30% or more off than if you go month by month. So try it for a month, and if you like it and you're using it and you're like, hey, like, now I'll have to pry this out of my cold dead hands, then get the year. And the benefit of getting the year in addition to that is I get a year's worth of your money. And I run away to Scott's video guy. Where do people who have taken someone's money illegally on Mass Run 2? Namibia, which has a level 1 CA, travel advisory, which means it's sweet. So it does about water. One half-cubing, in any case. Here we go. Deloading. That's the subject today. As you train hard adaptations accumulate, you increase in your strength, your endurance, and best of all, your muscle size. That's the whole point. But fatigue accumulates also. And a lot of times we say fatigue very generally on this channel, because we have other nerdy videos that break it down. But let me break it down for you what we mean. A few examples of what fatigue actually is. Micro-attairs on your muscle that don't heal session to session a week to eat completely. So they start to get a little bigger over time, increasing your chance of future injury. Homeowner limb balances. Over the long-term of training, weeks and weeks and weeks, if you go really, really hard, your testosterone constructed decline and your cortisol stress to come up. Bad news. Neural fatigue. Your nervous system gets tired and you can't heal appropriately every single week. It heals maybe 99% every week. So that every week after, it's a little bit less, a little bit less, a little bit less able to push your muscles really hard and coordinate. You'll also notice that in the first few weeks of your plan, when you're not really fatigued, you're actually more athletic and smooth than your technique is really good. As you get more tired in the later weeks of your plan, you may start to feel stiff and weird and uncornated. And that increases the chance you'll get hurt in anyone exercising is also awful and bad for my muscle connection. Your glycogen reduces, so you have less and less power to give, and that's a bad thing. Now, one of the biggest problems with fatigue is that it prevents you from actually supplying a progressive overload. If my muscles are growing under the hood just fine, they grew from 100 pounds for 10 reps. Next week, I'm doing 100 pounds for 11 reps. They grow a little bit more, a little bit more, a little bit more, a little bit more, over the weeks. But what if I'm too tired to get 11 reps and I go 100 for 10 again just from fatigue? Even if the mechanism that grows muscle under the hood is still very much intact and at full power, it's like, okay, let's just more the same. I'm going to grow as much as I did last week. If matter fact, much less, because your body doesn't really like to grow muscle. How do we know this? You have to go into gym and force it to do so. If your body like to grow muscle as much as it likes to put on fat, you could just eat food and get mega-hello jack. So because it's resistant to muscle growth, it needs a novel, overloading stimulus every time to get its best results. If you're so fatigued, did you can't get stronger anymore? You're too fatigued to present your best overload, unless you end up just spinning your wheels a lot because you're going in and having hard workouts, but because they can't get hard over time, you're really shooting yourself in the foot. That's one problem, but it's not the only problem. There is a deeper problem than this, because you could say, well, look, volume is overloading. So if I can't get stronger, I'll just add a set every single time I come in and that does work for a little while or it would, if not for the second much worse thing. Mechanistically, under the hood, at a molecular machine level, high levels of fatigue tend to turn up your catabolic machinery that burns muscle as you walk around train, sleep, anything that burns more muscle all the time. That system is turned up. One of the examples of such a system is the AMPK regulator system. Another thing it does is it turns down the sensitivity and proneness of the system that builds most of your muscle. An example of that is the AMPK regulator, target of rapomyosin pathway. It has a bunch of pathways going into and shooting off of it, and a bunch of those pathways as you get more and more fatigue from high volume training over and over. Any kind of training over and over. Over time, you start to grow less muscle every time you're stimulated and you grow less muscle throughout the rest of the day. There's a real tragedy there. If you don't bring your fatigue down every now and again, if your fatigue gets up here and is chronically high, put sustainably, it's stopped going up, it's just high all the time. You're getting a little stronger over time, but kind of similar strength. You're doing enough volume hypothetically that would allow you to grow. As the weeks and weeks and weeks pass of you being exposed that chronically high fatigue, your catabolic machinery is increasing in its power. Your anabolic muscle constructor machinery is decreasing in its power. So, the turn dials are going the opposite way, which means that this is the tragedy. You're doing as much work as you've ever done. Session to session week to week, logging it in your app, your apps adapting to all the stuff. And for what? So that you can get almost no gains because you are now a muscle burning, non-muscle building machine. You have engineered your systems to start to act like that. And here's the thing, it's tough to tell because you're going to be roughly the same muscle size. You can't tell that you're making gains. Oh, I got a floating in my face. You're not at your floaty. It left politely. You can't tell if you're going muscle week to week that's fucking impossible. What your physique looks roughly the same. So, you could do weeks and weeks of weeks of training at a high fatigue state and grow precisely this much fucking muscle zero. You would be none the wiser because you never brought the fatigue down under the hood. The machine raised all fucked. How would you know that? Now, to be honest, your pumps will get a lot worse. Your ability to get delayed outside muscle soreness will crash almost through the floor, such that you do 10 sets and basically just get really tired for a few days, but your muscles never feel restore pumped. Those are good indicators. But a lot of people say, oh, I don't pay attention that stuff anyway, which is like totally fine, not to. But at the end of the day, you're really sitting yourself up like, look, if you're not going to grow muscle, you might as well train not at all or very little. You could not grow muscle doing those things. And you have plenty of time in the rest of your day to do fuck all. But if you're going hours a week to the gym and you're spinning your wheels, that's a fucking tragedy because you're pissing away all that time and effort for nothing, how do you prevent that from happening is you de-load. And by the way, this wheel spinning thing has been confirmed in direct studies. As you do more and more, your ability to grow muscle declines. You need a refresher every now and again to take that fatigue, bring it back down really close to baseline so you can set up another productive multiple weeks. If you are training hard and properly, which is to be honest, hard target demographic for this hypertrophy up is people who train hard and want to train properly, like regular fit moms or people in the gym doing fuck all, they're not going to pay money for this app. They don't need it. They're not going to benefit. It's going to be a lot of interfacing with a UI UX that they're just going to be like, I don't even know what I'm doing this. So for the people that think, for the people that want best results that train hard, most of those folks are going to be able to go for about four to six weeks of hard training, three to six weeks and then need a deal load. Very few people can train real hard for five weeks plus straight without benefiting greatly from a deal load. So every four to six weeks for most people, volume and load and relative effort should decline markedly. Last week, fewer reps fewer sets not pushing us close to failure to that whole week of the deal out week. Here's a good thing. I've got an OAP demo for you today because the app just does all this for you and if I just scrolled over to the deal out week, it can be like, yeah, that's another week with your sets and reps. This is what it looks like. You'll know it's a deal out week because it'll be like, you'll forget because the app takes care of so much for you. This happened to me recently. I was like, oh, I don't know the training day today. I click on the train day and it's like 50 pounds for 8 RIR and I was like, what the hell, there's a bug in, oh, it's deal out week. So we'll tell you to go easier. You don't automatically drop your weight. It'll adjust your sets. It'll adjust your repetition range target. It'll fix all that for you so you don't have to think anything about it. One pro tip I do have is the app still assumes you want to show up to the gym the same number of days. If you have some deal out workout, some of them will be so easy. What I recommend you do is just condense them. So for example, you have Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday workouts four times a week. What I would do for deal out week is on Monday. I would do Monday and Tuesday. It's going to take you just as long to do as your normal Monday workout, but you're going to get Tuesday checked off. Tuesday, Wednesday, you don't even come to the gym. Thursday, you take your Thursday and Friday workout. You condense it into one workout. That's going to be super, super easy. You can get through it in like 30 minutes. You train only twice that week. Monday and Thursday, the rest of the week, you relax. You eat plenty of food. You eat at maintenance. Take it easy. Sleep. Enjoy other hobbies. And then when you come back that next Monday, you are going to be fucking ferocious, furious and ready to go out again. And when you're ready to go out again, you are going to want to build your next program because you're having a new mesocycle to build. And that's precisely what we're going to talk about in our next and last video of this series coming up this next week, next Tuesday. And by the way, link in the description for the RPI hypertrophy app. Go have a look at it. And by it, please, I need money. I'll see you guys next time.

Watch it, watch it, watch it, watch it, watch it, watch it, watch it, come on, come on, and try a regular pushup on the ground. I knew you were going to say that. Come on. Real quick, this is just to embarrass me. Got to you. Folks, I'm Dr. Mike. This is Jared Feather, IFED Pro. This is Alex Leannitis, and he only does one kind of chess workout. Hard core, barbells, dumbbells, and body weight. No thanks, machines, no thanks, cables, no thanks, we are pulling angles. Alex Leannitis, just one man, no 300 today. One big ass compound heavy chess workout and Jared Feather here to be a technique stickler. How are you feeling? I'm feeling great, Mike. Happy to be here. Can we have a show with the basis can produce? Like you said, barbells, dumbbells, dips, can go wrong. Anything else that goes? Let's get it in. We start with bench press. The bench press is an excellent exercise to build a chess for a few reasons. One, it biases the length and position because that's the mechanic the most difficult position, which is also the most hypertrophic position. Two, it's a barbell movement which means it's incredibly stable. Especially with good technique, you can produce a ton of force with treating pretty much all of your muscle fibers in your facts. And lastly, if you have a really good technique, it puts your pecks under real safe position. Shoulders in real safe position, nice and retracted, chest up. The stimulus to fatigue ratio or the barbell bench press can be incredible if you use good technique. And if you have the body type for it, some people don't like it, that's totally fine. But if you've heard somewhere bench is suboptimal for pecans bullshit. It turns the guys built enormous pecks with the flat barbell bench press. We're going to be doing sets of five to ten, maybe ten to fifteen here. We're not Jared, put it every one in. Let's get it done. And the pecks should be going toward the ceiling. So you're not tating at all. So you should be leaning the bar and then even as you press up, even more of the pecks to the ceiling. Okay. It sounds like a soft touch. It's holding it like they're not resting at all. It's going to drop by quite a bit, but we're here for a fucking great stimulus. Absolutely. For sure. Do you want these matching? I'm so proud to have this. That is not good for my brain right there. Yeah, I'm the same way man. Desend the interman to the illness. Excellent. Meet the bar with your chest because you're kind of really good and you just go, yeah, drop. You know what I mean? It's good. I got a little bit more control. Like I said man, it's going to be making it with the way fucking heavier. It's got to be perfect. It's much different than the parallel thing bench press. I got you. Do a one or two reps just to potentially and then get to the works that after or are you good to just start work set? I was going to just start it in. Okay. It's long as you take nice pauses, we're good to go. We're going to wrap up. First up out. Let's go. Meet the bar. Meet the bar. Now press the effects. Yes sir. Big chest. Yeah. Come on. Meet the bar. Chest to the ceiling on the way up. On the way up. Push. Push it. Good shit dude. Oh yeah. Got that. That was good. Just left man. Try to get the hell of a strict. What was that seven or something? I was like six. Six. I fell in my pecks ripping. Yeah, I never really heard that. That's what we want. Two twenty five. Yeah. Oh damn. So we're going to. I'll give some pain in here. Good shit. Did we see the one? One more. Oh, okay. Come on man. Did we see like mic right there? You're good. Thanks. See you like feeling go. Go. Go. Go. Right. I didn't really hell man. That was you. People like let the scouts move freely. I'm like that's a terrible, terrible advice. I don't know where that came from. What biomechanics expert. A.K.A. functional anatomy enthusiast came over that bullshit. But it's completely wrong to stress the pecks. This stretches the pecks less. This stretches them more. Absolutely. The fuck are they talking about? Like I don't get it. Especially if it's lengthen by us. Yes. Like a ball of bass press. So you're not going for that. I can understand if thumb up the converting effect. Sure. Maybe then you want to pro track and get your arm across. You're really squeeze barbell. So. Beautiful. Come on. Shit. Here we go. Last one. You're just feeling. Go. Whoa. Oh man. That's shit. Humbling. It's very humbling. But just go to show you don't need that much. Totally. And when you do the reaching especially. Oh yeah. Because if you drive with telling before. Of course the bond is that tendency to want to rush. That last portion. That's the most important part. Yes. And it's not enough to just rush down here and hold it. Because you can get good a mass in that technique. Yep. That's how guys move big ways. Just. You know, they drop it. Yeah. Hold and then just explode. Yep. But if you really reduce all momentum. Control that way. The short arms too. Yep. Right there. It's like it's like it's like it's doing the work. Yeah. Man, it's tough. That's it for bench. Let's go do in high dumbbells. You know, never use these things before. Neither. You do it. Kind of one of the chime in the videos. Oh yeah. So chest up. Can you do this? Totally. Sure. Can you do this? Sure. But the packs open up a few do this. And they get a big stretch. So you start in this imagine there's a straight line to your face that goes all the way through to the outside of your shoulders. Start here, open up elbows out. Reach big at the bottom to get really between your own. Yep. These dumbbell things right here. Under your chest to touch your bicep. Right. Get that low posture, sec. And then curve back up. Big reach. Curve back up. Right. And I bring dumbbells out. But somewhat of a neutral grip. And I'm still getting the stretch if I'm out here. Right. You're up should be okay. Just make sure. Just make sure. Just make sure. Yeah. Getting dumbbells. Should've been especially like I'm not going to tell you no. Okay. Yeah. Let me see what feels good. Because when you warm, change the things well. Big chest. And then press. Excellent. Control. Super deep. Big chest. Oh yeah. One after another just like that. Big chest. So push your chest up. I use the pecs. Pecs. Pecs. Oh yes. Pecs. Control. Pecs. Stop. Come on. Try to get it. One more. Just stop. Slow. You should control. Huge chest. The biggest one. Push up and in. Push in. Yes. Finish up. Go. And the back. Hey. You'll look at that. We go push them forward. Thanks a lot, Gary. Shit. You know, I love that reaching to you. It makes such a difference. All right. Oh my god. So you like arching on the incline. I should look. Really? Yeah. That's why we have varying degrees. Exactly. It's like an arch really fucking hard on a high incline and put the degree change a little bit. But the stretch is so much better for the pecs. Exactly. So it's better to do a higher incline and arch when I go lower. 100%. Then just keeping it low, but you're not tight. I think that sets up your chest. It sets up your scabs. It does everything to align you. It also collapses you down so that there's no movement possible. Because if you start with a flat back, pretty and then as you press, you start arching more. It's going to change the ship while you're doing it. Exactly. And that's kind of weird. We like to lock into the technique once we're locked in with staying. You're a beautiful man. Beautiful. One more. When you start struggling with your chest. I'll think Andy will just let me in. Up up up. Push it in. Push it together. Push it together. I'm on the back of my hand. Beautiful. Oh, my crap. I don't work. I don't fucking work. Thank you man. Yeah. Yeah. I'm just, I don't know to say. You're a hero. I don't know to say. Say, it's time for dips. We have a lot of time. Chest is pretty fried by this point. We had bench. We had dumbbell press. Dips are going to be done low and slow. Of course, a nice pause at the bottom for a big stretch under tension. And Alex has done dips with. I believe for playtaking before roughly this body weight. And this is going to be a big, big difference because we're asking them to go slow on the way down. We're asking them to get a deeper stretch than usual. We're doing it after two exercises, six working sets of quite difficult chest work. And he might actually only have to use like 45 or something like that. We'll probably do two sets of weighted dips. And then take the weight off of the last set and do a burnout set of unweighted dips to finish. To finish the psychotic chest workout somehow. Got the more. Yep. Yeah, go go go go go go go go go go go go and rack. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Maximum stretch. I would say you can get just as low as dumbbells. If not lower because there's no obstruction. Yeah. Feel it on your pecs. Always excellent. You are likely to get sore. Most likely. So I'm also damn intubate. All stretch based and squeezing across the body. Just free weights. Getting it in. I hate that shit. The day that's pointing now. That the length of position is generally best for hypertrophy. Yeah. And the pecs in particular have been proven to respond well to that as well as the calves and whatnot, right? Yeah. How relevant. It's to do like pick fly motions and all that kind of stuff. It's a good question. I think that there might be a chance where there's some regional hypertrophy through squeezing. But we'd have to get some good data on that to be sure about it. I think otherwise it squeezes mostly a waste of time but sometimes for variation. I think it's okay and it might turn out there's something there in the end. But it was something. We definitely know never squeeze of the expense of the stretch. Right. See if I have a machine that loads a great top hold but the stretch sucks. You got to change something. Right. That's what I would say. That's all. Deep. Swim it. Push. Push. Push it. Yeah. I'm good. No rush. Probably just take it off. Take the time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Beautiful Alex. Let's go. Yeah. Yeah. Who's love? Big chest. Yeah. Who's love? Big chest. Yeah. Big chest. Push. Push. One more. Yeah. Go. That's it. Okay. And off the machine. One hand on each side. Oh no no out here all the way up here. This one here. Yes. Look forward. Super deep. Pause. And up. There you go. There you go. Slow. As deep as you can. Open this chest up. Yep. Up. Go. Go. Great. That's the little. You go. Go. Nice and deep. Ultra deep. Fuck. Up. You got it. You got the strength. Go. Go. Come on. Come on. And try regular push-up on the ground. I knew it. I knew it. Come on. This is just to embarrass the fuck out of you. Good. Push up. Chest to the ground. All the way down. And up. And one more. Look forward. Up. That's it. That's it. You don't know how we know the chest is done. That's how you work your backs right there. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh, this is good. Thank you man. Dude. Good shit. Got me good there. Good shit. It's funny. When you go to failure and you're training with good technique, it's how it's done. First of all, it sneaks up on you. And second about how unimpressive it looks emotionally. People are like, expect like a fucking war. And you're just like, yeah, it's momentary musk with failure. That really is. And in some cases, like with pulling exercises and legs, it can be this like second-slung process that's hell. But for me with triceps and chest, I'm just like, it just stops. It just stops. I thought so. I'm just like the machine is feeling good. And then I'm just like, nope. Val's won't move anymore. So yeah, Alex, there's a huge pleasure having you man. Mike, huge pleasure. Jared, anything any advice for folks out there who want to build a big chest? Maybe you don't have a ton of machines. Listen, I build my chest off barbells, dumbbells, body weight training. Actually, the majority was built from pushups and dips. I ever used machines for my chest up until last year. And even then, I would not credit it. Any serious development. Except maybe the upper chest in the case of the Smith machine. Overall, this is a body built by the old school basics. The flatball bench press and climb dumbbell bench press. Wait a minute, dip. Literally stuff that I always do. We did it today. But with an extra emphasis on getting more out of less weight. And with Jared's special technique, but really reaching. And trying to go beyond your active range. Rather than artificially stopping it, because you don't have the mobility quote on quote. That's how you get results. You want to stay in this game long time. You got nobody to impress. Except maybe people at the beach. Once you have. Yes. And that's probably scared. There you go. And then they will fear you. As they should. I'll see you next time. I will. See you guys. Thanks for watching.

I was like damn he's really doing this. I'm gonna ask. I think he'll put up folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance periodizations. You guys know, I'm pretty big channel. I'm sort of important. I was like, I wasn't always like that. I had a little tiny channel coming up. We're trying to give love to the guys coming up in their own little way. It's not friend Jeff Nippard. He's trying to get a YouTube following going. So I brought him on the channel. And if you guys want to give him some love, this Jeff Nippard, just YouTube, it'll come up. Doesn't have a ton of followers yet. He's a really great guy. Life time drug free lifter. And just a good person. Thank you. And he trains in Canada with great weight north. And we've chatted about this just before we got started filming. But he would like to introduce this video by singing the Canadian National Anthem in its entirety. Jeff hit it. You started off. I'll do this. I'll do this. I got it. And that's what it up. Let's do chess and try some. Let's go. Exercise number one is going to be the Atlantis Incline machine press. You guys have seen it before on our channel. It's just dope. It's awesome. The Atlantis people knocked it out of the park. You do almost everything. We are going to be doing sets of, oh, some were 10 to 15, 8 and 15 repetitions. You're going to look for that slow eccentric troll. Deep pause with the chest lifted up. And then a nice athletic return to full range of motion. And let's go. Let's get to it. Oh, you don't have to do this crap. You say I do. Oh, geez. Okay. Well, I like to make sure folks warm up exactly as they want. Okay. I'm doing it, Jeff. Very well. We'll do the panted doctor Mike. The pants, if leg and bed lift. And you have to do the T-RxR. How many warm upsets are we doing? So I generally like to do about three. Okay. And they're just getting mentally heavier. And then I do first working set. How many working sets? Probably three or four. That's four working sets. So three or four warm upsets, three or four working sets. Okay. That sounds great. Okay. Yes. Again. Slope. Control. Hit it. Thumb. Go. Go, god damn you. Now slow is if you're going to do another one. Slow. Slow. Slow. Pause. Wait. Unload. Ooh. Nice. Yeah. That was a really good man. Man, I tend to find that that last wrap. If you just dump it, like it totally cooled. Yeah. But if you fucking let it go, it's like when your muscles are closest to failure. That last thing I forgot. Oh my god. It's like that actually. Yeah. Let's go, Mike. Go. Wow. Yeah. Ooh. You're right. I'm going to be. Ah. Good. Slow. Ah. These are flawless, dude. Again. Perfect. Big chest. Go. Go. I got one more. That's it. Let's do it. Slow and controlled. Big pause. Up. Move it. Just. And then as if another. Raise your chest. Go slow. Take a solid pause at the bottom. Unload. I've got that shit. Yeah. I've got that shit. I've got that shit. Yeah. I've got that shit. You know what? I just noticed the big chest queue. When I do that, you really feel the stretch. I was like, huh. I was like, huh. I was like, Mike's doing a powerlifting thing with the get their arch up. You know? I was like, oh, wait a minute. It's a button. It's a button. Yeah. It feels much slower than what I'm used to. I'll say that. Which I don't mind at all because it'll allow me to train a little bit lighter. Sure. And protect the. Sure. Sure. Sure. At least pain wise even more by going slower and simultaneously reducing to re-risk. Right. Yeah. It's kind of like we're winning on all sorts of. Sure. I'm well with you. I mean, you don't have many more rocks left to unturn with this machine here, right? So. You have to do something to keep it challenging for you. I am going to. I was at 240. I hit eight and then six. I'm going to do down sets, which my app has just been updated to do. So whatever you can buy it watching this video, it will do that. Down sets. And I'm going to go to 180. And hit that for another probably two sets. And then that'll be a good start. And we'll go to do some. Try some stuff crushing of the skull perhaps. Oh, Jeff. It's a hard word. I'm sorry. Yes, sir. Let's go. Good job. Oh, my God. That's really good. Thank you so much, Jeff. Oh, yeah. Hi. Hi. I'm going to put a little bit of that on the floor. Not sure. Not sure. Okay. So I went one plate later. Yes. So I should be able to get something in the range of. 11, maybe 12 with this. Big chest. Great. Keep going. Slow, slow, slow, slow. Yes. One more. Slow and controlled. Big stretch. Ah. Slow and controlled. One more. Good moves, Jeff. Oh, oh. Oh, oh. Okay. Okay. Oh, oh. I was like, damn, he's really doing this. Oh, oh. It was awesome. Okay. I really did try. Everyone's not sure where to find. Really, really, really, really fine. Yes. And then people say, but you didn't really, really, really, really, really try. Yeah. I'm going through. Really. On YouTube. Five step time. Oh, hello. Hello. So, now. Good. Good. Good. All right. Good. All right. All right. We can learn. We can learn. Natural. I don't know if you've seen this before. Oh, they have a thing. It's so beautiful. Huh? They've got to come back. It's Italian. Yes. I have only ever done Smith Machine Scholars One's. And my life. So I might need some guidance on these soon. It will be twice. How is the biomechanics looking here? Looking like biomechanics. Get him in a little bit. Want at the bottom so don't let him flare. Yes. Sorry. I'll stop. I think you're too excited. I love the Smith Machine Scholars Russia. I like three way of scholarship. Also, but I got to say this for a patata. But not. The Smith Machine here is like unbelievable. And also it's very generous to strength because it's an unloaded Smith, which means the barways nothing. And, uh, G-Wiz. I'm going to be stall crushing a lot. And then steps first time doing this movement in a long time. So, can we work on some technique queues and tips? Let's get after it. Like that is mind boggling tries to strength. Thank you so much. Wow. See, I respect that man. Like I like it when big guys are also strong. As opposed to me. Well, some of the guys are like, how the fuck did you get that break? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. I mean, they're probably strong if they knew how to use their body better perhaps. Sure. But like the potential is there. It's just not realized. But in your case, it's obviously like a mediocre drug free power whatsoever before. So I do know how to like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Pull my body in a decent place. Who it? Go. Yes, two more. Slow and controlled. Big moves. Up. Up. One more Jeff. You got this. He's it up. Yes, I got this. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Oh, yeah. I'm going to do two downsets here at 135. Okay, and we'll do 95 for you. Okay. All right. Yeah. Some sense. Three. Very nice. Beautiful set. Very nice. I'm trying to decide if I want to like, if I want to JM press it almost or you're really skull crushing it, right? Like, the most choice. Yeah. So yeah, so it'll fun fact. The JM to skull crusher is a spectrum. It's not one lift or another. It's close grip. JM. The skull crusher to the face. It's all across your behind the neck. All right. It's all a spectrum. Okay. There's no wrong answers. It's just whatever. Because your joints feel okay. And you have a real good connection with your try. Okay. I'll tell you what I feel. I feel like I have a good good connection with my try. I feel a tendon stretch in a way. It doesn't hurt, but I'm just saying. Yeah. Okay. Two more. No more. I got more. Good. We did the troll it. Awesome. Go. Come on. What have you got? Slow. Up. Move. I'm not helping you. I got more. Oh yeah. How are you? Yeah. How are you? How are you? I'll go in. Yes. Big push. Go. Go. Go. Oh. Woo. Very good. Come on. Come on. Let's push it. Go there. Come on. Yeah. You fall. Nice. Very nice. Go on. Go. Yes. It's going to resist you. You're going to win. Move. I got one more. Okay. Yes. Slow. No. Okay. Yeah. Slow. Slow. Go. Go. Go. Okay. He's got two. Dude. My man. No shot. No shot. I'll kill him. Okay. Smaller. Smaller. Smaller. Smaller. I can't see you. I can't see you. I can't see you. Just one last one. Another. Did my last one? No. No. No. No. Another. Okay. Yes. Which is. Which is. Yes. Last exercise of the day. The prime chest press. It's adjustable as all prime machines are to various biases of loading from the deep stretch all the way to the contraction. And when you go with it. Well, we are scientists. We literally people. So we are going to go with the deep stretch bias here. And we're going to take your closer grip to kind of do both chest and triceps because we did chest first and triceps. Now it's a bit of both. This prime press I've actually never used up before is my first time. It's like sex is being had with my chest and triceps. Totally with. Not against my will. And it's amazing. And I love it. I think I'm in love. Like if I woke up next to the prime machine the next day. And it was like. Looking at me. I would look back into its eyes and be like, I think this is a thing. Power couple. So this is fucking sweet. And we're going to do sets of. Probably 10 to 15 15 to 20 reps something like that. Nice soul burn. You ready? Go. Slow. Go. Go. No. No. Less weight for the backside. Yeah. Man, just with those pauses, it just. It makes me so much harder. Yeah. Jeff, I got to say your triceps are unbelievably. Unbelievably impressive. Oh, thank you. Thank you. I kind of don't know what to do with myself when I'm around them. Let's go, Mike. Let's push it. Come on. Let's go. Come on. I'm with you if you want another one. Yeah, I know. I feel that. It's because of the stretch. Yes. Yes. But, it's a bottom. Okay. Give me two seconds. Let's do it. Whatever you need. These are beautiful. Two more. I'll go in. Go. One more. Up. Yeah. Slow. Yeah. Okay. Push. Push. Push. And then there's another slow chest up. Because all the way down, all the way down and pause. Big stretch. That's it. That was a good set. Come on, Mike. One more. Let me help you get this one. Oh, time. Control. Control. Control. Pause. Guys. Hey. Very nice. Oh, thank you Jeff. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, my bag. I think we should do one more fun. Something fun. Find me up. Yeah. So I personally think this will be a nice finisher for the thriceups. We're really overhead. Whereas with the skull crusher, we were still a little bit more more of a neutral position. So. Have you ever used this before, Mike? Oh, but she's like him without this one. This is exactly what we'll have has a. My favorite. He knows what I like. And then it's just an overhead extension. So it's quite smooth. So we can do maybe one set here. Perfect. Yeah, just one's. One set. Pretty hard. But yeah. Okay. There you go. One minute help. Nope. Okay. Maybe help. Yes. All right. I'm done. I got like really hard really quick actually. Yeah, yeah, yeah. When I get hard, it's never quick. For it all. Good. Good. Stop. One more. Yeah. Good. Good. Good. Good. Oh, shit. That hits. Did you like it? That was good. Yeah, very good. I'm like a little bit too much stuff going on back there. I don't do it anyway. I don't do it anyway. Jeff. Huge pleasure. Have you ever heard of the water? What did you think about the workout? It's awesome. I love it. It was great. Ten and a ten. Ten and a ten. Yeah. Get out of it. Fantastic. Huge pleasure. Have you folks? This is Jeff Mipper. Huge inspiration. Huge presence in the evidence-based community. The tip of the spear. If you haven't seen him on YouTube, I'm likely. But if you haven't, check him out. Huge channel. Amazing stuff going on. And if you're a fan of Jeff Mipper, then you've seen this video. Hello, I also have a channel subscribed to me. I need more money. I promise I wouldn't say that, but I can tell you. Anyway, awesome time. And hopefully we'll do some more claps with a few chats. Yeah. Thank you, sir. My pleasure. Of course. Of course. Likewise. Guys, catch you next time. What is that? Corn hub? Wasn't just corn.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NSW and today is a video 2 of the probably 12th part series on how to construct your muscle growth training plan, your high-perchary training plan, and we are going to be doing it describing how to do it in the theory and in concept, and I'm actually going to be demoing how to do it right here with the RP high-perchary training app. If you were watching this video before, may mid-May 2023, then hit the link in the description and sign up for the open paid beta. If you do the link to sign up before we release, you get into the pre-sale funnel and all your money goes into my bank account. No, wait, I wasn't supposed to tell you that. You get all kinds of free goodies which are straight up totally true and you also get a really cool super low price to start the app with. So, there's that and if you're excited to get in that link, and I straight up build all of my programs with the RP high-perchary app now because I only train with the app because it's beautiful and amazing and I helped build it. So, all good things and look, you don't have to buy the phone. I'm going to have to always say that. I think it's a really great idea and it's very affordable and we'll save you an unbelievable amount of time. But if you want to go your own way, no worries because this video is not just an app promo video, it is a video that will tell you how to, in this case, select your exercises. If you want to go back a video last week, we'll put out a video about how to design your beginning of a program and choose where to put muscle groups and how many days a week to train. So, to the exercises, let's talk about how to choose exercises. There are a few rules, I'd say five, in how to choose your exercises. Five rules about how to choose your exercises. First, you want to think about what exercises give you the best SFR stimulus to fatigue ratios. That's super fancy signs talk for exercises that whenever the target muscle is, let's say it's the chest. Exercise is that give your chest a ton of tension through the chest as you do them versus like, I don't know, I don't really feel my chest a ton. A ton of burn, especially at high reps like torching your shit. Huge pumps from not so many sets always a good sign. Your target muscle feels exhausted as shit versus like, man, I don't know, I can keep going this exercise seemingly does nothing to me. And also gets you plenty or as much as your genetically capable of in that regard of delayed onset muscle soreness or just muscle soreness after the training. Like, if you are a leg press for your legs, gives you crazy tension, burn, pump, exhaust the crap out of your quads and your quads get so far for a few days after, she gets kind of a winner. That's not that's the stimulus side. The fatigue side is it doesn't beat up your joints at ton and every single exercise you can do for every single muscle can be ranked somewhere on how much it beats up your joints all the way from super low. I can't even tell to like, if I do this, I will just get joint cancer and I'll never recover and I'll never have joints again. Technically, you want to pick the ones that are nice on your joints. You want the exercise also to not dump a ton of psychological fatigue onto you. Psychological fatigue can come from having a try really hard, which is a part of training, but if you needless they have to try hard to get the same you're better off at an exercise when you don't want to have to go psychotic, but you get a great stimulus anyway. And also a part of psychological fatigue and really a big part is how fun and enjoyable the exercises. So if you if you bench press works well for you, so the deficit pushups, which is love deficit pushups, and that is absolutely a factor, a huge factor, but it's a meaningful factor and has been vetted in the research actually, is being a predictor of success, if you actually like the exercise you're doing. So that's number one. Number two is you want to choose what you think you can progress on slowly. Progress is critical. It's the foundation of training. And if you have muscle groups in which you pick an exercise for them and that exercise is like, you do it. It's a good workout, but then the next week it's not a great workout and you stop getting strong pretty fast. Just doesn't gel with you. But if you know from past experience that if you start squatting, you just add the pounds and pounds to your squat over weeks and weeks and weeks, that is going to grow a ton of muscle growth over long terms. I would pick something like that. Third rule is if you're building your plan maybe for the first time or maybe for the 10 trellian of time, people will always say not always people sometimes say often, maybe too often, that like you've got to switch it up man, keep the body guessing. Your body does not have a logic system. Just your brain. It doesn't guess. It's much more straightforward than that. Yes, variation is a good thing. So you can absolutely feel free to mess with some new exercises. But if you have some old favorites that just fucking work, just pick those. You don't have to get fancy for no fucking reason. So if you tell me, hey man, I'm thinking of benching again for my chest to be like, okay, how's your stimulus to fatigue ratio be like amazing? And do you think you can progress on the bench? Like do you know I always progress on bench? We're like, okay, this is totally fine exercise. Anyway, well, should I try dumbbell? Like yeah, that's cool too. I feel like you're not giving me any answers. Like no, I really am. And I'll get to point number five and a sec to tile this together. Well, that's a prize. But it really is totally cool to do old exercises and new. As long as they check the prior box. So for example, we can go right here and go to chest on day one and ooh, camera bar bench press. How many of us that checks the boxes for me? And then for bake, we can choose assisted pull-up, fuck that barbell bent over row. Hard core. All right, rule number four. If we do not have an exercise in here and actually I have to get back to one of my marketing associates to tell him how many exercises we have total in our library, it's a lot hundreds. But we don't have all of them. So if there is an exercise that you do not see in our list, like do where one arm reach back pull around face pulls for your, uh, or bigulaire as an eye muscle. Google that, uh, not at work. Uh, unless you're an anatomist and then Google it at work. If we don't have a certain muscle group, what you can do is go up to the menu and you can create a custom exercise and why should I do this right now? Yeah, wait, wait, wait, x-base, deal dough, press, exercise type. Ooh, these menu options we got machine barbell, swith machine dumbbell, cable, free motion, body weight only, body weight loadable and machine assistance. I don't like to do anything build-over-lated if a machine isn't helping me. So I say machine assistance, YouTube vid ID, these developers are fucking brilliant. WWW dot x and xx dot com. It's got the video not. I like that, man. Yeah, YouTube do not, please fucking don't cancel this. Don't go to that website. It's full of bad things and the muscle group, ostensibly you have to pick from this list. Uh, you know, we'll say it's for, well, it's a press, right? Try steps, build-over press. Boom. I'm not going to save it because that's fucking ridiculous, but if you save it, it pops up in the menu under try steps and I'm going to pollute. Scott, should I save it? So you have dildo press? Sure, I'll share it forever. Boom. Hey, exercise created. You can create another or you could just say, okay, I've had enough fun. And then let's see if the system works. This could be embarrassing potentially. We go to the try steps. This Apple computer dildo press. It's there. Of course, we're fucking baking it. I like that it's also all caps. I guess your caps log is on and I'm an idiot. There we go. It's off. Yeah. So anyway, you can make your own exercise. Now, here's the thing. Especially if you help link in a video for us so we can check it out. Every, you, is I don't want to make promises, promises? Like my dad did when he said I'll be back and later this afternoon, I haven't seen him 15 years just kidding. I see my talent. Every half a year or so, at least for the first little while, probably regularly after that. Myself and VJard for their I-FB pro and the Scott the video guy, we are going to travel to one of America's best equipped gyms. There's a couple gyms on our list. And we are going to video probably a person that looks more appealing than we do. Demoing all of the exercises you guys picked that are the highest across occurrence. So if like 80,000 of you active monthly users make me a training air and you all pick dildo press, we will have a dildo press in the actual shit. Now, Scott's video guy, I'm making a big mistake, right? Because he my focus is going in the 18,000 people are going to recommend dildo press bucket, bringing on. We can always ignore it. No way, I should be telling it, somebody else is not you guys. On a serious note, just throw in the exercises that you want to see. And if you do that and other people do that, then eventually we will just have all the exercises that you want to see in there. If we don't throw your exercise in there, it's probably because you were one of the only people to select it or just not that many people selected it. And we have to prioritize on what most people want, but you can just always have your custom movements and your app remembers that so you can always select them and they're just the same. And even if you throw your own video link in there, then you can have the pop-up video show up and you can remember what the hell a dildo press even was. All right, so that's that. Point number five, that was point four. Point four was if you don't have an exercise, feel free to feel your own point five in program design and in choosing exercises. Really, really, they're hard to wrong answers. They just aren't. Most exercises are great, done properly with a good technique, which we'll get to later. They give you great results and feel free to play with our autofill feature. If you just don't know what exercises to use, what do I mean by that? Let's say you're like, man, I just fucking don't know what exercises to use or you're a nice person and you don't swear like me and you're like a mom of three and you want to work out and get in shape. Sorry for all the swearing, but you're like, I want to use this hypertrophy thing, I think that RP knows what it's doing, but like I don't know what I'm about to like to manage exercises. I just, I don't have, I look at the menu and it's just kind of overwhelming. Watch this. We have an autofill feature, top right hand corner. We click on autofill exercises and look at that. It conserved the ones we already picked and then it inserted autofill exercise into the situation. Over time, we are going to be advancing the algorithm that determines which exercises get filled. For now, the feature is mostly like a random suggestion feature just to keep you creative. Over time it will evolve and we've already written the pseudo code for this, by the way, for your nerdy fucks. Over time it will evolve into a feature that tracks what works best for you based on how you rate your responses in the app. We'll get to that in a future video and it will more than likely surface exercises that have the highest stimulus to fatigue ratio as far as the app can tell based on what you actually need. So far as I can tell in 2023, this is the only app that does a bunch of this actually, but this is the only app that does this. Learns how you respond through modern periodization, through your subject of feedback and suggest exercises that are probably better for you based on your experience. So hit the description, click on things, sign up for the beta release, or if it's after mid-May 2023 just by the fucking thing. Half-unmaking your mesocycle. Next time in the next video, let's see what we have to cover, we are going to talk about how to once we choose our exercises in our program. I'm going to get it created how we do warm-ups and load selection. But before we get to that one little bonus feature for you guys. Top right hand corner, create mesocycle. Now you notice this app is already kind of smart. If you just go to I think this is possible, select exercise, no? It's not? All right, I'll demo this another way. We had a muscle group and we say quads, fuck it, why not? Trying to get my legs full. Notice that create mesocycle is now great out. That's because it won't let you continue to creating a meso until you pick all of your exercises, because you can't train with no exercises. So now that we trash can, this one or if we filled in with something, now we can create meso. When we create the meso, we get an opportunity to name SED meso, do little dough meso. I might regret this in later videos. Fuck it. And it asks us how many weeks we want to train including D-Load. So four weeks of training means three weeks of accumulation. One week D-Load. Five is four and one. Six is five and one. There aren't any wrong answers here and later in a couple videos down, we're actually going to get into the nitty gritty of, well, technically speaking, there is a way to optimize this based on your responses. But because we're making this video from the perspective that you're kind of writing your first program, at least in the app, and maybe your first program ever, we're going to say, let's just pick the safe bat and go for total weeks. Three up, one down. It's the month, easy, no problem. What units do you use for measurement? We could use kilograms if we were in the countries of Europe, but because we went to infidel america, we would choose pounds and we had create and things happen and we are ready in Dildo, meso. Week one day, one Monday, baby, we got Bench and we got good stuff and we got the whole workout. We'll talk about that next time and we'll see you then.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. Let's talk about controversy, virtue signaling, fitness coaches. No way. That's a myth. JK, they're real. So it has become fashionable in a certain area of the fitness industry. For many coaches to say that being fit and in shape isn't all that. And so far, I agree. Dope. True. Being fit makes a fit and not much else. Super. But some of these folks take it a step further. They claim that being in shape and posting pictures of yourself with skin be clothing or shirtless picks online as a coach and person who delivers fitness information has a couple of distinct downsides more than I would be comfortable saying. First, they say that it can intimidate regular folks first entry fitness and can make still other folks feel that about themselves because everyone including you is in such great shape and why aren't they? That putting your mostly naked selfies on social media is kind of an illusory advertising practice. It's like, wow, sort of like, look like me. If you do these things in reality, people just look like better versions on the self. So maybe there's not a lot of truth in that. And the big kicker at the end is a lot of times they a lot of times almost all the time. They used to do this practice themselves where they would post tons of shirtless selfies or you know, skin be selfies and they no longer do it and they think it's cringe that they used to do it. And if you're looking for the quintessential example with all due respect, we allowed to disagree Mr. Ben Carpenter who is an excellent social media influencer but disagree with him on this thing and that's the genesis of this video. He's got a post on his social media go give him a follow-in Instagram and it basically talks about exactly this that he used to post all this content and it kind of feels like it's cringing now and now he doesn't have a lot of shirtless pictures of himself up because he's kind of going in a different direction. And some of that might totally be true but and it's not the whole truth, nothing about the truth so help me God. So there's more say on this in my opinion here's my addition to all of this. What is the other side of this? Whole equation is whole spectrum. First people that are inspired by your physique exist. And this potentially gives you a huge net positive impact by showing your physique. So if we can split people up into roughly three groups that actually look at your profile and look at the post, you're going to get a group of people that is getting a net negative out of seeing your shirtless selfie. Those people are real and all of us are maybe in some point in our lives that person. There's going to be another group of people that it's a them it is just neutral. They're like, I, yeah, we're not. It's the guy with abs. Nobody lost nobody found. And there are still another group of people that get a lot out of seeing that they're inspired by it. They're motivated by it. It drives them to do better and drives them to educate themselves and drives them to going to the diet with a bit more seriousness, going to workouts a bit more seriousness and then there's a huge net benefit for them or even a small benefit. The idea that there is some research supporting that some folks have a bad time looking at shirtless selfies, which is true. Some folks really do. Doesn't seem to address the relative balance of what those three groups are. Now, I can assure you that the vast majority of people just frankly don't give a fuck. And the balance of how many people get inspired or don't get inspired is by no means clear to me. And it is quite a presupposition to think that, well, you're clearly there's lots of these people that are just overwhelmed or intimidated by the physique picture and not enough folks that are inspired by it. First of all, you don't know that. In second of all, there is a mechanism in play in social media, which contravails that tendency here it is. The people that have a bad time looking at your pictures are unlikely to follow you for a long time. We all follow some accounts that make us hate and hate and hate and we still follow them. But most of us over the long term end up following them less. We end up curating our accounts to follow the accounts that were most interested in and often the ones that give us a good time, right, which is why most of my Instagram is like dogs doing tricks and seals doing tricks. The happiness. So over time, if you're presenting a version of you to the world that saves often shirtless, the fraction of people that have a bad time that hang around is going to start to fall off. And the fraction of people that are having a good time is going to start to go up. So enter first presentation on social media. You might rub some folks the wrong way. And folks will come into your profile and look at it and maybe get rubbed the wrong way. But most of those folks kindly see themselves out. It is a really a thing that the vast majority of the people that follow you long term, they like what you have to say. Yes, hate or follow us or a thing. To be honest, that's most of them. You shouldn't be following people just to hate the fuck out of them. You can if you like, but then you're just injecting hatred into your life. I've got a few accounts. I follow just a hate them. Like one of my coaches brought our chavez says, one of my practices that I do every day is I pull up a list of people. I really hate just so focus my hate on really hating them. There's time for that. Not the best practice in the world for long term. Psychological health, but it can work. Most people follow you because they like what you have to put out. So you don't have to worry a ton about if that mojo you're putting out into the world doesn't drive with everyone because over the long term social media shifts in such a way that you mostly just speak to the people that are ready to hear your message in the way that you're ready to present. So long as you're not being actively toxic, which posting a shirtless selfie is anything but next. Some people come to social media looking for answers to questions. How do I get on shape? How do I make it easy? How do I make it something that works from you really well? And a lot of folks have unbelievable amount of information to give. Mr. Ben Carbender is an excellent, just plethora of super valuable information to put out among many other fitness influencers of course. He really is top tier. But if I come to his content and I don't see a shirtless selfie of his as a regular person, I may just not even know what his relationship to fitness really even is. Is this a person I should trust? The number one way, whether we like it or not, that you establish trust and fitness is to show the proof of the pudding. And like you being jacked or lean or some combination of jacked or lean or posting maybe you just look regular but you still look really, really out of shape and you post a couple transformation picks every now and again to really remind people who the hell you are. But that is such a huge attractor to people that you may be able to help way more people on net balance by putting out your best version of yourself. Even if it's a little cringing, a key that you're always shirtless. It may not always, but often shirtless. That's what brings the people in. And the more people you bring in, given that you have a really good message and almost all these folks have an excellent message to how to help you get in shape. Then that increased volume of people in make sure that they help as many people as possible. Some of those people are brought in and that's toxic for them. They don't like the shirts or shirtless selfies. They might fuck right off. But if you bring in 10 times or five times or two times the number of people, one and a half times the number of people, with more inclusion of shirtless selfies and all-scapee sports bras, then maybe you can just help so many more people that it's worth. And lastly, there is something to be said for just doing your best as the person that you are right now. But there's also something to be said for owning what got you to where you got to be. And most of these folks that I'm not singling out been carpenter by any means in this particular example, you guys got your following by putting skimpy shirtless or sports bra pictures of yourself. That's how you built 90% of your following. Just because you had to read some critical theory or social justice work one afternoon and you've re-architected your world view, but doesn't mean that you're now a world view of, well, I'm not going to show anything skimpy is the thing that makes you popular. And even if it is making you popular, you found a new niche which now you're speaking to those people and you still get lots of clicks, you got most of your following by looking the part and by posting those skimpy pictures, to some extent, and this is just a personal opinion of mine this last part, there's some value in owning that shit. To say to yourself, yes, yes, I did post lots of shirtless selfies, and yes, it did do a combination of not great things for some people and great things for others. Because here's a real big deal, real big statement, there is nothing you will ever do on the internet that is public facing that will please everyone. There are no total benefit equations out there. There's nothing you could put out that is 100% positive because you miss out on opportunity cost of doing even more positive if you were a low shirtless. Some people are pissed no matter what, when I'm really in a fucking mood, and I'm scrolling, which is a bad idea, when I get to happy go lucky people that are like, take life by the horns every day, I'm like, fuck you, take you by the fucking horn you bitch. Ah, yeah, is there a dislike button? Some people you just can't please and a lot of the same people, not all of them, that get real triggered by shirtless selfies, they're just in a really bad place up here in the short term often. And you don't really have to worry about them too much because they're going to have a better day and then like you later. So if you are worried about a potentially very small fraction of people getting triggered from your posts and you try to re-architect your social media personality to not trigger those people, even though that's what got you to where you are anyway, and potentially you're advertising your physique is what helps even more people, and most people don't get triggered, it's a questionable practice. And that's all this video is meant. It's a sort of starting point for conversation and a starting point for a question. My view on it is this. I think it's okay to offer fitness content with clothing on, with minimal clothing, and if Instagram let me, no clothing at all. That's my preferred way you guys know me, I know me, I know me fans, a lot of you follow my own defeat account, Jared's only feet account is the best second best only feet account in the world. Just try to help in your own way that you feel comfortable with. If shirtless isn't for you, that doesn't make it a net negative. It might just be a net positive. It's probably a bigger net positive than with your shirt on, but there's no need to shit talk it because it's just another way of doing a great thing outreach and help. And there's by no means clear that it's a net negative and harming a bunch of people. Even if claiming that a shirtless selfie is Iki for the SJW signaling, Virtua signaling points gives you a lot of clicks on that post, that still might not be a compelling reason to start to kind of smack talk that side of the aisle and say well you know what, you know, posting shirtless selfies is a really bad idea and it's just unwise because it leads people to feel bad about themselves. What about all those other positives? I think posting shirtless is cool. I think posting with a shirtless cool. I think it's all good as long as you're bringing value to the person and through time and social media when you bring that value and that positivity and that attempt to help people and whatever way you do it, your niche people are going to find your niche. They're going to flock to you, the message that you're giving is going to be found by the people who are most apt to receive it and then over time everyone on social media has had a good time except for liver king and everyone that follows him just kidding just liver king. I made my point and now I have to show you a magic trick. My point isn't quite good enough because it doesn't have a personal story in that vitriolic anger and hate. I'm not very capable of getting but my wife is in through the magic of science. Life, doctor, crystal herself. My lovely wife. My better half people say that about us. So two questions for you. Sure. One is what terrible lawnmower accident happened to your clothing that resulted in part of it getting just cut right off. Two, tell me about so you were the person that alerted me to the existence of these types of posts and we went on a bit of a social media deep dive or what I have to call an SNM deep dive. Social and media that is. So first of all, all do respect Mr. Ben Carpenter who is kind of like our focus of the exemplary behavior here. From all, everything I can ever find great guy. The best of intentions and a great follow in addition to that. But this particular thing is just to argument for the sake of the idea, not not the individual. And what is it? Something struck you. Something stuck out for you that the got you triggered a shit explained. Just thinking about my entire weight loss journey for the last what 41 years or so. Why don't you tell us just a little bit a couple of minutes about what your relationship to your body weight has been. Why don't you start when you were a kid? We're exact birth weight. I'm kidding. Actually nine pounds eight ounces. That's a girl. My mom is four ten. So she was about 180 pounds when she delivered me. Oh, I was a little bit bigger than every other kid. I was about 20 pounds on average heavier than most of my peers. I always noticed that my hunger was a lot higher than my peers. I remember being invited to eat at my friend's house and my friends parents would just comment on what a great appetite I have and why can't my next door neighbor be less of a picky eater because Crystal finishes her plate and loves food and is very thankful for the food that's on the table. Meanwhile, you were dying. And I love sports. Just for whatever reason, I loved to eat and it went up and down and up and down and the last I think ten years ago right before I hit med school. I lost a bunch of weight. I discovered lifting. So I thought I was sort of on the right track to getting the physique that I wanted and just dieted myself right into the ground. Had and my hunger was so out of control. I remember laying awake in the middle of the night with hunger pains that were just so intense that I ended up failing medical school anatomy. And I had to repeat that class over again and it was at that time that I in 2012 that I decided I probably was going to never die it for a very long time and just continue to lift weights and I lifted weights for the next ten years and kind of put dieting on the back burner until two years ago and started to slowly more work my way down from 190 pounds and currently I set about 143. So you finished your medical education at 190 pounds. Yes. And now about two years later you're at 143. Correct. And you're on your way down to get even a bit lower still. Fair enough. Yes. Yes. And so when fitness influencers that have at least for a long time soaked in the sun of being people that everyone wants to have sex with and rub their face on their abs, when they've lived that life and they tell you that being fit and lean shouldn't be a priority. It isn't important and it's not all that. How does that strike you? Very uncomfortable. I spent the last couple of years trying to wrestle with that and trying to be okay with that idea of it's not about how you look because that idea isn't new. People have been preaching that for the last 10 years. On and off that I've been on social media that it's not worth it to have abs. People have abs though. Right. And so it's almost the analogy is being rich and telling somebody in a third world country that having money isn't really worth it. Where they don't have any running water. I think the hardest part is I've never had that. I've never had that time in the sun. Of being a little beebopper. Yes. Having abs having defined muscles, having this sort of physique that these people have had and been- It gets the clicks on social media. Yes admittedly so. And there is some, you know, I can see where they are going with this. But I think the biggest thing is yes they've had their time in the sun. They've been very privileged with their size. And a privilege maybe they are. Yeah. Earned genetics whatever. Like, you know, and good for them. I have no- I'm in a place emotionally, mentally where I can look at somebody who is straight sized or has abs. I know you're going to use that term. And it's like whatever. Like you do you hats off to you. But the fact that you have to take that and call it cringe for somebody who's wanted it for so long. It's like a knife in my heart emotionally. And to not just have that and crap on it. But it's also just sort of a gosh. Hard for me to sort of describe what that feeling is. It almost makes me feel like makes me feel even worse for wanting that. Well, I think that's the idea. And for a while and the fact that, you know, why can't I have this? Why does this? I'm not hurting anybody by chasing this. I know what the trade-offs are. And I think for a long time I really had to struggle with that. Like, these people are telling me I'm bad for wanting this. Yeah. You know, is it am I really truly doing something terrible to my body, my health, somebody else's body, somebody else's health. And the truth of matter is is somebody is going to be upset with you and hate you for no matter, you know, for just even existing. So if you have you been in our comments, like, oh gosh, kidding, love you guys. I've been called a man before on YouTube and on other places. The word man to me. Right. So word up. So it's raining, man. Girl. Yeah. It's hard to comprehend when somebody says that it's not worth it when you've been chasing after that for so long and you just wanted a taste of what it's like to step into the sun. Well, so you've been, let's just call it what it is. You've been pretty fat. Oh, yeah. No, I've been fat. I've been a scum. It's not laughing. Is that the cheese? So you took a think that looked or felt very good to you. Not only did it not look good. It actually felt physically emotionally mentally draining. Yeah. Just having the extra weight. My joints hurt my walking a block at a regular pace would give me back pumps. Oh, yeah. That's been a rap before. Yeah. Unable to carry things, unable to do house chores. Sure. That wasn't fun. No. And then now, and you've been a bit leaner before and other times past, but now that you're getting all unequivocally to your leanest and beyond, has it been a worsen worse experience as you understand that the patriarchy has entered you and your ever-convolution or hasn't been feeling better and better than leaner you get? It's it's been feeling much better. The leaner I get. I have more energy to do stuff around the house. I feel like I'm a much more productive team player. I smile a lot more often. I just the way I project myself to the world is much happier and I wish I could have said the same for me at 190, but I'll be honest. Two years ago, when we left Las Vegas, I remember athletes. Fish done. Yeah. Oh yeah. Oh, good times. Yeah, those were good times. We ate a lot. I ate a lot of sushi. I also drank a lot of alcohol. You know. A lot of the athletes I didn't even want to say goodbye. They were like, hey, thanks. Thanks so much for being such a great doctor G. I just looked at them like, yeah, I really want to crawl out of my skin and right now. I'm going to be fat somewhere else. I'm leaving. Bye. I just had this look. I don't want you to look at me right now. I'm miserable inside and there was nothing. There is nothing that no amount of therapy or self-help books or Instagram, little psychotherapy posts could help me feel otherwise. I had to do that work within. And a part of that work was actually getting in shape. Yes. So do you think that maybe, what do you think about when people say, sometimes they mean this with all the best intentions that maybe you're a victim of kind of like a, you know, hegemonic patriarchal top-down programming convincing you that skinny is beautiful and you're just kind of flailing half-mast flag and the wind, tattered by the ravages of essentially just like social programming that every step, every magazine, every book, every TV program told you, thin is beautiful, thin is beautiful, thin is beautiful. Do you find that intellectually compelling? Do you find that emotionally compelling? I remember very early on growing up. I thought that that was the case. And I won by one started cutting people out of my life. I started to cut out magazines because I thought that they were doing some sort of net having a negative impact on my life. I've cut people out of my life because I thought they were having some sort of negative impact on my life. I've definitely clapped back at family members and as I sat alone with my own thoughts and really worked on myself, the biggest thing I came at that came out of it was, this is me, this is what I want and I'm just going to stop feeling tired and guilty for wanting these things. And these things being having a physique. Bit of aversion of yourself. Right. And it wasn't until I just owned that and became okay with that decision that I can now look at, you know, vote, vote magazine and really appreciate that you got some skinny model here doing her fashion thing. And like, hey, that's cool. I can appreciate it for what it is instead of making it feel, you know, feeling terrible inside because I don't look like that. I'm never going to look like that. And that's okay. That took a long time for me to be okay and comfortable with. And was that comfort enhanced, detracted by or irrelevant to the fact that you've been getting leaner and taking control of your physique? Is it easier to be comfortable with skinny models if you're yourself, want to be thin, but are nowhere near it or is it easier to be comfortable if you are incrementally getting more fit and feeling your own swag? I think it really doesn't matter as far as models go because they don't really say anything in magazines, right? It's just, here's this art form. They don't push that narrative of, I've had my time in the sun as a, you know, fashion model. I'm going to do something else now. If it had that messaging, we'd have much different conversation, but I've been okay with looking at Vogue magazine and looking at fashion models for a while, no matter what kind of size I am. Because they're fucking weird anyway. It's like if cocaine was a person. But with fitness influencers, you have a particular bar. And that specifically, because we've talked about this before, if I may try to articulate it. Totally. It's people who are lean, often, almost always have been even leaner before. Got most of it out of cloud from being lean. And then they flip the script and start talking about how being lean is overrated. But there is a way to do that, which is balanced, which is, I think, to say, look, like, yeah, being lean makes lean. And if it makes you happen, makes you happy, but sometimes it doesn't make you happy. And it's not going to solve all your fucking problems. Right. Just still do if you're lean, one way or another. But some of these people take it to an extreme. And they start to say, look, like being lean is a huge mistake. It's a goal. You shouldn't strive for. It's a bottomless pit. There's no end to it. It doesn't make you happier to be leaner. And I guess your beef with that is what? Is it the hypocrisy? What do you think it is? There definitely the hypocrisy for some of those people who make those types of posts in order to get the clickbait, they will actually post in addition to the text message. They'll put their their stage lean photos. Yeah. Here's a picture of me with abs. And let me tell you why abs are bad. Like, but I clicked on this picture because abs are good. I guarantee you 90% of the likes on that picture is people not reading the fucking text. They just liked the abs. It's the ultimate con. So the hypocrisy with that is insane. And then also you don't know what people like how are you? You're kind of crapping on everybody else's goals. You don't know what everybody else's goals are. Why are you know, all you're doing now is you're making people who want abs feel bad. So I think definitely to your point, giving it more of a nuanced approach. Like, yeah, you know, having abs has its trade-offs. It is what it is. It's not like this glorious thing, but it's not like the worst thing ever either. I know that also doesn't get the clicks. So, good night everything against clicks is a good thing. So maybe the message here between the two of us is if you think that there are other ways to go about pushing your brand that isn't shirtless selfies, slow clap, amazing, great. If you think there are other looks and mindsets that don't involve extreme fitness that are valuable, amazing talk about those, but maybe we can all move a little further along if we spent a little less effort talking crap about a certain thing and instead focused on the positives of the other thing. It's not that having abs and being lean is bad. Trust me, guys, currently I don't want to flip my shirt, but I'm pretty booked. I've been really lean, I've had veins and my abs, and it's dope. It's fucking sweet. There's not bad. Not no part of it was like triggering to me. It was like, yeah, it's cool. It's a great thing, but also, so many other things are great. It's great to be in just normal shape or even like I've said this on a previous video, I love Lizzo. And when people are like, but she's fat, I'm like, I don't give a fuck. Lizzo has so much attitude that I don't kid does not matter if that people are fucking dope. I love them. It's just kind of love for everyone in their own special way, as opposed to being like, well, fitness stinks and it's cringy like, no, it doesn't. And if you are triggered by people who are lean, that's time for you to do some work, you know, between the the ears there, right? Oh, you're 100%. I guess we are talking shit, aren't we? Yeah, but I will. Yeah, I guess we are. But we're trying to do it nice. This is crystal being nice. You should see her. I'm a star. That's what I say to her. Oh my god, stop. Don't all the mean people always say I'm a nice person. Yeah, that's true. Say something nice. I really like your shirt today. That's right. You told me before the shirt sucks. No, no, no, no, no, no. It's told me right off camera. Stupid. No, it's like your dumb. And I was like, why are you telling me this? You're punch me in the face. Punching's for later. Oh my. That's the SNM. Any closing thoughts? What about people that are coming into the fitness world? And they're looking at all these shirtless naked people. And they're also looking at people that are covered up and telling them, don't look at the shirtless naked people. What do you advice do you have for them? They want to look a certain way and they want to find their place in the fitness world, which you're best at, right? I would say, really think about the tradeoffs of, you know, what are the pros, what are the cons of getting to this point? What do I need to do to get to this goal? And decide for yourself if it's worth it. The last thing you would ever want is to have somebody else influencing your decisions and you deciding that, you know, to live your life according to some random schmo on Instagram or TikTok, because, you know, what you really want in life is just, you know, bad. Yeah, decide for yourself. But as a fitness schmo, let me help you decide down on the iPad or your feet so we can make money. And my way of being me, how much money do I make? Nothing. I mean, see, the botlers have it all. Dr. Crystal, huge pleasure having you on. Thank you so much. You were great, by the way. Thanks. We're going to like a little snack. Jesus. You don't think I might have my wife, and probably girl, you must be crazy. A little cut off bullshit you wear. Anyway, time to go do adult things with my wife. Scott the video guy, switch the roll. Let's hit that side only fans time. Folks, see you later.

One more jet, I'm gonna go a little higher. Here we go, contract this one hard. All the way. More Jared, more Jared, one more Jared. Oh, my f*** God. Ow. YouTube, what's up? I'm Dr. Mike for Renaissance Periodization. This is Jared, Father, I think Pro are explained his partial nudity shortly. This is our main man, Mr. Andy, who is an expert, newbie, assistant coach. When he reaches out to activate your muscles, electrodes come out, literally of his hands and you get shocked and parts of you feel terrible, but parts of you feel quite nice fill in the blanks. We are giving this a shot. We have another video on the channel explaining the upsides and positional downsides of such a device. I'll ramble about that in just a little bit where we're seeing if we can add a little bit of stimulus to Mr. Jared feathers back. He has trouble feeling his back. He has trouble connecting my muscle connection with those muscles the most out of his whole body. So we're gonna try to see if this can make a difference in anything really feed a little bit more. Andy's gonna be Mr. Torch's chamber guy doing the knob and making sure Jared feels all the right feelings. Andy, thank you for doing this. No problem. Is there an amount of money? I can pay you to hurt him. No, that's not. Take a look at what I've not. I'd be happy to do it for free. For free. Excellent. Let's hurt Jared. Oh, that was fast. Let's do it now. Just quick one. Yeah. Any area of your back that you want to specifically like any spot that you have trouble getting or activating or anything like that or you pretty good. Okay. Okay, where I just got to you said, okay, I'm gonna pad that up them too. So I'll get here and then I'll get all. I normally do two on the lats, two on the directors but since we're doing mainly you want to do that. Two lats, two directors. Okay, that's cool. Okay. Oh, yeah. Jared's not wearing underwear. I was waiting for this moment. I was open. It's always a crapshoot when I'm patting people off them. Like, are they wearing underwear and I pray to God they're not? All right. I never wear underwear, guys. Why do I have it? What is it? I'm just, I'm just taking, I'm just taking some weight out of the wires. Does it make sense? Yeah, so they're just not hanging. Yeah, it's cool. The key to being a great newbie practitioner is why your management. It's very underrated these days. Yeah, if anybody pisses me off, I can just really, really, really. Okay. Look at that Christmas tree coming out without even trying. Andy, stop it. I'm gonna get that shit on my ball. All right. All right. All right. The back workout today. First exercise is the LAT prayer, aka straight arm lap pull down. I'm gonna be doing sets of 10 to 20 reps here. Jarrod's technique is gonna be immaculate and hopefully the newbie can electro shock the muscles to get a little bit more stimulus to those LATs and muscles of the upper and middle back, then Jarrod could conventionally engage by himself. We'll see what Jarrod says. Hopefully some good stuff happens. Probably about four sets here. Let's get into it. Four. Three. Oh, yeah. Two. One more Jarrod, I'm gonna go a little higher. Here we go. Contractors, one hearts. All the way. More Jarrod, one more Jarrod. Yes. So beautiful. Hold, fuck. Oh my god, you feel it. That's not what I put it. Good stuff. I'm just touching. I know we make fun of touching the muscle. I'm only touching Jarrod just because without any body part, that's really lumpy. The back is so lumpy that normally I like to put a really tight compression t-shirt, that way you can just put the pads on and roll with it and not touch it. But where, you know, because we want to show how the back contracting with the pads. So since he has so many lumps in his back, the pads can get like scruncher. That's why I'm kind of, I'm not feeling the muscle. I'm just making sure the pads are all flat. All right. So what's the deal with these electric stim devices and training? It seems a little hokey and I totally agree it seems that way and it actually could be. But it might not. The electro stim devices are interesting because they allow a greater degree of muscle contraction to occur for any volitional stimulus that your brain and spinal cord send down. What does that mean? It could potentially, potentially, maybe, offer us theoretical advantages. One is because a lot of the stimulation for the muscle to contract, at least some of it, at least more of it, comes from the stim machine itself. We might be in a position where we can do the same amount of stimulus to the muscle, the same amount of muscle contraction, concentric, any centric with a smaller amount of central systemic nervous system drive, which means your systemic continuum, how tired you feel after trying really hard, might be lower for the same or greater amount of muscle stimulus. That's very interesting. There's another potential benefit. Where sometimes you feel like a cam doing lap hold downs, I really know what's going on back there. People are really well connected to their backs, can feel the muscles and even marginally activate some muscles more than others. For other folks like Jared, it's tough to feel the back, but maybe that stimulus independent of your own abilities can let you feel the muscles out and then submit your own central drive into it so that it basically enhances your mind muscle connection. Super open minded here today. Supply and I think it's starting to think it. 11. 12. Let's go. Beautiful. It's a good ride. It's a bad ride. Yeah, you'll probably notice the volume will have to turn it on. You're a more like, you're a four working sets will be like two or three for sure. Yeah. Watching him train people and training him. Using this machine, they actually significantly reduce the amount of total working sets they can do because they do have such a better mind muscle connection, but he's been so diligent with teaching people really good technique and I've helped Andy with his technique a whole bunch. I think his memory probably got cut in half after like I came in and he started to hook himself up the machine. I was like two sets on the lake press and have a crazy fucking quad pump just because of this. It's pretty cool. But you gotta have that already. I'm actually going to switch the polarity. So if you see we have black pads, black pads are the main pads are the strong and they send the strong and signal. But what I can do is I can switch the polarity, send the stronger signal to the red pads. You're still getting a signal to black pads. Say we're hitting the directors and I pad up just the directors on the red pads and we're doing a lad exercise with the back pads. Once we're focused on the directors, I can send a stronger signal to the directors just from switch the polarity to the red. So we're going to switch that up and you're going to feel it. It's not going to feel as comfortable but you'll feel the difference. Okay. He's not here for comfort man. Oh. I feel like I'm like actual shocks. Yeah. Yeah. I don't want to try this guy. I'm ready to my tissue. I'm not going to shut up and lifting. I don't want to go. Mike, come from you. That's hysterical. Hey. You don't have a Jared. 10. 11. 12. Squeeze. Spread the drive the drive the drive the drive the drive the drive the drive. One more Jared bonus round. One more. Go. Yeah. Slow as if another. Yeah. People know like I'm like a fucking technique. Strictler. This feels like it's giving me something to work against. Honestly, I almost keep my technique even more strict. Huh. Which is. I know that's hard for me. Sorry. So fucking perfect. Half man, half amazing. So maybe we should take this for Mike's. For Mike's, she fucking lat pulled out. He'd really been fit. Three sets of lat prayers are done. Now it is time for some lat cold-ounce overhand grip. Jared is going to do sets of 10 to 20 again. Really focusing on a mind muscle connection. Tone of relative effort. Close the failure. And we'll see how it goes. Newly time. Great. What? Six. Twelve. Three. Three. Okay good. You get stuck really quick. This would be good for me too. Like, I have clients including yourself that use this. This is a good idea of just how much volume is taking a fucking slap to the face. That's why I really want to get a try, man. Obviously, I want to play more. Three sets here as well. It's going to be fucking done. Yeah. You're a good. Cool man. Go ahead. One. Two. Look and jack, Jared. Great. If you want to try a machine like this and you want to use it to its best possible advantage. First, you bring great technique to target the muscle. You try to maximize the mind muscle connection by feeling the muscle. Do it's thing. And you have to bring a ton of relative effort. Every set close to failure. Really crushing it and grinding it and trying hard. Why? Because if you don't have a lot of good technique, mind muscle connection and relative effort, these are all things that maximize muscle contraction through put anyway. But if you're going to take it easy on those things and then have the newbie make up the difference, then it's really doing work you could have done yourself. You want a 20 or 30,000 dollar machine like this to do is get you to that next level. Oh. Oh. Good stuff. Oh. What's back? No. No. No. No. No. No. Good. More. Oh. Beautiful. Oh. There you go. Well, to drop off. Yeah. God damn. Yeah. I literally have the biggest back moment for the red my six sets. Sounds like an endorsement. Music crazy. I think you're paid by big electric. Big Andy's been big Andy. I slipped my slipped them 500 bucks before the before we start filming. They can like back. Yeah. You're back now. Look at me. I'm a freak. Music. Last exercise is going to be three sets of machine rows for the machine. Oh. And this is going to get the whole back working. And we'll see what Jared has to say. So far he's thinking it's blown his back up. Huge pump. Maybe that is a little bit of the placebo effect. But maybe it's a little bit of the stem effect. Maybe it's a lot of it of both or either. Who knows what's going on? That's too rose. Shut up, Mike. But I think what he'll notice is. Like maybe like after the second session of this. All have a better connection. You'll get the. If you talk to Jarrah with no Kiara just told me about that. Jarrah was like now she doesn't use it anymore because she's during perhaps. I couldn't really get that connection with my lats. But we did four workouts back to back. And she's like my connection is night and day. Yeah, because you can learn the stuff for later. Taking the ones here and putting them on my records this smart. You put it on your fucking bicep, dude. All the time. You're a animal. I would never do that. Why? Why? Why? Why? You don't like that. I think the arms and the quads and the calves are the best calves. Well, yep. Yeah, hit the bottom and out. 13. It's slowly centric there. 14. Milk it. Yes. 15. Good. 6. 4 left. 7. 18. 4. 18. Boom! One last one coming up. Big one. As if another. Big stretch. Shit, yeah. Oh, my fucking god. Oh. Oh. 14. 14. 15. 16. Yes. We think two more. 7. Big slow. Hell, yes. All the way. Draw it. Yes. Yes. Beautiful. Damn. Train them with Bob's and Ben Jean today. Good shit. Good shit. Good shit. He says he thinks I'm good. Oh, you got another set. Look at how tiny his back is. I can really tell you. Actually, look at really huge right now. TVH. You got one more set. Very good to go. Oh, he's got some laughing. We too. A one mess of cycle. Yeah. This is more like 12 sets. Yeah. But you'll go back to training your back without the machine later and we all. Right as rain. 11. Four more. 12. 13. 14. Two more Jared finish up strong. Fuck yeah. All right, folks. That's the workout and he thank you so much for helping Jared out and throwing me. Jared, where are you thinking? Uh, I don't know. The biggest back one for the other half. Probably not a joke. And the recent memory for sure. Um, haven't helped us with like my muscle connection. Big time. Uh, push a lot of metabolites just because this stimulus is constantly going through the muscle. Uh, I might use it every now and again, honestly. Uh, I won't say that to. Put too much confidence based on one session, but this is definitely. Fucking crazy. So the verdict is worth a try. Worth a try. Absolutely. Yeah. There you go. All right. Folks, if you're in the Las Vegas area, and the 100% does train people with this thing. And, uh, if you tip of an extra $100, it doesn't have to go on your muscles. And that's the last thing I'll say. Yeah. I'll see you guys later. Thank you.

Your goal with weight training has to be must be in a fat loss phase the maximum retention of muscle mass because losing it as a possibility don't want Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for add a sound's predization should you go heavier when you're training for muscle gain and do lighter higher reps when you're training for fat loss Ooh, is this factor fiction lots of ideas let's find out what's correct and what is not The idea of going heavy for your bulk my bulker We're not again. I read the steroid forums and I'm always upset and every now and again They use terms like bulker and cutter doing a cutter and I found some wind strong underneath grammas old shelves Got my PC together Got kebergling on hand just in case sides hit Honestly if I ruled the world it would be a libertarian capitalist paradise You be I all that shit hell yeah Bernie Sanders you can stay to Everyone who's ever commented with slang and a steroid forum Lying up and fucking shot in public as a lesson Never say bulker or cutter nothing is ever on hand I'm just upset in any case When you are bulking a very common tradition through the ages has been Okay, you got to go heavy to put on mass sets of like five to twelve reps is what most guys have in mind and then in a fat loss face it Everyone kind of knows or the old school tradition is old school brother Is you do higher reps Maybe sets of 10 to 20 reps if not higher, but definitely if you tell most old school body builders Hey, like when I'm bulking and it kind of sets of five to ten five to twelve when I'm Trying to lose some fat I go to sets of ten to twenty is very unlikely anyone's gonna bad and I know I got obvious But does this actually make sense? It does make some sense other sense it does not make let's find out how first it doesn't make sense What are the cons against this view first? There's been enough research collected now or pretty confidently never sure things science is never certain We can very confidently say that heavier loads and lighter loads build a roughly equivalent amount of muscle sets of five to thirty repetitions and even a little bit outside those ranges have been shown in Almost every study study after study after study different designs different populations to just not be reliably differentiable or muscle growth So if you said something like well sets of five to ten build mass more than sets of 20 to 25 if you loop back to the literature Talk to somebody like Brad shownfeld world expert on hypertrophy then it would be like that that's actually not true And the thing is a lot of us who do the science and RP funds at one of the science and I'm a co-author in a bunch of papers nowadays We are all hardcore to begin with like we're all from that era and we all thought this was true I'm sort of hoped it was true and then we found out it wasn't So it turns out that is just not true to say that like heavier weights put on more bulk and more mass Take that for what it is if there's a probability that it's true, but it's just not evident in the literature or in real practice You got guys getting big you know like Tom Plats the way he got big legs was like ultra high reps all the fucking time Okay, so That's just Tom Plats legs didn't apply was he outlier? He looked at all the data and all the experience. This is nothing to generalize to next Lighter loads may in fact be superior for certain muscles certain exercises in a muscle gain phase On average there doesn't seem to be a difference between sets of five to ten. Sorry between sets of five all the way up to sets of 30 In specific individuals in specific muscles Some individuals seem to grow better from higher reps some individuals and their muscles on certain exercises seem to grow better with lower repetition but Because that diversity is the case you can even find lots of individuals and or muscles on individuals with just grow better from higher reps And lower ups are just not the answer for example just taking myself my biceps if I do sets of five to ten Okay, yes, stuff happens, but if I do sets of ten to 15 or 15 to 20, my shit blows up and So if I was to be a strict adherent of the okay it's time to bulk sets of five to ten my biceps just wouldn't grow that much And then when I got to the fat loss phase I would notice when I switched to higher reps like my biceps actually like unfortunately I'm not eating enough to really grow muscle now But they're just getting a better stimulus I wonder will it happen if I did this in the off season when I'm bulking and the answer is I would just get bigger So that dogmatic you got to train heavier to put on size thing isn't just not statistically an average true It's an average neutral there are many times where it's actually wrong and so if you have that dogmatic view You're gonna be wrong a lot You're gonna have the situation where you do insets a five to ten on squats and leg presses and your knees kind of hurt a little bit Your quads get a decent pump decent tension Takes you'll few days to recover and you're good to go and you're having like okay leg training and then when he buddies comes in from out of town And you hit a couple sessions with him, you know, he's there for maybe he's staying with you for a few weeks or something before you're waiting Or some shit like that get getting you ready for the married life and you hit a couple workouts with him and he's doing like a high rep program And you're like pro my legs are Exploding I'm sore all the fucking time my pumps are out of this world. I physically fucking add it like half an inch I swear to God in the last two weeks on my legs these are go up sweet. I love it. Yeah, this there's a range really works for me And then he gets on a flight and leaves and you're like all right back to bulking so that's a five to ten that didn't really work all that well for me so there are situations in which clearly higher ups work better and That doesn't make a whole lot of sense You know one thing I didn't write here on the PowerPoint which is also true is the corollary of that Is in the fat loss phase some guys if they do nice controlled slowest-centric's nice and strict injury Probability kept low sets of like eight to ten or even six to ten They can have an unbelievably More efficacious retention of their muscle tissue Some guys get say like do to soon as I start going light pre-contest my fucking shit falls off my body my muscles are start sinking off But if I keep going as heavy as I can safely I just have this fucking hard big ass look I'm able to retain all my trouble muscle That happens all the time So it's both false to say that heavy training is always best for growth and it's false to say that light training is always best for cutting Problem Next you'll hear guys this one I had to put in here to something you're gonna hear and I want you guys to be anoculated against this fucking nonsense is Why fucking build with fucking heavy weights right right? Makes sense and that fucking etch in the details on a cutter Guns loaded don't fucking say that shit again a fucking on a cutter. I'm just kidding on a fat loss phase my bad I fucking etch in the details with higher reps. Oh, okay Well, let's pretend I'm a physiologist. Oh, wait. I am of sport and Let's pretend that we know something together you and I Mr. Viewer about how muscle works and what it is Describe to me how etching in the details could possibly work from a physiological or anatomical perspective I'm sorry you're not a sculptor mother fucker either the fat decreases in size or the muscle increases in size I don't understand what etching in details can possibly mean And if you think about it long enough, it can't possibly mean anything So people who say I'm using the fucking high reps to etch in the striations that is just unabashed nonsense Muscle grows or get smaller fat grows or get smaller you want to etch in details keep your muscle the same size Or grow a little bit and take your fat stores and shrink them down details etched no rep range required People also say you know the higher reps burn more calories and that's true to an unbelievably tiny extent and makes almost no difference The real calorie sink that you generate for the deficit comes from diet a little bit of it comes from keeping up a normal slash Normal to high level of physical activity Doing your cardio get your 12,000 steps a day whatever Almost none of it comes from differences in weight training and remember weight training We have one big goal on a fat loss phase We want to make sure that we preserve as much muscle as possible Sort of attempt to build it and the building is can cancel out by the Catabolic state and then you end up at neutral most of the time ideally If you start to go k in my workouts my weight training I want to burn more calories You were necessarily sacrificing optimal hypertrophy because up my hypertrophy is like a one One target goal you shoot for that What are extra goals are or up to not? It's like if you want to go to a subway and pick up a sandwich and your friends like hey can you stop I like see the s for me to pick up like some gum like a It could it's got to cost me 20 extra minutes. But we're just not that close to friends So no, I'm not gonna do anything for you again ever bob ever Don't ask who bob is never ask me about who bob is he's dead to me in any case If the goal is getting a subway sandwich that anything you do extra is extra and if you're really crunched for time You're not just a piece of shit that says no to bob It really is taking away from the goal So if your goal with weight training has to be must be in a fat loss phase the maximum retention of muscle Mass because losing it is a possibility you don't want Trying to also co-opt it to just burn a few more calories seems like a really shit way to disturb a really Important process for a really small game I wouldn't recommend it. It's just not a thing that's gonna work Now that's all the downsides There are upsides and a lot of folks who are hashtag evidence based will be like of course That's all true and the you should just train heavy all the way through Ah, but should you there are distinct advantages to going heavier on a muscle gain phase and Later on a fat loss phase and here they are first When you're trying to bulk up especially later in the end of a bulk You're a body fat percent a bit higher and you're a lot heavier Higher ups can gas you the fuck out and because gasing out is almost defined as your cardiovascular system limits your Performance before your local musculature does As you're cranking out hamstring curls and you're now like can't breathe very well and you have to stop You might have stopped like four abshye failure where you think it's one it was one repshye of total system failure Which is why you stopped but you had four reps in the actual muscle left over. It's the lungs that kept you back If you instead didn't train for sets of 20 in the hamstring curl but try to set To do sets of 10 you might have reached one rep away from failure amazing stimulus without your lungs burning much Because you just didn't have to do tattacks drips Higher reps for muscle growth are amazing when you can do them But there may be times towards the end of a bulk where lower ups are better just because they're not limited by A cardiovascular ability and thus they are actually more effective for muscle growth On the other hand When you are cutting Higher reps can be easier to do each week instead of harder because you lean out When you're squatting for higher reps let's say sets of 15. I don't know why I fucked it ever do that Well, let's pick a more rational exercise to set 15 hack squat When you're hack squatting for sets of 15 and you're doing it in a Balking phase. Oh my god bro. You're just gonna start vomiting blood at some point and stop eight reps I fail you because you can't fucking breathe and you're rolling on the floor. I think and you're gonna this is it. I'm gonna die If you're doing sets of 15 on the hacksquat especially in the tail end of a fat loss phase You're losing weight session to session week to week And Those higher reps are much easier to do when you're physically lighter You ever notice small people can crank reps like crazy big guy does 12 reps and he's on the floor with warming up And you're leaning out a nothing in this world short of actual endurance training Makes your endurance better than losing fat. I mean, it's magical As you're leaning out you're more able to do higher reps which is great. Here's another really trippy thing As you impose a caloric deficit on your body's musculature That long-term exposure to the caloric deficit Upregulates MPK activity and downregulates M-tore activity What that means in science speak is that it makes your muscles Unfortunately slightly more catabolic likely to break down their own structures Feeding the body because it's fucking starting to death and less anabolic less propensity to grow muscle that sucks However, there's a silver lining there MPK is also the it's not just a central catabolic governor of yourself It's also one of the central governors of endurance adaptations and a lot of MPK activity actually changes your fiber type isopherms on the margin It improves it signals to improve vascularity around the muscle tissue and a ton of other Effects it actually can improve the oxygen transport ability through and to the muscle And what that ends up doing is at the longer you do a fat loss phase for and the more ambient Kindness activities that's submitted over time you actually get better at reps you get more endurance So not only getting better reps because you're getting lighter and leaner, but you're not getting better It reps internally physiologically at the molecular level That's kind of cool so you might as well lead into the shit you're getting good at as opposed to leaning shit You're not getting good at Coming back to that if you're trying to go your all-time heaviest at the end of a fat loss phase That can be needlessly injury promoting. Let's take charge of what's going on here take stock of what's going on The end of a fat loss phase you're really fatene You're to bodyweight you're not used to the cushioning of the connective tissues and the rest of your body is Minimize because you've been losing fat you're probably in a slightly less hydrated state than you would be on a ball Because you know you don't have blood face anymore and that means all of your drinks connective tissues are not dehydrated But they're less hydrated You're also fatigued in a way that affects your Coordination one of the earliest signs of high systemic fatigue and athletes is they're not as fluid and smooth anymore If they're movements they're a little shaky a little breaky they make more mistakes You make a mistake under 200 kilos in a squat of athleticism You have to lean forward a bit more something pops there it is you make a mistake under 120 kilos if you're 200 kilo squatter Right not much is going to happen So trying to go all-time ultra heavy at the end of a fat loss phase could just be getting together kind of a Consilience of let's get hurt Potentially on-wise In addition You may not be able to go as heavy as possible because you are so fatigued because your coordination is so off because your muscles are literally bereft of most of their glycogen stores which allow you to do lots of repetitive efforts If you go heavy at the end of a cut Psychologically this kind of sucks because you can literally just watch yourself get weaker That blows If you start doing some higher reps at the end of a cut The MPK transformative process for the muscle the loss of fat the loss of weight can actually allow you to Continue to either hold your ground or even make PRs especially if you're doing sets of 15 to 30 reps and you're not adding load or maybe a little load Which you're adding reps Last month of a cutting phase you do like press for four or pounds for set of 15 That next week you do for an or pounds for sets of 16 then 17 then 18 then D-load something like that You can actually make PRs which psychologically is a really awesome at the tail end of a fat loss phase is kind of like How are you able to hit PRs is it through heavy low rep? No not really okay? Don't do that Are you able to hit it with higher ups? Yes, then do that because remember we know Their ability to hold muscle is similar and also the higher-ups don't get you hurt as much It starts to be a pretty good argument here And This leads us to best practices So there's some downsides there's some upsides What are the best practices the first thing I have to say is this just generally when you're training the preponderance of your Logic for choosing the rep range should come from the stimulus to fatigue ratio that a rep range implies You can only do this by trial and error If sets of five to ten on the leg press Cause amazing tension felt in the quads closer to set the rep number ten they cause a crazy burn in the quads Your pump after a few sets is monument the muscles are clearly perked Right you try to walk away from the leg press and you're kind of walking with bent legs and someone's like You okay like let me just grab out of this drinking fountain so I don't pass out Good sign that you did something to your legs and if it gets your muscle nice and sore While at the same time Minimizing joint and connective tissue disruption Nobody's gonna be able to set to tell you that sets of five to ten the leg press are the wrong thing Because your stimulus to fatigue ratio stimulus being all those good things I said and fatigue Mostly being joint connective tissue stop, but also how much in actress I sustainically beats you up If you're stimulus to fatigue ratio, it sets of five to ten is amazing That's the right answer. Let me tell you guys about the RP high-perchography app with over 28 preset programs Already in the app you could choose to make your own you can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs Exactly as they were written by a person on this app programs everything for you Exercises weights sets reps frequency the whole thing after every single workout on every single week The app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input we have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every Single one you never have to be confused about technique or form ever again Guessing right now you're pretty interested in the app download the RP high-perchography app today If you go to sets of 20 to 25 and you gas out It's your it's your cardio that's keeping you behind your muscles aren't being super stimulated You can't really feel a ton of tension at that range There is a burn but you're getting more of a burning your legs than in your muscles The pump is cool, but it's kind of a transient pump like you see some veins then half an hour later after you're done training it's gone Whereas when you go heavier it's like a pump that lasts kind of all day The muscles are perturbed like they're tired, but they're they're more fatigue than perturbed By perturbed I mean like if you go heavy and and what was sorry not heavy whatever is effective And you try to use your legs after they're gonna feel weak and wobbly and Particularly there's a coordination problem and sometimes the muscles even cramp But if you do a rep range that's not the best for you like high reps for legs for this example You could be like a like move your legs around jump around a little bit like it looks real tired You had a heavy but nothing like anything magical happened to the muscles It's just a similar to how it would feel after like a five mile run I don't know that doesn't grow a lot of muscle that's not good And if after that session you don't really get hardly sore at all Then The clearly sets of five to ten are better for you and the light press in that time then sets of 20 to 25 You will have all the data in the world as you train with the RPI Perjrfee app link in the description Of different rep ranges with different muscle loops with different exercises and you're gonna start to learn Which rep ranges give you the best results sometimes it can be a diversity It could be like there's no wrong answers for our skull crushers. I get a great pump when I do five I get a great pump when I do 30 and everything in between There could be times when it hurts your elbows times when it doesn't There could be a variation situation where you have some stainless you've been doing sets of five to ten for a while And it feels not so great you switch to sets of 20 to 25 and just the novelty alone burns you out in its amaze So at the end of the day just going with whatever is a great stimulus to fatigue ratio And to put that in another way of avoiding Exercises and rep ranges that are bad stimulus to fatigue ratio like not a lot of pump not a lot of So when I was my joints hurt this exercise, hard as fuck to do then that's not really answered And that's the best possible thing to say so if someone's like hey, you got to train heavy to build muscle That's a five to ten you got to be like oh, you know, that's true for some muscles for some of the time for me But it's not really true for most muscles and they say how do you know well stimulus to fatigue ratio So that's the key core concept to keep in mind On top of that you want to layer some other ideas consider going a bit higher up and adding reps as a former progression Instead of load especially in the last mesocycle of a fat loss phase where you're tired You can't make strength PRs anymore your injury probabilities a little higher that might just make it Psychologically and physiologically and Safety wise the better choice. I'm not saying always do it give it a shot and I don't mean ultra high reps I mean if you normally train for sets of 10 to 15 maybe more sets of 15 and fewer sets of 10 at the end of a fat loss phase Lastly When in that first Mesocycle of massing of bulking out of a fat loss phase Definitely keep lighter training in stick to the lighter ages progress in loads through them gently But don't go heavy right away What you do not want to do is finish a lot of light training on a fat loss phase and then as soon as you got some food and fuel And you win some rest you start day one of the bulk with ultra heavy shit That's a five you may want to do that But you're joint to connective tissues your tendons They're not adjusted to those heavy loads. It's a very different stimulus and because not only are they not adjusted But now you used to have very little energy and now you've been eating food you know a fuck ton of energy This is a big fucking problem because that combination of bad adjustment Two historically what has not been heavy weight in the last few weeks or even maybe months Combined with the fact that you're now feeling really strong and motivated Can cause injury and a lot of guys get hurt at this time and it's needless What you should do is through the bulk the first Mesocycle continue to train with slightly higher reps then in the next phase Picks and the lower ups and then phase after that you can if some of the lower ups are working Really start to keep doing the lower ups and slowly over time Ad weight so that by the end of your bulking phase You're doing less high-reptraining than you used to plenty of low-reptraining maybe a little bit of high-reptraining in the muscles that don't gas you out And then when you transition back to a fat loss phase again You can start training relatively heavy and then over time choose some lighter rep ranges as you continue through the bulk Sorry through the cut good god That's all I got at the end of the day folks Don't be pedantic about stuff and don't be dogmatic about Don't say well, I read this from a book so it has to be true. You could give it a little bit more thought All the evidence doesn't say that injury risk isn't hands directly By going heavy at the end of a fat loss phase because that it's that training science has never been done That doesn't mean that the reality isn't kind of quite obvious and don't be dogmatic Don't say well, this is how it works and that's it Maybe maybe some guys got some shit, you know kind of wrong I mean if you think about a lot of the arguments like well the old school guys did it Yeah, they were smaller and less well conditioned and not as impressive and they were fewer of them You say a fuck dairy bro Arnold was better there everyone's sure but how many Arnold's were there? And an adjunct Arnold said this during his day he'd be doing some exercise and he'd be like Would you get that from? And gathered from Vince Gerion the if the in guys from the 50s and I mean they really knew things in guys from the 30s I mean into it all In guys from 1910 I mean circus strong and it didn't even live weights they knew everything because old school is better That's bullshit. We learned stuff over time and some of the stuff from the past can be informative and true and some of it gets filtered away So there is some truth to going heavier and I'm Massing in a blocking phase and going later in a fat loss phase, but it's nuanced and it's not direct and Mostly what you want is the best stimulus to fatigue ratio possible Guys thanks for tuning in check out our members area. Check out our description for links. See you next time

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pre-Dization, and today's video I'm going to weigh in on a bit of fitness controversy that's kind of happening in the social media space, and that is weight loss drugs versus lifestyle choices. And I think this is a false controversy. I think it is a false dichotomy, and I'll be very clear about this in nine points. Let's get to the point. So here's the thing to set this up. There is a new generation of weight loss drugs out on the market FDA proved more and more people are using them. They are GLP1 and GIP agonists. These are gut hormone gut peptides. And these drugs with the most famous of which, just the first really effective one is known as OZEMPIC, aka semagletide. There's also a trazapatide, and it's coming out with all kinds of new drugs on the horizon. And what these drugs do is they do a few things, actually very good for your health in general, and seemingly from all the research we have and all the inference from my pathways they activate and how. And but their biggest thing is so small stuff is they improve insulin sensitivity and also other stuff. But their big major beneficial effect is that they absolutely crush appetite. Now to be more technically correct, they have a very powerful dose-dependent effect on appetite. So if you take very little amount of the drug, you get a slight reduction in appetite. Well, that's okay, whatever. If you take much more of the drugs, you can take enough of the drugs in a safe and healthy manner. This has been tested over and over on large groups of people. Even huge doses of the drug relative to how much they crush hunger are totally safe. And that's the thing is when I say huge doses, it's a very small amount of actual stuff. And it can make your appetite basically just go away. We don't want appetite to go away because we still want people eating food. But as you can imagine, if we tight-rate the drug appropriately in a particular patient that's taking it, we can kind of set their hunger levels at gee anything we want. So if you're normal hunger level, as you're consuming 4,000 calories a day and thus you're overweight and in bad shape, we can give you just enough drug to get you down to 2,000 or 2,500 calories. And over a long time, you will lose lots of weight and then just stay there. If you continue to take the drug, it seems they think negative feedback loops from the research routines so far are minimal if non-existent, perhaps so thus if you continue to take what's the same milligrams of the Zempek every week, you'd that same milligrams of every week for a year and a half at least. There are other drugs that do this in a different category of drugs altogether, more than a single one. So maybe the first neurologically enhancing drug you could say the first drug ever to some extent. It's used mostly to keep people awake for various things but it also seems to be a cognitive and answer. But, definitely doesn't seem to have a negative feedback. You just take it to get the same effect. Take it one day, take the first time you take it in the 500th time you take it and gives you the same identical effects, which is really cool. So these drugs are really neat and that they do this. Now, more and more people have been taking them and some people in the fitness industry have brought up what they think is a problem and they basically saying, you know, if you give people this drug, it takes the owner's off of them changing their fitness and health habits. For example, there are, you know, propensity to make better food choices and you're just masking the problem. It's like drugging away the underlying problem. And there is a lot to say about that. A lot to say about that and I'll kind of put forward my thesis in nine separate points and please let me know in the comments what you guys think and if you find the points contentious, please let me know on what, um, in fredgeular evidentiary grounds you find the contentious. And we'll get to chatting in the comments about who's marginally more correct or incorrect. All right. So here we go. So point number one, it is absolutely true. I do agree. That the drugs do not get you directly to eat healthier. They definitely get you eat less, but eating healthy is still something people should try to do and something we should in the fitness industry advocate for our clients and our followers, and et cetera, to do as well. Okay. So yes, absolutely. I don't agree with just taking a pill and saying, hey, the pill solved at all, because the pill didn't solve it off. Now, what did the pill solve? There's actually two situations here, two issues, two problems, not one. One problem is people eat too much and two is people eat also unhealthy. So there's their amount of food ate and then what it is that can post is that food. Two separate problems. They're interrelated problems, but nonetheless, they can be bifurcated into two separate problems. And modern weight loss drugs and in the future more and more and more and more effectively and for less money, if essentially knocked out problem number one, like how much you eat is a pharmacologically now solved problem, which is crazy to say, I can't believe it's 2020. I guess I can believe it's 2023 and I'm saying this. We live in the straight up future, but like that's a big deal. Now, that's nothing we've been ever able to say in the weight loss and obesity space. Okay. So they give you as long as you respond well to drugs, almost everyone does, especially with the doctor, titrates it and you are honest about your responses, most people can take the drug and just get about to the level of hunger that they want. Okay. It's a very similar effect of blood pressure drugs as far as the landscape of effects. Like you doesn't matter what kind of blood pressure you have. You can take it a small amount of blood pressure drugs in a modern amount of blood pressure drugs, especially combined therapy will absolutely get your blood pressure as low as you want, even low enough to kill you. Okay. And the same thing actually for bone or pills. Like if your penis is medically capable of getting blood to it, bone or pills, absolutely will get you an erection. Okay. So actually, something I read several years ago, I was doing a research, you know what I'm saying? Well, everybody could use low enhancement. You feel me for them for those whiskey nights. And literally a sentence like by some, you know, a credited body that was like a racked out of function is a pharmacologically solved problem. Anyone healthy enough to be having sex can absolutely get an erection. And I was like, oh, shit, I didn't know that was strong. Then, you know, I'm saying quarter of a Viagra tab and I'm like, oh, shit, I've got a hospital after this. Yes. They're just kidding, but you know, some clothes are there. So in a later, this model will go away. In any case, I digress. That's where we're at with this new generation of drugs that appetite and essentially what kind of hunger level your experience. So now, hunger level is something we can modulate entirely through pharmacology. However, that's part one and that's part one of hunger and how much you eat that part just got knocked out. It's solved. So one of the big things I want to try to get across to you guys and many who probably already agree with those that don't, I would love to consider this. It's a fucking win. Let's take the win. If you imagine the fight against obesity in some case to be an aligus to a battle of two enemy armies, no, ozempic and all these drugs are like ultra slick stealth bombers that just go in and like crush enemy supply lines without getting shot down. The at what point will you be like, yeah, man, but what's left over for the infantrymen? Like motherfucker, he's got plenty of problems by himself. Right? And the infantrymen does still have a problem of fighting, you know, in close quarters combat, which the bombers can't differentiate between finder foe ostensibly. Similarly, we have the capacity to crush the calorie problem. People in too much, that problem can just be gone. If you take the appropriate dose of one of these new generation drugs and we still have that problem left of health to eat it. So we'll take the win on one of the problems, see what problem is left of. Now, to the point of the fitness industry, people that have a problem with these weight loss drugs, wood choosing better foods, healthier foods knock out some of helping you be healthier with your food choices. Yes, all of that, but also healthier foods generally are less calorie dense and more filling for longer. So actually would allow you to deal with part of that problem as well. Absorption for a can loot, 100%. But point four consider this, if we already got people huge pharmacological help to control their cravings and hunger, and they can now eat less than eat the appropriate amount to get to the body weight they want to get. Their remaining problem is that they should also be eating healthier for the marginal, but yet substantial health benefits of whatever food you eat, eat healthier within that range for the most part, 75% healthy food, 25% whatever fun junk you want, generally kind of the consensus of what is a good idea. Because you've opened up so much bandwidth from not having a worry about how much to eat because that's automatically regulated now, you have more, you can be more successful, put in the same amount of mental bandwidth towards making healthier choice. That's a good thing. And then you, if you are a kind of person that makes healthy choices really well, you can get even leaner and weight even less if you want that sort of thing and do it with less drug and less money. Now, the drug is actually good for your health. It seems to be a net positive for health even for people who don't have a weight condition because it's insulin sensitizer and things like that. So we don't have to be worried about like, well, I want to get off the drug eventually. Like people do with blood pressure drugs, by the way, blood pressure drug are also essentially neutral for your health. Once they reduce blood pressure, not bad for anything else. So it is a myth to try to get off of drugs that are not bad for your health and be like, well, finally, I'm off the drug. Like, give the shit, do you get not food next and get enough water? Get out of here. Like, it's totally fine to take this in perpetuity as the benefits are enormous and the costs are, well, pretty much just the financial cost of the drug, which at this point of the recording this video is quite high, but inevitably, 99% certainty, the drug cost is going to come down like by orders of magnitude and that it'll just be liquidously available to everyone. When people say some things, they seem to not really think through them much when they say them, I'm guilty of this at least 99% of the time. Maybe the following thing will be evidence of that, but when people say, well, if you make it easier for people to like not have to eat healthy, they just won't. And hold on a sec. If we gave everyone a genetic boost and turned everyone's genetics, muscle building and fat burning wise, into like top 5% of Nigerians, look it up. Would most people just stop that are currently involved in lifting weights and tracking their diets, would most people just stop doing that? I don't think so. Here's how this looks. Some people absolutely would stop because they're like, finally, you can just be have abs and cool muscle belly isn't never do anything. Great. First of all, how's that bad? Second of all, a lot of people who now don't have to struggle on the gym for weeks and months and end to get fucking basically almost no results, there's millions and millions of people like that. They get super boosted into, hey, now you can get great results. Like everyone else, like you've always wanted. It's going to fill the gyms with addicts that I want to take their physique to the next next level. People always want to be more jacked and leaner. And if you give them great genetics to begin with, they're going to get in the gym and mess it up. Maybe the average will shift one way or the other, but you're not going to destroy the gym industry by giving people better genetics. Did anabolic steroids reduce the number of people who went to the gym because they're like, fuck it, I'll just take steroids or did it increase it. Give that some thought for a second. So I don't think it's very likely to be true that if you empower people to get rid of this problem of how much they eat, that they will have any less incentive to become healthier. Because right now, that hunger and cravings is so burdensome, they can't handle the problem. And if they have the hunger and cravings completely pharmacologically zeroed out, they might be like, oh my god, fitness is something I can realistically attain. I can now be 150. Here's another thing. There's a shit load of fat people to don't even go to the gym because they can't control the crunger and cravings. They're going to be fat. They don't even, they're so out of the range of realistically thinking they've ever looked like they could be 150 instead of 250, then even bother. All of those people get zapped right in after a few years of taking these drugs into a realistic bodyweight range with it like, whoa shit, now that I've got the weight loss thing down, I'm going to go to the gym and get fucking chiseled, get a little beefier and in combination with my never again having excessive cravings, I'm going to be in the best shape of my life. My hypothesis these drugs will probably empower more people to become fitness industry contributors and look at the rest of their lives rather than fewer. Now, point number five, the report is, but it teaches people to just take a pill and never address the fundamental problem. But my contention here is that there are actually two fundamental problems. First problem is people eat like shit. They choose poor quality foods, very junky foods. That's bad. This does not attend to that problem. Taking those NPIC will not fix that problem. I don't. Problem two is people are very hungry. In any given food environment, specifically ones in the modern free market wealthy economies. The United States, Western Europe, much of Asia, there's just a lot of really amazing tasty food out that's super convenient to eat and it costs very little and people love to eat amazing convenient food that costs very little and they do a lot of it. And thus the hunger levels versus the availability of food in society are totally off balance and people gain weight. The modern weight loss drugs can solve that problem number two, leaving us only with problem number one. We just have one problem now. It's point number six. We zapped away a whole problem of people eating too much, which is incredible. Now a great thing is, before here's an unbelievable benefit, before people who genetically had higher appetites, for their environment, which they're living, their weight three hundred pounds and if they wanted to weigh to twenty, they were going to have to eat very clean, very low-pellitability, very healthy foods, almost all the time because if they went to eating high-pellitability foods, they would even be miserable and starving or just start gaining weight if they had as much as what they wanted. The weight loss drugs we're talking about here can fix that second problem entirely. And more people who are overweight can now live more like normal. You guys see skinny people going to sushi place and just ordering whatever they want. And they took two rolls and I thought, oh my god, I'm so full. Overweight people, previously overweight people, can be like that. Wouldn't we want overweight people to be able to lose weight and still enjoy all of the fun foods they always wanted versus having to eat like a machine the rest of their lives, which is the case now. That I would give a lot of thought. Point number seven, there is a chance that people become emboldened by the weight loss from appetite regulation, or down regulation rather, and they have more bandwidth to focus on healthier eating. It's really, really hard to lose weight and to restrict your calories and to worry about that stuff, but if you don't have to worry about calories at all with proper hunger signaling, you don't, then you can go out and eat healthy. You're like, you can go to Whole Foods. There's some stupid store that's giant rip off, kidding Whole Foods. You're great. Sort of. And you can just pick healthy choice squash and fuck and spaghetti squash and grilled squash. That's healthy, right? That I would like fruits and grains and lean meats and tons of veggies and cool sauces to put on that stuff. It's a super healthy meal, but you don't have to cut the calories anymore. You don't have to worry about the calories. You're still kind of if you want, but you're going to stop eating intuitively with the help of the drug. Whatever you eat enough that the drugs like noth ham, and it's just you have a lower hunger signal, so you naturally stop eating most of your food in such a way that keeps you at 150 pounds for forever. If we solve that problem, people can now be free to just have more bandwidth than be empowered to try healthy. When some people have such an insane appetite to them eating healthy all the time is just by definition, because it is a little stuff fucking around. Healthy food does not taste as good as fucking junk food. There's a reason is I actually have this to be with a few people who I consider just thinking on the margins, so to speak, nominal thinkers. Like, you don't beat fucking candy bars because everyone fucking wants them. They're the best. Chips taste better. Period. Then everything. I'm going to give a fuck to you. We're some rich motherfucker. They're going to have you throw a trophy for eyes. The fuck out of my face. Freedom of laser, maybe I'm kidding. Trophil fries are great, but they're also fucking junk food. Because it's so hard to eat clean all the time, we can have people not have to worry about that. Now they can be more flexible to eat healthy when they want, when they should, and also to eat less healthy when they feel like it and it's not going to affect their body weight because the drugs have solved this problem. Now, last report here is people finally get to it, and they go, but what about willpower? Like shouldn't people be flexing their willpower? Shouldn't you have to earn your results? And I do absolutely have thoughts on that. First, the idea that the prime differentiator between fatter people and skinnier people is a willpower is bullshit. Now don't worry, I'm not going to go jump off the S.J.W. Hill or Cliff right now. Willpower is absolutely one of the factors that determines who is grotesquely overfat and who is in great shape. People in great shape on average have higher willpower, but hold on a second. That means that some people who are in great shape have to struggle, use their will to try to make sure they're eating their right amounts because if they just go with what they feel like, they're going to get much fatter and be out of shape. Okay, but I just said the willpower thing was both potent, but not the biggest factor. What is the biggest factor? Probably by a nine to one margin if I had to guess. The biggest factor that separates skinnier people from bigger people is just their hunger signaling, which is genetic straight up. Within a given environment, given food environment, you can go with this research if you like. Adult body mass index, which is a very good proxy for how big you are and you can only get to that size by some combination of activity eating, activity is relatively normal throughout the population, so it's most the eating, BMI for adults in a stable environment is something like close to 90% explained by genetic herobility studies. Genetics, you just eat more, you like food better, you fill up some combination of those things and that you just fill up faster. If you watch skinny people, how they eat, they love food too, sometimes. Some of them are just like, my food's a bad. But some of them love food and they're going to love the sushi place. Let's go. You know, okay, we're going to watch this, you eat 80 rolls, they went in a half rolls and they're going to go out and stuff and fucking kidding. How genetics, they did not most skinny people did not get skinny or stay skinny and most skinny people have always been skinny because of that mass of genetic influence. They did not do it through willpower. Some of them did, most of them did not, it is a fallacy in a huge one, drink that the only thing that separates really fat people and skinny people is again, that people just have to fuck one and more just fucking willpower. It's fucking pathetic. Like, word up, there is something to that. Rest of the thing to that is straight up genetics. You just inherited that shit. So if we take those people that did not get the lucky card genetically and through a cheap, once weekly administered pharmacology that makes their health otherwise better as well, essentially make their expressed phenotype, genetics plus whatever else is going on. To be roughly the same as that of a skinny person, to get their hunger signaling to be basically the same, to get their amount of food that requires them to get full roughly the same, to get their cravings roughly the same. Then all of those fat or people who had all the same willpower is the skinny, but just got overwhelmed by this title wave of hunger. Now they can flex that willpower and get even leaner if they want or take less drug and get the same amount of lean, but it gets better and watch this. Watch how. Those people that don't have to use their willpower anymore and appetite issues. You guys have died before it takes a shit load of effort to die. It's absolutely effort from the rest of your life. Instead of having to use their willpower bandwidth on eating less, those people can use it on eating healthier. How about this? Even better. They can use it to make to become better people further kids to look up to. They can become better at their jobs. They can pick up an extra thing of trash and put them in garbage to keep our beautiful society even cleaner. They just can do other better stuff with it versus needlessly pissing it away on resisting food intake because the drug now does that for you. And here's the really big deal. You may think understandably that that's a problem because what if everything was a fucking drug? Like everyone takes drugs for various things for society and then we all get fucking soft bullshit and here's why. Obesity and the hunger that leads to it is a problem. If we take that problem and pharmacologically remove it from our problem and set our problem space in the universe, it's just not a problem we would solve. Are we lacking problems to solve? Has anyone of you ever lost a relative to cancer? Why is it cancer cured yet? Are there enough people working on the cancer problem? What if we had robots taking care of all of our physical duties like taking out the trash, etc? Were they be a problem for us because we no longer have the willpower to take out the trash? Or could we spend more time doing shit like drumroll, curing fucking cancer or anything else? So as we automate and pharmacology and genetic engineering and nanotack and insane AI powered computing, we have this problem space of all of our problems in the world. As they solve them and put them into the solve problem pile, there is no shortage of leftover problems. And if you think this all the way through as all of our technological advances, filter through and solve, solve, solve, solve, solve. First of all, we just less problems. I kind of want to live in that world, don't you? And second of all, if we actually run out of problems to solve, we live in literal paradise. I don't want to spit in the face of insanely net positive solutions like drugs that reduce the appetite problem all the way. There is absolutely something to keeping whoever in society wants at least at the edge of that blade. A diversity is fucking good for you. I'm all with Nietzsche, whoever the fuck said that should, now Jordan Peterson. I guess. I'm not interested in a fucking SJW world or everyone's a fucking pussy and nobody ever has a versity and they're like, oh my god, my feelings. 100%. I feel you guys on that. There is no fucking shortage of adversity. And if you mother fuckers feel like you have two few problems because you take enough drugs and all your problems are gone up. I don't have to worry about what I eat anymore. I'm super healthy and I'm lived till 100. Go solve other problems. Go to the inner city and clean the fucking help clean the streets. Do whatever take care of your kids better. There's always more problem. And again, if you're really worried that we'll run out of problems eventually, tell yourself that in your head more time. Your concern, I don't even know my kid about him just getting passionate, is that we're going to run out of problems? Oh my fucking god, can you imagine? You just have no problems. That means you have a genie, essentially that grants you everywhere you could have. Pray to fucking god that we get there eventually. And if this ozempake and that class of drugs is one tiny step of the way there, I'm 100%. Right? Here's the thing. Point number nine, two that effect. It is probably a good idea to work to make everything easier or completely solved. Then we can go solve the next thing and the next thing and the next thing. Yes, because you have a car that means you don't know how to stable and train and take care of a horse. But instead, you could have a job that trains large language models to solve every other fucking problem we have. It's a matter of perspective and it's a matter of understanding that just because you get rid of one challenge doesn't mean that you are now soft pussy who's never going to get challenged and there's going to be a way and just spend more time in mom's basement. Uh-huh. But you could always do that. But you could have always done that. We've had a standard of living since the 1950s in the United States. We're pretty much everyone could get their food and basic medical care and a place to live on minimum work per week. And so like anything you do now is bonus points anyway. So if now you have less of a problem of people having hunger, don't you or yes, that problem is no longer an instrument by which people can improve themselves. It is not an instrument and which they can flex and make their willpower better because it doesn't exist anymore. It's taking the drug and it's fucking done. Lots of problems left over for us to fucking get into and try to solve and really improve our willpower and our internal value as people because a big part of having um self-actualization and being really at peace with yourself is being able to work on making yourself better and regularly challenging yourself. And again, we have a shitload of problems left over. Bucking, world hunger, world peace, all that shit, mortality, aging, could be solving aging in the next 20 years. Think about that. I'd rather people spend time solving aging, then spend time looking at macros and being like shit, I'm eating too much. I'm fat. Anyway, how's that for a rant? All right guys, thank you so much. See you in the comments, like, subscribe, etc. And uh yeah, fuck I'll throw this out. If you guys how many of you were interested in hearing me rant more about life and philosophy and global politics of shit? Just tell me I'm stupid and none of it be head. But if you want to hear more about it tell me in the comments. Anyway, see you guys later.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here with Renaissance Periodization, four Renaissance Periodization, and even buy Renaissance Periodization. Why not? Simple tips for increasing your bench. You want them, I think, because you're watching this video, and boy, do we have them? As a matter of fact, I think we have, seven of them. So what are they? These are super simple. There are more advanced questions that you can ask, which is why you'll hopefully be tuning in next week for our advanced periodization bench press improvement video. But nonetheless, I will say this. If you haven't checked the boxes on all these seven simple tips, I wouldn't even move into the advanced stuff. You could watch that video to get our algorithm going, get me more lamboes. But at the end of the day, the simple stuff is something you just have to work through before you get to advanced stuff, because first of all, it's easier to do. And also, it has a huge ability to move your bench a ton, whereas the advanced stuff moves it by a smaller margin. But the advanced stuff only works best if you're already advanced, and you really need it, otherwise the simple stuff works much better. Like, if you have a standing army, and then you need to be able to fight, getting each guy a gun is probably more important than how advanced your best bomber is. Yes, that. So kind of a simple situation there. So bench improvement tips on the simple end, here we go. Number one is to standardize your good technique. And there's two problems, potentially there. One, you don't know good technique. You don't know how to retract your shoulder blades and arch your back. If you need help on that, YouTube has like an infinity videos on bench press technique. Literally just find any two or three of them. All the points that these videos agree on, just right now, no, no, I can napkin and just do. And almost all of them are going to be a lat tucking, an elbow, flare, and all this other stuff. Find at least learn how to retract your shoulder blades, get your chest up, arch your back, and get proper position. So first, learn the right technique. And second of all, practice that good technique and make yourself technically mindful so that every repetition looks pretty much the same. Every set looks the same, every week looks the same, and then after a while, you're just really good at executing that movement pattern. Because a lot of people miss benches as beginners, because every rep and every lift look different. And sometimes they push their chest up, sometimes they're collapsed and they're shoulders are forward, and they're like, why didn't miss that bench? Well, motherfucker, you can't even diagnose the problem because your technique is different every time. If you drove to my house five different ways, and each one of them was on average 40 minutes long, but like some of them were an hour and a half, and some of them you got in in 20 minutes, you'd be like, what am I doing wrong? My first response would be like, you're taking whole bunch of ways that are clearly not optimal. At least start taking one way and we can move that way to where it's better or worse and get you going. Right, so same thing with bench, establishing good technique, I'll take you guys it's before, if I watch you bench in real life, if I spot you or something, I'm at some gym across America, the world you're like, doctor, am I? Can you spot me in a bench? Like, if my botlers don't push you away from me and blow smoking your face, then yes, the answer is yes. I spot you, if I watch you be inconsistent, rep to rep or set to set on your technique and you ask me like, dude, like I'm trying to get my bench up, or can I do best? This is legit the shit I'll tell you. It's like real talk, one-o-one. Like before your technique is not good and standardized, I've nothing else to tell you except for practice or technique, so it's good and then standardized. We're just to say it's good and you can consistently replicate that good technique. Next, simple tip is spend a lot of time in the three six rep range. A bunch of people who want a bigger bench press, do lots of one-art max tests with a bench dog, because that's fun, high school, one-o-one. And then they also do a lot of like flies and crossovers and bodybuilding work and high rep dumbbell presses. And they'll think, well yeah, like this one gets my muscles bigger, but the Brett Max tests to find big muscles or making my bench stronger. Sure, that's the case. The problem is there's not much training of the nervous system going on, training it in the heavy rep ranges with enough volume, so that it really gets the message of, you're learning how to push really hard. Because if you max test, it's more like showing off. It's not enough volume, it's not enough practice for you to train on. And your brain and spinal cord and all the performers, they don't get so good at recruiting your muscles to do the high force for low reps thing. The way to get them to do that is lots of sets of three to six repetitions. Like sets of five and shit like that. That's one of the reasons my starting strengths for beginners works so fucking well. By the fucker, you need lots of sets of five and shit like that. In order to practice lifting heavy weights for low enough reps to where you can still really practice your strength. That's how your strength goes up. It's not rocket science. Could you do lots of doubles and singles again? But then you'd have to do a crap load of them to get enough volume to really increase your strength. And if that volume, lots of singles and injury risk is a little high, your shoulders and elbows and stuff might start to give you trouble. Set's of three to six is that awesome, weighty build what's called basic strength and sports science. And a lot of people just don't spend a lot of time in that range because it's neither the fun part of showing off your bench, nor the fun part of getting big pumps. It's right in the middle of kind of boring, it's kind of painful, it kind of grines you, totally fucking shit will make you strong. So if your 100 max hasn't moved up in a while, regress back no more one ran access. And for a while, no more high reps, that's a 20-unfly's. Just lots of sets of three to six in the compound basics, especially bench press, holy fucking shit you're going to get strong. And to that point, number three recommendation is to press more often. Remember Dan Green had an article that shook this sort of powerlifting world back like maybe eight or ten years ago, and it was called Benchmore to Benchmore, and this a plan words, but it was like Benchmore often. To be able to bench press more weight. A Benchmore to Benchmore, if it was both on weight, is kind of not really appointed itself. And phenomenal article on phenomenal core concept there that many people have discovered since then for all the other lifts. The reason that was forgotten at the time was because equipped lifting was the dominant modality people did. Squatsuits and benchards. In an adventure, you can't do competition, mention all the time because it'll be you straight to shit. It'll rip your shirt into pieces. You'll need to new shirt every three weeks because it'll just lock it up. This is not something you do. But people came from the equipped side and started to train raw, and they did all the systems working, all the other stuff, and think Bench was going to go up, and it didn't go up much. But it turned out specificity is king, and for raw Benching, you can't actually bench press, that's a five, or in such a whatever, that you need, and you can do it multiple times a week without your shoulders and your elbows killing you. Equipped to heavy, to insane can't do, raw can do. And so instead of pressing one time a week, try pressing maybe twice a week. If you're already pressing twice a week, try pressing whether it be Benching itself, or just any kind of compound presses on machines, dumbbells, bench, and clients, etc. More compound heavy pressing makes you a better compound heavy presser. And if lots of that is Bench press itself, in many cases, you're just going to get better at Benching. You practice what you want to get good at, and you get good at it. And there's shocker, right? Specificity principle. What I don't want you guys to do is like bench one time a week, and they be confused as to why your bench isn't going up. Typically, if you do anything once a week in sport science, we consider you maintaining that as a maintenance program. So don't do that bench two or three times a week, and your bench will probably go up. Now, of course, you don't just take your one time a week workout and multiply it. You have to reduce the volumes to account for the fact that you should be recovered for every one of these workouts. So if you get utterly sore from eight sets of pressing, but you need to be healed in a day and a half, do like four sets of pressing, you'll get great high quality every workout. And the next time you go, you do another force that's a pressing amazing high quality workout, and it'll stronger a little stronger and it'll strong. Next is doing the right accessories. You can do wobble board shit. You can do lockout work shit, but that's all stuff from equipped lifting that either was stupid back then and should be done back then, or is good for equipped lifting, not great for all lifting. So the best kinds of accessories tend to be deep dumbbell flies, wide grip presses, close grip presses, jam, press the skull crushers, things that break down the various components of the bench press movement, being the high pecking vault went down here and the high tricep involvement here, and train those in their own way with their own limiting factors. If you managed to get ultra strong triceps from new high school crushers or ultra big triceps doing a skull crusher, get them ultra strong doing heavy jam presses and heavy close grip benches. If you're triceps are limiting factor, once you go back to your competition bench press where it's off the chest, your lockouts are going to be like, never were and you're going to bench more, plain and simple. And the opposite is the case for chest, which brings me to my next point, point number five, strengthen your chest. Yes, strengthen your triceps will make you benchmark. But TBH in the raw bench press, the chest tends to be the biggest limiting factor in my experience as a coach, as a person who watches powerlifting meets from the corner, usually in a trench coat, not always in my weary end anything under that trench coat? No, it would be too hot. Of course I'm not wearing anything in any case. That was I talking about chest for the bench press, raw, is in many ways like quads are to raw squatting. In equipment it's different. But in raw squatting, quads are it. They're like 70% of the relationship between how much you squat and what size and strength your various muscles are. If you have big strong fucking quads, bro, with some simple fixes and just getting a decent posterior chain, your big squatter. Whereas on the other hand, if you have a narrowest strong posterior chain, but the little tiny quads raw squatting is going to be fucking hard. In the same way, you can have amazing super strong triceps, and you will be able to bench a lot. Nothing drives big benches like big pecs. And if you guys have ever seen the top raw bench pressers, physics, they're like fucking insane. Like Daniel's I'm on, I think this is his name. He's from Iran. He's benched over seven hundred a few times raw. I don't understand how he walks around or sleeps because his pecs like right here. RIP, Nick Winters from back in the day, benched over 700, 100, and I saw him in a real life. I didn't think it was a real person. I didn't make sense to me how someone's upper pecs could like come out like six inches this way and then drop down. It was nonsense. You'll see lots of articles, triceps are the key to benching. They're all outdated. They're all old. They're all from the equipment days. The way they get a bigger raw bench on average for the average person is to prioritize both chest and triceps to put a lot of chest work. So deep dumbbell flies. Right. There was a forget who his name was. He made his mic McDonald from back in the day. He was pressing, I think was a really stupid shirt that didn't do anything. So more or less raw, I think he weighed like just over 200 pounds and he was pressing over 600 raw. Because it was completely insane shit. And allegedly he could do the 100 pound dumbbells for deep strict flies for sets of 10. You can ever see someone do shit like that. What the fuck? I would walk into the gym and see that and be like, that's my cuter leave. I'm never coming back to the gym. This is clearly a place for people not like me. It is a place for gods. Right. And I'm just a little least sports scientist on my best days. Try be like that. Be like Mike. You're just like get me a yes pecs and then benching kind of takes care of itself. Right. So that's a huge recommendation. Deep dumbbell flies. Wide grip bench work with a pause. If you can get your hands on a camber bar, oh, I'll be beautiful. All right. All these things work or didn't, let's say they worked. But you can be in a position. And this is point number six. Where your body is just stale on benching. You're inventing three times a week for months and months and months. Your body just can't handle it. And much overreached specifically on the bench press as a lift. That happens. Right. You're stimulus to fatigue ratio for benches down here. But you're doing it all the time. Get away from benching. Make two or three muscles for yourself. We say I'm going to gain muscle for the bench. But it's going to be through everything about the bench press. Do some incline dumbbell stuff, do some machine presses, do some scholar crusher, do some flies, etc. Still hitting those muscles, chest, tri-subs, front, elton, etc. But no benching. When you come back to benching a few months later, it's going to feel alien and fucking weird. But if you're going to be refreshed like crazy. And then when you re assert your technique, you might be able to actually improve your technique. Because you learn old shitty habits and stay with you. And if you do something all the time, you just keep doing it shitty. But if you get away from it, you sort of forget a little bit. When you come back, you can start doing it right again for the first time. Again for the first time. A music CD by Dr. Mike. Do you guys think I should release a musical album? Scott's a sound engineer by training. So we could get it pop. It could be rap, R&B, country. I do a little country. So in any case, that aside, let me know in the comments if you want to go rap rock slash, what's that guy's name? Bubba Sparks. I'm the new Bubba Sparks. I don't want to just throw that to you guys, but it's true. So we'll get some some of that all mixed together for you. If you come back to benching after having been a way for a while, your benchmarks will be now and don't fucking test your axe, don't do it. Go back to it. It's a five to ten. And then your technique will feel better and all of a sudden after a few weeks, you'll be hitting the biggest tons of five to ten you've ever hit because you have new big muscles and your bench a sore fresh. It's just groovy. Then you go to sets of three to six, crushing all time PRs, tired testing your max after that, voila, bigger max. So sometimes getting away from the thing, actually helps you with the thing. Last one is gain weight. Okay, Daniel's I'm on or whatever from Iran. It's not like a real big mystery. It's to highly bench 700. I mean, it's really impressive, but he weighs like fucking 700. He doesn't really, but he's like 300 something. It's fucking enormous. And if you ultimately want a bigger bench, gain weight and while you gain weight train the shit out of your chest shoulders and triceps, specific to benching, it's even better. Right, lots of sets of five to ten compound presses and tricep moves and flies. As you gain weight, once you get to whatever weight you want to be or after you burn the fat off, start doing lots of sets of three to six and then peak with sets of one to three and then voila, you have a bigger bench because your pecks shoulder and triceps are bigger. If you want to stay in a certain way class, if you don't want to get any bigger, that's not an option for you, but most of the other ones are. But if you just want a bigger bench and someone's a, hey, like you'll have to be more muscular, you're like, well, shit, that's a two good things. Give it a shot. Let me know what you think comments below. Like, subscribe, buy stuff. And yeah, the last thing I'll say is if you really haven't trouble some of your lifts, come and join us on team full ROM, just go on Instagram or just go on the internet and type team full ROM and a buy link will show up. And we have a Facebook group and which you can post as many videos as you like and people critique your technique. And you can post your programs and people critique those two and get your better programs and you get a bunch of free stuff and so I'll include it and weekly lives with myself and Charlie and Jared, that's all good stuff. But if you're really struggling with the lift or a bunch of lifts, come to team full ROM help us out and we'll help you out rather and you can help us out with the Lamborghini money. But outside of that, folks, best of luck and we'll see you next week for the advanced version of this, which is me, it's the better version. It's just for people that have already done all these. So within next week or starting the time or now, go to all these basics, come back in a week, you'll be advanced. See you next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. Welcome, welcome, welcome. If you're a returning customer, welcome back. If you're a new viewer, I apologize in advance for my current language. Increasing your squat. We have some simple tips. There are more advanced tips that will come out in a later video, but just to keep it simple, increasing your squat can be a matter of, apparently, I wrote down seven things. So here we go. First, and this is a big one. And a lot of these will apply to beginners in your media. If you're advanced in your watching this, I think in a week or so, we should probably have a video right up your alley. One is standardized your technique. You want to find a strong comfortable technique, a solid walk out where you know exactly how many steps you're taking, and you want to replicate it on all of your warm-up lift, and on your actual working sets. The reason I say this is a lot of folks have told me in the past that came my squat, as having some trouble. I watched them squat, and kind of every rap looks a little different. Not a little different, like, enough different to where I'm like, oh, you mean this mistake on this right? And that mistake on that right? Every set looks different. If you can't get a standardized good technique, you can't even intellectually approach the problem with a strong with your squat, because what's wrong with your squat is this, the stochastic matrix that changes all the time. If you standardized a technique, you will allow your nervous system to start to replicate the same technique, and your nervous system is incredibly powerful at learning. And when it learns better, how to do a movement, it becomes vastly more efficient at that movement. You're practicing how you play all of a sudden, practice makes perfect, right? And you start playing better. So, standardizing your technique, to anything that's remotely good, sticking with that for a few weeks, because like some people walk out of the squat out, sometimes they'll be narrow stance, sometimes midstand, sometimes wide. And what the hell is going on here? Standardize that technique, practice that standard, your squat will improve if that's your issue. Number two, a lot of people will do lots of maximum work, sets of one, sets of two, a lot of max effort, stuff. Oh, my computer just says Lenovo says congrats on your new device. Get started. Well, fuck I am started. I'm literally giving up. I'm not work. Fuck. When I was sending this new computer up, by the way, my computer costs $400. How boilers that? Unbelievable. Time-reliven. When I was sending up my computer yesterday, like literally clicked, like, what do you use it for? It's like gaming, porn, whatever, and I clicked the business one, and now it's like literally kicking dicks out of my mouth that work. Unbelievable. A lot of people do max effort, stuff, singles and stuff. And that's cool to show off, and it really teaches you how to do singles really well. But after a while, it's not sufficiently volumeless. It's not enough practice at the movement for your muscles to grow very much, or for your nervous system to get very good. On the other hand, some folks do higher repetitions. That's a five to ten. Great for building muscle and sets of ten to 15. Sometimes even better for building muscle. They don't convert as well to what we import science called basic strengths. Just fundamental, fucking core, brutal strength. The way you get that is sets of three to six. So if you want your one rep max of squats to go up within the next few weeks, do plenty of singles and stuff like that. That always works great. But if you want your squat to really go up a lot, or a little bit of an investment in the next several months, sets of three to six, or where it's at, focus on those. Next, number three, squat more often. A lot of folks wonder why their squat won't come up with a train squats one day a week. The thing is, this comedy from any other sport perspective. Pick any sport, just think of a sport in your mind right now. It's volleyball isn't it? Fucking perverts. Men's volleyball. That's what I was thinking of. In any case, how many volleyball players practice volleyball once a week? Right? That's not even recreational volleyball. That's something you do on occasion. These are complex movement patterns, and they take a lot of practice. Squatting isn't exactly a complex movement pattern, but it's sufficiently complex that. Practicing it more than once a week yields marginal return on your investment. I say marginal because it's not going to revolutionize your squat. You know, you go from squatting three hundred pounds for a max, just squatting six hundred pounds for a max. Just from adding another one session week or frequency, but it will make a notable difference in most cases. Should it be too hard squat workouts a week? Maybe, but if you're doing one, I would say go to two. If you're doing two, I'd say go to three. Three plus, like four or five six, there's a big fatigue trade off. It's not super clear what's happening there, but certainly don't just squat once a week if you want your best squat. If you're squatting twice a week, and it's really beating you up already, and you don't think you can add another session. What you can do is take the volume of each workout, reduce it, take it for Monday and Thursday, move that one session to Wednesday, Monday Wednesday, but with a lower volume so you can recover between the days. And then Friday, you think, I have this too much for me to be squatting, having no worries. Put 50% of the normal weight you do, do just a few sets of triples with that lightweight for technique. And that extra neural learning will meet your squat goes up and up and up over the weeks while your fatigue is managed. Give that a shot. Number four, doing the right accessories. A lot of guys will squat super hard. Good stuff. Then there are accessories as like, I do leg extensions for three sets of 10 with a cigarette my mouth is barely even trying. The gym managers like sir, you can actually smoke in here like, oh it's will Smith then I don't light it for the look or just bite it. How many of you see? Scott the video guys, all the shit. So he caught that reference he's giggling like a little fan girl over there. Who doesn't love will Smith raise your hand? He'll slap you, careful, in any case. The real accessories that work best are not their extensions. They're a great choice. They're unoption but consider this. All tra-deep hack squats with a pause. All tra-deep leg presses with a pause. Front squats sometimes. High bar squats with your knees shooting real far forward heels on the ground. Nero stands brutal. That's the kind of accessory work that can really make a big impact. Give that a shot in the context of maintaining your weekly volume so that you don't overdo it. That might help a ton. All right. Number five. Sometimes it's your quads that limit your squat and I would say even often. But sometimes your knee extension ability your quads are strong enough. But you end up cantilevering over on your way up and your back or your glutes or hamstrings are insufficiently strong. And you can't maintain that tight dare I say erect posture. It's actually what it's called. How sports science always making us say the darn this things. That's a problem because if you fold over in your squat it doesn't really f***ing matter. How strong your quads are because they don't judge the squat like they judge a good morning. However, if you do some good mornings, if you do some stiff leg and deadlift, if you do some even deadlift, your posterior chain can become so strong. It is no longer the limiting factor and then you posterior chain once strong enough. Essentially turns all of your squats into a leg press because the only little effect or as your quads. And if you already have strong quads and you increase the strength of your posterior chain, your squat can shoot up like a gull wild. Give that a shot. If that's your problem, that might be a really awesome solution and we'll quite rapidly elevate your squat. Another one. Number six. Take an opinion out of Mr. Louis Simmons's book. Much as it pains me to say that. Take a total respect. If you're squatting a lot and often at all the time and your squat has been going up and then it's stalled out, it might be that the movement has become a stale. Anytime you repeat something way, way, way too much, your body just gets tired of it and it won't increase that your abilities and that landscape anymore in that space. So what you can do is strategically remove squatting and then slowly begin to reintroduce it again. So if your squats really stale, like if your squats not going up much and you've been squatting a lot and you're looking at the squat rack and you're like, fuck this man, I don't want to be here anymore. Just kill me and God's like no problem, lightning. And you just absorb the shit. You're like, ah, ah, ah, ah, you lightning him back and he was like yo, when you're like yo, when you're like yo, when you're yo, when you're like, oh, oh, we were late in the years like, yeah, sup, sun. Technically we're all God's children. In any case, if that doesn't happen, here's what you can do. Take squats out of your program for like a whole month, even even two, forty weeks, your whole mesocycle, no squat at all. Hacks, squats, leg, press, good mornings, stiff leg and other. Leave all that good stuff in. Still training your legs, just not what squats. After a mesocycle of not squatting, it's not going to feel stale anymore. You're going to come back to squats. You're going to be excited to come back to squats. Thinkin' if you'll fresh. Here's a really cool thing. You're going to have an opportunity to relearn squat technique a little bit. And you might actually improve it. You may find that you're doing some weird things, just just a matter of habit, that you're fresh to it. You don't have to do them anymore. You start with one squat session in that first mesocycle back. And then you add another squat session, potentially even two squat sessions you're squatting three times a week. Again, like you were back in the day when it got stale. That entire reintroduction process could see you elevate beyond your old squat, that refresher, that getting away from it is all you need. Like sometimes after a long week of super productive work, your brain is fried. The he has like Friday at 4.59 pm. You're looking at your spreadsheet and you're like, and your boss is like, hey, I'm going to go crash my lamb, oh, into my wife. See you later, right? And you're like, oh shit, I'm at work still, right? You're not getting a whole lot done. Can I say crash into my wife? Your boss is crazy. I probably report him to the police. So if you've got too much work in the week, staying extra late that Friday night and just pouring coffee into your cup, and then the coffee's flowing over your hand and on the printer, no good. Go home weekend, tons of sleep, no work, relax, rest, recover, take a trip somewhere, come back, Monday, fresh, and a little rusty. Tuesday, you're back in the grind. When's day Thursday, you're innovating. Friday you've, you know, major on dropshipping company Saturday, your boss's boss. Entrepreneur, spelled wrong, uninstagram, your other fucking man or whoever you are. In any case, getting away from squats every now and again, a sweat idea. Last one, this one's kind of an over the shot, gain weight, gain weight. You could be at a place where you like four weighing 150 pounds, your squat is fucking pretty sweet. And you could continue for several months and actually many years to get a little bit stronger, right? But you're 150 pounds and you squat 350 for a max, like that's really impressed. But you want to squat for a five, like it's been a thing. Well, you know, you can squat for a five and like three or four years at one fifty, which would be awesome. Or you could squat at another three or four months if you just gain up to one sixty five. At the end of the day, the number one determinant of strength, which is why we have ray classes in sport, is the amount of contract I'll tissue you have, the amount of muscle. And if you're pretty lean at whatever body weight, you just can't put on much more muscle because how the fact does that work. If we put muscle on the body, but it doesn't weigh any more violates, at least a few laws of physics. So at some point, if you're pretty lean and pretty jacked and you want to get much stronger in your squat, you should bear relax. Right, Google Charlie Zhang, it'll all require you because you'll inevitably spell Charlie within E, but Charlie's parents are Korean, so they spell his name wrong. And look at his legs. He squat at 800 pounds raw. And look at his legs. And he can be like, what the hell is wrong with his quads? Why are they this big? Well, that's kind of what it takes to squat at 800, right? And if you want to squat something more than you squat now, kind of the most straightforward thing physiologically is to put on muscle mass. And the most straightforward way to do that is to gain weight. So yeah, you do up. Now here's the thing, when you're gaining weight, do a lot of sets of five to ten in the squat and an accessory work. Because that's a really good way for people interested in strength to gain muscle. It is enough volume, but it converts real well. And then after a few months of that, you've gained a ton of weight. You're sets of five to ten are skyrocketing in ability. Don't just go max out because your body's not ready for that shit. Again, it's not neurologically adapted for singles or even lower reps. After that, do a few months of mostly sets of three to six reps in the squat and whatever you want in the assistant boom, it's still be five to ten. After a few months of that, your squat will very likely be revolutionized and be way stronger. You're finally squat for a five. You'll finally look over after you rack the weight. And at one guy, I said it guy in the gym that you always just looked at and you were like one day. He's looking at you and he's like, I never thought anyone can squat that much weight at your delicious, tasty body weight. Dot, dot, dot hit the showers fellas. See you guys next time. See you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for our sounds for your decision. I have a quick tip for you. The quick tip is that in the gym when you are coaching yourself and especially other people that you are helping with their fitness, simple cues work best. Here's the deal. If you're coaching yourself or others, it is always tempting for some segment of us to try to be as advanced as possible with arguing and then using exotic, multi-layered cues to try to get the person to shift into the technique that we would like to see. So something like, you know, try to twist your pinkies up and out and then the Glenwooden Humanity will join. Masses 164 degrees and Cheryl Rotation. It's like, what the fuck? And if you follow some insta people, I will not name them. That's the kind of advice they give. You're like, whoa, this person is really smart and must know what they're talking about. But here is the reality. Most exercise moves are actually quite simple. Sport moves are very complex. Kicking a soccer ball properly has a ton of different rotations and joining us, et cetera. Bench pressing a bar, squatting, deadlifting is some of the simplest moves you can describe in biomechanics. And here's the even more important part. Humans learn best when simple instructions are given. You want the instructions you give to your clients to allow them to move better. You want them to be understandable so that they can allow people to move better. You don't need the instruction to have the added benefit of making you sound really smart. Because your job is to be a service provider to them to get them to move better so they can be fitter and healthy and all the stuff they pay you money for. They don't really pay you money for you to sound smart. And if sound being smart came at no additional expense of conveying information, hey, fucking smart it up, do you house or whatever the fuck? But if sounding smart, layers in a needless layer of complexity, layers in the layer, who said that better, if sounding smart adds a layer of complexity that obfuscates the actual goal and interferes to some extent with efficient effective communication, you are literally trying to sound like a fucking nerd at the expense of the benefit to your client. Don't do that. That doesn't make any sense. Before a set that applies, after a set that applies. If you're emailing instructions to your client when you watch their video on Luma, whatever your distance coaching, that applies. During the set, we've of course you give a few cues here and there. During the set, people are focused on the set and they're in pain and they're exhausted. So the cues you give during a set have to be even simpler, chest up, shoulders back, elbows up. Don't external internal supination, the fuck up outta here. What is this in an anime class? It's cool, nerds shit is cool. But if it interferes with message delivery, it's not a good idea to do. It's just not the best time for people to process complexity. If at all. So my recommendation is to use the simplest cues that work. No simpler. You don't want cues that are so simple. They're ineffective. What is that, thank god, all right, fake Albert Einstein quote, like, make everything you can as simple as it can be, but no simpler. Right. So that is definitely a thing that applies and only elevate the complexity of your explanation when that is required to deliver the information within your explanation. If you can deliver the same amount of information, get the person to understand the same thing and fix the technique that they need to with the smallest amount of information. If you just say chest up versus articulate all of your spinal processes by one degree each time meeting in a 40 degree total articulation and extension. Wait, that's actually just said the same thing. But one of those is just straight up fucking nerd speak that most people will not be able to process at least in real time while they're doing it. You have to stop right. They're like, particularly each one and go. Oh, okay, got it. There's just chest up the same thing. You don't need to try to sound smart. You don't want to be unnerved with no friends trust me. I've seen it myself. I'll see you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance, here atization, answering a super common question that we get all the time is, Dr. Mike, what do I do if I am skinny fat? And I view you 1,000%, and I think I have some good suggestions in your quest to look the best, you came here for some reason. Maybe I'm gonna stay in your park, we'll find out person. So, do you bulk, do you cut? What the fuck are you supposed to do if you're skinny fat? So, first, let's define skinny fat. It's not a clear definition, but it's a spectral definition. So, it's folks on the end of the spectrum who are compared to their peers. They don't have a ton of muscle, but also they have some pretty significant fat stores. Like if you had to describe someone's body to someone before a blind date or a set up date, that's the kind of body that's a little tough to describe. You know, you like you set up your friend Rob with Rebecca, both our names isn't that nice? And she's like, oh my god, like what does Rob look? Like, you know, it could be a blind date, but I could show up and can't tell you. It's just like, I'm just giving you like a clam, I think I'm a bag of the monkey. Oh, I was like, skinny. You know, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's like a skinny guy trapped inside of fat person's body. She's like, oh, I don't know, I said that wrong, just kidding, Rebecca. It'll be more than you need or deserve. Jesus, I hate Rebecca for some reason. In any case, sorry, Rebecca's out there didn't mean to use your name, but skinny fat is actually a living proof of the fact that the body type system that used to use with Mesomorph andomorph actual morph is bullshit because they forgot skinny fat. As I remember, actual morph is like your skinny, but lean, Mesomorph is your fucking Superman, Jacked and lean, andomorph is your fat, but fucking Jacked underneath skinny fat, the other one man. And they never talk about that one, because that's fucking rough, right? But hey, a couple things. First of all, how your body is and how you look, doesn't fucking matter hardly anything in life, or fucking whole industry is a goddamn, like leisure industry is all the things a game is a joke, right? So first of all, your skinny fat don't worry about it, and other shit fucking matters anyway. What does Elon Musk's body composition and Jeff Bezos was gonna say some shit, what got Jacked on me real quick? Bill Gates, what does he look like? Doesn't fucking matter, just a goddamn billionaire, right? So if you've got solid game, handsome, your rich and successful and just not a piece of shit, you're gonna be doing just great in your life, being skinny fat, I wouldn't worry about anything. But if you want to not be skinny fat, which will want to be less so, what is the proper thing to do? And a lot of times, this is where standard advice kind of clashes with the predicament of the skinny fat person. Here it is, a lot of people say you've got a fucking bulk bro, you want to just fuck and start lifting, you got a bulk, and a lot of these folks are entering lifting for the first time, so they really have a lot of questions. Well, yeah, on the one hand, the bulk, I feel you on that, but they're like, well, I'm already fat, if I'm in a bulk, I'm just gonna be like, fucking sumoressler, that's not why entered the training and nutrition game is to become that. And then in the other hand, if you say, well, all right, just cut, well, hold on a second, I'm skinny underneath. I'm fucking lifting all these weights, and you know, I was got to have protein powder, so that it looked like some kind of something, and if I just died a bunch of weight off, I don't want my coworkers in the girl of my dreams, who also is at work, and that's problematic. I don't want her to be like, oh my god, are you okay? Do you like half like cancer or something? You're like, just Christ, who the hell just says not to someone and no, I just started to fitness program, fuck, you know what that sort of shit? You want her to be like, oh my god, are you like on steroids? I just got a gastrovac on, she's like, ah, that's Rebecca again, it was always Rebecca. So, walking sucks, cutting sucks. What the fuck are we supposed to do with skinny fat people in order to get them in the kind of shape that they want to be more than they are in now? So, I think a really good approach to the skinny fat situation is something like this. Priority number one, if you are skinny fat, you just entered the fitness space, you just started lifting her whatever, is to just begin a continued to lift her, or begin lifting, nice and hard. I think crazy, three, four sessions a week is good, for almost every one at the stage. And I can now reach at a time, train whatever muscle groups you want to develop, probably all around is good. And on the nutrition line, just try to make your diet nutritious and feed your muscles. We're just to say, multiple meals a day of mostly healthy foods and keep trying to hit like the decent amount of protein. Giffy bodybuilder looks down at your meal on his way with his own meal out of the restaurant you're eating at, he should be like, oh, there's some protein on that plate. That's nice, good for that guy, he's supposed to be like, what the fuck are you four years old who made your plate for you or like, oh, are you getting over breakup? Because there's only dessert foods on that. So you want some veggies, some fruits, some whole grains, nice, good, slab of meat, or vegetarian protein source, so glass and milk, something like that, just good nutrition. And we have a ton of videos for you guys on just nutrition for healthy eating that we have, I don't know where the fuck's got the video. I was gonna put it, he made, put it nowhere, he made tell me to go put it somewhere, if you know what I'm saying. He's on the road to me, is that a problem? Comment below. So yes, we have tons of ways to eat healthy, but basically we just want this person, this individual, to eat healthy and not 100% healthy, but just healthy baseline, any plenty of protein. This is going to do a few things. It is going to supply muscle growth. So underneath the skinny fatness, the muscles will be growing. And in addition to that, a lot of times when people cut out a bunch of junk food and try to eat more healthy, they lose a lot of fat too, often at the same time, because they're just beginning the process. So what's your body-baked gonna do? And you basically shoot for maintenance calories with this whole plan, or just eat enough food to where you're not super hungry anymore and just call it there. You may lose weight, you may gain weight, based on how your body responds to the hunger signaling of weight training. Some people, and they start weight training, even if they gain weight, that's solid. You're gonna gain mostly muscle anyway, or all muscle, it's gonna be amazing once you cut down later. If you just aren't super hungry, when you start eating healthy foods, you're gonna be building a ton of muscle under the hood because of the high protein and the great health value of the food, and because you're training for the first time in your life, but you may actually lose a bunch of weight so that by the time it comes time to like, cut on purpose, you're already pretty fucking lean and you're not even skinny fat anymore. Amazing. What I would recommend doing that for is... I don't wanna put to find a point in it, but like basically a year, if someone comes to me, if you came to me, this is the way I make all these videos, as far as like the power points for them. The way I answer questions in these videos is if your human being actually came up to me and had a real fucking life situation, ask me what to do. This isn't just hypotheticals, this is like real shit. So I don't ever wanna say like it has to be a year, but like yeah, at least six months and maybe as long as a year and a half to two years. So I'd say a year is a good goal. So if you just started lifting weights, you're kind of skinny fat, you don't know what to do. You'd healthy in it maintenance with plenty of protein, train hard or just fucking put the horse blinders on for one year straight. Is it the most rapid body transformation you can have, no? But it's the one that'll make the biggest impact shortly after a year. So let's say about a year of this, you've done it. The prediction is that you are going to be substantially harder. I don't know about down there. I not just says that's an intractable problem for me at this point. That's neither here nor there. What you are gonna be is like less mushy. You may have the similar overall shape, maybe, but your shape will probably better. Your shoulders will be a little bigger. Your arms will all tire at the sleeves and you are physically harder to touch because more of you underneath is muscle and less as fat. This is already really good news, but it's just the beginning. After that year, of essentially re-comping gaining muscle while losing fat and taking advantage of the fact that that's really all you need to make crazy transformation, crazy progress. After that, what I recommend is taking like about a 12-week fat loss phase where you lose like, all half a pound to a pound and a half per week, depending on how large you are. But like for your average, you know, 170 pound, 180 pound person, maybe just even a pound per week, just a little above that. You lose maybe 12, 15 pounds in the course of three months. And remember, you have built quite a bit of muscle. And now that muscle gets revealed substantially more. Now you're looking way, way different. This is when the people start complimenting you. This is when Stacy from a cuttings like, I'm not really like to account for your deck. She's at too much, only shit, Stacy. You've been in this job for like four days, of course, yes, tonight at eight. No, yes, I live with like grandma. She's cool. She'll be asleep by 730. Anyway, it's like I practiced this before. So after this fat loss phase, you're gonna look pretty fucking good, way better than ever. And then depending on sort of which way you want to zig or zag, you can choose your destiny and there are a couple of options. You can choose to maintain for a few months to let the diafety cool off before going again and doing another fat loss phase. Cause you're like, oh, I love this look. But I'm so close to being actually fucking mean. I need a little maintenance and another three month diet and then I'm gonna get a fucking world champion. Amazing, totally fine answer if that's you. You could get down to this new body fat level and be like, oh my fucking God, I look unbelievable by social life's night and day, my confidence is incredible. And that a fucking freak bodybuilder, weirdo asshole, steroid addict, let's say some other words, but the current social justice movement prevents that. So I'm not into that sort of thing. So I'm just gonna maintain and keep lifting three or four times a week, keep eating fundamentally healthy and just do me for the rest of my life, beautifully perfect dance. So we don't all have to go and like, what am I now? Year 23 of a self improvement journey that's actually killing your insides. Woo. And or you could say, hey, like I love this new look, but fuck man, I could use with a little more muscle and you start to slow muscle gain phase and then you do maintenance, fat loss muscle gain, et cetera. And then you're in the life of getting more jacked over time and lean over time, which at some point you like the way you look and all the way up to that point, you are better looking than ever. I will say one thing before we wrap this up. A lot of folks who have been skinny fat before, they hard knuck, they died it off and then they're pretty fucking chiseled. They are like, why wanna be bigger? But I feel like if I try to gain weight, I'll just get really fat again. The answer here is if you're gaining it like half a pound per week for 12 weeks, that's like six pounds total, there's just no way that let's say you only gain pure body fat. That's what I gotta happen. You're gonna gain some fucking muscle, maybe most of it will mess in your first try. If you gain only six pounds of pure body fat, if you started at like 174 pounds, you went to 180, barely an impact on your physique. That's like three, just over 3% body fat gain. If someone goes from 12% to 15%, or 15%, to 18%, you're all like, all these shit, gym, what happened to you was Japan opening up a new sum of division, that's not even a thing. So you just get like a little pudger, and then here's the deal, just a few weeks of hardcore fat loss dieting, will wipe that slate clean for you. So if you've been skinny fat before, if you have a decent control of your appetite regulation situation, I'm just gonna fall in to a white castle portal and go through a taco bell portal and get shit out of a bird or a heat portal. That's not gonna happen to you. Then there's not any way you're gonna magically back to super fat status. So don't worry about it. Take your time, do it right, do it calmly, do it with mostly healthy foods and a little bit of junk. You absolutely can put on cycles of muscle and go through mass gains even if you've been fat or before or skinny that before. Folks, I sure hope I made some sense, that all the jokes are funny. That's all I'm gonna say. See you next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pre-Dization, and today's quick tip is that sleep is almost never overrated for your fitness journey. Let's talk about how and why. Here's the thing. Of all of the drugs you could take for muscle building, in some certain contexts, and there's much more intellectual ways to explain what I'm going to say is sleep is the best drug, so to speak. Now, in reality, if you sleep close to the right amount, every other muscle building drug is way more powerful, and how or of extra sleep, a beyond what you need offers you nothing, and actually has downsides. On our of extra sleep that brings you from sleeping two hours less than you need to one less than you need is unreal powerful and comparable to tons of animal drugs. If you're trying to sleep four hours a night and you need eight adding in another four hours roughly every night is the equivalent or more than taking essentially the kitchen sink of drugs. Sleep is a fat important, it is critical, it is foundational. Why? Couple things. First, much of your growth in muscle actually happens while you sleep. You guys remember that movie from 90s, while you were a muscle got jacked up. I think there was love involved. Number two, why do you gain a lot of muscle when you sleep? One of the reasons is that growth hormone pulses the most when you are sleeping. There is a reason that little kids physically double in size over the years, grow myocytes and all our crazy kind of shit, transform. You guys ever see been around little kids before my parole officer says I shouldn't be doing that. But there have been around little kids. They sleep like 12 hours out of every 24. Holy shit. And they just keep growing and growing. They're growth hormone producing and consuming machines. And if you want to be a little bit more like that and get a few more gains, try to treat your sleep as seriously as possible. If you don't treat your sleep very seriously, because like back at I don't need extra, I'll just sleep six hours. I know it's not enough, but I have caffeine. Here's what you're buying yourself. A high probability of increases in body fat, a high probability of reduced muscle growth, or even muscle loss in some conditions, and absolutely you can expect reduced gains and strength from any strength training that you're doing. This is all confirmed by experimental research. Fuck, man. I don't have to sell this much more. Do I? I mean, Jesus Christ, get your sleep. Getting enough sleep is a big deal for most people making sure that they're sleeping enough. Requires seven to nine, but more like eight to nine hours per night. That's that little extra on their own cherry on top. There's people need adults, need more than nine hours of sleep. And if you're like, guys, sleep 10 hours, like, man, fucking lazy pothead motherfucker, or genetically just need more sleep. But honestly, the way you can tell if you're getting enough sleep is like this. If regularly, during much of the week, you get like sleepy tired in the middle of day or whatever, or many times during the day. And as soon as you hit your head on the on the pillow, you just zap fall asleep. And when you wake up, you're like, oh shit, my alarm, I could definitely use more sleep. You need more sleep. If you feel like you get enough sleep, like right now, I feel like I get enough sleep. I don't ever get really tired during the middle of the day. At night, I like, you know, when I lay down and go to sleep, it takes me a minute or two, probably, sometimes longer to fall asleep. And then I sleep for eight or nine hours and wake up super fresh and ready to go, but plus I'm taking high dose growth hormone in the middle of the night. And then I wake up not super refreshed at all. And I still want to sleep, but I have to wake up and do duties on damn farms of fucking pain in the ass. In any case, don't fall for the I'll sleep, but I'm dead, bro, bullshit. I know this isn't a bullshit video, but that's mold bullshit. People who say I'll sleep, but I'm dead, don't understand the next link in that there's a causal inference chain as well. Okay, but you're going to be dead a lot sooner, you don't get a lot of sleep. And while you're lying, you're not going to be jacked and lean. Some of the fuckers are pulling to be in a live. Hello, getting jacked and lean is everything, right? In any case, if you want max gains, treating lots of good sleep after a large meal with a ton of slow to adjusting protein, of course, wanted to hours before men, treat that shit as seriously as you do your training and your nutrition because no joke, it can make a fucking big difference. And if you're already putting in tons of time into the gym and tons of time into meal, and all that stuff, the least you can do is the easiest thing you can do, which is just go to fuck to sleep. And if that is the minimum necessary to super boost your gains, these are lit hurlly, the easiest gains you'll ever make in your life. I often stalk people and walk into their bedrooms at night and when I look over them, people think it's a sexual thing. I'm going to murder them and try on their faces and ask nonsense. I just want to watch people when they're at their most animal litter. And that's what I'm telling the jury trial. I have coming up. See you potentially never. Peace.

Hey folks, it's me again, Dr. Mike for Renaissance Predensation and it turns out you have to do the big three squat bench and deadlift to get maximum hypertrophy. Oh wait, just kidding, that's a myth. We'll talk about why it's a myth. We're going to talk about some of the good things about doing some stuff like that, some of the bad things. And then of course the real talk at the end of Closer and all off, put a bow on it, mail it, have someone open it, blows up in their face, building sirens, go off, smoke from whatever floor, blow up on people screaming, children running, elevators don't work, fire alarms, water sprinklers, Jesus. But the hell are we sending? In any case, here you go. Here's the myth. This is a direct quote I've heard maybe a thousand times. You got to do the big three for Max Gaines, squat, bench and deadlift to three core power lifts amazing. And people who say that rarely mean for one rep Max, they often mean for reps. At least that's a five, it's just a ten squat bench and deadlift, that's the best way to get big. And if you want to get big, big for real for real, like the old school bros did it, like all the guys I know, that are big, that I'm not big, but I fetishize them and run an account where I put up pictures of big guys and DM other big guys. They do that stuff. I know they do because I follow them physically everywhere they go. If you're going to do reps of squats, benches and deadlifts, religiously, you're going to have some good things coming away. It's not all bad. The higher up power lifting moves often in the most effective range for them is sets of five to ten because they're technical and they have some limiting factor so you get technique break down north of ten reps. They're actually very good at growing muscle generally speaking. And doing them in an intelligently planned program is actually great. So far so good. However, there are at least two problems we can think of. The first problem, the big problem is thinking you have to do them. A lot of times people will do them and put them in the program even if they don't gel with their body at all. Everything feels wrong and makes my joints hurt. I don't feel the muscle getting hit hardly at all. I feel the wrong muscles is as terrible but I still have to do this because Ronnie Coleman did it or something like that. Another thing is that sometimes they work okay but from a stimulus to fatigue ratio or perspective, how much good you get out of it versus how much fatigue cost you pay. And if you're new to the channel, just Google SFR is retell or something and it'll come up with a nice ten minute long video explaining that more depth of your curious what that concept is. Basically if something's not a stimulus for you as it could be and pretty fatiguing for how stimulus it is and has a low stimulus to fatigue ratio compared to other exercises, like you just get a better hit on a thing-clin dumbbell process but you keep doing barbell bench presses because all of the fears are big or something like that. That's a problem because you are not using the exercises that are actually best for you in that moment in time and using exercises that are not best under the assumption and pre-supposition that they're necessary or mandatory and that's not true. Even if you have all of the muscles covered and you can train them hard as a fuck with other variations and other lifts sometimes you still include these lifts because you feel like you have to do them, people will say things like, well you know like it's not really leg program unless you squat which is wrong and it pains me to say that it's wrong because I'm a religious squatting. I was going to say advocate I'm a religious squatter myself almost all of my work out that are great have high bar squats, I love them and I wish I could high bar squat all the time. It's like my favorite lift in the world but I can't say that you have to do it. That would be wrong and it would be wrong to do the big three thinking you have to do them. And this idea that you have to do them even though you're jumping over tons of hurdles to do them often results in people including squat mentioned deadlift for reps in their program and then it's a being that they incur a lot of needless fatigue. As much higher interfering with those lifts themselves and other lifts and under your ability to grow maximum muscle it gives you a higher injury risk because often these lifts are done very heavy and they're compound and the summit of total force is very high. Your chance of getting injured with deadlift is much higher than your chance of getting injured with pull ups or rows or anything else you would do for your back. For example and what they do is they displace other potentially more effective choices. So from the earlier example if you say, well you are incline dumbbell press really does fly my backs the best but I do barbell presses because I have to. I can't do them both because my backs can learn a car from so much so I'm going to do barbell presses this mess of cycle but next mess of cycle I'll do something called dumbbell pressing it's like where you should needlessly doing something that is not as effective and just placing away something that is effective. It's like I'm just going to make this time I'll make it fucking I'll make a terrible analogy. It's like you go to potentially go on a date with two girls and one of them is absolutely not your type and the other one's like fucking right on. For some weird reason you feel like you have to go on both dates and the girl that's really up your alley you're like hey Cynthia listen maybe next week or something go with you. Get out of here and hey Janice it may not be here. Number one girl you're like let's do this let's go on this date you're on the date she's like what do you think about me you're like you hurt my feelings to look at. But I'm doing it anyway because of reasons and I don't know good reasons by the fuck you're on the date you need to be like hey Janice here's the me paying the bill here's me texting Cynthia here's me going Netflix and she'll enter house and I get there I did the usual thing when I meet up with girls which is the following and you run away because you've never been by a girl at all in my case definitely in your case probably also since you're a follower of you or this channel you almost certainly don't get late I'm kidding stay calm but let's be honest it's probably true also I'm kidding about that but let's be totally honest come on seriously that was also a joke I'll just shut up. Number two because the big three have the sort of like religious annotation to them it's sort of demotes everything else and assumes an inferiority when you say to people like hey I do hacksquats I do bet rows I do incline presses you'll get some people in some crowd building really well just walk with free weight barbell brother well well and then you're in Tennessee back there is a thing where hacksquats incline presses and bet rows are in every single theoretical way just as effective to build the quads and upper pecs overall pecs and back as the squat bench and deadlift and possibly even more effective in some cases but if you have a must do the big three or they think I have to do attitude you're not gonna be able to do other variants as often and you're gonna assume their inferior for no good reason like every time I post a hacksquat video motherfucker gets in the comments inevitably and goes why not barbell squat and if I had only one fucking superpower or the ability to fucking teleport right to when he's almost done typing that comment and go Bart Simpson and Homer Simpson style just just choking for a while not to the point where he passes out or even feels his life is threatened just to teach him a goddamn lesson he type stupid shit on your phone you're getting choked in a fun cooperative friendly way like I used to do with my rabbi back when I was eight years old real talk there are zero must do exercises it's got to be the guy have we made a video about the myth of must do exercises already if you like we have yeah and if we haven't we will so if you can find it find that shit and if you can't tell us in the comments to make it we'll make it either again or for the first time ever there are no must do exercises you have to choose exercises they give you good or the best stimulative similar to fatigue ratios sometimes when you're not so concerned about fatigue when you're like a well say college student and it's over the summer and you get to eat at the dorms and train in a mostly empty gym you're 18 years old you're new to lifting and fatigue's not really a concern then you choose exercise with a highest raw stimulus magnitude just in one of the one that fuck you up the most they give you drive the most hypertrophy they fuck up your muscles the best you do these exercises the best SFR and RSM exercises until they become stale until they are no longer the best exercises which you can tell through a variety of ways your your ability to progress on the ms stops or stalls your joints start to hurt you start to get much less excited about it the pumps and the soreness they get from other movements are much better now than these you switch to another set of now the most effective exercises or just effective exercises and you continue that cycle for forever and get all the growth that you're going to get often the power lift squat bench and deadlift will make the cut and it's totally great to include them and then you should but often they won't and you don't have to feel a damn bit bad about it because there's no compelling reason to have to include the squat bench and deadlift in an hypertrophy plan because hypertrophy plans are always in everywhere highly individualized and highly situational it's your choice you can be hardcore and yes the quotes around that are there for a reason or you can get the most effective stimulus and the lowest fatigue and with that kept in America type motivational bullshit I leave you for next time a good wait like comment subscribe and do all the other TikTok things that people do on social media see you guys next time bye

Hey folks, it's me, Dr. Mike Isrtle for Renaissance Paradization, and I have a question for you. Are you doing too much volume? And you're muscle growth training plan to get your best growth possible. And if you are doing too much volume, how can you tell? Like until actually we know for sure there's doing too little, like you did like one push up a day. And see, your chest is gonna grow as much as it would if you did more than one push up a day. But there's also a certain number of, well, anything, but pushups per day that you can do. When it tires you out so much and it taxes your recovery abilities so much that you could get better doing less volume. Now we know through just talking to people that a lot of people have experimented with high volume programs. And then they went back to lower volume programs and got the gains of their lives after going back to lower volume. Which is a very clear way to illustrate. This happens tons of people's, matter of fact, if it's happened to you in the video, please just hit us up in the comments, tell us your story. Tell us about a time where you used to do higher volume programs and you were getting results are good results, but not amazing. And then you switch to lower volumes and things went better. You can also tell us the opposite story if you time where you did less and then you did more and got better. That's less and other mysterious thing because we know volume has a dose response relationship. Up to a point, the more volume you do the better. But here we're talking about what that point is and what this curve on this end looks like. Because you still make gains on the send, here's the zero point. All the way from the peak gains to no gains, there still gains to be made. We want to make sure that if you're here, we put you back over here that you're doing less volume beginning the same or even better growth. How do we go about intellectually examining that? We know it's a real thing in the world. First thing, biggest thing. If you are hitting mini PRs in reps or load, you're doing 200 pounds for 11 reps versus 10. You're doing 205 pounds for 10 reps versus 200 pounds for 10 reps last time. If you're making these little progressions on average over time, you're good to go fundamentally. You don't need to care about this at all. You're really good to go. Your volume is not fundamentally mislined. It's clearly within between your minimum effect of volume maximum recoverable because you're making gains. Dough and you can always keep going and just make changes at the margins. Do a little bit of less volume and do a little bit more volume. So that's definitely a thing. That means you can just keep training the same and not change a thing. However, however we have to ask the next question, as I guess okay you're making PRs, but maybe if you did lower volumes, you would make even bigger PRs in your performance. You could do more reps every week on average, more weight every week on average because you're not as tired from that volume and potentially grow even more muscle doing less volume. And again, we know this happens practically. We've talked to lots of people who'd happen to, please share your story below if you want. And we know theoretically it has to occur because the maximum adaptive volume at the top of the curve is pretty far away from the maximum recoverable volume and you could be doing a lot of work in between here. That's like more work than you should be doing for less results than you should be getting. Still positive results, but you could be spending less time in the gym doing less work, having more fun doing it because you're less fatigued, you can get stronger faster and everything could go better. How do you know if you're in that position? Well, first, there are more likely situations that you're in that position than not even before doing this alternate way of training, this big change that I'll propose later in this video for the very serious of you that really do think, man, I really do think I'm doing way too much. Before you conclude you're doing way too much, let me read you off a list of likely situations in which every single checklist item that you check applies to me, that applies to me, that applies to me, builds our case a little bit more that you're probably doing a little bit too much and could benefit more likely by pulling back. So here's the thing. First, if you're objectively as compared to the studied population of athletes doing a higher end of volume. So for example, if you tell me, yeah, man, I do three sets of chest per week. I think I'm over doing it. Come on, the director says you can, on average, handle a lot more than maybe you have a particular case where you're genetics are in recovery or weird and for you three sets of chest a week is too much, but like, I don't think that's the case. However, if per session, let's say you hit chest twice a week or three times a week, if per session, for chest as an example for any muscle here, you're doing consistently more than eight working sets. You're doing a lot of volume and the chance that it's not enough volume is a very low. The chance that it's a little bit too much volume to get your best gains, just exact subject of this video, is pretty decent. If you're telling me you're doing eight sets of chest three times a week, but your chest isn't progressing as much as you want. I'm not inclined to believe that more chest work is probably the right answer. If you're doing four sets of chest three times a week, I'm inclined to believe that doing five or six or seven will get you better results. So first check mark is you're doing plenty of volume and for me, plenty of volume is eight sets per muscle group or above. For reference, Jeff Nipper is an analysis of the data shows that about six hardworking sets per muscle per session is basically optimum. So this is eight, it's even further removed with more volume down on that end of the spectrum. So it's unlikely that it's not enough. No, it's possible that it's not enough. But less likely than it is you're doing a little bit too much. Next, your performance platos may be even every two to three weeks and you have to back off. You feel like a training aton, but every two to three weeks you get so tired that you're unable to beat your matcha reps from last time. Take a recovery half week, take a deal out of anything gets better. You do it again and within two to three weeks you crash and burn again. That is another thing telling me you're trying to do a little bit too much volume at a time. Another one is oftentimes your muscles feel flat and tired and empty. People talk about how their training feels. And like man, I fucking love this low volume training. Get in there my muscles are swollen and I get fucked up sore. Every single wrap I feel like they're going to explode and you're like, yeah, it's interesting. What do you, how is your training? You're really tired. It's like trained. But like it's high volume. You're supposed to feel like that. Now, if it's high volume and you're recovering from it, you're not supposed to feel like that. If it's high volume and you're barely recovering and making small gains, but you're carrying way more fatigue than you should be, it will feel like this that tired drained no pump feeling. That's not a good thing. That means you're doing a little bit too much and you could back off. So there's another little hint. Another one is your pump peaks early in the workout and then receives during the rest of the workout. So if you're doing 12 sets for chest, you do some bench press as your pump is glorious. You do some flies. You're pump is the best. Then you do some deficit pushups and by the end of deficit pushups, you actually have less of a chest bump than when you were doing the flies and you're like, hey, is this good idea? No, your pump is supposed to be the biggest that ever is when you walk out of the gym at the end of the workout. If at some point your pump starts to take a turn for the worse while you're still doing working sets for that muscle group. A very highly likely that those extra working sets are a bad thing. You would be better off without them. You could grow more without them. And over the course of weeks to bring it back to the point before this that your muscles feel tired, et cetera, you could just not be getting great pumps for a few weeks. And you're doing all this volume. You mean you think what's got to have some kind of effect. But if your pumps aren't great and they're usually good with lower volumes, not great. So another more technical way I can put that point is this. If you've trained with a certain amount of volume, let's say 10 sets per week per muscle group. And you got a good pump on average. Now that you're training with 15, you're getting a worse pump on average per session. Very possible. I would even say likely that you're still making gains, but not as many as you could because you're on that excessively high end of training volume. Another hint is if your muscles are chronically still sore before you hit them again. If you train hamstrings on Monday and Thursday and on Thursday, you're still brutally sore from what you did Monday. You're still trying to train through that soreness. That was me under the table doing mock leg curls by the way. Then what are you doing? Your muscles still need to recover. Still need to grow. That's what soreness is. And in the middle of that process you're saying we got to go again. That's almost by definition doing too much volume. In this case, it's some combination of volume of frequency that you're doing wrong. But in any case, if your muscles have plenty of time to heal and where they don't get super sore, you know, you might be overreaching, but not a super big concern. But if you're hammering your muscles before they've had a chance to recover and you're doing this often, you're probably at least doing too much volume versus what you could be to optimally. Another one is especially before those many deloads you have to take too often. Your mind muscle connections starts to feel a little bit off. Your technique feels a little bit off. It just feels like it's too much stuff. That's a hint that maybe too much stuff. And another last little hint to yourself as to if you're experiencing this, if it's high rep sets of 20 to 30, you can add a rep and a load here and there and still progress. But if it's lower up sets, that's a 5 to 10, 10 to 15 with heavier weight. You're having a big time progressing. The reason that's the case is as you train with very high volumes, possibly too high, your muscle fibers start to change from being acting like the average slower twitch faster twitch combo fibers to more of the fibers that used to act in a faster twitch manner starting to act in a slower twitch manner. And slower twitch muscles as they adapt, their endurance goes up real fast, which is why you get really good at doing high reps and you can progress at high reps. But they're cross sectional area, they're size and their strength doesn't change nearly as much. So when you go and do sets of 5 to 10, if you're really struggling to add, load to sets of 5 to 10 and you're doing a ton of volume and you feel fatate, analisings are happening. Yeah, you're probably doing a bit too much volume. You need to do less volume so that your fiber type transitions back into faster twitch. So you begin to progress again and sets of 5 to 10 and 10 to 15 and all the rest of the rep ranges and not just turn into basically like in endurance machine. Now if you're turning an endurance machine, you can recover really quick, but so can marathon runners. How come they're not jacked? Because they have the fiber type composition that allows them to recover fast and also prevents them from basically growing hardly at all. You do not want to be in that position. You do not want the gym to turn into a place where you do praying at the altar of high volume for meager mana from heaven. You start rebelling against the old gods and then Zeus and shit, they fight all that stuff happens. Eventually Arthur Jones comes in and hits everyone, just kidding. But on a serious note, you don't want to just be doing volume for its own sake. Too much volume for its own sake is really just a bad idea. So how do we pull back away if we're in this position? If you have lots of these signs that I just sort of list it off, you might be doing too much chronic volume just too much volume all the time. You probably have high fatigue right now, which is all those symptoms that I can't get at a pump and all those other stuff. You're probably desensitized to high volume, which means that your body will only grow if you give it high volumes and not that impressively, but if you go back to low volumes, your body's like any of you haven't even tell where are training. So it's not going to grow right away from low volumes. If you switch, which what a fucking disaster that would be, you're like okay, I think I'm training with two high volume. You switch to lower volumes, you go for a month, you barely grow at all. And you're like okay, well I guess that wasn't it. What am I supposed to do? But it could have been it. You're just carrying way too much fatigue and your way too de-sensitized. How do we resensitize you to volume? How do we lower your fatigue so that you can progress again? And the answer is you need a volume reset. What the hell does that mean? Is it like the great reset where you dress up in a funny outfit? Talk to the world bank, maybe, but a little bit simpler. Here it is. We got a multi-step guide for how to do your volume reset and how to construct your first phase back if you think that you've been doing maybe a little bit too much volume. Here's the deal. First, finish your last mesocycle, however it was written, finish it, do it really well. Instead of taking a d-load after and then just going back into the next mesocycle, take an active rest phase, which means one d-load week like normal and then one week of doing basically nothing, just like thrallicking in the field with your friends, plenty of sleep, plenty of rest. This is going to heal your fatigue like crazy, bring it down. It also start to resensitize your muscles to volume because they're just not experiencing volume for weeks on end. After this, take two to four weeks of additional training at maintenance volume, just enough volume to make your muscles don't get any smaller weaker and no more volume than that so that while you're training maintenance volume for two to four weeks, you're maintaining the same physical characteristics, your body's just the same size and strength that you're thinking with the fuck am I doing? I can be getting better but hold on. Maintenance volume is such low volume that your volume is sensitivity, how much growth you will get out of any number of hard sets of training goes up and up and up this entire time. You're essentially prepping the system to begin ready to grow again. Two to four weeks of maintenance volume, how much volume is that? On average, it's going to be about one-third of your typical volume. Holy fuck, shit, did I say that right? I sure did. It's really low. And I know it sounds crazy but you will not lose muscle and strength doing this in almost any case. And anything you do lose in some weird way will come back within two weeks if you're starting normal training you can. So don't you worry about it. Let me put this into perspective. If on average, over the course of a week, you do 15 sets of quads. For two to four weeks after your active rest is over in this paradigm, you're going to do five sets of quads per week. That means three sets on Monday, two sets on Thursday and that's it. Try to get them a little heavier than normal. This is not mandatory but sets a five to ten generally or better for maintenance than sets of you know, a ten plus focus on technique. It's just going to be like maybe four sessions a week and each session is going to be like 45 minutes. If you're full time super hardcore training, then train six times a week for two hours at a time. It's way less work. Your system and your local muscles will build an ability to be sensitive to that volume again. The fatigue will come crashing down. And then after that, you are ready for a really, really serious approach back into training. Then you're ready for real training again. So at the end of that two to four weeks, one of those last week will be a deal load as always. So basically, do you load twice in the last six weeks and then another active rest here? You are ready to go. You are very, very sensitive to training volume, which means like if you do two hard sets of curls, you go blow up right away and get a huge pump and super sore. But you don't want to do that yet because we want to ease in. So how does that look like? How do you construct your program back? As I remember, we're not just going to go back to our same crazy high volume program. We suspected it was too much volume. So we're not going to do that. We need to do a slightly different approach. So here it is. First, you build your program as normal. Just build it normally all the sets and reps and exercises. When it comes to choosing how many sets you start out with, go to half the normal amount. If you normally do four sets of bench press in week one of a program, you're doing two. If you normally do three sets of curls, you're doing one or two sets air on the side of one. Half the set numbers. This is on purpose. We want to start you out on that lower end of volume and slowly come up to see if you experience better growth with lower volumes. That's the whole purpose of this test. Point number three. Keep your volume the same unless there's a very, very clear impetus for you to increase the volume. And then if there is, increase it only by one set at a time per session per week. So for example, if you have a terrible pump, like zero fucking pump, the session is super easy. You got no soreness at all, no doms. You feel, oh, barely barely doing anything. Okay. You can add a set. But if you're using one of our custom training templates or anything like that, what you want to do is just give middle of the road ratings for even the easy stuff so that your custom template keeps you on the low end of training volume. So only increase if you have a compelling reason to do so, which comports with point number four, that if you have some pumps, some sort of some fatigue, given it's not crazy, just leave the volume alone. Remember those three sets of benchets that are going to five or six sets of bench, we're going to try keep doing three or four sets of bench for most of the mezzo to see if that lower volume still effective, just like the higher volume was, is a little bit more effective for less fatigue if we're bringing you closer to that equilibrium point of maximum adaptive volume away from training almost at maximum recovery volume all the time. If you choose to increase a set, add a set to leg press, it had better be because it's just really, really, really profoundly easy, no challenge at all. Anything that remote is like, okay, this is a workout, don't increase from there in most cases. If you're going to increase just add one set at a time. So if two sets of leg press was like a clown show for you, you're like, this is nothing. At a third set, don't go, okay, right back to the old days, I'm going to go right to six. Of course, that's going to torch you, but maybe the torch was too much, which is why we're starting off nice and slow. If you have been overdoing volume and you are correct about it, this new way of going on the lower end of volume still progressive, still hard training, still quality sets, but a little less volume than you're used to should give you better results in rep strength gains in that mess of cycle. And I've seen this happen to tons of people, they're doing German high volume training, they're cooking themselves all the time, they take a little break, they come back, they do lower volume, and within three weeks that are like, I'm hitting fucking mega PRs on every single lift, I feel so strong. This is crazy. We're not weird how less fatigue makes you feel stronger. You will feel this pretty damn quick. And if that's the case, stick to it. You found a new volume baseline. That's your home base now. You could go up a little volume, you could go down a little volume, but you found a real good thing that's better than your last thing. So don't just go back to that crazy abusive relationship you've had with training volume. If you think, okay, yeah, this two or three sets per muscle group, per session thing works really well, better than the eight sets I was doing, but I think four or five sets could work better. Hey, listen, I believe you. Easy into it though. Try three or four for a while, a few weeks. If that works great, fuck five, forget about it. Try five some other time. If three or four works, okay, try four or five. If that works way better, hey, then that's your new kind of maximum of adaptive volume range. What I'm trying to tell you is this, two or three sets or three or four sets per muscle, per session starts to work way better than eight sets. Don't just be like, all right, I'm a great network. Let's go back to eight sets or don't be like, okay, okay, but like six would work really ideally. You don't know that your new home base is your new better guess at what you like it, what's good for your body. Doesn't mean it's the ultimate guess. But it means this is where, you know, it's called like Bayesian statistical reasoning. You start from the prior assumption of, yeah, two or three sets seems to be better for me than eight or ten. So instead of cutting the middle and just going right for six or five or whatever, I'm going to hang around two or three and maybe go to three or four and see how it goes. That is probably a good way to look at it. Of course, your fatigue will rise anyway. After four or six weeks of this, your fatigue will go up. You'll need a deal load, you'll recycle. But then you look back on that program and you count the number of sets average that you did per muscle. You say, wow, that was really like 10 sets per week for chest where I used to do 20. And you look back at how your progression was worked with 20 sets for the past few months. And then you look at those past month and see how it went for 10. Oh, gosh, actually got a lot stronger. And I physically bigger. My pumps are better. My training is better. Everything's better. There's your answer. If you think okay, 10 was pretty good and I'm strong, but I feel like I could be getting better pumps. I feel like I could still milk some more growth out. Hey, no worries. In the next mezzo, slowly try to work up from 10 sets on average. 2015 sets on average. Don't just go back running to 20. That is a disaster. It's almost like running back to like I said, like an abusive relationship. You're like, he'll love me again, Mr. Hyvalium. Then, no, no, no, no. If Hyvalium was really nasty to you, it worked okay. But if this lower volume works better, hey, listen, like start from here and work up slow. If even you need to work up at all, because remember, more volume isn't better. The right amount to volume is better. The right amount for you. How do you check if it's the right amount? Well, is the training process resulting in really good rap? P.R. isn't really good feelings in the gym. If it is, you're in the fucking right track. There's not a magical reason to think like, oh, more will still be better. You know, it's like if you go to a restaurant have a really good meal, you know, like, oh, oh, this is great. Put the fork down. Oh, perfect. And someone's like, hey, another serving of soup. And you're like, they're like, I just had that. Super was amazing. But I'm done. They're like, no, no, you want more soup. Yes, more soup now. And you're like, this is crazy. But people do that to themselves and volume. Think, wow, hey, a great, huge progression doing 12 sets of quads per week. The biggest progression I've ever had. I repeated that for another month. I got another big set of PRs. Should I go back to doing 18? Why would you say that? Try 13 or 14? Maybe. And if the progression is a little worse, go back to 12. That's how you got to rig this. It's all about long view on a regulation. After many of such these phases, you'll start to develop a pretty good idea pretty objectively about which volume averages give you the best mezzo to mezzo long term performance gains. For example, you can have a situation in which 10 sets of chestwork per week. Let's say on average, makes you have a very low fatigue environment, but doesn't grow a ton of muscle grow some but not a ton. So your first mezzo goes real well because you're fresh for the first time in your life. But then second or third mezzo's after that, they kind of heat around. Get up in other situation where the high volume one where it's 20 sets per week and you're just slowly making gains, but you're slogging along crazy fatigue, bad pumps, et cetera. If you realize 15 sets a week really just gets you the best results overall, that's your new home base. That's where you discovered 10 is not enough. 20 is both are survivable. These and all of these are within your minimum effective to maximum recoverable window. But there's parts of that window. You can exploit better than other parts. Some is a little little, some is too much, some is just right. So break into that stupid house. The bear had the bears had Goldilocks and you know what I'm saying? I just hit like a auto shotgun because if the bears are in there, you'll at least eat that. I'm not saying killed the bears, but they're dangerous animals. If they don't want to give up their soup, shoot like the kid bear right in front of mama bear and she's like, nah, when the dad's like, how could you do those to our family? You're like, oh, the kid. Very tails are fucked up. In any case, don't just look at one mesocycle by itself. You do the high volume phase, then you do the low volume phase, the low-virt phase went great. You're like, the sit. I think I'm a low volume guy. Are you though? Maybe all of the muscle you gained came from the high volume phase. And when the low fatigue of volume phase allowed you to show that muscle off, that's what got you the big pumps, that's what got you the big PRs. Another two mesos of low volume, you could be like, ah, I'm not progressing much. I got to this level, but I didn't progress much. Whereas if you had an intermediate volume between the ultra high and ultra low, you could both have had an amazing first meso after the high volume thing and progressed progressed progressed. So low volumes can seem like winners because they don't produce a lot of fatigue. And if you had a lot of fatigue, they make you instantly much greater, but they might not be the answer to long term because they just don't build much muscle. Looking at strings is the best taking all the volumes into consideration in future plans. And at some point, you may get to a situation where you've had great results. You've all turned to volume over many months since your last volume reset. You're looking at it now and you're thinking, fuck, I'm back to high volumes again because your sensitivity will drop over time. So it's natural to raise your volumes over time. And you're saying I'm back in that place I was eight months ago, where I think I'm doing too much. Hey, guess what? You do another volume reset just like we described. It's going to wash you out. You get a new baseline and you go from there. And because that volume reset gives you so much time to do low volume, it's great for injury healing, it's great for injury prevention. It's great for long term motivation because if you have times during the year where you're really not trained, super hard, it's fucking brains that fire back like crazy. And then you go into another 4A of starting with lower volumes and working it way up to a really great midpoint where you get your best results. Folks, thanks for tuning in. Let me know if you have any questions below and we'll see you next time.

Let's talk about intermediate natties. It's folks have been plowed away for a few years. I think that's one of a lot of people get that leg. Now that I'm doing's working anymore. It's funny, this is kind of like purgatory. Like most people just get stuff. So let's say that you're at the stage where you can only put on one to three pounds of muscle per year. And so imagine, if instead of you grow two pounds of muscle across your entire body, imagine if those two pounds were literally just put on your side dos. Yes. You've got here by training hard. Being consistent, right? But now it's not just about training hard. You have to train smart. Hey guys, I want to help natural lifters grow. So I brought in an expert, Jeremy Etay, who is his own amazing channel. He's a super bastion of wisdom. Why am I not a bastion of wisdom? Because you guys know, I'm a steroid floreak. And I cheated my way to the bottom. Clearly, let's talk to Jeremy and see how we get Jack as natties. I have tons of stuff. I think holds naturals back. But I want to know what you think. Because we have a whole list to go through of real technical stuff. But give us your top two or three major things that you think natties are really missing in their quest for their best results. What I found, like going through several years of training, finding what works what doesn't work, is that I think the best way to find what's holding you back is to find the number one constraint, right? Yes. And this differs based on your experience level. So for example, if you're a beginner, right? It's pretty simple. You just show up and you train decently hard. And the name of the game there is just consistency. After a year of doing that, just simply showing up. You can make pretty good newbie games, right? And I think after your past S-stage, you get into novice territory, right? And this is where things get a little bit different. You've grown a decent amount of muscle, but in order to get the next phase of growth, you can't just continue doing what you were doing. Now you actually have to create a system for track in your progression, getting stronger, and actually pushing yourself in the gym, right? Getting comfortable with the discomfort. I love it. Once you get past S-stage, now you're, let's just call it intermediate. It's been later intermediate. And it's funny, this is kind of like purgatory. You're gonna mean, once you get into here, like most people just get stuck. Yes, wherever. Yes. Because you've got here by training hard, being consistent, right? But now it's not just about training hard, you have to train smart. Yeah. And this goes back to a lot of what you guys teach on your channel, right? Stimulus to fatigue ratio. There's certain exercises that work really well for me, there's others, and not so much. The other important thing here, once you get to the intermediate stage, things slow down, like, incredibly. And they will, and you don't have a choice in them. Exactly. You have a choice in how much they slow down, but they still slow down. Exactly. And the mistake that people make is that they correlate progression with muscle growth, which, you know, there is a pretty strong correlation there. But you get so frustrated that things are slowing down, and it's like, I don't know what you can do in my veins. So what do they do? I did 70 pounds, presses last week. I have to do 75 pounds this week. And maybe they do make that jump, but it comes at just a slight modification in their form. Maybe they're going, you know, an inch or two last deep in the room before. So our paper they're making progress, but in reality, like, are they actually challenging and muscles anymore? In this stage, again, it's a really tough stage to navigate through, because it's not just about train hours, but training smarter. Yeah. And just being honest with yourself, and accepting the slower progression. But once you do, right, you just simply stay consistent, and that's when you reach the final boss, which is, you know, where you're at, right? And hey, I'm a boss. And at this point, the name of the game is just time. Natural bodybuilding. You usually peek later on in your 40s. In your 40s, exactly, because it takes so much time to build an appreciable amount of muscle. 100%. And so I think, like in that final stage, just all just about, you've understand what really works. You know how to manage your fatigue. It's just doing that for long enough, and at the same time, of what you've endured. Yes, huge. That was super insightful. My little tidbit to sprinkle in there is when you're comparing your progress, do it to the expected version of your alternate universe self, which means if you've been training for eight years as an adi, what would alternate universe you, training eight years as an adi expect to gain? Not what you expected three years ago, because you don't make games that fast, then anymore, new games are easy. Another one is comparing yourself to steroid users. You watch a couple of Larry Wheels videos, a couple of Dr. Mike Peakin for a bodybuilding show videos, you know what I should be able to add. Five pounds every exercise for 16 weeks straight. That's just not gonna happen. So outside of managing your expectations, let's talk about more specific stuff. Let's talk about intermediate Maddie. It's a folks who've been plowed away for a few years. Not like seven or 10 plus years, but like three to six, because here's why, and I think the rest of this video can focus on these folks. The beginners, they're good, training Maddie like you said, is just show up to the gym and do stuff. You'll be fine, three to six years. I think that's one a lot of people, because you kind of alluded to it earlier, you get that like, nothing I'm doing is working anymore. Yeah, and of course it's working, it's just working slower, and then they're like, oh, they're same shit, doesn't pan out like it did. So let's focus on that intermediate, novice to intermediate, three to six year experience. What kind of balling you mistakes do you see those folks make? If we just take a quick look at the literature, basically what they found is like, if you go from four to five sets per muscle per week to 10 sets per muscle per week, that alone like double's growth. Yeah, okay. But in order to get another huge jump and growth, you're gonna have to go up to maybe 20, even 30 sets per muscle per week. So there's diminishing returns there. So I think like to get the best progress, you're gonna want to aim for somewhere between 10 to 20 sets per muscle per week, right? And you can experiment with going higher than that, but again, you have to manage your pity. But I think like a lot of people, one of the biggest mistakes that intermediate's make, which I also made back in the day, is very important. It's very important. Is, I mean, when I say, okay, do 10 to 20 sets per muscle per week, most people think like, okay, so I'm gonna do 10 sets here, I'm gonna do 10 sets here, I'm gonna do 10 sets here. Yeah. But you don't have to distribute that even, because if you think about it, like, as an intermediate in your first couple years of lifting, you've made like really good gains, and then that tape is off. So let's say that you're at the stage where you can only put on one to three pounds of muscle per year. That's like, if you distribute that across your whole body, that's not like a whole lot of change compared to the earlier years, right? And so what I like to do is be smarter about how I'm distributed in that bullet. And what I mean is that once you're an intermediate, you've realized that, okay, like some of my muscles, they just grow naturally better than others. No. Whereas others either due to my form or genetics, whatever you want to blame it on, they just don't grow as quickly or as well, right? And so imagine, if instead of you grow two pounds of muscle across your entire body, imagine if those two panels were literally just put on your side belt. Yes. That could make an incredible change. Huge visual impact. Exactly, right? And so I think it's like accepting that, okay, I'm going to make slower progress. So why don't I focus my volume on the areas that are going to transform my physique, the most and make the biggest visual difference. Yeah. And so for me, for example, my biceps, my arms, they naturally grew pretty well. And so over the years, I was like, okay, I can only recover from so much much total training. Exactly, so much total training. So I'm going to lower it a little bit for the arms that don't need as much work as the rest of my muscles, but what if I just allocate a lot more volume to my side belts? So I did that for a year. And after that year, it was like, huge change, huge improve. Yes. And even though I didn't like the scale weight didn't change that much, visually, it was like looking at two different people. No, I found on each side belts, that's different side belts. Exactly, exactly. And so I think like you just got to find ways where you can really gamify yourself and get the most difference. Despite the diminishing returns that your experience in 11. All right, we took care of volume, frequency, huge debate in the nanny space. I've been training, let's say twice a week, whole body as a beginner, a few years it worked great. Now my gains are slower. I'm in that early intermediate phase. What's your advice to me about managing my training frequency? Two questions there per muscle and total weekly number of sessions. What do you think? So I think you get a decent jump in gains. Seems to be about 30% jumping gains going from one time for a week to two times per week. It's a big deal. Exactly. So I think if you're not doing that, then that's low hanging through boom. And then once you're training each muscle at least two times per week, again, it depends on how much volume do you need for that muscle. Going back to our discussion before, if I'm prioritizing side delts and I'm doing 20 plus sets for them, I'm probably going to get a lot better stimulus by distributing that across three work as per week than just two. So it's like six or seven sets of side delts per workout versus like 10 sets of side delts per workout, which is honestly like this. I'm just doing nothing else with my time at this point. Exactly. And if we want to get like Uber specific, there was another analysis that was done by Jake Remert. And they basically want to see, okay, how many sets per muscle? Can you do in a workout before the gains like really taper off? Yeah. And what they found is that that seems to happen around 11 sets per muscle in a workout. So I would say that you know, you're pretty safe going up to about 11 sets for a single muscle. But if you're starting to go above that, it's probably going to get you a little bit of gains. If you distribute that across another workout in the week. So what would you think about intermediates that are still trying to progress in muscle? They really care about it, but they only train it once a week. I would say definitely you're missing out if you if you're not training it. Yeah. To even three times per week. Three times a week. So if you have a muscle that recovers really quickly and you're really struggling to pour enough volume on it three times a week. So big unlock. 100% 100%. Even you know, I'm sure you've maybe trained some muscles four times a week. Yeah. Because I think if you again, if you're managing the volume, if you're only to four sets for each of those workouts, four to six sets, like they can recover really quickly. Especially certain muscles like side delts. Yeah. Most of the exercises don't do a ton of muscle damage. Or you can recover really quickly. 100%. That's brilliant. That's awesome. Exercise selection. I want two things from you here, Jeremy, two bits of wisdom for you. One is I want you to tell us what real big mistakes in exercise selection that intermediate natties make. And I'll share one with you. And if it's the same, we can talk about it. But maybe if you have a different one that would be great. And then the second thing I'd love to hear from you is just for you to tell us about what exercises you've found a lot of success in, either recently or back in the day. You just kind of want to share with people as a sample. A new and iron brod scientific reminded. We know that the exercises you're going to share today they're not like the right answer. You know, some music, but Jeremy said this is like it's just good food for thought. So for that first question, I'll give you a little seed for my answer. Thinking that the specific shape or size of a muscle of a drug using no offense to me. IFBB Pro Bodybuilder and PC National Guy is going to get you that look if you do that exercise. Especially as an adi. Like what's his name does side-to-side raises like this instead of like that. That's why his delts are capped is pure and utter insanity. It's most a shape comes from genetics. Most size comes from a combination of doing any kind of consistent hard training multiplied by years. That's 95% of why people's delts look like they do. Exercise selection is so much more personal and nuanced. I just would never copy someone's exercise expecting it to be like this is the one. Might be a great idea to try. But like that's just not a realistic expectation. What are some other mistakes you think the natties are making when it comes to exercise selection? I honestly think like you hit the nail head you're in a man because it's just so common. It's the same thing like if I see even if somebody is nattie and they are huge I see their routine I'm like if I do that routine I'm gonna look like that couldn't it wouldn't it be sweet if that's how worked. I was not the other love to look like everyone would look like Jeff and it bird like on the street. You be like, ah, let me accept it. To put it in a perspective like imagine you picked six exercises right these are the ones that worked amazing for you. They got you this big juicy chest oh there we go Thank you so much. We got you the wide shoulders everything. But the reality is if I did the exact same exercises as you and we both trained for three years like we could develop completely differently because of our proportions and our limb legs and all the other stuff that affects how when exercise will actually grow your muscle right and a good example of this is like let's look at something like a barbell squat you squat like really upright and you seem to have really good income mobility you can keep your chest right up drive the knees forward. I have a long torso short legs so I'm able to do it right exactly and look at your quads they're incredible. Oh, it's time and what I found early on is that barbell squats like I just couldn't get that up right posture. That's a back exercise for you. Back in a little bit more glutes right and so my quads always lag behind and it wasn't until I made this switch to heal elevators squats even hacks squats where my quads actually started to respond it right so I think it's like it's so easy to just look at what Dr. Mike does or look at what Jeremy does okay if I copy the section size I'm going to get the same result. I think you have to get really smart about okay how does this apply to me how might I need to modify this to actually target the muscle I'm intended to. 1,000%. Let's look at three exercises you want to share with us today. Do you think the folks out there might benefit from you explaining a little bit something that's worked for you kind of like hey we're training XYZ muscle group you pick what exercise you really intending on. Yeah so I think like for the longest time my biggest struggle was hitting my chest specifically the upper chest and I remember when I first started working out it was like I'd go to the incline marble bench obviously you know go to movement go to and I would just my chest is different spot my front delts blew up but my chest is like nothing and like later down the road I realized I like okay I was using these fixed inclines at 45 degrees 45 degrees may work really well for somebody like you but one thing that I know is about myself and like I can show you a test that I do it's simply a sternum test right if you lie down an adventure you put your phone you can see the angle of your sternum. I'm a bit more flat you I can tell it's a little bit steeper right so it angles back and basically that means that for you steeper incline if you lie flat that's going to be a little bit more of a decline press. And so to hit the upper chest you're probably going to have to go a little bit higher exactly where's for me I'm starting from here so even a small jump in that incline is already going to unlock my upper chest and if I go a little bit higher it's going to be a little bit more front delts and so you might see a lot better results with a hiring client where it's me I finally started to see better results once I used a lower incline. So we got low incline dumbbell press what's another exercise that you found really worked for you that some folks might be interested in hearing about. I think man for the side delts like behind the body cable ladder. Yeah get that deep stretch I think like a lot of people they simply trained their side delts with dumbbells and it's always hardest at the top so what I found personally is that once I actually didn't exercise where I'm reversing it where it's hardest down here Adam's stretching the delts like that just did wonders for my side delts. Yeah those are really cool last exercise you want to share with folks that you really think is like man this was the one that did it for me. Last exercise I'm gonna say it's something that I picked up from you pretty recently it is the infamous doctor Mike I don't know what you call the line line strength by secret role. I kid you know if you guys haven't tried this I was skeptical the first I gave it a shot and the pump was insane. It's insane you do like one set and you're like what the fuck exactly it's like if I like I did three sets and one I positioned myself so I'm able to get a little bit more stability from the bench but 100% that was like I all loved these by some I love it. All right so fundamentally this is a training video training tips but you said earlier you did not want us to leave the video without mentioning something that you think is critical then that's basically nutrition sleep and overall stress management which is basically all over recovery and feeling the actual gains. Tell us a story Jeremy about how folks that are natural struggle with these in a way that really kicks them in the face and really prevents a lot of gains and kind of should have had coming to. So I think the main thing with nutrition is usually intermediates they fall into one or two camps right the first camp is okay when I was a beginner newbie gains I just stuffed my face and I'm making incredible gains. Wait wait I got I got a meme for this right ready just can eat bro just can eat bro. Easy thank you for the advice sir that advice was three words but then what happens when you're an intermediate is that the rate at which you can build muscles slows down so if you eat at the same calorie surplus and you're gaining one pound per week how much of that can actually be pushed towards building muscle. You got fat you got muscle you gain less muscle the same size surplus more fat. Exactly but at the same time you have the other camp which is like once you're an intermediate you're probably gone through a few bulk and cuts like this right and what happens after you cut down and you reveal the muscle you got the six pack like you look incredible and you're like I want to look like this all the time exactly and I will and you will exactly at whatever cost never gaining again and so what I think happens is that you get stuck in the cycle of like main gaining or like you bulk for a few weeks a month you see just a little bit less abs of the Venetian. No paying like no I got a lean back down so I think like once you get to the stage 250 calorie surplus you know gaining maybe you know half a pound per week 1% of your bodyweight per month and that's a really good target. I love that that's excellent insight. What about sleep like I'll tell you real talk even for steroid people sleep as massive but if you're on enough steroid sometimes it can mask the effects of not getting enough sleep like if you're on enough trend you just kind of feel like you're on no matter what but for natties that's not an option isn't. No like it affects people differently but I think for most people like including myself one night of shitty sleep even if I get under like six hours like I'm I'm a totally different human especially in the gym. Oh yeah even though you can probably you know match your performance the likelihood of you doing that is it's gonna go way down because everything is just way harder even though it's the same weight of last time it's gonna feel way harder. You'll accumulate morphine that'll screw you in the weeks later. Here's another interesting insight I read about recently even if you do the identical workout and match your performance and get the same stimulus to the muscles less sleep the night before caps your maximum protein expression for growth significantly even if you have a good workout just a new caffeine I'm having a great workout I did it it's like no no no no you can't do it anymore your body's like chemically you I'm not trying to grow as much as usual that's such a big deal because people think like hey you know even rag I've heard this before like it's all love and respect everyone does dump shit you and I combine to probably done more dump shit and everyone else but people are like yeah man good making pretty decent gains even though I sleep only xy's hours why are you bragging to me about this like yeah my girl never complains even though I have a reptile this function like are you saying this out loud make you want more sleep not less and a lot of people kind of think like sleeps optional as long as my training is good you know come to the gym for good training you come to gym for what good training gets you which is growth signal and if we know that last sleep the night before can diminish the growth signal that's a different animal exactly and I don't know about you but like if I had to pick between I can do four workouts per week but I'm gonna get a few nights of shit you sleep because of my work schedule whatever it is or I can fix those nights of sleep but only workout three times per week I would take that and either I would put money on that person. No God just totally agreed what about overall stress management kind of trying to do it all I want to do eight workouts a week I want to go to school at the same time and I'm also running a family business how much is that plan because for me personally a lot of people look at pro body builders as examples and they're amazing examples to understand a lot of pro body builders which literally they're job to train check-ins to ground send regrettable DMs to other fitness girls if they want to delete later but can't and that's kind of about it there's a lot of time for recovery most people don't have that. 100% and I mean if you look back at the old school body builders during the golden era like what do they do? Live down the beach they live down the beach they crush two our workouts with their buddies and the rest of the day they just hang out all right and so I think like you've got to think of it as the workouts are providing a stress but everything you do outside of the gym is additional stressors that can be added that you still have to recover from yeah and so I think people have to think about it like again go in back to our volume discussion we know that more volume tends to lead to more growth right but you can do it you can recover if you can recover so you have to time it out where is this an appropriate time in my life where I can really hammer out the volume because if not you're just gonna dig yourself a hole in the wall yeah so crawl out and maintenance is easy maintenance is to work out so weak exactly progress for some intermediate and aties could be four or five days a week clear your schedule out a little bit drop on a college you don't need college you need an education I get an education what good to do me not just a whole lot of debt I'm totally kidding don't drop out of school but think about like hey if I'm going to get really jacked the summer I can go on tons of trips I can do two extra jobs instead of one and I'm going to make gains I'd say like hey man how publicly the deal are the gains you're like pretty big like schedule a few fewer trips just go to your normal job smash weights and recover as a much as possible exactly and I mean if you know it's going to be a stressful week at where the school or whatever like you can program around that yeah take up for the volume a little bit do a little bit less unusual don't you know create a bunch of a tea that you're going to have to recover from and I think also it's just like this is something that I'm also trying to do you know trying to balance workouts plus YouTube and everything else it's it's stressful right it's a lot more added stress than I used to have back when I was you know a teenager and so it's just like what can you do to help decrease that stress help with that recovery right so like I don't know whether it's just like putting love island on and just like yeah you won't need your brain for that show no I've tried using my brain watching it it hurt my head no you can't you can't the key is just like zombie rain and just consume right now that's real good recovery that's that's if there's one recovery hack I can give it's it's watch a hey love island production team we're sort of famous people if Jeremy and I can get in on like a bonus episode we just show up to like train the crew or whatever you know saying just don't let me around the boys because you understand it's gonna be less time with real quick all right so I watch this guy on YouTube his name is George O'Pullus he's a phenomenal wrestler and he has a challenge called take me down when a thousand dollars and this basically impossible to take down and at the end the other guys breathe in really heavy George O's usually out breathing really heavy he's just stud and he pulls up his mic and he's like what's your message today for the people and so that's just I want to do all of my outroats from now on so Jeremy what is your message for the people the nanny people the real folk you know what I'm saying the pro-lept Harriet that guys just trying to struggle for games what is your just one little quick paragraph to get folks some inspiration get them on their nanny journey I think man it's just like you got to stop the comparison game it's so it's so easy to get sucked up on social media it's like the response to resistance training regardless of the free nanny or not it's all over the place it's huge so the most important thing is just like how much progress you're making compared to where you live before like that's honestly what matters the most yes you are your own match point you are your own versus opponent you're your own enemy look in the mirror that's who's picking up your life that is different I could have said that better look in the mirror that's who is your then gonna give you Jeremy go ahead and sign us out we'll work on it I actually wasn't sure we're going with the rest of the thing I was like getting ready to take you down for a thousand I'm not Georgia Post you just like impaled me on a lap hold out of that'll be the whole channel folks if you want Jeremy at he a to take you down and destroy your pride he lives in Vancouver show up that's all I gotta say peace homies peace you

Some machines aren't hairline more dangerous than most. If you get pinned under a regular bench press, can't lift anymore. You can shimmy it out. You get pinned under a Smith machine. What the hell are you supposed to do about it? I got pinned under a Smith machine once when I was like 16. And it took me like 30 seconds to slide my way out. And I remember Scott, my t-shirt was hanging down to my knees after that, because I had just stretched the whole thing out. People think Smith machines are safer, and they're not. They're actually more dangerous, because it will staple that ass where the hell are you going to go. People will just rack on the hooks. What if you miss the hooks? Look, we'll just rack on them. You can't. You're not strong enough anymore, like it's a really, really bad deal. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength, and I want to tell you about a terror that is threatening our school children. Five of the most dangerous gym machines. Been released from a secret government military testing compound. They are right now on your very streets in your very hometown. Devastating everything in their path. And they're looking for young people first. How do you identify these terrible machines? And either avoid them or better yet use them intelligently in the gym, since you don't get hurt. Tonight, news. At 11. Scott, is it just me or is every other news anchor named Gale? It seems like a common news anchor name. It does. It does. Thank you, Gale. Tonight, gym machines. You can't afford not to be able to afford to afford. In any case, first off, the gym is a very safe place. In absolute terms and relative terms, what I mean by that. In absolute terms, if you take a look at what are the typical risks to humans over the course of their lifetimes, the gym is just not a place where people get hurt very often. People get hurt almost everywhere when they get to the gym. And then relative wise to other types of physical activity that are health promoting, sport related, pick up basketball, volleyball, beach volleyball, topless beach volleyball, Brazilian topless beach volleyball. Scott, what else we got? Serbian, topless and bottomless beach volleyball. Wow. That's especially for you, my friend. The Serbians are an aggressive peoples. Hello, Scott. I love you. Again, Seru, yes. Sounds great. Yes, yes. Where are you? Um, all that kind of stuff, dynamic sports, hockey, basketball, even running. Almost always have vastly higher risk profiles, injury probabilities, then the gym. Why? The gym is a place of new total control of all variables. And the degree of dynamism, how rapidly you're moving, how quickly you're changing direction, how much vertical you get. As soon as you are in a Tossil and basketball and there's a rebound opportunity, jump up to get the ball with other people. The probability that you land weird or hit someone in midair and then land weird and snap your shit up is like low, but notable. In the gym, typically you're not laying up with the leg press or some shit like that. Everything happens slowly in a meticulous control. The gym is one of the safest places in the world period. And it's all due, by the way, Scott, there's a crazy video. I don't know if you can find it for this, but there's a recent video of like a, like, inside the gym and a gym and you crane and like people are working out. And then there's huge, like artillery shell explodes, like real close to the gym and it shakes everything. And a couple people are like, oh, and then they just go back to lifting and you're like, oh my god. The minions are ballers. Dude, I would be screaming and run away forever because I'm a pussy in any case. The gym is an incredibly safe place and of all of the ways you could work out. The gym is super, super duper safe. And the thing is, it doesn't look safe because it looks like these monsters in there and the weights are heavy. A lot of people are like, kind of fear the gym because I don't know. But it turns out like jogging out in the street is usually as dangerous or more dangerous than lifting in a gym. Especially if you know what you're doing and then it's really safe to go into the gym. So I just want to make that very clear. We're not saying the gym is a crazy dangerous place where your children could be taken any time. Although it is true for the purposes of the thumbnail and title that we have. Most of the risk of the gym is in how you use the equipment and not the equipment itself. So let's talk about first, how to use every piece of a gym equipment in a way that maximizes safety and minimize this risk. And then we'll talk about the five gym machines that are a little bit more dangerous than the others and ways to make sure that you can gel with them. Five tips on how to stay low risk on all machines and even adjust with your own body weight with barbells. Number one is have stable technique. Stable technique means that every rep looks just about the same as the as every other rep. I don't mean identical, but I mean very, very similar. Scott, have you ever seen someone lift before and like you look at one rep and then you look at the other and you're like, is this a super set where they're doing every rep like a different exercise or what the fuck is going on? All the time, yeah. All the time. That's going to get your ass up because your body, if it knows the stable technique gets used to the predictable forces and then it's really, really like built to resist them. But if the forces are radically different every single time, the probability that you move a little bit wrong and pay for it with a joint or connective tissue some kind starts to escalate. Stable technique is a real good idea. Number two tip to stay injury free, probably, on almost every lift, is to control your e-centrics and your rebounds. That means if you take out a bench press and you dump it and try to bounce it off of your sternum as fast as possible, you might be doing some time at the hospital. Probably you'll be okay, but you're rolling the dice. If you just control the centric, I don't mean eight seconds slow. I mean, like control, use your muscles to lower the weight, gently pause at the bottom or even don't pause but reverse a little bit more under control and then come back up. You're radically reducing your probabilities of injuries every single time. So first, stable technique. Now, stable technique under control, very good. Point number three, warm up really well. Just mean take 80 hours to roll out, your foam roll, your ass, although that's up seems fun, especially if you turn on the foam roller, well, you guys know the rest. Just doing a like set of whatever you're going to do very like, take your, you know, I don't know, take your 30 rep max and do like a set of 12 with it. Take your 20 rep max after a few minutes, do a set of eight with it, take your 10 rep max and do a set of four with it after that. And then you're ready to go, you can shorten or lengthen that one depending on if it's big lift with lots of weight or little lift with a little bit of weight. Just don't do the cold open. Don't do the cold cold opening is for when you're, you're early into the pickup training of pickup arts and you go to go to shopping malls to talk to people. Scott, you ever do you ever cold open anyone? Not at all, but like, got a par all the time. My man, can I cold open you really quick? Sure. Hey, what's up? Hi. I noticed you have like face, you know. Uh, thanks. I am, you want to go have sex now? You're kind of weird. I'm just here with my friend. I just want to dance. Oh, I'm the worst, which is also a lie. You want to dance until Matt Damon comes up and cold opens your down ass and then you want to dance in this hotel room. Lilr ladies, stay calm, the three and a half of you, the father's channel, u waaaa you wanna warm up, well, you don't want to come in, you're bench typically you work with two plates on a side, you don't wanna like do one of these kind of move your arms around, get under two plates and go. That's gonna get your ass torn up! Usually it won't, one every 1000 times it will, and that means after a few years of training in the gym, you're gonna get torn up. Don't do it. Warm up, take your time. Number four, increase your weights slowly. Another one of these, if I had a penny for every time this happens, bullshit. People will gain competency. In, let's say, the bench press with a plate on a side. They'll be able to do sets of 12 reps with a plate. Good technique and everything. For some damn reason. The model that humans have in their heads sometimes of how weight productions work, weight Proweight, weight progressions work, is a gokai 135, right? Play it on a side. I'm good with it now. I can do it with it. They skip every number and go straight to 185. In 25s on a side, Scott, in the bro logic of the gym, they're only two types of weights, 45s and 25s. Right? Maybe not even 25s though. Just 45s. Like one plate then two plates. Right. So, like if you've mastered three plates on the lug press, you just go to four plates then actually. It happens all the time. You guys, the Ditioning 3 plates on the lug press and four plates on the lug press, it's just enough force production to get that asked. Stop. It is just much more weight. So, when I say increased weight slowly, I mean get your RP hypertrophy app going and go up by 2.5 to 10 pounds per week per lift. 2.5 pounds if it's a small progression. So, if you're doing assisted pull ups or sorry, if you're doing weighted pull ups, you did 10 pounds this week, 12.5 next week, 15 the week after that, 17.5 the week after. Go to 10 pounds this week and then be like, amen. Scroll plate on there. It's got how many, how many injuries do you think have occurred over time at gyms? Sort of like with the last phrase before the injury. Let's throw a plate on there bro. So, like almost all of them maybe. Let's put another wheel on there brother. That's it. It's an absentee. So, if you're doing leg presses or something, look, if you're, if you're leg pressing four in her pounds, maybe next week you do 420 or 20, or 20, let it up. Then 440, then 460, don't go 400 and then go 500 and then go 600. People do this all the time. That gets you messed up. Slowly progressing weight. Look, progressing. I'm not saying spend five years at 405 mastering technique or whatever, progress for sure. But 2.5 or 10 pound increments. Depending on how big the lift is, the more weight you're lifting, the higher the amount of weight. So, relatively, it's going to be like she was 2 to 4% weight increase on the bar per week is generally good advice. And you can scale that to whatever weight you want. And another one, number five. And this is probably the biggest one. Is avoid yellow, fudge your e. I already swore a few times. I got to bank it. You come in. You're supposed to train biceps. Your buddies are there. That three of those cute girls are using the, Scott, which one are they using? They're good girl machine. They both can kind of go either way. Yeah, how you want to define it. Yeah. They're using the addoctor and addoctor machines, which are directly facing the deadlift platform. And they're doing that one thing that girls do, which gets a lot of males of reproductive age hurt, they're making eye contact and giggling. Your buddies are deadlifting. And you know you are king. You got to crown the whole thing. You got to get in there. Sposed to be bicep day. Your bachelows sore still because you did deadlifts yesterday. But the three nymphs weren't around yesterday. Where they and your friends like, hey man, would you like to demonstrate higher value by becoming the alpha male of our group right here right now? And get us to praise you. And then you're doing a bit of weights and everyone else. So these females, re-bduct of age, can assess your degree of mating status and potentially offer you up some of that sweet, sweet sweetness between their legs. Well, what, gee, whiz, Mr. That sure does sound pretty good. Oh boy, you get in there. You don't warm up. You yolo five plates. One of your vertebrae decides it's going to migrate directly to your asshole. And then all of a sudden, you get to swag it out. How do you swag it? When the paramedics come peel your ass up and put you arm the f***ing stretcher to take you out, you swag in two ways. One, sky you ready for the shit. This is deep game here. One, sympathy swag. The three nymphs are like, oh my god, are you okay? You're just don't worry about me. I die doing what I love. And then I can't just give you a hand job on the way out. Easy. And the other one is when the paramedics are like, do you have insurance? You look, of course, I've got blue cross blue shield, you know, advanced rich guy version. And one of the girls is like, a nurse, she like, no, she's like, oh my god, you guys like, no one has their insurance. They pay like crazy premiums. That guy's the rich. And then actually before you get wheeled out, because you're going to the hospital, you give one of your buddies your keys, right? Then Scott, you know the AMG key, which has the huge AMG logo on it, so that everyone knows that you drive the cheapest version of the AMG in Mercedes that they have. You give him that giant key, so that the girl see, you feel me, so they know. They need to know. I used to go to a bar where the guys would put their luxury car keys on the bar top, just so people can see they drove, whatever, you know, it was a flex. Is it one of those flexes that just guys are dormers? That really work. I think it was definitely an intentional flex, because why would you just put your key on the bar? You know, for no reason. It's just the way to like lose that and walk out without it. It functions the same thing as one of those big face watches, right? Yeah, yeah. Like bitches that know, no, you feel me. Yeah, so look what I'm trying to say is, yellow, yellow, gray 100% can still get you laid if you're really play your cards, right? Matter of fact, you can simply, you have to swag that you have awesome health insurance, you have a great car, you can't drive anymore. When the doctors are trying to, the EMTs are trying to pull open your shirt, because you got so hurt that you need like, you need like electrodes, you're going to be the careful note ribbit, it's our money, like that's another flex, like that's easy. At the same time, you're still hurt. And so bad news is you can't be knowing a lot of pumping with those girls, it's going to have to be passive shit, because you're saying, you're going to take six months of rehab to get you to walk again. Unlikely, but possible. So stable technique, very good technique all the time. Control those eccentric and taking decent re-bound, nothing crazy, no bouncing, no no dive bombing, warming up well, increasing your weight slowly and progressively, and avoiding yellow free. Sorry, I use the whole word, we'll see, maybe we'll bleed that out. That being said, so that's just going to make every machine way safer, every type of lifting way safer. But some machines aren't hairling more dangerous than most. This is not an inclusive list, it's not a complete list, this is just me poking in the dark, but I got to poking some things that I think have some there. Let's look at this list and explain why. First, is the vertical leg press. The machine is quite rare, hopefully the guys can throw up a picture of this, or maybe have even someone using it video, I don't know if there's videos on anyone using the vertical leg press. We have the rock, don't we have the rock, using the vertical leg press, right? It's gone. Here you go. The vertical leg press is specifically more injurious, because it literally provides all-try forces in through your spine and the rounded position. If you used to that sort of thing, there's nothing wrong with it. The problem is most people aren't used to it, because people don't think they're even using their back. They think they're using their legs, but their back rounds like crazy and all the forces transuse through there. My best tip for you is just don't use the vertical leg press. Not because, if after a while getting used to using it, it's totally safe. The problem is the vertical leg press also sucks total balls, because it gives you a tiny range of motion for your quads. Use a 45 degree leg press instead, get you one of them arsenal leg presses, the for real for your leg press, it's going to blast your quads into the moon, vertical leg press is a dog chip piece of equipment. Hands down and more injurious than it should be. Next, the Smith machine. Why? I thought it was safer. It's not safer. It's not safer than a regular bar in here, it's why. The Smith machine can allow you to lift significantly off-center in a way that you can't do with a normal bar ball, because you would simply follow over, for example. The Smith machine can allow you to push your feet, let's say, in a squat. Smith machine squat. You can push your feet so far ahead of yourself with decent amount of weight that you end up tip-y toe unstable squatting it, because otherwise you would just like fall back through the machine. That much strain on your knees when you're not used to it, can mess you up. And it's something you would never be able to literally do with a regular weight because you would just fall right away, but Smith machine staples you in place and allows you to get really crazy forces in your knees. The other hand, if you squat on such a way that you didn't step through enough forward into the machine and your feet are too far back, that squat ends up leveraging your back. And you're in your hips and your spine at ton, and that it puts way more stress in that area. And it's not like stress in that area as bad. If you used to doing regular free squats and then you go to the Smith machine, even if you used to do in good Smith machine squat, but you miscalculate and you step a little bit too far forward or too far back, it's way higher forces than you would ever experience normally on that particular part of your body. And that can be no good. Another one, this one is crazy that most people don't think of it to me, but it's a thing. If you get pinned under a regular bench press, you can't lift anymore. You can shimmy it out, or if you don't have your clips on it, you can just dump the weights off one side, dump off the other, you good. If you get pinned under a Smith machine, what the hell are you supposed to do about it? I got pinned under a Smith machine once when I was 16. And it took me like 30 seconds to slide my way out, and I remember Scott, my t-shirt was hanging down to my knees after that, because I had just stretched the whole thing out. And I was like, oh my God, thank God, people think Smith machines are safer for pressing than on then freeweight pressing setups, inclines or flat bench, and they're not. They're actually more dangerous, because it will staple that ass where the hell are you gonna go? People will just rack on the hooks. What if you missed the hooks? Look, we'll just rack on them. You can't, you're not strong enough anymore. Like it's a really, really bad deal. So, how do you solve these problems? How do you still use a Smith machine? Four benefit, because it's a great machine. First, make sure you're centered side to side, and front to back before you start lifting. I have a Smith machine at home, so I actually mark off with chalk, where I put my feet. Can't do that at a commercial gym. Maybe remember like, gym mats typically have like, and there's lines in between the mats. They're like, okay, I put my feet three inches behind the line. You get your RPI purtrophy up out. In the Smith machine squats for Monday, you know, second, second exercise of the day, you put a note, you pin a note there that says, feet three inches behind the line. You look at it in the next Monday and you're like, oh, hell yeah, boom, and it fits perfectly. So make sure to do that, make sure it's centered side to side, so you don't do this crazy asymmetrical loading. Another one, even on the Smith machine, especially on the Smith machine, make sure to have a spotter, because somebody's got a drag or dumb ass out of there when you fail. And with a regular bench, you might be able to just get out yourself with a Smith machine, bad bad news can happen. So make sure to have a spotter, and that's a big deal. Another machine that we see a little bit more danger with than many others is the Hacksquat. Why? The Hacksquat is one of those machines that is a way harder at the bottom than at the top, which means it's a really good pie purtrophy. Like it's optimally angled to make you get really, really, really, really, gyanquat. Huge tension at the stretch, minimal tension at the top. But if you can't get out of the bottom, you're kind of stuck. And a lot of Hacksquat's go pretty deep, and so if you're stuck there for long enough, you know, I'm not going to get rotest-care, but not so great things can happen. All sorts of really messed up. Neonjuries hit injury, spine injury, so on and so forth. The solution here is to have a spotter or two for heavy low RAR sets. You might be able to do most of your sets for the day, totally fine on your own, especially if you know what you're doing. But that one set at the end where you're like, I'm really going to push it, I got eight reps last time, I want nine reps and it's more weight. Just get two relatively competent, relatively jack-looking people to just stand on the sides. And really, hey fellas, if I don't come up, just drag the weight up. Not hard. Also, the good news is spotters for free weights have to be pretty technical and pretty apt because they can grab the weight asymmetrically and really f***ing up. If you're in the Smith machine, or sorry, if you're in a hack squat, just doesn't really matter as long as they pull up on the weight part on the bar, you're going to be good to go. So have a spotter, it's really really good. It's kind of strange when people ask for spots on machines, but it's smart because, again, with barbells, weight lifters, Olympic weight lifters, they don't get spotter or anything. Because they can always just get out of it. So they can throw it back behind them, or they can just dump it. In a hack squat, you can't, no, it's got to be ever seen someone dump a hack squat. But even, has it in your life? How the hell are you supposed to get out? You're self-taught. Maybe if you don't manage to get out, then like one of your shoulders gets capped off or something, it's gnarly. So a hack squat, when push comes to shove, make sure you have a spotter or two. Number four, is a gym machine you might not see very often. It comes from the world of equipped powerlifting, but it does have its place in hardcore gyms, across the country, and sometimes people use it wrong, you get into some shit. It's called the monolith. It's a machine that has these hooks that hang down and hold the bar. And then you unwrapped the bar, you don't move anywhere, your buddy hits the lever for the monolith. The hooks swing out, you do your squats, you come back off, you go, okay, I'm good, rack, and then the hooks swing back in, and then you just put the weight down. It's great for squat weights in good morning weights that are so heavy, you don't even want to piss away energy walking them out. The problem with that machine is, once the rack swings out, you're on your own, and unwraking it can feel really weird if you're used to walking it out. Just standing there and you're like, oh shit. And if you want to walk it back in, once you put the bar back in, the hooks a lot of times will shake, and sometimes the weight will pop back out of it. So if you're not used to using a monolith, don't just go in there and use it, just be like, oh, it's fine, it's just like any other piece of equipment. Half some respect, because a monolith can put you into the ground. There are solutions to this. A lot of really good monoliths nowadays, will have chains or belts that catch the weight. So if you have to dump, it's possible to dump her, if you just sit down the weights will catch no problem. Another thing is almost every time that you use a monolith, you need at least two, possibly three technical spotters that are competitive power lifters have been around a long time, they know how to spot the monolith. Because the amount of weight you can lift out of a monolith is really high. The amount of things you can go wrong is really impressive, and so you want spotters and supportive chains or supportive belts to make sure that if you do go south, things happen. Learning how to use a monolith properly from really good power lifters, before going heavy and hard on it, is a really, really good idea. It's one of those things that you need, probably to be associated with a lifting crew for, and not just do by yourself. Lastly, I'm going to get some shit for this, but this is a true fact. The fifth machine on our list, and the last one for machines that are a bit more dangerous than the gym, is the power rack. That's right, regular old power rack, squat rack, whatever you like to call it, why? Doing barbell lifts in a rack, rack dead lifts, squats, so on and so forth, can let you put a lot of force into a ton of weight, even if you don't really know what you're doing. And the rack can't track the weight for you, so you can get real off center and do some real, not only stuff. The thing with a chest press machine, is it's really a kind of only one way to do it. The machine does the whole arc for you. But with a rack, you take that weight out, you walk out the squat and just all you, and you can really mess up if you don't have good technique. So the solution to using the squat rack effectively is to know your technique well, and to have a spotter or spotter is when needed, and then the rack is perfectly safe. But the rack isn't super safe for many people, because people don't are not interested in good technique, and they're interested in impressing themselves and others, by using a lot of weight, the power acts where you do that, and it just happens to be a place where people don't know technique, they don't care, they use a lot of weight, and they get hurt. There's a link especially about the rack, it's just kind of like, it's like, a fly to shit. It's a place where you are unrestricted to move, and you can put a lot of weight on the bar, you're gonna bet people are getting hurt there. So if you know good technique, you can use it, and you have a spotter, the rack is perfectly safe, but those are two things that are very, very important. All right, final insights here. To be totally honest, you can use all of these machines, and all the machines in the gym very safely. And you can get hurt in like 500 different ways in the gym, and like a trillion different ways outside of the gym. So now this is meant to scare tactic. Staying very low in your probability of injury. Comes down to not ramping up your load super fast, warming up having good, stable, control technique, and not doing anything stupid. You know while you're doing it or just before you're doing it, you're just doing it to show off, and it'll probably get you hurt. This does not mean that you won't get hurt. If you're pushing it hard, you will inevitably get hurt. Every now and again, it's just gonna happen. But if you do all the good stuff, I'm talking about. Not only is your probability of injury going to go down, so over the 25 years that you lift weights, or the 30 or 40 or 50 or 60 years that you lift weights, hopefully a lifetime. You might experience five pretty decent injuries, versus like 50 if you do this right. And the magnitude of the injuries can fall substantially. It's a difference between tweaking your pack a little bit, and taking two weeks off, working back up over four, and being totally fine, versus having a totally volgion of your pack and never looking or feeling the same again. So if you use good technique, if you use good load progressions, you'll still get pings and dings every now and again, but it will almost certainly not be nearly as bad of injuries, as you would get if you were doing real dumb stuff. Don't do dumb stuff, go in the link, download the RPHP, or check if you really need a lot of coaching and help. We also have the RP coaching, super elite, some of the world's best PhD athlete coaches will get your back, that link in the description as well, give that a look. Coaches will do video calls with you, God you threw everything, and it's really super dope. Yeah, go out there and don't get hurt, but if there are three giggly nymphs, you gotta do what you gotta do, fellas. Peace.

Natural testosterone boosters barely do shit. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Nothing says you're in tune with nature, like taking an exogenous substances to try to you're on a hormones up. But at least they work, right? $3.7 billion in 2024 worldwide sales for testosterone boosters. Scott, you do realize that means there are people walking around, like getting into Ferrari's and like the girl to cafes, like, hey, had you like 60 in life and he's like, selling testosterone supplements and he gets in a rrrr. Drives off just to come my god. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for our piece strength. The year is 2025. Things are good. You're walking down the street at sunny. You wave at one of your neighbors. He typically waves back, but now he looks a little concerned. He's kind of looked up at you, sort of almost wave, and kind of looked away and you're like, what's going on with Bob? You walk up really, hey, Bob! How you doing buddy? He's like, hey, I can't talk right now. And you're like, Bob, what's going on, man? Let me get, are you okay? He's like, she's just not supposed to say this to anyone in his art. His eyes dart back and forth up the street down the street. They are five supplements in 2025. Zitter, they're overrated. You got to tell people, oh god, I've sent too much. And he runs off, leaves his family, his kids his dog, no one ever saw Bob again. So is it dangerous for me to give you this? Presentation this YouTube video, but five supplements in 2025 that are overrated as hell. Quite frankly, yes? Luckily, I have a guardian in the midst. His name is Scott the video guy. Scott, what weapons platform are you not qualified with? I mean, listen, I got it all baby. He is a weapon and he's going to protect me while I give you this wrap of a video. Check this out. Here at RP, we do not like to see you guys get ripped off. Because we're trying to rip you off with hypertrophy out purchases and dieco-chap purchases. And we can't have you be in ripped off. Coming up with no money. I use most of my art shit. But all seriousness, sometimes the hype behind supplements is worth it. There are supplements that actually work really well. But sometimes the hype is anything but worth it and the supplements end up being ineffective. Or kind of the worst of all in my opinion, intellectually is effective enough to technically call effective. But so damn underwhelming that it's just a waste of your time, money, and perhaps worst of all, hopes. Scott, when you take a supplement, don't you like, kind of get that vibe that it's like going to work? That's right, like I expect to be a jack the next. The next day, and when it doesn't happen even 12 weeks later, you're like, oh my god, but stacy, how am I supposed to ask stacy to go to prom with me if I don't have 50 inch arms? No, I said 50 inch, I didn't mean centimeter. So what I did is I took a deep dive into a zilly literature as the French say, and I brought you guys back a data driven list of five of the most overrated supplements in 2025. But how can I say these supplements are the most overrated? What exactly kind of weird math, fuzzy math? Am I doing? Well, here's what I did. I figured out which supplements are the most popular in a few ways. One is purchasing data, because you can actually nominally look up how much money each supplement category makes. Another one is search data, you can nominally look up like what the most popular searches are for supplements. And another one is discussion board volumes. Scott, can you believe I looked into that shit, man? Wow, like reddit. Don't say that word here. Excuse me. Good people. Believe that out. But, um, every funny, if we had a bleep version of people, like man, they must have said fortune. They go to our bleep, like reddit. They just read it. We're not allowed to say it right now. So did all that. And found out basically the kind of integrated list of the 10 most popular supplements from a combination of those criteria. So how much people buy them, how much people search for them, how much people talk about them. And ranked order these in magnitude of effect from most effective in that top 10 popular list all the way least effective. I took the bottom five of that list. The five least effective supplements of the top 10 most popular supplements. There's a bunch of supplements that don't do anything that know whenever here's about. I took that bottom five of the top 10 most popular supplements, the bottom five in effect. And I put together a list. I didn't stop there. I took the effect on both muscle gain and fat loss. So we're going to be able to rate every supplement on how effective it is. Not just effect. I don't know what that means. How much muscle is it going to give you? How much fat is it going to lose you? And the way that I did this analysis, I'll talk about an insect. But before I went on, I consulted with opening eyes O3 model, which is the smartest thing you're going to talk to. The as of this recording. And asked to turn its own analysis to see how our analysis compared. And we were only off by one. We had the same more or less top 10 list. The one of the five was different. And I looked into it and it turns out like, yeah, O3 beat me on this one. And it is worth mentioning. Because Scott, you love it. It's our last supplement for the list today. I still can't believe it makes the list at all. But it does. It's been generations, you guys. That's your preview of the supplement doing nothing. And people still consume it. And spend literally millions of dollars. So O3 and I compared notes. We took the final situation. And then checked this out. What we did was we ranked the supplements. We indexed them on effect. On proportionality of muscle growth as compared to the goal standard of supplements, which is five grams of creatine, amount of hydrate daily for 12 weeks. So each supplement is rated on like, okay. So if I take the supplement at its, and I actually prompted O3 to say high average dose of the supplements. So we're trying to cut these supplements as a much slack as possible. We're not low dose of them. With a high average dose of this supplement for 12 weeks, how much muscle do we grow compared to how much muscle you would grow on five grams of creatine a day for 12 weeks? That's the muscle gain one. On the fat loss situation, we used to turn's appetite. Turn's appetite is currently the most advanced fat loss weight loss drug that you can get on the open market. And it's radically effective. And so 12 weeks of five milligrams per week of tersepotide, which is actually a low dose for tersepotide, is our gold standard. And all the supplements were compared to that against fat loss. So we're not just vibing here. We're doing quantitative analysis and see, like how much muscle are you really going to grow from these? How much fat are you really going to lose? And what's the proportionality compared to the gold standard of supplementation and pharmaceutical intervention? So that's the situation. We had five total supplements. And here we go. Without further ado, number one is, Scott, the reigning defending BCA's. Oh my God, still. The shit comes out. The crowds are like, boo, one bro in the back. Like, woo, no, no, no, I take it every day. It's the blue and it tastes nice. And I mix it in my shake. Here's the deal. BCA's allegedly simulate muscle growth by directly targeting the M-Tor C1 complex, which is one of the central regulators of muscle growth in the cell. So far so good. But it turns out that BCA's, specifically, loose-seeing, which is the most powerful of them, really only marginally affect muscle growth if you're eating not enough protein. And as soon as if you weigh 200 pounds, and you're consuming at least 160 grams of protein, or if you weigh 100 pounds, at least 80 grams of protein per day, added loose-seeing has functionally no detectable effect on muscle growth. Almost all of you, watching this, had to better. I know you guys are eating like a gram of protein per pound a day or something close. And 1.6 is a real goddamn close. It would be like 1.5, God, what am I saying? It would be like 0.75, right? 0.75 grams of protein per pound of body weight per day. If you're eating any more than that, which you almost certainly are, you do not benefit in almost any measurable extent from BCA supplementation. You say, okay, like science knows this, but people still buy this? Oh, God, yeah. 1.8 billion dollars in 2024 annual sales for BCA's. Second, only to protein and creatine in the specialty amino acid aisle, which is one hell of an aisle. Scott, you are on a specialty amino acid aisle at your local store. Actually, there's a couple of really awesome supplement stores and vagus that have dedicated oils for very, very specific supplements. It's awesome and getting anything you want. So don't go into that aisle, specifically, there's other better oils. Here's the reality. Let's go right to our fact checker to our metric to see how much BCA is actually due. Over the course of a 12 week phase of taking very robust dose of BCA's. You can expect to add approximately 0.3 pounds of muscle, which is 12% or so of creatine's expected effect. Guys, remember, creatine is a supplement that when you take in most cases, you're a liquid AM, I'm like 12 weeks later, feel a little bigger, old, jack, it's nothing crazy. You take nothing crazy, you take 12% of that, what does that leave you with? Probably disappointment. And since BCA's don't burn any fat, this supplement scores 0% of terzepotides fat loss punch. So we're talking about 12% of the effect of creatine. For probably even higher the price. And if you're eating enough protein, that effect dwindles down to pretty much 0. Yeah, yeah, $1.8 billion for that sign me up. Number two, a best biggest offender is conjugated Linnoleic acid, which is a good street wrapper. Scott, remember you had an arc in your life where you were kind of like, I want to say, hood, but you were kind of like a hood wrapper and your name was a vacogator. That's what I lived in Philly, you know, we all go through a phase. Was it phase? I remember that, remember that silver glock you carried around, you would pull out during like platinum, like platinum. Oh, it was platinum. Yeah, that's why they called you a.k.a platinum glock, right? Platinum glock is a great wrapper, right? It's a pretty wrap right? They used to call them the conjugator, but when he shoot them up, because they started anyway. So Scott's wrap history aside, conjugated Linnoleic acid, allegedly, though the police cannot confirm, is a PPAR, alpha activator, to boost beta oxidation, which is a phase of the fat loss process, and it's supposed to make you lose fat. But unfortunately, conjugated Linnoleic acid looks really good when it's used in rodents, the mice love it. They get all weird and their noses get all rather, and then, and then, you got CLA, you're like, I don't Mr. Mouse, I have cheese, I don't with cheese anymore, man. Let me see, LA. It's got really bad in the labs. So in mice amazing, in humans, very, very weak outcomes. There's not stop people from charging money for it, $231 million in 2024 sales. Scott, that's how much I spent on planning vacations last year. Oh wow. Yeah, vacation planners cost a lot of money it turns out. And here's the thing. Okay, so, okay, but how effective is it? CLA, in the research delivers approximately zero kilograms of muscle, and about 0.7 kilograms or 1.5 pounds of extra fat loss over 12 weeks, which rises up to 14 percent of terzepotides effect, often at those effective doses with a good deal of GI upset. So CLA does work for fat loss, but in, like, the most disappointing way imaginable, short of not working at all. And remember, terzepotide is a drug that is legal. Your doctor can prescribe it to you if you qualify, and often if you don't, you didn't hear that here. And so, it's also a net health booster and a way CLA isn't ever going to be. And so, like, if you got the real thing, that you need CLA for. And the answer is probably not. Next up is one of my favorite words in the world. Scottie ready for it. Okay. Oral. Oh, Al Karna team. I thought it was going to be shuckle. You son of a bitch. Hey, it's not a cateau. I was going to go on a rant, uh, or, hey, Scott, like you can't joke about us. Oh, sorry. God, that's so awkward. Oh, I hate you. I hate you. Guys, if you ever see me in real life, you make any jokes about the Jews you want. I'll double up on your shit. You've never heard Jewish jokes as offensive as I can put them out. I promise you. And if you can do more offensive than me, uh, well, I'll shake your hand. My god. All right. This is where all right people get into the comments. Scott. Yeah. And they make like non, non joke, non punchlines. They're like the Jews are seriously degrading the status of Western society. You're like, oh, oh, oh, oh, you're actually really that. Okay. We'll see if that makes the cut. In any case, oral, al Karna team. Al Karna team actually does have fat loss potential. The problem is through the oral absorption route gets highly degraded. You're got bacteria actually, uh, eat the shit out of it, which they love. They're lean. Ripped your gut bacteria. How's like a Mr. Upper Coleman 2025? Like, damn, dude, who's drug testing these bacteria? That's good for them. It's not great for you because you end up almost nothing that going to actual muscles and going to fat loss mechanisms. So that really sucks. The mechanism here is that ostensibly, Al Karna team, when not ostensibly, in reality, transports long chain fatty acids into mitochondria with they would be oxidized burned up and you don't have to have them on your body anymore. But unfortunately, amounts that doesn't get into your actual fat areas. It just stays in your gotten yet. Even by go back to here, you can inject Al Karna team if it's prepared properly. But she's injecting so much anyway. Call that. $220 million and $2024 made from this. It's very popular and shred stacks. Scott, do you think your summer would go better if you shredded for summer? Absolutely. So then you're using the RP DietCo chap, which helps you figure out how much we need and when and keeps you on track and adjusts all of your value so that you get in the shape you want. Not just that. Also the RP had purchased if you had to make sure my programming stays on track as well. My God, you just love success. Don't you? Good God. Here's the deal. Reality wise, oral, Karna team produces about 1.3 pounds of extra fat loss and no reliability mass bumps. It doesn't grow muscle. That's okay. Not every supplement has to try to grow muscle. 1.3 pounds of extra fat loss over 12 weeks is at 12% of terzepotides power. Why are you spending money on that shit folks? You could. You could. But is it a waste of your money? Probably. Next, this is my personal favorite from this list. The last one is just an old enemy that won't die. Scott, you know, like when hero sequels they bring back old enemies that the hero just beat to a pulp last movie. And the guy's underpowered in this current movie. He just kind of pops up in the middle and the hero kills him and you're like, why did you guys bring that guy back? Did you run out of like clever movie ideas? I think that's the main reason for bringing old things back, right? Running out of ideas. Damn Scott, you, oh, you'll you'll move you critical. 100%. You want to have you made a film. Never. Well, remember that that one summer when you and I are doing a lot of home videos? Yeah. I don't know if those are films. Right. I mean, when they're only 43 minutes long, it don't really have a plough so much. All right. My favorite quote unquote natural testosterone booster herb blends because nothing says you're in tune with nature like taking an exogenous substances to try to get on hormones up. I get, I get, I get. But at least they work, right? Scott, the Anakin meme, they work, right? Right? Well, well, well, let's find out. First, what are we dealing with? We are dealing with substances that claim to raise lootinizing hormone or inhibit aromatase, both of which ostensibly would increase the amount of testosterone you have in your blood, making you a man. You say one of these pills and all of a sudden you are driving a truck? shirtless hairy. Scott, how else can we bough for up the man analogy? You have a cigar? I mean, if you're a trucker, I mean, I think you're like using tobacco, like, jaw. You got, you got, you got it. You got it. You got it. And you're, and you're eating a hungry man dinner at the same time. That much masculinity is tough to contain, but somehow you're doing it with the following, I was going to say drugs, maybe these are, I guess they're technically drugs, supplements that you're putting in there, things like fenugreek, tribulus, ashwaganda, deosparac acid, and my favorite, tonkot ali, which sounds like the next opponent you're supposed to fight at that underground Thai MMA place you should never gone to in Bangkok, but instead, you get amazing results. Wait, do you hold on? $3.7 billion in 2024 worldwide sales for testosterone boosters. You had better begin something. Scott, you do realize that means there are people walking around, like, getting into Ferrari's and like the girl to cafes, like, hey, how'd you like 60-idin life? And he's like, selling testosterone supplements and he gets in and drives off just to call my God. Yeah, he's named Tonkot ali, by the way, the back-to-back Bangkok underground MMA champion. That's a sweet name. He deserves success. He deserves success. Yeah, he has this Barna story I didn't say, but she got into the car with him and actually just finger-banged herself while he drove her. Reality time, fellas, all jokes aside, this one, Scott, is going to get a laugh out of you. The muscle growth yield for 12 weeks of taking your typical highly-dose testosterone booster is at 0.07 kilograms of muscle, 0.15, 0.15 pounds of muscle in 12 weeks. Wow, that's, uh, time you know. I mean, if my math isn't too off, you could take it for a year and still be well under a pound of muscle gained. But if I just take 100 times as much, now that's thinking, you'll just get huge and popular and rich. Oh, an handsome, did I mention handsome? So 0.15 pounds of lean muscle, kind of sucks, and 0.1 kilogram, or 0.2 pounds of fat loss in 12 weeks, this gives us about 5% of creatine's muscle effect. Guys, creatine is something you got a really paid attention to notice over 12 weeks. 5% of that is very dust. And that's about 2% of tersepatides fat loss effect. Why are we even talking? 2% is in the margin of error for every drug. Natural testosterone boosters barely do shit. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. If you're hypogonaddle or you're under a ton of stress, Ashwaganda can help. And Ashwaganda has some really cool benefits on your psychology because it distresses you, you're less apt to be all cortisol like, but to be honest, man, like it's bad for this category and three, $0.7 billion later, someone is eating good, probably unadurigible, powered entirely by crude oil. My flying hobby is a side. Last one, sky-rated for this one, this is the one we've been teasing. Okay, hit me. It's back. Glutamine. Oh, yeah. Remember that supplement that never worked, you guys? But people started taking in the 70s and now people still take it. $267 million in sales often bundled to many recovery formulas. And apparently it's supposed to serve as a nitrogen donor. Okay, giving up its nitrogen group to make sure more amino acids retain their continuing defunction. And it's supposed to fuel your gut and the immune system, which it does. The problem is that almost no diet lacks glutamine. glutamine is almost never the limiting amino acid in the any kind of diet or the human body. So remember, limiting factors are important to consider. If you have a billionaire who's stuck in a desert island and you give him an extra ward of cash that doesn't get him off the island. He already has a lot of money. The limiting factor is a fueled airplane with the skids that let you land on water. If you gave him that, he would be able to get off the island. You already have a shitload of glutamine in your food and your body. You do not need more unless you like recovering from some kind of major gastrointestinal surgery and your immune suppressor and you live at the hospital. Then glutamine might be a good idea. But for anabolism, for muscle growth, always lack to direct evidence of muscle protein synthesis. And every time it was studied, it came up with a deadly dick as Dr. James Hoffman of our P likes to say. So here's the reality in why this is like my favorite, or my, my, the ban of my existence, no statistically meaningful muscle or fat loss change over 12 weeks, 0% of creatine enters up a tights effect. Scott, think about that. 267 million dollars for nothing. That's insane. Okay, but here I have a possible solution. I found a supplement while you were talking. Okay. BCA and Rich with glutamine. Oh, but someone, a brand I will not name a selling that. But that just needs to work. It's like, alchemy, you know, if you combine two things that don't do, maybe one of them will do something to hope and be young. Folks, be young. Hope. Put Bob on some mill cartons. So we find a ask. Why did you run away from his family? It's just news about supplements that don't work. And try not to get ripped off. There are supplements that are effective. Creatines great protein is great. They're called a hydrate supplements that are awesome. Vitamin D is awesome. Magnezium from when you go to sleep. The list is quite long of effective supplements. But the ones that are worth it, they didn't make the list. Anyway, I have an Dr. Mike. Stay safe. Stay clean. Drink your school. Go to milk. And I'll see you next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Creation. Today's video is the five rules of bicep training, helpful tips to get you the biggest bicep that you can get. They're not hard rules, but give them a try and they'll probably work. Rule number one is to try the free motion bicep curl and or the inclined dumbbell curl. In the way you do the free motion handle, you walk away in front of the machine. So at the bottom your biceps are pre-stretched out like crazy and then you curl from a very stretched position. And of course, this is the same position and up taking on an inclined dumbbell curl where you put the inclined 45 degrees or 60 degrees or so. And at the bottom you're going to have an unreal stretch your biceps attach across your shoulder as well as your elbow. So if you push this upper arm back before you start, it really stretches them out. There's been good deal of research and plenty of theory showing that you get more muscle growth when you stretch the muscle under load versus if you just load without a stretch, these two exercises and there's a few more you could try the stretch of the muscle are really awesome. Up until I tried them, I didn't think there was a great bicep exercise for me, just some good ones and mostly mac and okay ones that I didn't love too much. Now I have go to exercises that are red and butter, gonna mess me up every single time. Rule number two on the front of messing up. A lot of people can even do good technique with curls, but way too many people drop the bar really quick because the eccentric slow control in the way down is two things. Painful and reduces how many reps you could do or how much weight you can do. So that girl who's always looking at you in the gym who you think is maybe single, maybe interested maybe satanic and gonna kill you. She is just not looking as hard anymore because you used to use the 25s but now you're down to tens and change because you're trying to control these centric. But picking up Satanist tricks at the gym aside, it's just better for muscle growth. So when you have the incline dumbbells, you bring up the dumbbells, don't just throw your thrash them back down, bring it up as half the battle, maybe not even half because that's the easy part. The hard part is to take two or three seconds slowly control all the way down at the bottom and then bring back up again. That is critical. Rule number three, especially on dumbbells. You want your pinkies to end up towards the sky. As you curl, I don't mean you have to rotate, but as you curl, think pinkies up. The biceps have two functions. One is for our inflection, and one is supination. Moving a wrist like this. And pinkies up is the supinator cue. It can help you really get in tune with hitting your biceps versus all the other foreign flexors that can do the job instead. Rule number four is to experiment with different rep ranges. There is a huge variation in responses. Some people would do sets of eight in the bicep curls and I don't know, they just hurts my elbows and I don't feel anything. Some people would do sets of eight and say, there is a tension in my biceps. I cannot explain. And if I do higher rep sets of 15 and 20, I just feel tired. How you know which rep range is the right for you and there could be lots of ren answers is, if in the heavy rep range, you feel a ton of tension in the bicep itself. In the lighter rep ranges, you get crazy, crazy burns. If you have a psychotic burn right in the middle of the bicep, you're not doing anything wrong. Whereas if you're doing high reps and it just feels tired, maybe higher reps are not for you in that particular exercise. All of the exercises that you should be doing are the loading ranges should be giving you a gnarly pump. People who respond really well to sets of eight in the bicep. Do if you set of eight and they're like, holy crap, my arms busting through. People who love high reps get a huge pump off of that and so on and so for some pay attention to your body signs, stimulus and fatigue. So if a certain rep range just makes you feel tired and it hurts your elbows where another one makes you feel great and hurts seemingly nothing, make sure you go towards the one with a higher stimulus to fatigue ratio rather than low. Don't just do plug and play into everything sets of 10. Try different rep ranges with different exercise, see what goes best. Another thing to look for is depending on the rep range and how you position and which exercises you're doing. You might get a lot of tension and burn in the forums versus your bicep. If you're trying to look like pop-eye, hey, rock and forums work just great. But if you really want bigger biceps, then what you want to do is pick the rep ranges and the exercises and the techniques that make the maximum out of tension and burn hit your biceps rather than your forums. That's really huge. Lastly, rule number five. If you really are serious about growth and really kind of nothing has worked, try my rep matching that means let's see you get some dumbbell curls and you do a set of 20 real close to failure. I don't want to go through the desk here but for an engine motion, dammit don't just copy me here doing these fake curls. A set of 20 close to failure you put the dumbbells down. Then for the next several sex, let's see have three total plan. That's two more sex. What you're going to do is hit 20 reps, but you're going to be too tired to hit it all in one set each time. So when you get to about 15 and nearly crap out with the dumbbells down for a few seconds, rest a little bit shake out the burn, do another five. So that's 20 of the first one and a straight set. The second is 20 and a two mile reps set, one mile rep break. In the third one, you may get to 12 and then do another four and then do another four after a little bit of rest and then get to 20. That first set, you match and match and match with as many mile reps sets as it takes to match up to that first one. It piles the volume on like crazy and it allows you to take three sets of a bicep workout and get like, gee, three, four, five, seven approaches to failure. Maybe eight. Wow, we know that approaching failure in the last few reps of four and have a mild, be higher effect on muscle growth than just the reps that are easy at the beginning of the set. If you do the my rep matching for biceps, which are often really fatigue resistant, they need a ton of stimulus to grow. If you try to do that with the straight sets, we've got eight straight sets, eight sets of 10 and biceps, I'd rather shoot myself around around the gym. Colour me bored and hurt, but my rep match sets just take a couple seconds break between and go go, holy crap, that can be hugely effective. Don't just do five of these and have your arms fall off, try two of them at first and if it feels great, maybe add three, four, five, et cetera, however many need to get a great stimulus. You're going to cover from next time, come back with bigger arms and as soon as you have big arms, you just say one thing. Satanist chicks, your king has arrived.

You, that's right, you could be making as many as eight mistakes in your lifting that are costing you games. But Dr. Milo Wolf's super sport scientist expert and a man that heals from her majesty's kingdom. His majesty's kingdom of the United Kingdom is going to set you straight. Now potentially knee straight, but my psychiatrist says that's unlikely. Three, two, one, eight mistakes. The first mistake is half reps. You've seen this. I've seen this. You've seen it. Half rep on squats for some reason is the most common like gym-fill nation type of thing. It's probably not as effective as doing a four-engine motion. So a four-engine motion is a great place to be. Four-engine motion is squat, four-engine motion and bench press. All of those will be very effective. Or you can do half reps in the stretch position where we call Lincoln Parshall's. All the way in a full stretch, half way up and repeat. Ever since the length and partial literature came out, a lot of people told Jared and I, let you see you were wrong about Parshall's and we had to comment or twerk that we've seen almost no one ever in the gym brought out on the length and part of the lift. It's almost always the shortened part because it's the easier part. You can lift the most weight in that. If people are doing a super deep stretch and coming halfway up, typically we had no problem with it to begin with. At some point in our careers, we did say that's suboptimal because it wasn't knocking out. It was an activating all the motor units and we were definitely wrong about that. And it turns out, Lincoln Parshall's almost certainly as robust as floor and injury motion. At least as far as we can tell now. But you know, if you're thinking, all partial zero K to denote a length and partial zero K, shortened partials are almost certainly less growth promoting in most cases. And it's also a thing with me is ask yourself why you're doing it. Almost everyone who's ever half squatting to do it because of science or belief in letting shortened partials. They did it because they wanted to impress themselves and other people. And because it hurts to God they're much to go super low. That's it. That's why you're doing partial's mother. This next common lifting mistake is less of a mistake and more of something you may not need to worry about as much as you may think you do. And that's being really really focused about time and attention. In all likelihood for best hypertrophy, you want your sense to take some of between sort of 20 to 70 seconds based on repeat or by work at all. However, chances are if you're doing so between five and 50 reps, you're almost always going to fall in that range. To me, as you get stronger, you realize two things. One from the literature that there is no decrement in how much muscle you gain as your eccentric pace starts to slow down. Three or four second eccentric grows just as much muscle as far as we know as a one second eccentric. However, I'm pure mechanistic inference. Very, very tight logic loop there. The faster you go on the eccentric, the higher the acute probability of injury. So if I can tell you there's a way to train that doesn't have any effect on your growth, but really substantially reduces your injury probability. It probably logically, I'm second or more derivative calculus there. It, it, it, it, it, it, it who's yet to think at least maybe I can control my eccentric a little better. little better. And if I'm doing a lot of weight on a compound exercise, if I take one or two seconds in my eccentric, amazing. We did get a little bit misunderstood and the whole team full-romb situation. People thought we were always advocating a slow-recentric no matter what. The reason we advocated slow-recentric is most of our YouTube videos at the time, where simultaneously coaching people through workouts and teaching them how to connect with their muscles and do the right technique. In a teaching session, a slower eccentric is goded because they can actually correct the path as they go down. A fast eccentric, you're not correcting anything. If you go slow, we can say bring it back a little more, they go bring it forward. So as a teaching tool, a slower eccentric is so great and they radically increase the safety of the exercise. For you take home, that means whatever eccentric you're still under control with and you feel like this isn't really going to hurt me as totally fine. The rest is variation. Have times of the year where you're doing some exercises with three or four seconds eccentric, sometimes in the year where it's one or two, everything in between and it gets totally fine. This next one is messing up your rest times in the gym. There is such a thing as resting both too long between sets and not enough. Resting in less than 60 seconds, you're probably reducing the potency of each individual set. At least on average, for the average individual, for the average exercise. Likewise, they'll resting for more than two minutes between sets. May not on average give you more stimulus per such. There's a reason why there are such a thing as too short of a rest time. And that is, you are not sufficient to be able to stimulate, specifically your fast to twitch motor units in your muscles, which are the ones that grow the most, the parts of your muscles that grow the most. And so we can go through a checklist to see, it have these systems that limit us, gotten enough rest, the probably not going to limit us on the next set. And then as soon as you check list that, you could wait longer and have slightly better performance, but at a pretty big expense of time, you could go right away, risk a little bit of not so impressive performance, but at least you're really condensing all of your training. You're probably going to be out of the gym sooner. So me personally, once that checklist is cleared, it's probably time to go again unless your time is just not very expensive. You like being a gym, staring at hose, I love it, I'm here to stop the video guys naked right now. You guys would never know. I would never leave a gym for a man like that was present. So a couple of things we want to check list one is the muscle itself recovered enough to do another five reps. If you're like, man, I can only do three reps if I rest this long. You've got to rest for longer, five reps is kind of the bottom end, obviously it's an average. Like anything about five is a good hard working set. Another thing you want to concern yourself with is cardiovascular fatigue. Like, am I still breathing so heavy that the next set I'm going to do, I'm going to feel because I'm running out of air instead of my actual quads or limiting me like kind of squat for example. Another one is on neural drive. The do actually feel competent and strong again to be able to do another set. If you look at the Smithing clan bench and your first thought is, and you know that if you rest a little bit longer, you could get eight reps. But if you have to go right now, you get like four because your brain just gives up. That's a real thing. My lord, what about like short rest for deficit dead lifts? Like, you need some guts for that shit. You just not going to do it. So wait until you feel like, okay, I can fight again. And the last one is synergist muscles. If you're doing squats and your quads are ready to go, you're not breathing heavy anymore, but your lower back is so tight that you know you're going to do five reps and then that's going to kick out. Your quads never going to chance to work because your lower back's going to make you feel. Those are the four check marks you want to check and they're not that hard. Let's see, okay? I can definitely do more than five reps. I feel pretty strong. synergists are good and I'm breathing pretty heavy, but not enough that this is going to limit me on this next exercise. I'm ready to go. Here's where this hits the application part. Caff raises, forearm curls. I mean, look 10 seconds in many cases, just literally checks all of them. Rest 30, that you'll be totally fine. But two minutes of rest on calf raises. You see, some people time their rest, which is totally cool, but like my lord, timing two minutes on calf raises rest is like you're just trying to waste your time, right? And then the other end, there are exceptions. Sets of 10 in the deficit debt lift. When you're a 500 pound debt lift or you're going to need five to 10 minutes between each set, since they don't turn into sets of two. Huge range, it's all individual applications. What I would say is if you're not used to reading the signs and signals, start at one to two minutes in your golden. As you get more experience of lifting, you look for the four factor checklist, start to figure out like, I can go again. It's 45 seconds. I'm ready. My delts feel fine. I'm going to feel fine. On the other hand, if you hit two minutes in your silk, in the squat bars loaded, don't go in there and just gas out after two reps. Over on TikTok, another social media platform's I purposely avoided. The new thing is saying that anything will rate reps is totally pointless. For hypertrophy. How many roughly how many studies have illustrated that a variety of reprimandia roughly equivalent hyperdrive? Thousands. Okay. How many studies have clearly illustrated that training on that very heavy end of the spectrum has robust benefits over life? None. Why are we here still? You can definitely take the higher of thing you for. In fact, one mistake I see arguably the most in the gym is when people do higher ups and they reset way too early. Even in the research, we know that people tend to be pretty bad at pushing themselves close to failure when they do higher ups. So we actually conducted the most recent metinoluses including all the studies on the topic, looking at how accurate people's predictions are of how close to failure they are. You put them through a set, mid set, or at some point about the set we asked them, hey, how many more ups can you do? They give us their prediction and they actually push it to failure. The low 12 reps, people are pretty good. With higher ups, because it's lying enough they can come just throw it around from most of the time. And because higher ups tend to cause your way more discomfort, way more burn, way more out of breath. It can be pretty easy to kind of trick yourself into thinking your close to failure. When you're really not. Where you just don't know, like you said, the weight so light, you're like eight, maybe. Yes. Now, that was also seen in metinoluses. So linearly pretty much past 12 reps, people got less accurate. Like by sets of 20 or 30, people were often interested in themselves by five to seven reps. And at that point, if you're five to seven reps off from failure, your growth is going to be heavily compromised. I have two other things that might be helpful. You have to learn to differentiate between the deep, searing kind of stopping friction feeling in your muscle and the overall discomfort. Psychological discomfort, cardiovascular, blah, you got to know like I'm breathing heavy. That doesn't mean the sets over. When your quad start doing this, the sets pretty close to over because it's actually in the muscle. And the second thing I like to do is I love using my reps and the my right match system for this. I'll do sets of 30, quote unquote all the time. But I'll start with a set of 12, a rest of few seconds. And I don't stop at 12 or retireally. I stop when I'm pretty close to failure. I'm sure I'm a few off. But then I do a few more reps rest of a few more reps rest and every time that only I'm getting close to failure. So I'm checking the boxes of failure proximity to those many sets. But I'm actually getting the groove to where I feel like, woo, let me push it a little more. Oh, that was really for sure close to failure. And so I get a bunch of failure approximations. With probably a 20 RM load, but the set takes me 30 a straight set of 30. You'll almost never see me do for the two reasons that I really know of its failure. And also that shit hurts, bro. Who's not that? The final tip I got is week to week. Trying to be more aggressive with your progression for higher upsets compared to heavier sets. Chances over heavier sets, you're ready in red ballpark. With lighter sets pushing it by say an extra two reps every week. At least initially with a new movement for higher up range. Just can't lie to you really quickly at least get in the right ballpark. The next mistake we see all the time is doing too many sets in a single workout. But wait a minute. Isn't it high volume goded for hypertrophy? Kind of is. In fact, for your best hypertrophy, the most recent that analysis suggests you should likely be doing sort of 30 to 40 fractional weekly sets. So back work with counts half a set for your bicep for example. So even though 34 sets might sound insane. It's actually a reasonable one you think that are 20 sets of lots. That's 10 set for biceps. Might only be 20 sets of cross per week. However, doing too much volume in a single workout isn't ideal. And most people who are following a push pull lice routine while also trying to achieve high weekly volumes or poi doing this. Here's where the most recent analysis by Remerton colleagues comes in. They looked at how many sets can you do in a single session for a single muscle and see for their hypertrophy. As you expect, higher volumes were better for hypertrophy. Going all the way to around 10 or 11 fractional sets in a single workout for a single muscle didn't get to my hypertrophy. The past 11 sets it wasn't really clear anymore where that caused any additional hypertrophy. So in a traditional roast split for sure, in a traditional push pull lice routine, where you might be doing, you know, two chest movements, two tricep movements, maybe an overpress. At that point, you're getting up to those sort of 20 sets for triceps and single workout. Those last 10 sets might not be doing all that much anymore and you'd be better off splitting them into more workouts. So if you're currently doing high volumes but you're only training a muscle twice a week, potentially tricep bleeding into three workouts to get at maximum around 10 sets for a single muscle and single workout. That would be a more effective distribution of your volume. One thing I'll say is from a practical perspective, two thing. First, is that an exact number that we know of yet and it's certainly going to be so much varied based on the individual or training experience on and so forth. But just remember that when you've done five or fewer sets per session, you can comfortably do more and still benefit. You can always do high frequency and just do five as a few times a week and be fine, but you can do more up to 10 almost certainly. If you go 10 to 15 in some cases, you might have massive benefits. But if you're doing 15 or 20 sets per muscle per workout, you just might be better off being fresher for those by splitting them up into more sessions for the week. The second thing I'll say about this is that my preferred method or one of them of auto-regulation is to at least just kind of real test it. If you are getting massive pumps and getting sore for days for a muscle, just don't do any more sets in a likely hood. It's probably just going to push your recovery to the limits and not offer a ton of gains. But if you feel like after eight sets of triceps, you don't have a crazy pump, you've done us work on a few times, you feel like the next day. Then yeah, probably go to 12 to 15 and see how that goes. So all of these numbers are really good starting point. Listen to your body intelligently to let you know, am I still here putting in productive sets or have my productive sets ended six sets of go and I'm just spinning my wheels. And the last thing I'll say is a tip I picked up for Mr. Manohenselman's. When you're doing straight sets of an exercise, not a superset or something like that, and you are down to below 50 or 60% of your typical rep strength, it's probably time to go home. So if you can let, let's say, do the flies fresh for, you know, sets of 10 with the 30s. And now your eight exercises deep into your chest day, which lasts a day, you go clock, you punch in, you punch out, you put your union head on. And towards the end of that eight hour reach piano, arm work out, you're doing, you know, the tens for sets of eight, man, all of those fast, you twitch fibers, the typically grow. They're smoking a sick. They got hours out ago. They don't, I don't even do anything. But we know they're doing one thing for sure. You're still adding fatigue. Stimulus, we want to go up. But if the stimulus starts to kind of do this after 10 or 12 or 15 sets, the fatigue still goes up basically in a straight line, possibly more in a straight line, right? Because once you do some degree of muscle damage, your muscles kind of app to take on even more damage after that. So just remember, hit it hard. Somewhere in that five to 10 procession range, maybe more if you can, otherwise, it's time to cool it. And if you really want to train a lot, recover, come back Wednesday or Thursday, that same week, hit it again. Did I say anything wrong? I think that's all. Practically, for every 10 sets you want to do for a muscle, you can week. I would add one training day for that week. Easy. Specializing three or four days a week, my degree, 100%. As we just described throughout the video, the best training for hypertrophy is actually relatively high volume. You can spend a lot of time in the gym and see your benefit. So if you're spending more time on your warm-up than you really need to, you're taking time away from doing productive sets for hypertrophy. The truth is a good warm-up for hypertrophy really doesn't have to take long. In most cases, it should take two to ten minutes in duration. The two to three things a good warm-up hypertrophy really tries to achieve is one, get your body temperature up, two, elevate the target tissue temperature. So it's actually the body parts of training and three, a crew the potential we call in the research, host activation, performance and handsome effect. That's fancy talk for essentially doing a heavy set before you have hypertrophy or you can oftentimes enhance your performance on the subsequent sets. We can up your nervous system pretty much. So that can really easily be achieved in a few steps. One, if you're walking to the gym or cycling to the gym, like a European, chances are your body temperature is already up, you can still skip that step. If it's not a couple minutes on a treadmill or a relatively high rep set on the actual movement, is enough to do that. Two, elevating the target tissue temperature. Therefore, for example, you're bench pressing, just doing a set of ten reps, I'd say like 40 percent of your max, work with the bar, anything of that sort will be enough to elevate the body temperature and the tissue temperature sufficiently. Finally, for the post activation, performance and handsome effect, it seems like just doing one to three reps with between around 70 to 90 percent of your max or anywhere between around your 12 to 15 reps and you're sort of like three reps max. Anything that's in that realm of how heavy it is is enough to elicit an effect. Where slets to the gym? You can always strip down when you're pumping in juicy. It baffles me how many people show up to the gym. No offense with the tank top and they're not even pumped. What is the point of a tank top if you're not jazzed up? But on a serious note, where sweatpants, where sweatpants get through your first couple of warm upsets on your exercise, even your first couple of working sets, then you can always pull the sweat shirt off, your warm everything's great. The other tip is I like to use the 12-8-4 system. It's just easy to remember. 12 reps with your 30 rep max, rest a little bit, a set of eight with your 20 rep max, and then it's so four with roughly your 10 rep max. And then the next set, you just do your actual work set. Normal amount of rest a few minutes between each one, one to two minutes, and you're good to go. That's for the first exercise for that muscle group for the day. Afterwards, I take a page out of J. Cutler's book. He actually coined a term back in the day called Feel Sets. It was like, you just got finished benching. Now it's in Climbs on Bell Time. You know, you're pretty big. You're pretty strong. The dumbbells feel really misgrewed. If the first couple reps are strange, and that costs you a cost you a little bit of your set. It's a probability injury that's tiny, but also bigger than you want. So what he would do is he would just do one set of weight. That was pretty close to the weight he wanted to use just to feel it out. A set of four reps, maybe a set of eight reps just really grooving and be like, okay, now I'm ready. It costs you an extra minute, but if you're bigger and stronger and you're worried about injuries, it's going to make that first set feel think amazing. Do you have to do all the time? No. On some exercises, you'll need more than a few feel sets. At least more than one. For example, you just got down high bar squat and for four sets. Now with leg press time, you're leg pressing six hundred pounds. I put just go and put six hundred pounds on there and just hit it for a work set. I probably wouldn't even go hit it for a set of five. I'd probably do like a set of four to six reps with like three or four hundred pounds, and then a set of two to three reps with six hundred pounds, rest a little bit, and then get to it. So if you're really big and strong, you do need a few more warm up, but the number of reps per warm up really curtail. One thing I don't like to see, and this is actually the benefit of mine for like forever, is the same reps all the way through multiple sets warm up to work set. So I've seen lots of even pro body builders do this to get on the leg press. 135 pounds for a set of 10, 225 for 10, 315 for 10, 415 for 10, 495 for 10, 585 for 10, 675 for 9 to failure, rack, and then they're like, that's it. We're done leg pressing. Just spend most of your work out warming up with the, because going on, do 12, 8, 4, then put six 75 on the bars. Matter of fact, your four was with 675, and do four high quality sets on the leg press. You get way more stimulus, not as much fatigue, probably, or maybe similar fatigue, and then at the time spent is like half. That to me is the craziest thing when you can't tell someone's set is a warm up set or a work set, you have a big problem. Our final mistake is worrying far too much about overtreating. Now, there are instances where overtreating is absolutely concerned. But in the context of training in the gym, 90% of the people watching this or more should likely be worried about under training, not overtreating. For one, we have next to no instances in the literature of people overtreating, even with protocols as ridiculous as doing like 5 to 10 max out every day on the school. So 5 to 10 of one or Amazon on the squad. Additionally, when you look at the literature on volume and proximity failure, one thing that becomes exceedingly clear is that the best training for hypertrophy is actually quite hard. We're talking infractional sets, weekly volumes of duty to 40 sets, maximizing hypertrophy. In terms of proximity to failure, going closer to failure, generally leading to more growth. And even some indication that training passed failure just on a set-percept basis also increases growth. So if you're doing a regular program, relatively normal volume, relatively normal proximity to failure, cathes or you're not going to overtreat. We define overtreating as a consistent, reduction in train performance, lasting months, and is also difficult to reverse out of. That's not really anyone in the gym I've ever met. What you're looking for is not overtraining. That's way too late. You're looking for overtaking. Overreaching is when you temporarily exceed your recovery capabilities. And overreaching in the hypertrophy space has some signs and symptoms. The number one sign in symptom is are you unable to match your weight and reps from last week for at least two sessions for that muscle group in a row on every or almost every exercise. So if you're inclined as down this week, but your dumbbell presses up, you're probably not overreached. If both are down and then you come in later that week and your pushups and dips are down substantially, then you're probably overreaching. Maybe you're not, but it's safe that it's a good time to take a deal. You lose pretty much nothing taken a deal or it's all games you get your mojo back. There are a couple of other correlates there that could be useful. But remember performance is number one. If you're feeling like the typical workouts even though you're eating and resting, aren't giving you the same pumps. You feel kind of deflated. If usually you're really motivated to go to the gym and you love it and you feel psychologically defeated. If you're more afraid of your workouts, then you are ready to conquer them and your performance is falling off. It's time to push off the pedal. You're definitely not overtrained, but you're probably overreached. If you did this for weeks and weeks, you could get overtrained, but overtraining sometimes you can't even recover from ever. You don't want to go into that zone. So when you can no longer push the pace and you feel kind of up all over and your motivation has gone and you're getting weaker session the session for the same muscle and probably for most muscles. If not all of them, it's time to cut it off, take an easy week, feel your mojo again, eat plenty of food, come back and just crush the shit when you come back, start nice and easy and work your way back up. That's how to make sure you're both not overreaching too much, definitely not risking overtraining, but on the other hand, you want to know that you have to push yourself in order to get the best gains. So if you are doing, let's say, eight sets per muscle, per session twice a week, 16 total, and you're getting close to failure and you're strengthest stable and even moving up a little bit and every time you train your muscles heal soar us wise a few days before you train again, you feel strong, next time do nine sets and then do 10 and then do 11 next week and the week after that do 12, if you're a performance of stable and or climbing a little bit, which in a properly periodized plan, it should be climbing a little bit, if you could still progress and you still feel decent, man, just keep going and that's one last thing I'll say. There's a lot of people just start feeling the burden of how hard hard training is and they'll be like, oh, I'm overtrained, one of my least favorite note detectors of overtraining, which isn't real, it's just a myth in the evidence-based space is people be like, are you feeling sore? What the f- I get sore on Monday and I'm sore all the way till Thursday where I hit it again and I'm all the way sore, I'll sunday this happens six weeks into a, in a mesocycle, my entire 26 years of training, that's totally fine. The question is when you come to the gym, can you hit your numbers again and then some? If the answer to that is yes, keep going, keep eating, keep training, keep grinding. If you progress as ground to a halt and you feel like shit and you're feeling like diffused joint pain and at the same time you are feeling kind of like defeated for the process of training, you know, it's probably time to back off, but remember backing off every few weeks anyway, is just a good safety precaution and costs no downside. One thing we know reliably from the literature is that if you de-load every five or six weeks versus if you don't de-load for 20 weeks, you get the same results. So if I told you have to train the easy for one week and get the same results, I mean, you're yellow and training, everything's going well, get go trained, don't de-load, but if you're like, man, I really feel like I need to de-load, you're not going to miss out on gains. We know this through science. Well, folks, that was really fun. Wow, I got a lot of lighted a lot of learning and I know what I've been doing wrong and I mean in life and training, I'm fine, it's just a lot of life's not going my way. Milo, any life advice for the people before we sign off? If you don't try to flow with me after this shoot, I'll be very disappointed. You know, as a race-court driver once said, she don't go for a gut that exists, you're no longer a driver, so translate that to you touching me after this shoot. See you guys next time.

You're doing a bunch of exercises that suck. We're gonna tell you why they suck, and recommend much better replacements, so you can get rid of the stupid bullshit. Music You'd like to out, you dumb motherfucker. Oh, plus. The Bosuball is number one, worst offender. Why? Well, it's a great exercise modulation, you see. You can use the Bosuball for anything. You can do squats on it, you can do lunges on it, you can do push-ups on it. And you know what's even better is doing all of those things off of the Bosuball. But my, come on man, it's got a teases. That's right, getting flung across the gym, like a stupid Frisbee that it is. Why is the Bosuball really that bad? Because when you're on the ball, you become unstable. Hey, you're unstable. And precisely because your body detects instability, it ramps down your ability to contract the biggest, most growth prone parts of your muscles. And the ones that make you the strongest, they're called fast twitch motor units. And they're basically shut almost completely off when you're on an unstable surface like the Bosuball. So if you want to get them the ball, the way some time, hey, it's awesome for that. If you want actual results, you need to strengthen or have perchrophy, whatever it is you're doing on the ball, get off the ball and do it instead. Music You like my kettle balls. I want to just stroke them and see if you could crush a little bit. Wow, not too much. Anyway, kettlebells, they're great. When I think of kettlebells, I think of very diffuse concepts. Crossfit girl, abs and titties. Scott, you know what I'm talking about? Something to do with that. Joe Rogan, faintly comes to mind and something to do with MMA and athleticism. But the reality is that the kettlebell is an excellent tool for training. But the kettlebell swing is a mysterious exercise which seemingly has no limiting factors and potentially no purpose whatsoever. When are you actually fatigued during the kettlebell swing? And what muscle is fatigued? And how many reps does it take to do that? If you realize that the kettlebell swing is something you can just keep going with. But it's very tough on the cardio situation than kettlebell swings are a wonderful part to include in a circuit for overall general cardiovascular fitness. However, more resistance training for growing the hamstrings, or the glutes, or the lower back, or for sport training, developing strength and power and speed. All of those things, something to kettlebell swing is neither by a mechanically designed to do because most of the forces are horizontal and in real sport, most of the limiting forces are vertical. And so, you just kind of left behind. There's an exercise that looks like you're doing something. But in reality, you just try to show the cross foot girl down at the other end of the gym that you too would like to go down on her because cross foot girls are getting gorgeous. Scott told me to say that. So, the kettlebell is a fine instrument, but kettlebell swings are not ideal. I would highly recommend if you want strength, power, and size to do exercises that are frankly a lot more difficult. The deficit deadlift, the power clean, the mid-theipole, these are going to be the exercises that it looks like the kettlebell swing replicates, but doesn't actually, they're going to make you much bigger, much stronger, much faster, and hey, shit. Why not, much meter as well. How do you get the biggest possible traps? They'll say, heavy carries, like strong men do it. When you ask strong men how to get big traps, they just look at you confused because their traps don't need to be any bigger. And if you ask them, a heavy carries are a good exercise if they, yeah, to beat the shit out of you, here's the deal. Do heavy dumbbell and every other kind of implement carry, actually build your traps, you bet. But what they also do is fatigue living, got to you because heavy carries means if very heavy, it's a lot of pressure on the skeleton, it gives you awesome strong bones, but also saps the fatigue away that you could have dispersed over many other more productive exercises. Not only to hit your traps, but the rest of your body. You got to move around, you got to move your feet. Is it sort of athletic? Kind of, but it's probably one of the least athletic things about strongman sport. So if you want to get into strongman, load some constones or do some shit like that. Heavy carries are like if you want to pretend to be a strongman, get very little out of it, and then just piss away a lot of time. But hey, it's going to get the people staring at the gym, in disdain, so stop doing it. Amen, I had my clients do heavy carries for a core strength and a flow of system. Honestly, that's not that terrible of an idea. If your clients are paying for function, number one carries stone loading, press medley is all really, really good stuff to incorporate. Your clients are probably paying you to be healthy, strong, and look good, which means dynamic movements, not just shuffling your feet along with completely static shoulders, movements like presses, poles, every single kind of very deep knee bend, dead lifts at a deficit. All that stuff is going to give you hypertrophy, and strength, and metabolic adaptation, and what your client's paid for, which is sexiness. Instead of heavy carries, if you really want jack traps, you can try, I don't know, a concentric eccentric and asymmetric, instead of just the isometric component of the traps, the heavy carries train. Now you can do this through dumbbell shrugs, cable shrugs, machine shrugs, and shit, hey between us, any kind of shrug you like. When you're doing shrugs, make sure to come up nice and high, as you pull, stop at the top for a split second. Slowly come all the way down through the eccentric, really milk that stretch, come up again. Set's of 10 to 15 control reps, very short breaks until you get your breath back, go, go, go, get a sum total of about 30 to 50 shrugs in per workout, your traps can be blown up, like you're that one person in the comics with big traps. Yes, the Hulk, why not the Hulk? Bicycle labs are also dumb. Now look, they're not terrible. Be it the cross, your elbow, cross, and touch your opposite knee, and it does something to your abs, but it suffers from a few limitations. One, never stretches your abs a ton, and two, most importantly, how do you progress on it? If you can do bicycle labs for more than about a minute and 30 seconds, you're already in really good shape. Any more time added, it's just going to make your abs have higher endurance. We'll make them any more jacked. Thing we want here is the ability to load the exercise and give it a big stretch, which is why bicycle abs kind of sucks. But instead, we can do things like the decline weighted sit-up, which is goded for ab development. The V-up is another excellent ab exercise that you can do instead of bicycle labs. Again, it allows a huge range of motion, huge stretch, even incorporate some of the musculature of the thighs, and of the lats and triceps to get you an awesome anterior chain workout for being very sciencey about it. Who invented bicycle abs? I think it was one of those things, really, a super hot, 80s, a little bit, constructor girl did it. You don't want it to correct her, because secretly everyone's in the class to try to have sex with her later. Next on our list is the Turkish get-up. The Turkish get-up is better known as a parlor trick. By a mechanism to agree that it's not exactly certain what the hell it is you're either testing or training in the Turkish get-up, but most would say it's probably the ability to keep your shoulder mobile enough to stay totally vertical. And the bare modicum of leg strength and total body coordination it requires to stand up with a mini-insure kettlebell in your hand. Do you guys know what tests like strength the whole shit load better? The deep barbell squat. And do you know what tests your overhead pressing ability and strength and stability better? Any kind of barbell overhead press. Since I've done about a million pounds on the squat and about a trillion pounds the overhead press see the videos playing now on your screen, I should easily be able to do a Turkish get-up right? Let's find out. Okay, start like this. And then you... Ha! Ha! Wait, oh my shoulder. And then thanks. Thanks. Ha, ha, ha. Ha, ha. Ha, ha, ha, ha. Yeah, ha! Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha! Bullshit. If I can do it, you know damn well it doesn't make your athletic. Because, I think you look at me. Well, Dr. Mike, you didn't do the kettlebell. Getting the Turkish get-up right man. You're supposed to like extend your hips and have one of who gives a shit. It's make-belief nonsense that you do because you're not actually strong. If you could squat a lot and press a lot, you wouldn't have any ego problems. No, you're in the comments section talking about. He can't even do a proper Turkish get-up. I bet he's so un- athletic. Try any mother-for-her. I am the five-time back-to-back world whiff-al-runner-up. The champion was in legend. What the- do you want me to say? Sometimes you just have to be second-best. Would you tell Scotty Pippony sucks if they ask about no, a few? Alright folks, that's our little video for Cheney Look. All Loving Respect, All Funding Games don't take the shit personally. Turkish get-up people, I'll see you in the comments. Check this out. All of these exercises have their place. It's just that in a program designed to build as much muscle as possible and to lose as much fat as possible and to build as much power and strength as possible. None of these exercises are really top tier. As a matter of fact, they're bottom tier barely in the conversation. Just like my seventh grade dance memories were, it's right? Did you get invited to the Sadie Hawkins dance in seventh grade? Well, I sure shit didn't, and I'm pissed about it. And now the popular people are doing these stupid exercises. I'm so ugly, I'm so bald, so I get to have my full time thus on YouTube and say, oh my exercises are better. So, take that. Anyway, if you like this video, like, comment, subscribe, and come up to the algorithm. Just put your finger right in, just put your finger right in, just know the algorithm. And then make out with it. I'll see you guys next time.

This is not a thing where they hit us up and they're like, here's $10,000. Just go say nice things, you don't mean we don't do that and we never will do that. Every video you'll ever see us in door machines, we mean everything we say. There's tons of machines I ate. You won't see them on this series. There's a hate them. YouTube, what up? You guys remember the story of Goldilocks and the three bears and they were trying some stuff and she was trying their porridge and she got the middle one just right. Well, if porridge was rolling machines, the prime seated row is that good. In my opinion, this is the best rolling machine money can buy and it's also profoundly simple. This is where engineering needs art. Folks, the prime seated row, let me tell you about it. What is it that makes the prime seated row so special? Here's the deal. First of all, disclosure, prime did not contact us to do this video. We just did it. The prime seated row, I mean clearly, I can explain to you the basic function. It is a seated row machine where you get the handles and then you row. Awesome. But so many other machines on which you can do this basic movement. What makes this one so special? Let's walk around to the backside and show you where the money is. This fundamental feature which I'm about to subscribe to you is what makes the prime row and in fact many prime machines super super special. It's their three peg system. Depending on which peg you put more or less weight on is where the machine leverages to make it harder or easier in your range of motion. Generally speaking, if you put weight on this first peg as far as order as concerned, they name to peg number two. I'm not really sure why, but I'm sure that had a great reason. If you use this peg right here and you put all the weight on this peg, the beginning of the movement is going to be really easy. The end is going to be really hard. So if you're working on an exercise or a group of muscles or an exercise that's specific to something else, it really a grapple of tension here. This is where you are going to be putting most of your weight. There are absolutely applications for this. They're not insanely high. There's a peg here. I'll talk about it just a sec which you'll use much more often. But for example, if you are in the very, uh, in the sport in which there's not a lot of people left, sure to bench pressing, your ability to pull from here to here is huge for being able to touch in your bench. This peg right here replicates exactly that without hardly any tension at the other end. The middle peg generally gives you a feel that replicates something like a barbell row. It's just going to be pretty even beginning to end no big difference. Real good place to start for many people. This top peg, which I like to call the money peg, and sounds like money penny from James Bond. I always hate that name. But like you work for me, change that name, anything else, in any case. This peg is super, super interesting because the way training on this machine works is that if you put a ton of weight on this peg, the bottom part of the machine is super highly loaded at that deep stretch. And then the top part gets progressively less loaded as you pull so that you experience essentially no load at the very top. The really cool thing about that is that a body of research that's pretty old, but is accumulating in how much confirmatory research that is about this, is showing us that a lot more hypertrophy by a decent margin is caused by taxing the loaded stretch at the bottom of most muscle groups, and much less is caused at the top. Here's the thing, if you were to do a traditional barbell row, you may be able to get quite a few more reps at that bottom range, but you won't be able to touch your tummy after a while because it's much harder up here than it is down here. Thus, when you reach failure on Metros, yes, technically you reach failure, but that most productive bottom and range could have gotten you more reps and more stimulus. Should you do partial rep rows maybe, but it's really hard to see if you're like, am I stopping just short or how many inches away do I stop? What's considered failure? Can I tell a fine five or six inches away from my tummy? It's no gain you want to play. With this machine, what you can do is put a majority of the weight here. Some of the weight here, what you get is a super good, but not challenging T-contraction, you can still feel all of the muscles crunch, and then as you descend, your back gets ripped apart more and more for that psychotic deep stretch at the bottom. And that essentially can give you, oh damn near the optimal force curve for high-perature. This is amazing and very few machines on the market have anything that looks remotely like this, and as far as I know, no machine comes close to replicating this level of feel, this is the ultimate and I can't recommend it enough. But wait, there's no. Very, very cool part of this machine setup is there essentially four ways you can use this machine and probably a few ways I haven't thought of. Way number one is the traditional row where you would roll with your spine held relatively straight, your elbows and shoulders do the movement, you're sitting very upright and it's very good for back hypertrophy, specifically if you're targeting the lats and some of the muscles back there, very awesome stuff, doesn't fatigue the spinal directors and the lower back much, basically replicating something like a chest-supported row you would see in most other contexts. Another way to roll on this is to essentially do something similar, but lower the seat substantially, pull up and out on the handles which because of the variable handles you are able to do, and then you hit a lot of kind of made and even upper traps and a ton of rear delts. This doubles as maybe the best rear-belt machine you're going to use. Why? Because a lot of times when you're training rear delts with free weights, it's really hard at the top if you do like bent over face pulls or something and at the bottom it's too easy. Here if you put most of your weight on the top peg you get an unreal squeeze-mind muscle connection with your rear delts at the top and then at the bottom it pulls your rear delts off the bone. This is I would say the best also rear-belt machine so they could easily say seated row and rear-belt machine and make double the money. Prime call me. We'll get you loaded. We'll get you rich. How many lambs do you guys have at your HQ? In any case. Another way to use this is something that Coach Kasim has made pretty popular. It's when you lean into the chest pad and the way we like to do it here is actually putting our legs back and then you grab the handles and you're going to do a row that really looks like a hybrid angle-wise between a pull-up and a row and thus it hits the lats much more and all of the other muscles much less. Rowing for the lats isn't I would say the number one choice there are many other exercises for the lats but as a variation of rolling that bias is the lats more that's an incredible incredible movement and a great idea and that's the third literally different exercise that you can use this machine for. The fourth my personal favorite and something we've popularized here through RP is the flexion rule of course and that's when you go all the way down with a super flex spine everything around it all the back muscles at your pull-up part and then as you come up your tummy continues to hit the pad but your chest comes up and your chest points to the sky and you try to take your elbows put them behind to touch your spine while you drive your chest as high as it goes. It's like arching up a ton, crunching hold for a second and then slowly lower and let your entire back lats, rhombides, irractors, traps, everything come all the way get super stretched rounded over and then up again. The really awesome thing is because of the chest support or in that case tummy support there's not a ton of the kind of forces through the lower back that are likely to cause some irritation or potentially increase injury by tiny bit. This is like maybe one of the safest ways to get juicy gigantic spinal arrectors that just saved you seeing arrectors at the same time. Yes. That would be my recommendation for the kind of wrong movement to really get into to see overall back rows but essentially we have four potential exercises to do here no doubt others of course if you wanted you can absolutely do a situation where you grab the support here pull out the chest pad a ton. Get your versic rip in there and you can do one arm at a time no problem. So in reality, which is that's at least five exercises. So this is just a piece of equipment by the way we're filming here at our jam here, Renaissance Gym and I just had to have, right? It's like me with Lamborghini's. I show up to the dealership and I see that blueish. I don't know what it's called, I don't care. Get it and the botlers that go they get. This is the same way. To me, this is the best back training machine ever made. Are there criticisms of it? Are there some detractions? I can think of one but it's a real scuzzy detraction. Here's what it is. Critiques. Because we're being honest with you guys. I'm not here to sell this machine. Prime doesn't need help selling it. It's the fun greatest back machine in the world. They're selling just fine. If you want to buy one, or bother your whoever owns a gym to buy one, he usually recommended. My overall score for this machine is A+. Okay. Here's why it gets a 98% instead of 100%. This bottom peg here, the one that biases the back at the very top, based on recently increasing revelations from research and tons of personal experience, I would say that peg probably doesn't do a whole lot of good. But I would love to see is them take this peg and just put it onto this one so we can have more potential to load here. Not like most people are going to use five plates on this thing. But some people's 45s that their gyms are thicker. And if you get pretty strong, like I used four of these on here and some change in the middle. Maybe take this peg and put it here and this one is definitely good because it can let you play with how much unloading occurs at the top. If you put all of your weight on this peg, you literally get the sensation at the top at the very top. It's free. It's like unloaded completely. It's like zero gravity. Do you get to hear? And like a good part of rolling, a minor part. But a really good part is to get that crunch against resistance and really sometimes it's cooled like hold for three seconds at the top and then really let it go. If you put all your weight here and none in that middle peg, it's going to be like, okay, I can take one hand off and it could just hold it with one. I can take a hand off. I could take both hands off and put it back on. There's no load up there, which is sweet because it's so long-geniered. Would you definitely need that middle peg and how much load you want to cap off the movement versus how much insanity if the stretch you want? It's nuanced. It's different for each individual. People have different bone lengths, limb lengths, etc. They put the chest pad in different positions. So there has to be that play, which is why I'm not saying just the top peg. That would be that idea. Two pegs is great. That third I think is as a bonus point to nowhere. Super minor critique and I'm probably getting that wrong too. The other critique is this a critique. You have to level it every single machine. So it's just the general everyone. This is why never, there's no machine that scores 100%. This is what if Prime took for me this peg and put it here. It would get up to a 99%. Is that some people will use any and every machine and they'll have machines they really connect with and like and then my muscle connection just tears them to bits and it's almost perfect. And some people have machines that even in the technical sense like this machine are unbelievable. They just I'm there. It's just something I just don't like it that much. They can't put their finger on it. I've met a few folks. Someone near and dear to my heart in fact that has used this machine and they're like, uh, so what I'm saying is if you see one of these in your gym and this is the true for every machine there is. Yes, take this video to heart and get excited. But don't get insanely excited. It's like if someone's like dude you got to go to this new sushi place and to best sushi ever. Is it probably going to be great? Yeah. Is it going to be the best sushi ever for you? Maybe not because we have different tastes and sometimes the way they make the yield at this place is better than that place. Whatever. This machine won't be the ideal fit for everybody. But damn, is it close? My God, is this close? And if I was to build a back machine other than then moving that peg and not knowing enough engineering to build a machine, this is how I would do it. Folks, that's all I have this time for the Prime Seated Roe Machine. I love it. I love it. I love it. It's difficult for me to recommend it anymore highly. I think it's a phenomenal piece of equipment. I think they really thought this through. I'm privileged and honored to use it. And if you have a chance if you're traveling around, the Refrigerum gets one absolutely get out there and here's my biggest tip. Don't just get out in the rain cranks and reps and be like ah, or be like oh wow, this is great. Play with the chess support. Play with the seat. Play with your body positions. Play with your angles that you put your hands and arms at. And you will find in the course of several minutes of warming up almost certainly a few angles that just hit so right and you didn't think it was possible. Best of luck to you out there and joy getting a humongous back through the Prime Seated Roe and hopefully you can still walk through doors and it doesn't destroy your life.

A small waste may in large part be attractive because it signals youth in addition to health. And if looking younger and healthier as a thing you're into, having a big gut doesn't line up with either one of them. But I'm probably not going to have to sell you on that, because you're probably clicking on this video, thinking about like, hey, idiot scientist guy, balding, stupid person with ugly face. Why don't you tell me about how to get rid of my belly fat? Like you promised, as sure as she doesn't crunches. You can do a million crunches and basically change just nothing. This thing isn't some bullshit I'm telling you. This is a real thing and it works really well. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. Huge, huge insight for you today about how to take your giant, disgusting, morbid, filthy, hairy, stomach and make it smaller in sexier. Oh, I am talking about myself again. Check this out. Smaller guts generally kind of equal better aesthetics. You specifically and other people liking how you look better. It's a near universe, which means that almost every, maybe every culture ever studied, ever examined. The same person with a smaller waist is 99 times out of 100 going to be praised as more attractive by themselves. And other people, then that same exact person with a bigger waist. Now, what actually makes you have a big gut? There are a few factors, at least about four. One is hip size. If you have very narrow hips, your waist is going to be smaller, usually. If you have very wide hips, your waist is going to be bigger. And that establishes kind of how wide your gut is. If your gut is very wide and very far out, it's going to be way bigger than if it's just very narrow and far out. So that's definitely a thing and you can't really change that with current technology. Scott, would you get a surgery that breaks your hip bones and reconstructs them into smaller ones? Oh, no. That's tough. Another factor is how tight your ab muscles are when you're not contracting them. Ab muscle laxity. Not just the muscles, but the fashile sheath that covers that whole region. And that's just genetic for the most part. Can be fixed with advanced surgery, which I'm probably going to get sooner later because if you're seen any pictures of me, folks who... who's got who's editing this? Alex. Alex. Throw a nice fun picture of me doing a vacuum and of me having my whole like waist out situation. That, you know, I don't actually have a very high body fat in many times in my life. And I still have an enormous gut simply because I have just very high genetic laxity. My parents look like that. Everyone on my family looks that they just have low pop bellies. And that's just a thing. So remember that is a potential way in which like here's actually a really easy test. If you can suck in, do a vacuum and get your waist to come down really small. And then we just relax it blows out really big. It's just the abdominal wall laxity. If you have a big gut and you try to suck in and nothing really happens or goes in by an inch and nothing happens, like it's not abdominal laxity. It could also be that, but really you just have a lot of stuff in there. Let's talk about the stuff in there. These next two factors. One is subcutaneous belly, side and back fat. If you have a ton of fat and your lower back under your skin, you have a ton of fat under your skin, on your sides and you have a ton of fat under your skin, on the front of your stomach, you're going to have a big belly. And it's not because anything inside your abdominal wall is big. It's just because you're really storing a lot of fat just in our teeth. And here's a huge reminder for you guys. Because this video is about what massively targets belly fat in a way that nothing else does. As sure as shit isn't crunches, you can do a million crunches and basically change just nothing. You cannot spot reduced fat as far as we can tell. Don't bother with it. And lastly, this is very, very important. Is visceral fat. Visceral fat is the fat that's located between your organs that are inside your abdominal wall. And if you are one of these folks that has actually quite ripped abs, but still have a bit of a pooch belly and you can't suck it in, there's a high probability you have a higher than average amount of visceral fat. This can give you a belly even if you have ripped abs. If you guys know like that old man lean, where the guy shredded, but as stomach is kind of poochy, sometimes that's because of how degrees of visceral fat. Here's the thing with visceral fat. It is hugely contributive to having a big belly. But it has way bigger problems than that. And say, what could be bigger problem than being aesthetically unappealing? Well, try these on for size. Having a high degree of visceral fat contributes to system-wide inflammation that really just degenerates your health and makes you age faster and almost every way we can measure. It contributes to much poor cholesterol and triglyceride values, which kills you faster and gives you heart disease more quickly. But don't worry, you're also getting some diabetes action in there because having higher visceral fat actually seems to positively contribute to higher increase of insulin resistance and eventually type two diabetes, which are real bad for gains and just about the rest of your life. And in fact, one of the reasons evolutionary psychologists suppose that smaller weights are attractive on people is they actually signal health. Look, if you have a really big waist, there's a chance you're very healthy, but that chance is lower. And so we're dealing with very low information environments in our evolved ancestry, which are brain evolved into try to figure out who's attractive, who am I going to try to ski into and who not. Then I said that too curt to say. I'm going to really what we're talking about. If they have a smaller waist, your brains like, they're probably healthier than average, focus on them. Now visceral fat is gnarly because the older you get just with age, the more visceral fat you accumulate. And so a smaller waist is also the hallmark of youth in a big way. And in fact, a small waist may in large part be attractive because it signals youth in addition to health. So that's the thing. And if looking younger and healthier as a thing you're into, having a big gut, that doesn't line up with either one of those. And I'm probably going to have to sell you on that. Could you probably click on this video, thinking about like, hey, idiot scientist guy, balding, stupid person with ugly face. Why don't you tell me about how to get rid of my belly fat? Like you promised, what I promised is an education with a shitty attempt at humor. It will absolutely get to the main points. Don't you worry because this thing isn't some bullshit. I'm telling you, this is a real thing. And it works really well. But we got to set up the stage and the stage gets worse before it gets better. Here's the big problem. You're saying, okay, look, I don't know what thing you're trying to sell us on. But weight loss in a healthy way, just normal calorie restriction should zap away my visceral fat. And that's true to a point, but there's a problem with that. Weight loss through diet and activity into even drugs like some aglytide, AKO's, M.P. GLP's, help burn loads of fat off your body for sure, especially if you train with weights in the high protein at the same time, it really does burn a lot of fat. But that diet and that activity and even some of those drugs tend to burn the majority of your fat on your way down from your subcutaneous compartment. The fat underneath your skin, not your visceral fat between your organs, the causes, all this health damage, and gives you a big, ugly disgusting terrible gut like I have. And every time you die down, you lose some visceral fat, but a lot of subcutaneous fat hears the screwed up thing. As you regain some weight, even as you go back to maintenance and you continue to age, the visceral fat bumps up a little bit again, maybe a lot of it, and the subcutaneous doesn't bump up as much. So over time, the result is that your visceral fat is still accumulating or kind of going nowhere, and your subcutaneous fat is either falling or neutral or accumulating if you're just getting super, super fat. That ratio of subcutaneous fat to visceral fat continues to get worse and worse and worse in the bad way over time. More visceral fat relative to subcutaneous fat, you want the other way around. The problem is diet and exercise don't target visceral fat as much as they do subcutaneous. And on the regain phase with aging, visceral fat tends to grow disproportionately more than subcutaneous fat. This literally sets you up for even if you're lean. Over time, you redistribute your fat less and less under your skin, more and more you're gut. And you gives you that old man lean or old woman lean look where yeah, you you have a six pack and veins and it may be even, but you have like a round perturbed protruding belly. Scott, does that remind you of liver king? Yeah. With his maybe real, maybe fake apps. You know people see fake apps. I don't see it. Scott, they move like real apps to me. Oh, I'm just stupid person. He doesn't know anything. Scott, you really? Scott, you're going to call me stupid. Your words. Your words, not mine, sir. Not wrong words. That's the thing. And so here's the thing. Yeah, man, we have a big problem because yeah, I know how to get rid of a big belly. It's like, yeah, dive the way off and you're not wrong, but over time, that problem reverses. And then the rest of you super lean and your belly is like kind of like, oh, every time it kind of stays a little bit more or less the same size. Bad news. Bad news for your aesthetics for sure. And really bad news for your health. So how do we combat this? Enter the solution. It's just one thing. It's the drug turns appetite. You guys. Yep. It took me like 15 minutes to get to that one. What the hell is Tras appetite and how does it work? It is a modern dual agonist. It's not just a GLP. It's a GLP GIP dual agonist. It is an agonist for two gut hormones, two in-cryptin hormones. And it reduces your hunger by a ton, which makes fat loss easier shit if you train with weights and you need high protein. Otherwise, you lose a bunch of muscle too. And to Rasepatide, boosts a ton of metabolic factors to improve your health radically. In almost all the ways that high levels of visceral fat make your health worse, systemic inflammation, heart disease risk, diabetes risk, Trasepatide takes them completely in the other direction and wow in a big way. How does Trasepatide do this? In a bunch of different mechanisms, we're actually still learning about but we know one for sure is that it targets visceral fat. It targets inside of your belly gut fat, like nothing else we have ever seen ever in compared to Ozempic, compared to controlling your calories, compared to cardio, there's no comparison. Every other drug in the world, Trasepatide is a rank one for this by a long shot. And this is an out speculation in multiple studies on all sorts of different people. Trasepatide has been shown to reduce visceral fat much more than similar weight loss with diet and cardio alone and even with Ozempic, which doesn't seem to target your visceral fat any more than diet and cardio do, it just takes more fat off your body in general. So the health benefits of Trasepatide are really difficult to overstate. Multiple uses of Trasepatide during fat loss phases and especially lower doses of it on maintenance phases or even slow mass gain phases if you're into that sort of thing can reduce visceral fat stores by huge margins over time because now ever time you lose fat, you lose way more visceral fat than you whatever have lost and you lose a lot of subcutaneous fat but your visceral fat takes a way bigger chunk and then when you're maintaining and especially if you're regaining on muscle gain phases and training really hard you gain subcutaneous fat just because you gain some fat every time you gain some muscle but your visceral fat doesn't really budge or you will gain visceral fat but like much less than you would ever expect. And your next fat loss phase you again lose a bunch of visceral fat. Your visceral fat is like smoking cigarettes in the back room like fellas who are loosening its tie and shit like what are they? We're doing real bad fourth quarter numbers are all those stock markets down really really bad news for your visceral fat incredible news for your health incredible news for your aesthetics huge margins with this drug and the longer you take it for weeks and weeks and months and months and probably years the more profound this effect shows itself because it's over time. Listen if you take your appetite for week and you look at your gut you look in the mirror you look at your gut you look in the mirror and you're going to change we're talking about them like grams of the shit you take turns up a tide regularly once a week with a doctor's prescription for a year or two you are going to see changes and if you resisted train properly using the RPI Pertraphayat if you diet properly using the RPI Kouch app I might add slightly in link in the description you guys and you are really taking care of your health in every other way and your resistance training super hard to make sure you conserve muscle and the employee of protein then you are going to see one interesting asthazic transformation and your health will be better in a humongous way humongous way. After a while you're going to be caring more of your fat your subcutaneous space under the skin and the way less in your gut that will shrink your gut substantially if you have a lot of visceral fat and if you don't have a lot of visceral fat why the fuck are you still watching this go be perfect somewhere else I don't want to hear about you they'll send me a pick to my my DM's or Scotts DM's Scotts DM's are always up Scotts what's your Instagram at I'm not even sure wow I'm a real dedication so I'm eating something else what's your baby what's your at you're like I don't know what an at is my name's god god something or other yeah great you after a few years of take of a stop a few months even will very likely have an objectively better appearance way better health and you will look younger and have the Metabolic profile of a younger person this is a big deal. Trasapatide is legitimately to some real serious extent a partial age reversal drug it really is and here's the best news about Trasapatide it's already here it's not experimental it's already here it's available by prescription and you can get it through insurance companies for like a zillion dollars or you can go to compounding pharmacies which your doctor can probably connect you with for much less money and there's a big competition with weight loss drugs so expect these drugs to become more more cheap over time if you want to use it it's already out there I highly recommend you discuss this with your doctor and if your doctor's really against it a highly recommend you talk to different doctor. The future of waste size reduction is a very very exciting because we have multiple options on that horizon one easy one is retired if you go to PubMed and you type in unleashing the power over a tax retired you literally hit an article that's titled exactly that which is probably the sweetest name I've ever heard for an article um Scott is that what your uh your tender profile used to look like unleashing the power of Scott the video guy they click on it they're like yeah oh yes my my watch out all three and a half inches but then but just you wait he could get hard maybe 50 50 yeah roll the dice you like the casino you love Scott here's the thing about retired retired it already has the fundamental components of trisapotite in it it has a GLP agonist just like those epic it has a GIP agonist so no our integer's appetite and it also has a glue cagan agonist which actually this is really trippy it boosts your metabolic rate it raises your resting metabolic rate without stimulant like effects your body heat just goes up a little bit you feel pretty normal and you don't lose any energy you don't gain any energy just feel kind of normal and it burns fat like crazy retired retired is blowing away almost every other drug and weight loss trials someday soon I'll tell you about drugs that are just starting to test now which are even next level next level they'll be out in a long long time but a retired retired is just like nuts it is demonstrating more weight loss even then turns appetite in similar doses but in like two thirds of the time so if you take it longer you can lose even more weight and it burns off so much intrabdominal fats so much visceral fat and especially so much liver fat which really is bad for your health and also makes your gut look bigger that in one study every subject going into the study had non alcoholic fatty liver disease like they just had fatty liver which is a really bad health diagnosis 85% of the subjects completely eliminated their diagnosis after this study which is lasted like some number of months like mind blowing there is no comparable treatment to fatty liver like this it does not exist this is a category level above everything we've ever seen it is in the final phases of approval in the FDA pipeline it is likely to get approved so around 2027 or so you can expect that this thing is going to come out it's going to have some kind of cool brand red power or true tide it's like a guide a surfboard pointing at your body fat while he's writing a giant wave into your mouth no won't be oral it's injectable in any case retired retired is just the beginning because there are like 10 drugs right now in testing which have results I'm not going to spoil because that'll be another video you do a deep dive later on in this channel history hopefully but like crazy shit is happening drugs are being made now they're truly transformative in a way that we have never had and their side effects are generally just you get way more healthy that's crazy guys this is a new generation new generation you do have surgery options advanced cosmetic surgeries are to here but advanced cosmetic surgeries getting better all the time what are the options for surgery you can get visceral fat liposuction that's when they go in and they rip open your abdominal wall and the lipo at the fat between your organs because they have to fuss with your organs it's really risky I do not recommend the surgery chat GPT does not recommend the surgery and it's going to be safe in the future it'll probably regular thing but like I just wouldn't do it now however they can do abdominal wall tightening because if you happen to have a big gut like your boy because your abdominal wall is just lacks because genetics through your two mental fingers at the same time and even spat on you Jesus genetics you know stay calm um you can get your abdominal wall tightened it's one hell of a procedure it's really intense you can even build they can even do a mesh like a plastic mesh corset around which I'll very likely be getting here and like two years or so that surgery and it'll be cheaper and safer in the future right now it's a big dig there a few doctors in the country to do it really well it's tens and tens of thousands of dollars and months and months of recovery time but we'll absolutely transform how you look if you're already in very good shape if you're not and it's just gonna be like oh like you have a smaller waist and tons of fat and skin over it the skin can be addressed so you can do 360 to relightbow where they lightbow all the way around your waist it's around today it's really expensive it's not ultra ultra super super safe it's safe but nothing crazy it's going to be getting better and safer in the future there's going to be skin tightening connective tissue tightening the whole thing in the future through pharmacology you see you'll be able to take substances probably in about five years that tighten all of your body skin or rub creams on various parts of yourself which they already sell now basically don't do anything these creams in the future will have actual substances in there that are probably AI design drugs that work really well and then it'll be able to if you lose a bunch of fat just have loose skin there like I got to him at like I didn't try to look like this I tried to look all super tight and sexy and yeah yeah TV viewer and if you rub these creams on it'll contract your skin because skin you can't get rid of you just have to either cut it out or have some kind of advance far we're going to have that advance farma we're going to have advanced surgery but for now at the very least if you haven't considered taking turns up a tide talk to your doctor about it because it seems to be like a really really awesome drug that really really works and makes you healthier and remember evolution does not design you to be healthy it's just designed you to be long enough to ski it into somebody so that your kids get a father for long enough until they're independent and then you're good to go or a mother in your case then the skiing works in reverse any case there are no philosophical or scientific objections to drugs making you better than you were without them in the past drugs typically had massive downsides and side effects because we just didn't know a lot about the body and we were shooting into thin air now we're getting better and now the scales are tipping into some drugs are net benefit and they're going to tip all the way to people who don't take drugs are going to be like I just want to live your life like in shitty shape and whatever are good shape but suffering for 10 hours a day to do it cool drugs are coming advanced surgery is coming I say embrace it there will be a time maybe in the next 15 years we're almost all of us if not all of us look exactly like we want I call this the aesthetic revolution I think it's underway give this some thoughts send this video to your friends send it to your grandma translated to chinese posted on chinese youtube take my swearing and dick jokes out and have fun explaining to people why I'm talking at all it's always fun for me see you guys next time

You care about your growth, but history was never your best subject. Don't worry. You've forgotten. Six, 80s exercises will get you jacked. We will help you remember. Come with us to the 80s. Music You might remember parts of the 80s. The awesome hair styles and make-ups, the Wall Street, business suit types, and even the... Well, let's just get to it. The snow, the nose, candy, the fun powder. The eye feel more like me than I've ever felt. Drug, cocaine. You were thinking it. Scott's video guy was definitely thinking it. Max, the editor of boy, is like, well, she was Mr. I didn't know people needed any more help to have fun. Mother's love and understanding. Don't worry. He'll be reprimanded for his positive attitude. Then you will be reprimanded for your historical ignorance. Let's get into these six exercises. And the first one's kind of crazy. Music Behind the neck, lat pull downs. When you take the lat pull down and you put it, I'll tell you where you can put it, behind your neck. What are you trying to do with this exercise? Guys, it's just variation. If you're pulling to the front, that's amazing. It's totally cool. If you pull to behind the neck, sometimes you can get a little bit even more kind of serratus. Activation, get the maryblet muscles going. When you're really lean, those are really cool to look at. It does hits your lats really well. There's only one caveat. Two. Caviot, rather. Caviot number one, make sure that this exercise feels okay and your joints. It gets really weird on your shoulder joints stop. A lot of people don't do this because it is weird on the shoulder joints. But some people can pull it off and then it's a great exercise. And that's the second caveat. Even if it feels okay and your shoulder joints, make sure you're chasing a bit of a pump, a mind muscle connection, a bit of tension. If it's just an exercise you do for lalls, you never who really feel that good of a connection with it, you could just stop doing it. But for those who like it, it's absolutely another option. And as far as bar placement, you can put it just beneath your hairline. You can put it all the way down on the very bottom of your neck. Some people even like to touch kind of in their rear-belt area if they're really flexible. Hold there for just a split second. Engage your lats on all your pulley muscles, slowly ride the eccentric back up to the top. I would say for rep ranges, and nothing under 10 reps is a good idea here. 10, 15, even 20 reps sets are A-OK. There was apparently a power lift here in the 1980s named Mike McDonald. And he was legendary in his pressing strength. More or less raw, he benched over 600 pounds, weighing around 200-11 pounds, numbery serves. Which is kind of insane. And what he could do was do this exercise, I'm going to show you the straight arm dumbbell fly, with the 100 pound dumbbells for sets of 10. What in God's name does that mean? Means he had big ass pecs. He were really strong. This exercise also hits your biceps aton because they're at their fully stretched position across two joints. It's actually a good bicep move. Very much you want to ease into this exercise. Don't do anything crazy. Make sure your shoulders feel OK. Your elbows feel OK. Don't get in same with the weight. Start with sets of 10, sets of 15, slowly work up, and try to go for maximum depth. Holding for one or two seconds at the bottom to get that awesome stretch. That stretches everything. This exercise won't let you feel your pecs as much as if you bent your arms because it takes tension puts it on the biceps instead. But bicep plus pack there. Perfect physique. Count me in. All right, folks. The next exercise that we broke out of a time capsule from the 1980s, the ran around the lab. It was confused. It was screaming a lot. We sedated it. We woke up. But still ran around screaming. We had to put it down. But we learned it so you guys can have it too. This is an exercise you might have seen. The regular gyms, bros, use it nowadays, but it's not super common. It is the super-rom lateral, but with momentum on the concentric. The thing about lateral raises, if you do them strict, is that as soon as you can't get any more concentric reps, the set is over. But your eccentric strength is much higher than your concentric. So you're if you were to able to get these dumbbells up to the beginning of the eccentric, you could ride them out nice and slow, contracting those side delts, really getting some nasty growth. So with these momentum laterals, what you're going to do, is you're going to bend at the hips all the way down like this, rock at the dumbbells into mid-air. But then the really important thing is as soon as they're up, control the descent. Control. Control. Control. You're trying to use a lot of momentum on the way up. But zero momentum and full control on the way down. These are really tough. What you can do as a cool modern 80s combo is get the Dodge Viper, no it's the 90s. Anyway, you get as many four-range of motion, controlled, concentric, and the center crept as you can. As soon as you can't do it anymore, breathe it out, and then start cheating that ass off, and then control. Big move, and I can control. And then just a few seconds of time, you're going to have bigger delts. To behind the Mac press, you used to be a goded exercise from back in the 80s. The best power lifter of all time, Mr. Ed Cohen, has actually behind the Mac press, 405 pounds before for a rub. Which makes sense because he benched like 550 with no shirt. Crazy crazy crazy stuff will you get enormous strength and doubt size with a behind the Mac press. You can, as long as you keep your shoulder safe. If you can do the full range of motion with limited weight, and you have no pain, you're good to increase the weight slowly, and it's a great exercise like every other. If your shoulder feel funky or popular, clicky, blub, blub, blub, if your shoulders feel poppy or funky or clicky back there, I couldn't bother with this exercise. Tons of other great fish in the sea. And I'm using that as a dating analogy. So if you're tired of making out with fish, that don't appreciate you, you need to have a sack of dirty, disgusting fish. There are more fish in the sea if we do other sacks that we're. What do you think of the hell came up with that analogy? Let your elbows and shoulders track naturally, let the movement feel as good as possible, and definitely make sure to dip your head low at the bottom. Nothing crazy or jerky under control, but nice and low, and touch the very bottom part of your neck if you can hold for one second, slowly ease the barbell off and then accelerate. If you want to get into some deep shit, bounce that out of the hole. I have three things to tell you about for this exercise. First, sometimes the way you want to make love to one another, it needs more machinery, which is why you get SNM gear like this. I'll show you how it works in a second. Don't tell my mistress I'm around here because I ran away. I'm so naughty today, you guys. The other thing is, yes, this really is how much hair I have growing on my body. I don't like it. I didn't sign off for it. Thanks Ashkenazi genetics in a lifetime of day steroids. Steroids aside, this is an exercise that didn't in the 80s when they also had steroids. The one and only arm blaster. The big advantage with the arm blaster comes in two forms. The first form of the advantage is that really lets you push your elbows forward, and doesn't let you pull your elbows back. That means every single time this turns into an early, very much bicep isolator exercise. Which is super valuable. But the real value of the arm blaster was that it pushes your triceps forward and out, which makes your arms look enormous so that you can look at passerby ladies and go, excuse me, have you noticed the huge my arms are the help me touch me, look at me, Harry ons, I picked it on smell, I picked it on smell like a combination of like a Turkish bathhouse and like when the golden receiver doesn't get into the lake but it falls asleep and the nasty mud, why the from the lake it's in the hair. Yeah, okay. Yeah. Scott said it was too short so I'd have to use technique to compensate. Luckily I'm used to that sort of thing. Let me tell you about the technique here. You want to maintain a nice rigid back. You do not want to do any swinging with this device. You want to stand straight up and only use your arms. It might help too. If you lean back against a wall because that wall leaning even if your feet are a little bit out in front can help make you super super upright and only allows you to use your arms. The thing is you can forget the ego and this exercises. Much weight as you can lift, it won't be much. The whole ego with this exercise is wrapped up and doing it in front of a mirror so you can see how good your arms are. You guys ready for this? Like hold up, hold up. X-Men. Yeah. Yeah. My heart, you can't just access it. You need to write magic spells. Max, don't you play magic? Gathering? I should show you like that. Don't you dare. I don't dare. Hand tie. He's in the hand tie. Max, the editor boy isn't a hand tie. It's all in. All in. Every time. Hand tie. What about hand tie guys? We shoot a hand tie theme video. No dude. We're in the real world. Fuck. Our last exercise from the 1980s before we well close the wormhole to the 80s before dropping a mucedown and they're I'm kidding the 80s you would break is the wide grip guillotine bench. Like many exercises from the 80s not for the faint of heart. If you have shoulders constructed out of female genitalia is probably not a good idea that you do this exercise. However, you have strong sturdy shoulders. The kind that you would find in a man's basketball locker room with everyone's name. If you have strong sturdy shoulders, this is an exercise that is awesome. It is wide grip. It annihilates your pecs in two ways. One is the wide grip. Angles most of the forces in your pecs very little in your triceps and two the guillotine component means you're touching just on your which stretches your pecs at a very wide angle and very deep at the same time. It is critical in this exercise that you go under control that all times take a full pause right at the bottom and ease up out of the movement instead of exploding up out of the movement. If you do this exercise wrong, snap city is where you're going to be residing for the next several months. If you do this exercise properly, then one of those super hot A's just lightly drold up bitches is going to come visit you in the middle of the night. You're going to make out. You're going to be kissing all up on her and you're going to be like she's got an atom's apple but I'm totally cool with it. Scott love that one. He's really sick. Hey ladies, I was just kind of playing competitive basketball on a court with a hoop with other men of which I'm a high rank and respected and I kind of just noticed I have a controller here. What's your number or whatever? Do you have like a DM icon handle? Anyway, on side of me hitting on a camera, this has been great. The 80s were dope. The vibe is very amazing and we can have an 80s of red asons as long as you pay attention to the tension and your muscles and the burn and your muscles and make sure that your joints are doing A okay and if they are, these exercises are awesome to try. Why do you even find yourself upside down waking up in a police station after a crazy night about white, white, and that good good. Which actually, well, not a side. I'll be right back. All right guys, I had a ton of fun. That was really fucking awesome. It just feeling everyone today and everyone's my friend. I just want you guys a tune in and click on this video up to the link of the description. I got to go. music Don't called the dragbox folks. Uh, three, uh, yeah.

I'm sure somebody's out there. A lot of people want to say deadlift. A big debate we've been having lately on the Massomics podcast with several of our more recent guests. If a lifter walks into your gym, you've never seen this lift before. You have no prior knowledge of their lifting ability whatsoever. Your goal is to be able to best gauge their overall strength by watching them perform one day. One lift, one exercise only. You only get to watch them do this one lift. And you want to best gauge their overall strength. Whatever you consider that to be, what lift would you have them do in order for you to take your best guess? That's a really good question. We've had a lot of different answers from some, you know, we talked about that with Dave yesterday. There's been a really, really broad way that people analyze that and think about the way that they would interpret it. The continental clean and press. Well, that's, I think the first time we've gotten that one. Yeah. Yeah. That's like I'm a sports scientist. So you're reasoning. Do you know what that is? The continental clean is where your, there's an extra step of the process where it's, uh, Yeah. We're back and on the belly. Right. You're on the belly. Right. Right. Now all I need to say to justify my opinion is that the person who I believe still owns the record for that lift with the, uh, Axel at the Arnold is the journalist of this goes. I think he got like nine reps with 366 pounds or something insane in the continental clean and press. And because the journalists of this goes is the definition of several things, a grown man, Superman and strength period. I am interested in a debate about it with no one because it's just truth. And so if you say how do you assess general strength, what you're actually asking by the transit of property is, how do you assess someone's proximity to his journalist's viscous inability? And thus we leverage it according to his essentially best lift ever. And it's his best lift ever because he has beaten everyone at everything in strong man at one time or another. But at several Arnolds, and I'm sure you guys have seen all these, there were several times where he just left the entire pack behind by like a factor of two. Like the next best guy got like four reps and he got nine. I remember being at one of the Arnold's live and everyone in the crowd was like 90 seconds. If he got like nine reps and everyone was just like, what the fuck is going on? And a lot of guys like had to do the mixed grip, load, switch. Some guys were too athletic to have guts, which is nonsense. And he just did it like in such a smooth, I remember one time, I think for a few of the reps, the first few reps he loaded it onto his gut. And then the next push he just muscle snatched it. And you're just like, but that is a Coke can size barbell with 300 and some odd pounds on it, 366 or whatever. But it's just pure nonsense. Right. That motherfucker, if you can do that shit, you're strong. And if you're like, but I'm not flexible, I don't give a fuck. Get out of my face. Like, I'm not flexible enough to do that lift anymore because of bodybuilding. I'm not that strong, not in the real world. That's your shit. Like, it's just, that's it. That's the lift. And from an actual answer, sports science perspective, that lift will involve a huge fraction of your muscle mass. And the continental part, I'm just cutting a little slack on because some people, like, a little less technical version, you're testing less speed, less technique. Because so weightlifting will be able to clean and press more than everyone. But they're not actually like as strong as you would expect. Someone that can clean and strict press a lot, you know they're benching a fuckload. You know they're bent rowing a fuckload. There's just no way to get around that lift with leverage. Because if you have short arms, the press is easy, but the pull is hard. If you have long arms, the pull is easy, but the press is hard as fuck. So there's just no way out of it. Because like some guys who, who said deadlift. I'm sure somebody's got that's a lot of people want to say deadlift. Yeah, we agree. Because like some skinny mother fucker pull and say, get out of my face. Like, what do you eventually give the broke 135 less week? Like kilos? Like no pounds. That's the reason to both of us. Why deadlift is not counterintensive. Right answer. It's actually one of the longest answers because the deadlift involves the most trickery of all the lift. We've got to do the death of that. And analyzing that exact thing. It's the easiest one to manipulate in your favor, depending on App Store body type, your different leverage. All body type, I think, is such a huge, yeah. Congratulations. You have long arms. Yeah. And a short torso. Slow fucking clap. Oh, one of everyone who deadlift's a lot is adcon. Anyway, sorry to cut you off. One of the answers that's come up that I've started to kind of like to. People like the idea of maybe like a high handle. Like I liked someone said high handled farmers carry. I kind of start to get behind that. They say high handle, so it like maybe remove some of the, you know, it's a lesser technique. Like we talked about there. There's like judging maybe some grip strength. That I don't know. Grip strength is a weird thing to. But then people say high handle trap bar deadlift. That's one that's come up a decent bit too. So I'll say like that is a good answer. Yeah. My report to that is it. The limiting factor is so much grip strength. That's okay. You have like some arm wrestler could probably do super well at it. You're like not that strong and all the, because like your legs exist. And that lift barely test your legs at all. There is a, you guys are, of course, historians of strength. Yani Viertonan. Yeah. 2000 world strong is about year 2000. Yeah. It, of course, he's the world strong as man. No one can ever take that away. But the events were very favorable to him. He's a tall guy, very lengthy, very strong. It's just like finished people are just nonsense strong for no discernible reason. Literally because you're like, but you're not that jacked. Where is it coming from? But if you put him on a flat press, if you put him in a deep squat, right, it's actually not that strong. Right. And he was just insanely athletic and insanely coordinated and could deadlift and he had these super long arms. He could do stone loading. He could do the carry. He would do amazing at that kind of thing. But overall total body strength is a little bit different than even winning world strongest man. True. But if you think about like, what does it take to do a continental clean and press, you can just start checking things off like, weak back, you're out, weak legs, you're out, weak pushing ability, you're out. That's the three parts of your body generally already. And grip, especially if you do it with an axle, holy fuck. We just know way to get around that. Right. So that's my best answer, I think. Well, regardless if it's the right answer or not, which you might be, you might have the right answer. You have given the most detailed explanation. Also, I would like to score for it. I'd like to analysis of the deadlift, which three to far, so I particularly like to guess. Anyone who agrees with us, we will now air this episode. Someone's like, Strict Curl, you're like, cut the fuck to the camera, that's all right.

Come on, push, push, push, push. Oh, sir. I'm a cast failure. That's hard. Yeah, that's hard. Man says with blood in his face and eyes. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. We have a treat for you. You've seen the targeting the muscle series. Now we're going to be trying to do a variation of that. But live in the gym with actual lifters during actual workouts. Today's video is going to be the Camberd Bar Bench Press. We're going to be taking a jack, super strong power lifter through the Camberd Bar. Multiple sets giving you tons of cues to really figure out how this works. Not just when we talk about it, I'm done when we get in real actual life. Let's get into it. Heck is healthy, but coming off a peck strain, one was your peck strain. Five, six weeks ago. So I'm just going to do a high position. Cool. Yeah, I'm healthy. You just should be. Probably don't want to load that super. Okay. The bad news is you might not have one of these around. The good news is the Bar costs like 250 bucks. So you could easily harass your gym owner and the getting one. Right here's the thing. You may not be flexible enough to go all the way down to touch the Camberd. But that's not the point. The point is to take your peck through as big of a natural stretch as they can under load. Remember, stretch under load has been now illustrated pretty convincingly to be a potent stimulator of hypertrophy, maybe one of the most potent. In a barbell bench press, which is a great lift down here your pecks could be really stretched. But maybe there's one, two or three more inches that they could go lower and stretch. You can do that with dumbbells, but once the dumbbells get big enough, it gets hard to get them out to outside of your chest. For this lift, we can get the combination of the stability and control of a barbell with the depth and stretch of an actual dumbbell or push up or whatever machine variant that you'd go below your chest. This is the killer. It is probably in my view, one of the most stimulating chest exercises of them all, not for everyone, but for most. So this would be really mindful as you approach failure that you're going to have the tendency to kind of cave. That's where the big chest is most important. And the cause, keep it open. Yep, yep. My, under control. Good. Come on. Good. Holy centric. Pause. Good. Come on. My peck. Mmm. Control control control. Pause. Go, pause. Good. Come on, Pete. You got this. Big chest. Chest started to see it like, come on. Good. Make it roll. Come on. I got you. I got you one more. Under control. Under control. Pause. Grab a part. Come on. Push. Push. Push. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. I'm a calf failure. So the thing about the cambered bar bench is in something like a chest machine or a dumbbells, even regular barb of a person to sum extent. You get a really good stimulus. Just by lying down and just kind of bench it. With the cambered bar bench, you want to make sure to milk it out as much as possible. And the best way to milk out an exercise is before you go to the gym. It's before you arrange your technique for that exercise. You have to ask yourself, what is the purpose of the exercise specifically? How is that purpose being accomplished? The purpose of course, estimulating chest muscle growth. How with me and accomplish in the cabbabar bench is to stretch the pecks maximally under load. If that's the purpose, we want to line our docks up in a row to make sure we're attending to that purpose, facilitating to that purpose, and not working with cross it and against it. So if you simply bench like this, that's fine. What you want to do in the cambered bar bench is raise your chest up a little bit. That aligns your strong external fibers into the movement. And you're going to take your scapulae and you're going to slide them back in a little bit down. The down is not as important as the back. Your chest is up. It already look at how much pre-stretching I'm getting in my fibers. Once I do that, not only does this keep my shoulders tucked away and much safer on a cambered bar, which really explosion their high range motion. It allows me to pre-stretch my pecks and then the cambered bar does the rest. All right, good techie care. No worries, no rush. Do you jump? Yes. Little bit longer pause. Do you jump? Yes. Yes. That's up. If you pause, no next rep will feel worse. That's what we want. We want to see. Let it see. Good. I can't look at that range. You know what it's closing on the bottom? He's out. I'm at the bottom. He's out. Yes. One more. One more. Last one. Big stretch. Up. Go. Go. One more. You got another one. One more. Reach. Reach. Up. My part. Go. Go. Go. Go. Lock it. So. Little wiggle never hurt anybody. Good stuff, man. Pumped? Yeah. For sure. Taking the extra time to let it see. I think you're in the bottom. Yes. Yeah. I think you're getting really close to your chat scene. I'm sure if you did this enough times. You're going to be touching your chest. It's a great mobility exercise. Increasing your emotional wrong. Huge. So what these guys are saying is at the bottom of the lift, there's a tendency to try to just stay there and hold it. What you want to do from muscle growth is consider doing this. When you get to the bottom of the lift, be it machines, be it dumbbells, be it. That's what pushups, be it cambered bar. And at the bottom for one second instead of holding it at the bottom. Let your shit sink deeper. That painful extra stretch at the bottom is the definition of stretch under load. Also from a range of motion, increasing range of motion, first, first effective. Right. Like if you're limited on range of motion, like say, I mean, in this in the bench, for example, in his first couple sets, you know, without the sinking, he wasn't coming as deep. He came down, caused sunk a little lower. And now his. Not active range of motion. He's able to come down. Right. And putting himself in an even more stretched position with the same load. And that probably just means more muscle growth. I mean, if you think about it, your muscles are stretching at the very most intense load that they're going to experience. There's just not a much theoretical growth mechanism that's left over after that. And you're tapping into every fucking thing that's like, Yeah, I mean, you're talking about not smolankening. It's the most stimulus. Yeah, I'm saying, it tissues huge. And so you're missing out if I don't hit that extra three inches of wrong with the fact just fucking rips around the floor. Yeah, that's the good raw. Yeah, that's that good good. For the bar. Good. That's the bar. That's the bar. I think. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Fuck. My feet. Tanner control. Let's go. One more. Holy centric. Nice to slow chest towards the bar. Come on. Good. Plus, plus, plus, plus hard. Got you. Oh, that's it. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. It's I think it's important to get into like, uh, at first you'll resist this kind of thing because your ego is attached to how much weight is on the bar. Yeah. And it's physically painful to do. So you're like, fuck this. But then if you like over time convince yourself that the painful debilitating stretch that I'm feeling, exposing my muscles to it is the thing I want. Producing the outcome. Yes. Then at some point you start to think, wow, it's there's an internal guidance system I have of what is right and what is not right. If I'm caving away from the bar and resisting the pain, it doesn't feel right anymore. We're used to be like, oh, yeah. I want to get away from it. You don't want to get away from it. You don't want to get away from it. You want to get into the pain. And all of a sudden, it's same thing with hacksquots letting your knees come over your toes. Yeah. Slowly your clots start to tear and you're like, oh, this is a good thing. This is what I want. Alright folks, that's it for Camber Bar stuff. We're going to go ahead and do more stuff, but this is it for this video for now. Catch the full workout. It'll be a link here for you already. Have it. If not, go catch it later. Hopefully you took some good take home tips and remember quality first quantity layered on top. Best of luck in your own training. Thank you.

One more, one more, one more. Lift, one more. One more. Go! Hold, hold, hold, hold, hold, hold, hold, down slow. Aye! I'm gonna do it. Yo, YouTube, what up? Got a few people to introduce you to me. I'm Dr. Mike. Hello. Hey, held on. Jared Feather, IFBB Pro, Master's degree in Exercise and Sport Science. Elite Coach of Elite Pro, that's all true. And the most true part, my literal biological son. Look at him. My boy. See, he's in and he had a daughter recently. Oh, my, this is Jenna Geary. She is not due to the channel. You guys know her. Tell her what up in the comments. She trains at one speed. Hard. I don't know if hard is a speed. Hard as 10 today. Hard as your body. You know what I'm saying girl? Aye. I'm going that. I'm 100. Shout-off, Dr. Mike. Let's get to the video. First exercise is the face bolt. Can be done in a variety of ways with a variety of grips. We have some interesting dildo handles today. They're new here, Dragonslayer. And we kind of think like, hey, why not? Let's try. The purpose of the face pull is to train any part of the delts, which lines up best with a direction of pull. In the case with baseball, it really just depends on where you put the attachment itself and how it slides. So if you put it lower, then you pull more up. It's more side belt. If you put it higher and you pull down, it's more rear belt. But if you put it too high, you get a lot of backwards as well. So we like to say right at about face level is a good place to start and work from there. Remember to get a big stretch at the bottom. And a nice peak contraction at the top to hold for a second and squeeze and connect with those rear belts if you can. And then we go from there sets of, oh yeah, you know, 15 to 25 reps really is the kicker here. Whether the reason is because these reps don't take a long time each, it's not a lot of distance to move. And it ends up being that we can generate more tension over more time. Get a bigger burn if we can actually do a few more reps. Watch this technique. Jen is fucking ace when it comes to the shit. I'm sure my head will pop up later until you more tips. Yes, three more. Three more. Yeah, this time no bullshit. Let's go. One slow. Oh shit. Okay, don't swing. We're adult. Two slow. One jump. We're adult. We're adult. Yeah. Oh, that's amazing. Go ahead and wrap. Uh. You know, I can't open her belts already. You fucking wrecked your belts like really stupid. Holy shit. That's a nice one. Oh, my god. Oh, is there already a way to get instant cheated? A couple more reps for sure. No, no. You're adults. Oh, how are you? Yeah. One jump. Munchin. Dells. Yeah. Two more. No swinging. One. Last one coming up. Helples back. Yes, slow. One. One. Hey. Yeah. Oh, sweet. That was so good. You know, it's got their own zip code at this point. Oh. Oh, I want a drink, but I can't. I wish I had straw. Why can't you drink? Because I can't hold my cut. Are we getting this? Gen is so fucking jack and lean that you will see the direction of her fiber contraction. In this exercise, making the coaching easier shit, you'll also see that at the tail end of the range of motion as the pull on the Delta cursor. The rear belts are very elongated and they are significantly short and happy end. Does this mean it's all rear belt. No. The side belts also go through the same process. And the extra size of the backrest is very easy to. And the more we execute it, the more we execute it. Exercise in this case for the growth face pull includes a rear belt as well as side belts. Because side belts are very resistant to hypertrophy, your rear belts are already getting a craplot of work from back training every single back exercise. Trains your rear belt are known. And that means the rear bolts are already kind of being trained really well. Kind of like the front delts are from chest training. We'll take as much extra side-to-side don't work as we can. The key here is quality and watch this. One of the cues you're gonna use is to tell Jen to have a slow, e-centre control. It's easy to pull it up to here. Slowly lowering and feeling those fibers, micro-terr. Oh, that is, as people say, the bees knees. The Jenner-brash, the understood what that means. Do bees in fucking have me, the shirt, shit on our kneecaps. Another little shit's been, but the two preview to look at, under-microscope is oo. They got all that air in the bite. Fuck that, fuck you in sack. One more, go check me, if it stops and stops, whatever. Up, up, up, up, up, up. And I'm gonna take a picture of it. Oh, very good. Oh, I want to stop left. I'm gonna sore hands. Good. You got this. Oh, these are so good. Excellent. Oh, my God. Oh, yeah. Excellent. Oh, good. Good. Good. Three more, you're done. Good technique though. Almost back. One. One. Hold it back there for a second. Two. Two. Last one. Yes. Oh, God, fuck my hands. Don't fuck my hands. Fuck something else. Sorry. I was gonna appropriate. We'll let her wait for her. We'll wait for her. All right. You, yeah. That's okay. Sorry. All right. So here's the deal. A variation on the theme of side belt training with lateral scumballaderos. It is totally great to do dumbbell ladderos to just below parallel. Amazing. It is totally great to do them to just above parallel. Amazing. It is totally cool to do them and stop at whatever point you want for a split second. Another way to do them is this. We realize that between here and here, gravity doesn't affect us much because the joint angle is all wrong. We're having only points down. From here to here, not a whole lot happens either. So what we're gonna try today is Jenna's gonna start at roughly 45 degree angle. Go up to above 45, come back down under control. Up and pause, down under control. Every time it's 45 degrees, 45 degrees. This means constant tension on the muscle, which isn't some magical thing. It just means lack of gas, but it'll accumulate. And interesting things will happen. As soon as you're done with a set like that, you switch to the dumbbells pointed this way and you pull up with your elbows to do dumbbell upright rows. These will also be with a pause. Sound good? Yes. Don't worry about how high the reps are. Just every rep quality. Oh, these are so good. Good. I'm swinging. Up. Get your thumbs in there. Get your thumbs under. You'll couple more. Okay. Good. Two more. Wait my god. Oh, my god. That's it. Okay, up right rows. Close. High and pause. Slow. Okay. One more. Just don't. Oh, you got a couple more. You got this. You got this. That's it. Two more. Nothing. Right away. Slow. I need some bottom beat. That's it. Pause. Slow. And good enough. That's a good. Very good. Those suck. It tends just toast. Oh, God. Why don't you feel like a suck? You great. This is the, for you came here to hurt. They're going to accomplish. See what I'm wearing. Oh, we're doing the five. Can you tell the camera why we're doing the five? Yeah. Because I suck. That's like a lot of times. Because I'm going to find a five because she is doing an attempt to technique. She's obviously very pump-up already from the exercise before this. And this whole, like he said earlier, it's like constant tension on a muscle. True constant tension on a muscle. You're just constantly sequestered more and more and more in metabolites. The entire set. So no, she does not suck. She says very fucking big delts between you actually can sequester even more metabolites. So we're going down so she can get more reps, kind of meet the needs of the intensity technique that we're doing. You don't suck. I do suck. I do suck. I do suck. I do suck. I do suck. That are doing 25, 50s, 60s. Fucking loud. Or is it like this? With 80s? Get out of here with that shit. Yes. Two more. Two more. Two more. Oh, you're so steady. Come on. Hell yeah. Yes. Two. One more. You're fucking down, Jen. Beautiful. And then I'm right, Rose. Pause. Close. Close. Yes. Bring it to you face. Beautiful. Yes. That's perfect. I'm swinging. Yes. Just delts. I'm just tired. Hold on. Down. Yes again. Keep going. Go. Go. Two more. Two more in your down. Delts. I'm swinging. Hold. One more. Go. Go. Hold. Go. Go. Go. Go. I'm by. Ha ha. I think it's drinkless. Oh, you've got a problem with Delts. There's nowhere to hide from the left. Yeah. You can put your legs down. You're on your arms. Your belts are just like, yeah. Oh, it hurts so bad right now. I'm just like, I'm so bad. No. The outcome tells us how to take it. Maybe I'll get some action. You're like, uh, oops, my man. Actually, like, if I wanted to. If I was. If I became violent and I wanted to strain you, go like this. I just do like, right. Take off. I just don't know. Go. Try. Oh, no. How. Jans delts are enormous. And with proper technique and a high level of relative efforts, how much you give to each set. She's using the five's. Your boy, you know, TLDR. I do from the side. I do have quite large delts. Just not from the front. And I have overhead pressed to 75 for eight standing. It is on YouTube. And I only need like the 20s or the 25s for the sector size. I can even get a ton out of the 50s. You're just trying to make me feel better. No, it's legitimately true. I don't have never tried to make you feel good in my life. Oh, yeah, sure. Good one. Good one. So, honestly, you need to use progressive overload. More reps, more weight over time. That place where you start or replace where you start with really good technique could be so low. You look around the gym. You're like, and I have the only here person here doing the fives. Remember, at your gym, if Jans showed up and fucking got a belt pump, she would shut everything down. All the guys who be looking at all the girls who are looking at that. Holy fuck, shit. This is a nice me pro. This is good as it gets. She's using the fives. Don't you fucking worry about what you're using. Think about your technique. Jared, what are you used for this exercise? 15 to 20. Jared delts have their own delts. And those delts, they're working on delts in their own. Think about that shit. Let's do it up a sec. Wonder what the food? Never heard of her. Let's go. Go, go, go, go, go, go. Yes. Beautiful, too, bar. Put them up there and keep them up. Hold it. Go in for a door. Hold it. Hold it. Down. Again, again. Again, I know you do. Hold it. Down. Keep going. Keep going. Come on. Go. I always. Go. Go. One more. One more. Go. Go. One more. Go. Go. Yes. Another one. We're here for pain. A fucking day. Yes. Go. Go. Go. Go. One more. One more. Lift. Go. Go. Hold it. Hold. Hold. Hold. Down. Drop. Drop. I'm not damn doomed. I don't train. I'm not telling you that for years, Mike. The delts are almost destroyed. We could use a little bit more fraught deltwork just to cap the whole thing off. And when you're rear and side delts are really really toasted, if you're doing standing barbell overhead presses properly, they will also begin to be the limiting factor, especially the side delts. So this actually is a very good side delt exercise. If your side delts are pretty exhaust, you're going to notice that Jenna is doing the quintessential thing for good overhead press. This is not a good overhead press. That's just more upper chest and just front delt. A good overhead press pushes over the face. And as soon as you pass the face, real close to the face, you're going to push the bar backwards. And you're going to push your face forward. And you're going to reverse that movement on the way back down. That backward pushing, you'll notice the angle is that actually hits your side delt. It's a really awesome movement. I wouldn't do it first in an exercise training session because you're going to be fresh and lift the trillion pound. And your front delts and triceps are good anyway from chest and trice up training. But at the end of a session for shoulders, if you hit the rear, if you hit the sides, and Jen's done two exercises already for the sides and one for the rear. This begins to be a really good overall shoulder exercise. Technique is king, slowly centric, touch the clavic lever time. Keep the bar as close to your face every time, tight core, chest slightly up. Let's do things. Good, slow. Yes! Slow. Slow. Off to the back. Back. Do it one more. Take your time with this one, slow on the way down, pause at the bottom. Oh yeah. Up. Back. One. Yes! Slow and then wrap. Push it down as if you're going to do another. Hold. Rack. This should. You're like if a Wonder Woman action figure was built properly for the first time ever. It's fucking awesome. I'll take that shit. I'll take it. Now, I'm taking that shit right here. Take my money. There you go. I give the good with the bad. The bad news has started. Okay. Slow. Good. Oh, fuck. Oh, fuck. That's it, rat, rat, rat. That's it, Bethlehem. Yeah, your delts are really fucked, huh? Fuck. Yes. They are. Ah. Do we get the thumbnail already? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Do we get the thumbnail already? Okay. Do I legs look good? Does my waist look small? Did you? Scott, are you doing your job? Oh, they want, okay. Do your job. I'm sure they have. Shrinking, inch and a half. Okay. I bet that hasn't shrunk. No, it hasn't happened to her big dick. Oh, I'm on my arm. According to the internet of the human toy. I'm going to lose it. If you talk, I like that. All right. Folks. Gen. You're training intensity is in another level. All together. How do you do it? Tell your fans what the secret is to get a genetic year. Level of intensity. For me, I push as hard as I push because I can't physically. Can't quit. So like, if I have anything in me, I'm going to give everything I got to push. The reps. Why not just quit? It's easy. Because I want to see what my body's capable of. And if I just keep pushing my limits, then I'm going to capitalize on every rep on everything. And then I really truly see what I can do. I can't do a better out trip than that. See you guys next time.

Folks who are older, folks who are really jacked, folks who aren't jacked at all have to shit genetics real talk Like it sucks to go to the gym and it just clawed for these minimal games This drug and drugs like it could end that for ever now you get games now You come to gym and shit makes sense again and every month your body looks better Wow you are gonna be able to gain a muscle at levels We barely see what the highest doses of steroids most most people can't sustain for about a few weeks With ten times less side effects if after a few generations any side effects whatsoever Modern Pharma unleashed you guys nobody planned we look nobody's planning Folks the RP strength summer sale is upon us We've got tons of savings out all of our apps and a bunch of digital products click in the link down below in the description Let's get started with today's video. Hey folks Dr. Mike here for RP Strength and I have a very very exciting chat to chat with you about Scott How come I suck at these intros Yeah killed it. It's dead now sound the road. It's decomposing in any case folks for a few years now if you've been tuned into this channel of not no big deal welcome I've been yapping uncontrollably about the theoretical potential benefits of what are called non-Androgenic antibiotics Drugs that increase your skeletal muscle mass which will all deeply desire But at the same time have limited or no androgenic side effects What are Androgenic side effects? They include all the typical things that steroids give you because they do increase muscle mass But they have all the end genic side effects hair loss Acne increased body hair which I'd known nothing about worse lipid profile about good potential strain in the liver in some cases Definitely increases in aggression and anxiety prostate enlargement Testicular atrophies you have to restart your testies after you come off and for females Deepening of the voice Collateral enlargement which is so In hot I will not make excuses about that but mostly these find it confusing it best Manstroller regularities and of course facial hair growth which females tend to find Displeasing in most case So the question is why do steroids cause these in the answer is steroids are not a muscle growth drug They are a drug that is just designed to masculineize Animals like all mammals and humans and so when you increase the amount of Androgenic and of all Exteroids inside of a human it does all the things that molecules do to make you more manlike Which means getting more jack for sure But also means making more aggressive making less verbally social making more anxious making you have Porelipid profiles and all the other stuff Of course hair growth and all that stuff these are side effects that are annoying they're bad for your health And it makes it so that steroids are not like hey take this drug and it'll just get you jack There's a laundry list of problem with them and I've been planning of them and they suck It's cool tool, but it's really really rough edge tool if we could just have a drug That built a crab load of muscle but had no such Androgenic side effects it would be amazing and in fact This is now the reality because the brilliant minds at the Regeneron pharmaceuticals corporation Have just such a drug and they have published research about it and I want to tell you all about this drug and tell I'm just Salivating about it In fact, it's not just one drug. It's a combo drug therapy. It's true two drugs at the same time Travagramab could look saying that one and Goretta's map good luck saying that one also with makes these drug names up I swear to God it's got it there's a high probability in my mind that a gentleman named Trevor and a gentleman named Garrett Co-discovered these drugs and they just named it after themselves. It's Trevor and Garrett's drug. That's what I'm calling So Travagramab is a milestone antagonist. I'll get to what that is in just a little bit and Goretta's map is an active in A antagonist both drugs Work by reducing the activity of myelstaten and active in A Myelstaten and active in A their predominant roles in Skeleton muscle are to cap to hold down to reduce How much muscle you grow in any given time and When these drugs uncork Those caps reduce the activity of myelstaten and active in A you get this Radical unleashing of completely natural in a sense muscle growth that your body wants to do all the time But it has these two substances. It makes itself these two proteins Mass-dent and active in A capping this muscle growth all the time What these drugs do is these are an uncorrect them. You know in a dose dependent matter they uncorking as partial and then complete if you take a crab load of these drugs So these new drugs uncap your body's natural potential for muscle growth How well do they do it? Well good news We have an incredibly well-conductored research study by our general on pharmaceuticals from their Pre-stage one clinical trials these are done on non-human primates little teeny monkeys You know the outbreaks got remember outbreak that moved from the 90s Don't ask monkeys bit every one That's super creepy, right monkeys are I don't for monkeys at all But if they're gonna be given advanced andabolic drugs. I love monkeys monkeys y'all family to me Just I don't look at them in the eye because I'll throw a poop at you or whatever the hell Non-human primates which means it's a very small monkeys so the amount of muscle gain and Fowl-awste experiencing is measured in the grams and not in the kilograms Did he need teeny tiny it's easier to do teeny teeny tiny because they experience rapid changes and it's easier matter to them and You know, it's I guess they did they did put them to sleep and shove them in a dexa which is quite impressive So here's the deal We have four groups of monkeys Getting four different treatments One group of monkeys had to diet the restricted their calories a little bit And they dieted maddie these are nady monkeys right there monkeys that go on four I'm some talk about everyone's drug addict and they accuse everyone of taking drugs Cop Then there are monkeys that received some agletyte aka ozempic which is a drug that is a modern weight loss drug Mostly works by reducing your appetite Another group of monkeys group three Received only the milestone blocker drug Okay, and then group four Received the milestone blocker drug and The active in a blocker drug that real dual therapy that tip of the spear that's what we're testing there So through four groups nanny monkeys Samagletyte only monkeys my stattin only monkeys and then combo therapy monkeys What occurred? We have a graph for you right here Pause the video and look at the graph for a while I'm gonna explain it So you can pause and look after This is Wild wild wild wild results What are we looking at here? The monkeys that did the nanny life and just dieted hard core probably bitched about it a lot They lost about 400 grams remember these are not small these are not large animals 4 grams and then it's actually a lot They lost 400 grams of body fat With about aish these are very approximate numbers 400 ish grams of body fat In about 15 ish grams of muscle loss So something there about plus or minus 2x that number So they lost a lot of fat and a very very small amount of muscle I mean that's a really good ratio We're at 450 and that's dope That's almost no muscle loss Monkeys taking some agletyte did what you would predict they lost way way way more fat instead of 400 grams for the drug free monkeys The some agletyte monkeys lost about 700 grams of body fat thereabouts almost double which is dope The problem with some agletyte though is it's such a powerful reducer of any calories you're taking in That the magnitude of your caloric deficit skyrockets and we know almost every case a very high caloric deficit Leads to a higher proportion of muscle loss That's just it's not a salicyletyte thing it's not that the molecules making loose fat or sorry It's not like the molecule is making you lose muscle on some special way You're just driving a crazy crazy deficit and then you lose more muscle So those monkeys that were on some agletyte they did lose 700 grams versus 400 grams of fat amazing Almost two x But they lost close to about a hundred grams of muscle with it still hey seven to one ratios really good But like man they lost me like five or six times more muscle than the monkeys that just did the shit madty So okay, all right trade-offs and let's take a known trade-off no big deal Here's the thing Monkeys that were given some agletyte and Travagramab which is the mouth statin block Lost about 13 hundred grams of body fat okay real quick Nady monkeys 400 gram loss of fat Samagletyte monkeys 700 gram loss of fat I can't I didn't laugh when I say this the triple the duck the the Monkeys that got some agletyte and the mass statin block or Travagramab lost 1300 grams of fat that is almost double the Samagletyte group and more than three times the drug free group And those monkeys lost about 15 grams of muscle Duff We're talking about the same losses as the monkeys who lost 400 grams of fat nady Imagine a diet in which you lose the rough acumen equivalent I'll get to those numbers a sec of 400 grams of fat you lose a little teeny bit of muscle Now I give you two things evisome agletyte and give you Travagramab and you lose Not 400 grams of fat but 13 hundred grams of fat and you lose no more muscle Then you lost just on 400 grams of fat it's insane. It's insane. It's insane This by itself will be a revolution We now officially have a drug in Travagramab alone That nullifies the muscle loss effect seen from the massive deficits of Samagletyte So all those are in internet articles you've been reading all those blog posts you've been reading about people Say also magletyte loses muscle. It's true because it lets you lose a lot of weight gone gone But it gets better Monkeys the took the combo therapy they took Samagletyte They took Travagramab and they took Goretta's map and Goretta's map is the active and A inhibitor So now we got mass data inhibitor in the works and active in A those monkeys lost 1400 ish grams of fat a little bit more notably more than the monkeys that were just on the mouse tan inhibitor than group three But not a ton more but check this out those monkeys didn't lose 15 grams of fat sorry good god those monkeys didn't lose 15 grams of muscle Like the drug free monkeys did or like the mouse tan monkeys did They didn't lose a hundred grams of muscle like the Samagletyte monkeys did They gained on a deficit by the way Monkeys don't resistance trained by the way They gained 450 or so grams of muscle during the course of this diet which is 20 weeks long by the way So we're going from dieting drug free you was a little bit of muscle almost not at all but you don't lose a whole lot of fat To dieting with Samagletyte we use a lot more fat but the substantial amount of muscle nothing crazy but that's annoying To adding in the mouse statin inhibitor Travogramab and all of a sudden you are going to lose almost no muscle just a little bit of muscle loss But you are losing almost double the amount of fat that you did with the Samagletyte and close to just actually over three times the amount of fat that you did drug free And in the combo therapy the triple therapy Samagletyte Travogramab and greatest map We got the GLP1 we've got the mouse statin inhibitor and we have got the Act of an A inhibitor all combined into one into one vehicle into one drug You're losing even more fat Then you did with just mouse statin by a little bit you're allowing losing about double the fat that you did with Samagletyte alone And close to four times the amount of fat you lost drug free what But you are gaining the amount of muscle That is roughly equivalent to the amount of fat that you lost drug free This is insane this is insane Let's talk about some insights of this because this is totally wild stuff This Kind of drug specifically this drug therapy is likely to transfer to humans because monkeys of a huge Huge huge amount of commonalities with us almost the same biology and such studies are currently ongoing there in stage two clinical trials for this drug with humans now Which is like Scott how do we get into this clinical trial man? I'm sick. I'm dying out here baby Sign me up look at me in my no muscle mass I need help please regener on please somebody email me for regener on These trials are currently ongoing There are multiple other pharmaceutical laboratories mega corporations that are working around the clock on similar treatments because we now know for years That Samagletyte and Trasapatite and soon to be a retatricide and all these weight loss drugs are phenomenal for helping people who's weight But they don't really help you retain muscle and now a lot of people losing weight and they're getting skinny And they have less muscle and they're getting all these health effects and all these cosmetic effects They don't like this is a known problem to a pharmaceutical industry and now a ton of labs are rushing to get you the most advanced muscle Those drugs that they can make already they are in research The combo therapy that triple triple threat of Samagletyte Travagramab and Greta-Smaab on fat loss and muscle game are what we would expect with Samagletyte plus a really solid dose of Mega steroids for someone who's never taken steroids before except with zero Androgenic side effects no hair growth no voice deepening no aggression no bad lipid profiles Not of that stuff how big of a deal are these effects if we're gonna be strappling now This is just pretend land for a second just to get our minds right Nothing one to one here so just let's just just hypothesis stuff Let's take the primate results and map them onto a human result This is very likely what it's going to happen or similar Imagine you have an identical twin Scott, what would you do if you had an identical twin other than the masturbating in front of each other every day? I would do like twin shenanigans, you know, we'll re-like dress up the same and get into high jinx High jinx You would like date the same girl, but you alternate alternatively date her She's like remember he talked about like that one funny thing you said about chainsaws last time and your twins like oh Yeah, of course. Yeah love chainsaws, man. Yes. He's texting her to the table I think you talked to her about shit like that However, you could do something even even cooler you can both get on a diet. Isn't that nice? So imagine having an identical twin and you're both a decent bit out of shape. Let's say you're about 200 pounds both And you're both at about 20% body fat Your twin is a nanny for life. There's a number four in their summer He's gonna die it for five months straight Reasonably drug free and extrapolating this primate data. He would lose his group one monkey He would you come up to your twin you're like your group one monkeys like shot uh Anyway He would lose about eight pounds of fat and lose less than a pound of muscle He would at the end of the stiad at the end of five months Be about a hundred ninety two pounds and Around 16.5% body fat. Hey, better scoff. That's better. Right. That's cool That's enough for people that work to be like, hey, what are you doing? Look good? Right However, you the other identical twin took all the shit baby triple threat Samagratide, trivagramab, gorettismap you took it all At the end of that five month diet extrapolating from this primate data You would lose about 28 pounds of fat while gaming 9 pounds of muscle That means while your twin was about a hundred and ninety two pounds at the end of the diet You'd be about a hundred and eighty one And your twin is around 16.5% fat at the end of the diet you would be around six point five percent body fat Scott make this make sense. It doesn't Modern farm on least you guys nobody plan. We look nobody's planning more The difference in visual appearance between you and your twin would be wild. I mean We're in a completely different era of body composition enhancement You want to burn fat you want to build muscle Regeneron pharmaceuticals has the Sword of Athena to the clouds all we shit Let's just talk about really quick some of the implications of when this title wave of modern drugs hits the market Around 2027 2028 or so after they go through the just perilously and stupidly long FDA approval process Such drugs are likely gonna have very minimal side effects Most likely the side effects are gonna come from increasing muscle master radically Which means they're probably gonna make you hungrier and require you to eat more protein But you can just take a slightly higher dose of smagletiadress appetite or tattartide off-sat that's a no big deal The effects will be a huge positive on strength gain course adding nine pounds of muscles gonna do something It's gonna be a way better look and a huge boost to overall health because more muscle means better controlled in lower blood sugar Lower blood fats in about 20 other major health benefits. I just don't have time to get into having more muscle is usually a really really really awesome thing Here's the thing also we have to extrapolate this won't be the only drug out within a few years After this drug releases or really within a few months of its release because other labs are working on their own competitors right now There will be numerous other drugs out and these drugs over years and years Maybe over months and months with advanced AI research at that point in in history They're going to get better and better and better increasing how much muscle That they help you gain decreasing how much fat That you hold on your body. They help you lose more fat and They'll decrease side effects too if there really are any side effects to speak Which I'm sure there will be but over time the drugs will be less and less and less side effects more muscle gain and more fat lost craze Here's the thing another implication Folks who currently use steroids and suffer through all their side effects Jibbin through for a large fraction of my life We'll really have to ask themselves a question of why the hell are we using steroids at all I think almost everyone is currently using steroids We'll just switch to TRT testosterone replacement therapy or just go drug free and Just to feel good and perform well and then the muscle growth part is just gonna be handled by these drugs Which you do it much more directly in way way better In addition to this it's not just for fat loss and some I say nine pounds of muscle over five months is in the same amount of muscle to gain But if that just some muscle gain and a radical fat loss if you take a low level of Some agulotite tris appetite or retatric diet these weight loss drugs or not at all and you take a decent amount of these muscle building drugs And you eat an a slight surplus Scott are we even imagine like imagine eating a 500 calories surplus when you're on the ship Your delts are gonna like cap off your head and you're gonna die or some shit like that You are gonna be able to gain Muscle at levels we barely see with the highest doses of steroids most most people can't sustain for about a few weeks with 10 times less side effects if after a few generations any side effects whatsoever Another thing is this okay not everyone wants to be like a gigantic Godzilla like you know I'm saying bust an uptoe you If you train only or mostly muscles which you think improve your aesthetics for example your forms your biceps triceps shoulders upper pecs upper back A little bit of legs and some some decent calf training You can radically change your physique because Generally when people train and even if they take steroids or even if they don't they train whole body If your whole body gets more muscular and like based on your genetics like everything's bigger and your leaner Which looks cooler, but you don't exactly have that aesthetic flow like your arms is still a bit small and you show a small compared to your chest and back Your quads and glutes are really big but your calves aren't that big so you look kind of like you have peg legs With these drugs are so powerful that they'll maintain or increase muscles You're not even training and so if you take a moderate dose of this drug even a loados and train Living crap out of muscles you want to increase that are really aesthetic shoulders upper back upper chest arms forms and calves specifically You're going to take your body and make it way more aesthetically appealing basically You're gonna turn into some version of me Scott can we get these pictures thrown up here some version of me Into some version that looks more like Jared feather IFBB pro because that's really what we all want to look like if we're being honest ourselves in the middle of the night while touching ourselves, of course Look at Jared's body So not only are people gonna be able to begin as jacked as they like but they're gonna be able to look more aesthetic Which is a huge huge unlock Here's another one females will stop taking steroids all together We'll see a reticence of females physique sport the likes of which we've never seen you'll see way more muscular females But without any of the pimples or the hair loss or the hair growth on a whole Ranger shed women just don't want Regular folks Who aren't even in the gym because they have such crap genetics or just just have not been able to get just get their claws into the fitness industry They'll be able to hit the gym and sculpt their bodies to their desire Well some folks just take these drugs and not go to the gym absolutely god bless them I don't need them in the gym crowd and up the shit, but at least now there are way better health Way more muscle way less fat our medical system saves billions of dollars and people are healthier and happier and look better This is a big deal and my prediction on gyms specifically Is it we might see a decline in overall general gym attendance or maybe about the same But we're gonna see a second renaissance the first one was in the in the 70s and 80s really in the 80s if you think about it Of hardcore gym attendance Because hardcore folks like most of you watching many of you watching If you're given a drug that radically increases muscle growth It doesn't mean you stop going to the gym that means you go to the gym more because you're more empowered to make a more perfect version of yourself Scott, can you imagine when steroids really started becoming popular in the 80s that people just left the gym and droves like I'll just do steroids I don't need the gym anymore That's backwards, right? Yeah, like Scott if you're given this drug And you're able to train your body to make it even more aesthetic. Are you leaving the gym or are you hitting the gym? We're hitting that hard because now this you guys are real talk like human to human Folks who are older Folks who are really jacked folks who aren't jacked at all have just shit genetics real talk Look at socks to go to the gym and it just clawed for these minimal gains Or just like work out for a year and see nothing happen or just slow the decline of muscularity Your 40s are 50 that blows it's good that you're doing it stay on the gym, but it blows This drug and drugs like it could end that for ever now you get gains Now you come to the gym and shit makes sense again and every month your body looks better Wow, I could go on and on about the benefits, but for the purposes of time I got to cut this video off and just a little bit suffice it to say The mass of changes are inbound for the incredibly better for all of us It's likely that these drugs passed after FDA approval sometime 2027 2028 So it's just a few years away, which means? If you are considering using steroids and you haven't used them yet don't use them Just don't use them you won't need them soon these drugs are a category above steroids entirely They outclass them steroids are gonna be dead in the water Why take steroids if you have these drugs? Yeah, I mean for strength enhancement if you're a power lift for some shit like that cool But for body composition for getting jacked and lean these drugs will end steroids. That is my sincere prediction When these drugs come out they're gonna get us much closer to the Purpose of what I call the aesthetic revolution. This is a big part of it and the aesthetic revolution is one goal Getting everyone into the bodies they want to be in that is our goal at RP that is our express Only reason the company exists We have the RPI purtrophy app link in the description if you guys want to train and get your get your swollen Soon that app will have mega help and you can use the app plus these drugs to become the Absolute most jacked lean and aesthetic version of yourself so you can it poses properly. Are you excited? I share a shit amp We have a link to the entire regeneran presentation in the description give that a click look through it and Bask and marvel at advanced pharmaceuticals you ready? I'm ready. I'll see you next time

Food X causes disease. Why? And the reason we know this is surveys of people who ate food and didn't eat food and we looked up their disease conditions in the medical charts. By the way, this is headline gold. If you're a press writer in the mainstream media and you need an nutrition article, your next title of the article is, does half an egg a day prevent cancer? Or, if the really slow news day, does a whole egg per day cause heart disease? Easy. This is when you get from aggregate data and it's basically useless. Don't overhaul your diet because of one headline. A lot of people think this is a core ventricial science and they want a lot of data out of it that's very good and that's just not where good data comes from. Introducing the all new RP diet coach app, our biggest update ever. We've heard your feedback and added tons of features that you have been asking for. Adjust your macros your way, shift your macros and calories data data in between meals and get instant guidance when your plans change. Need how you like crush your goals and get in the best shape of your life. Click the link in the description to get started. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP strength and I have a question for you is nutrition science broken? Some would say yes. Others would say also yes. At let's take a look. So nutrition science has a problem and that problem is that very many people think they're getting a lot of insight out of nutritional science. Whereas the real nutritional science, TM registered trademark, Rana sounds piracy. Is only able currently for the most part to speak in generalities, minimums and maximums and not make very precise specific predictions. And there are a few ways in which nutrition science is in a sense broken or being wildly misapplied. Don't want you guys to fall for these traps. We're not talking about five ways in which nutrition science is a very limited how to improve it but also how because you're probably not a scientist, maybe and how you can use nutritional science to your best benefit without getting ripped off and ending up taking recommendations that were based on hashtag science but really weren't as scientific as you may have been led to believe. So we're going to talk about five things. We're going to talk about food surveys and they're pretty gargantuan limitations but also which you can get out of them. We're going to talk about the ingredients of supplements from headlines of studies to what actually supplements do in the body. We're going to talk about good foods versus evil foods. Essentially if you've ever been to the Scot you, you know the grocery store, all those like homemaker magazines when you're caching out. Yeah. Whether like the new super food that'll boost your what you like, shit like that, right? We'll get to that and then micro biome hype which there's a lot got bacteria stuff and then flashy gym extras that are flashy gym extras and some nutritional science which is not exactly up to par being misinterpreted is going to try to portray as like a really really big deal. Number one food surveys are in other words how many cups of broccoli did you eat last year? What are food surveys? They're essentially big checklists asking people how often they ate hundreds of foods over months or years previously. Sometimes you do a food recall questionnaire over the last three days but typically food surveys are just like over the last six months or over the last year. Now the good news is they are cheap and scalable. The bad news like you can get a food survey out to 10,000 people no problem. The bad news is human memory is mildly unreliable, not just for a data sense which is also unreliable but from a bias sense. And also the way you ask some questions is so discordant with how people process information, sometimes you don't get very good results. For if I was to ask you for about how long do you tend to have sex with your loving partner assuming you have a loving partner and have had sex before? You might be like oh I don't know like 20 minutes 30 minutes five hours whatever you say whatever you into. Scott. 27. Thank you. I was going to say waiting for the units here by man 20 seconds in and out. And so if you ask many people how long do you have sex for an average of half sex they'll be able to give you like a number that makes some sense. But imagine if I asked you in some kind of strange units of the sum total of which is still a logical answer your brain doesn't process. Scott, how many times any typical week do you stroke in and out of the vaginal orifice? Total area under curve. Really easy number for me to. 27 like I said one second in one second out twice a week. So that way to construct that question is like I don't count stroke. How count strokes? I got multiply sessions into weeks and how many strokes per minute. I'm not doing any of that that's all nonsense right away that's just garbage data. And so when they ask you and how many fruit servings did you eat last year, how do you even begin to ask that question with a modicum of good data? You can even try to be honest with this. It's almost impossible if you to caricature your real life into a good answer to that question that someone could be like how sure are you about this? You're like I mean barely at all. I'm really just guessing right? So what these surveys should be able to tell us, sometimes doing sometimes don't are broad patterns which eating styles linked to health or disease states at a population level, not individual level. Now food report surveys break in at least three different ways or across styles. One is people overreport, people underreport, people miss remember. What do they do? There's this bias in the laboratory setting, especially when you're filling out a known health questionnaire, most people not all, most people enough to skew the data will underreport bad stuff. How many times did you eat out at fast food last year? You're like, you it's way more than that. And then they overreport how much healthy stuff they're doing. How many cups of broccoli did you eat last year per week? You're like, I'm not going to have a ton of things. If there's a light crit scale and you can circle a box, it's the biggest box or the second biggest thing. You're like circling the second most impressive box so that you're like you're good but you're not trying to take crazy credit. You know? Yeah, it's so humble. Right. Like how big is your cock? It's big. It's big. It's big. You know? Yeah. So people do that all the time. People miss remember all the time. Sometimes they miss remember just like I just have no idea and sometimes they think they know but they're actually just hallucinating. Happens all the time, not a big deal. You know, how many times did people ask you to recall accurate details? Scott, last Tuesday, what brand of jeans were you wearing? Like, with the f- I don't know. I don't even know did I wear jeans last Tuesday? Did I even put on clothes last Tuesday? It's not a guarantee. Yes. Another thing is, airs tend to cluster by body size. People who are larger tend to wildly under-report their food and take surprise because they eat too much in their little shame divided. They shouldn't be ashamed but it's understandable. Another one is by diet style. When you're on that, let me go and say, and I make these jokes all the time. White people, I love you. You all agree. I'll fund them. I'll love and respect all, you don't say anything. And, you know, say some rich ass white people diets. Like if you eat like at Whole Foods all the time, you're going to be putting in the UE to trillion veggies even though you may or may not just because you're a diet style as an ultra-healthy, you're just going to conform to that expectation. And of course social habits, people who exercise, people who go on hikes and stuff like that, they'll fill these surveys out in a way that is biased specific to their group that you wouldn't get with any other group. So one thing is to get biases that are random or statistically aggregated to average. Like everyone under reports or over reports, XYZ, but they're even true here. There are subgroups, large subgroups of people that make the data very difficult to apply. And of course, very, very fuzzy input to output claims. So you say, you know, food x causes disease, y. And the reason we know this is surveys of people who ate food and didn't eat food and we looked up their disease conditions in their medical charts. That's really, really shaky. And what we can't be sure of, for sure, is exactly that. Tiny effects from single foods gotten from food surveys. So for example, you'll see, by the way, this is headline gold. So if you're a press writer in the mainstream media and you need an nutrition article, ignore everything I just said, do the very literal opposite. So you're next title of the article is just half an egg a day prevent cancer or if it really slow newsday, the next day you go, does a whole egg per day cause heart disease? Easy. XYZ, egg, or whatever changes risk by XYZ amount. This is when you get from aggregate data and it's basically useless. There was a Scott, do you remember there was a newspaper article a while back ago or like some hubbub going around. They found that eating eggs was multiplying your cardiovascular risk more than smoking cigarettes. I don't, but I can't keep track of all the egg. Yeah, when a controversial food, the egg, you know, the best, it's the worst I don't know anymore. You're doing some like blind dating and you're like, okay, like who's up next to your friends picked them? They're like, he's a really good guy. Like, okay, what does he do for? He's actually a high power corporate lawyer like, okay, is he tall? Like, he's 63. Like, okay, so like, we're YZ blind date. What's the cash? You like, he's an egg. Like, you want me to die of cancer on the day? Like, do you put his good for heart disease? Like, I'll cut damn it. I had to go Google him and see all this nonsense. So all that kind of stuff is just not something you can derive from this kind of data people do it all the time. Now, what's still true? What can we get out of these surveys? They can rank general patterns, very general patterns, for example, people who eat more plants and people who eat fewer ultra processed foods tend to have better health outcomes. That's in part because of the plants and ultra processed foods, but especially with ultra processed foods, it's that even directly because they're not ultra processed. We think it's ultra processed foods tend to be high palinability, high calorie load, and tend to cause colorech excess, which is really what causes the bad stuff. Usually it's a very small fraction of the ultra processing itself. Because remember, Casey and protein, way protein, egg protein, all that stuff, all the protein shakes wildly, insanely highly processed foods. I mean, the processed into a, you know, when's the last time you guys saw chocolate powder come out of a cow's fucking butter? Never happens. How the hell does it look like chocolate powder? What is made of milk? How much processing you get to have something that look completely different? Imagine you bought broccoli, but it was in the form of a black solid bar. You'd be like, okay, oh, your broccoli doesn't look like this, but we all take way protein and they're like, oh, yeah, it's healthy, and it's totally right. Way protein is healthy. It's not the processing per se that makes it bad. It's the fact that people who eat a lot of well, eat at 7-11s and Burger King's tend to overeat their calories and have a lot of not so great for you fats and high concentrations, and all that's where all the health comes from, all the bad health stuff. So the bigger picture of stuff is okay, the precise personal recommendations like me is an individual who's 47 years old and lives in Milwaukee, Wisconsin and rides it by three times a week to work should I be having a four eggs a day or five eggs a day survey literature can not give you that answer. So don't get ripped off, don't overhaul your diet because of one headline. You guys, this is such a big deal. People, I've seen this, I'm 41 years old. I've seen this common go even since I was a child. Scott, do you remember in the early late 90s, early mountains, they were basically the milk wars? Were like every other study or headline was like milk is causing cancer and it's going to kill you and every other one was like milk, because in immortality food, like, it's the same as eggs. The same as eggs, the same as eggs, meat's been through all of this. More recently, veggies have been found to have anti nutrients in them. So eating broccoli is bad. Don't re-haul your whole diet, uh, overhaul your whole diet because of one headline that would be really stupid and look for agreement across methods. If you have studies that show food and takes, very good logs or resenci logs, let's last day of eating type of stuff, photos of foods, laboratory markers of blood work, short trials where they replace foods and your own experience of foods. If all those line up, you're like, okay, olive oil seems like everything lines up and when I eat lots of olive oil and less butter, I actually feel better. My blood work is better for myself, looks like olive oil is in. That's how to do it instead of just looking at surveys. Now, for the science side, how to fix the science, I mean, using logging apps that have photos that you take of every single food. This is getting better and better. Again, you can just like eliminate foods from the photo and then eat it later and not log. That's still a problem. Barcode stuff, um, the best way to do it is usually just to have small groups living inside of a hospital, metabolic ward and they get to eat kind of whatever they want and then you sort of follow along and see how they do. That's really, really tough to do. I'll also sharing data so others can replicate your work is a really, really good thing. So, uh, that's the situation for a self reporting food surveys. A lot of people think this is the core of nutritional science and they want a lot of data out of it that's very good and that's just not where good data comes from. Number two, uh, from headlines to bottles, the supplement to hype conveyor belts. So what's happening? People, uh, we find in maybe even a pretty good study that people often just from case reports, people who eat more of nutrient acts get less disease or more rustle or something like that. Uh, we take acts, whatever that new train is, we put it in a pill and then we do big trials on it and the big trials often show little or no benefit and sometimes even show harm. That's right. That's a real thing. And so a lot of people by the time they got the data of, okay, the food, the big food surveys say people who eat more of acts have less of X disease and then they see the supplement that has more of X in it. They just buy it. And then the studies come out later that saying, hey, actually this doesn't do anything, but they've already spent $200 on pills and God knows what effect on their health. Ideally, what studies like this should tell us is which isolated nutrients actually reduce the probability of disease in real life over the years. But this stuff breaks in at least three different ways. Eating a nutrient in whole foods is not the same thing as taking a pill in many ways. One, is nutrients combined with others can enhance order tracked absorption. Another way is if you have one food that you have tested and it's got an amount of some kind of something in there that seems to improve health, what you're actually looking at is maybe five or six other or maybe five or six hundred other compounds that could be doing the work you just don't measure them on the back end. So if you say, aha, we feed people more meat and they become more muscular and it's the creatine in the meat that's doing this. So you need more creatine. And some of the reason I hand like what about the protein in it? Like, ah, yeah, well, I guess it could be the protein, huh? Good job, Johnson. You moved to the front of class and all of a sudden it's like, but we've been feeding people creatine for years and thinking that's the only thing that meat does. That's not the exact example because luckily that's not a thing with creatine. But this happens all the time. You know, you pick eggs of some random vitamin in eggs and you're like, this is the vitamin the people aren't getting enough of and it's generally not the case. A lot of times the studies that have the situation where they, you know, people, the more of X and they get less disease, it turns out the confounder variable is these people are just eating health, healthier food overall and have healthier lifestyles. You get people who do a lot of physical activity, who sleep early while, who manage a stress well, who are not obese, who are having a really good family dynamic and relationships and eat mostly healthy foods, you control sorts of correlations like hides, the fiber and the fibers are good thing but it's not going to save you from a diet and lifestyle that's total shit and a lot of times people say like, oh, it's the fiber that's doing all this work like, no, no, the fiber does 5% of it. 95% of the difference between groups is all the other stuff that you should be doing that's not caught up in the data and the problem with the big breaking is when you properly test those, you see, two groups, one group of supplements, X, the other group gets a placebo after 12 weeks. There's a C no change, you know, sometimes even worse health markers for the people supplementing and then that's where shit hits the fan, which is why kind of nutrition science is broken. Do you see we get initial data saying, hey, this is a cool relationship, people run with it and then we actually test the relationship rigorously in double blind placebo control trials. We end up having sometimes very disappointing results and by then, people have already spent a lot of money and some of those people, so convinced the supplement is good for them. You're not even going to talk them out of it after that. So what we can't be sure of from these kinds of relationships is what specific groups might benefit from inadequate nutrients. Do we see on a population level we found that more people eat XYZ nutrient and they have better outcomes, but is that true for people of all the same different genetics, right? Is that true of people who have true deficiencies only or is this a nutrient aware of the more you eat up to a point the better it is even if you're not truly deficient. Because a lot of people say like, all like you need more vitamin D and it's like, well, what's your vitamin D level right now? Like, why don't I just take more? Like, well, shouldn't you take enough to get it normal and then stop after that? Like, I don't know, more is better. And sometimes more is better, protein to a very high point more is better, but for some vitamins and minerals as soon as you have enough, you're good to go. We can't tell with these kinds of studies and of course certain conditions. Like some fraction of the population might have a condition where they inappropriately process some nutrient and they are the big data set that experiences these benefits, but we don't know that. We don't even know this condition is real. Look, all looks like 53% of the sample improved their health as a result of this pill and it turns out just half of them have this deficiency that are, or certain condition that nobody else has, you don't know that. You buy this supplementary. This is going to improve my health and it turns out there was not wrong with you to begin with. It's kind of like caffeine and urgagenics for people that have naturally a lot of energy and wake up really kind of fresh in the morning. Like to then, stimulant pre-workouts don't do nearly as much as it is to people who really need the boost. But when you study stimulant pre-workouts, that's not accounted for and you would say, well, everyone benefits from this incredibly, which is absolutely not the case. Now, what's still true about this? Fixing real deficiencies absolutely matters. If you go to the doctor's office and you get your blood worked on and it shows you are deficient in vitamin D, supplementary with vitamin D is usually a very good idea, ideally from Whole Foods, but even pills are way better than not. And a few basics help in clear cases. Creatine supplementation, fiber supplementation if you're deficient in that, things like that, but most miracle pills, oh, this new formula was found to blob- blob- blob, mostly they do nothing unfortunately. Now, if you want to know how to not get ripped off. First of all, if the claim is prevents heart attacks, but the study reference doesn't actually measure heart attacks, it measures some kind of composite, third tier cardiovascular disease predictive score that's not even direct. And I probably wouldn't pay money for something that has such a long reach to the actual target that it wanted to affect. What you want, if you're going to take supplements, it looks for a look for pre-plan trials, which means they say we're studying this, so they can't fudge the methods ahead of time. And clear doses, robust doses from good sources, human outcomes, not just road data, ideally, and independent repeats. This is something that creatine and caffeine and way protein all have had for them in hundreds of studies, so we know they're good. But if a new supplement comes out and it might do something based off on road and study, how do you, is, man, I just probably wouldn't invest into it for safety, for sure, and also for getting your hopes up on effect. Of course, on the fixing of science side, it's a good idea to start using genetic tests for people and then modifying their intake to see how that interacts with genetics. Based line blood levels are also good to test. Like vitamin D supplements can be shown to work really well. And people who have poor genetics for converting skin radiation into the part of the process to make vitamin D and for people who have low vitamin D levels. But it turns out for people who have good conversion in normal sunlight and for people that are have high vitamin D levels to begin with. It turns out supplementing is not a good idea and just everyone should be on more vitamin D might not be the thing. And of course, running, and this is something we'll hear a lot already heard a lot from, run focused, well-designed, long enough trials, and then publish all the data even the duds. There's a problem that sometimes people run a study, especially if it's corporate funded or if it's lab funded by someone with an ideological interest, then which is almost all the time, then the the studies and say what they want, they might just like shelve the study, not publish it, and then publish another study and said that comes up with good results. So you can see like half the time the results say doesn't do anything, half the time it says it does something a little bit. If you just don't ever publish the studies that say it doesn't do anything, you're like, oh my god, 95% of the study say it does something. It's called a file drawer effect. It's a really nasty thing in science and we should be steering really, really clear that sort of thing. Because something doesn't work is just as good of data as something does work. It tells us something about the world. Like if you use data from your visual field to figure out how room looks, there is not a 400-pound safe next to the door is just as good of data for you as there is a 400-pound safe over by the wall. It's good data either way, not having something somewhere is known thing. This doesn't improve your mood or your body composition or your health as far as the supplement goes is a really good data because then you could not buy it, not have to take it whereas if we only publish positive data we get a real distorted distorted mix of what's going on. Next, number three, good foods versus evil foods, otherwise known as the Halo Horns trap. Scott, I was looking for something in email that I logged onto your computer and I noticed you have pictures of digital life foods that have both Halo's and Horns at the same time and they're in like angel devil composite outfits. What if that mean? I mean it's like, you know, it's like hot in your right. Right, like issue good girl or bad girl. Yeah, girl sometimes I'm in the mood for good, sometimes I'm in the mood for bad, not even get both, you know, in one pack. What if you're in the mood for good but devil girl shows up? I guess I need to be punished. Yeah, what if you're in the mood for bad but angel girl show up? And after a while you're like, how does the idea just kind of want more than making out and hugging? Yeah, that would suck. That would suck. What? Where worry? Here's the deal with good foods and evil foods. The internet loves to war about this and there is a warrior in the comments two of them at least. Natural foods, Karen versus Seedoils never enter my body, Frank. And then that versus each other, they're versus the whole rest of the world. They know the truth that some foods are fucking poison and other foods will save you. It's got how many times have you read renditions of like kind of like a little mini life history of that they were intarable health etc. Then they started eating macadamia not oil and it just they have an after picture of them with like a six pack or an eight pack like every time. Every time this is what did it for me and I'm scientifically illiterate. So clearly this is what worked and has to work for everyone else. So we got saints olive oil, berries, we got sinners, butter, sugar, seed oils and we want to know what's good and what's bad. We want very simple and unfortunately that's not the reality. Ideally what these sorts of insights should tell us is what to replace with what? Not is fat bad but if I eat less butter what's the better swap because I'm still having the same amount of fat what kind of fat is better than not? Where does this break? First studies often ignore the swap. If you trade butter for pastries you're trading butter for the same amount and even more fat arguably plus more carbs and thus more calories. So you're going to say yeah I cut out butter but just replaced it with snack foods and I didn't get any health care. That's a bad idea. And remember if you tell people to cut out butter they have a certain hunger level. They cut out their butter. You're not telling them what to replace it with. They're just going to replace it with probably more bullshit food and that's not any better than butter. A better trade is replacing butter with olive oil which could be a really good thing. The other thing is not all saturated fats are created equal and the vessel in which they come very much determines how good or bad they are for you in context for example cheese and butter and pastries all have saturated fats but cheese and butter and pastries and especially whole milk affect your health very differently based on the circumstance. Headlines will flatten context which is dose and person and blood markers. If you have a gazillion pounds of butter and your person that reacts really poorly to high blood fats, you will have blood markers that show that you are really really really not so good health eating butter. Another person who eats a moderate amount of butter not a ton responds really well to those fats can have like all the butter they want and their health is totally great and inevitably you will hear from those people in the comments as well as if to retort. Well, I lots of butter and I'm fine. He thinks Jim I guess it's all some kind of data. It's just not very good data. So we can't be sure from this kind of insight is one perfect limit for everyone. People respond differently. Oh my god, Scott my dad sent me this one charlatan stick on YouTube who doesn't even like his an selfie speaks English. It's like translated and he sort of appears awkwardly in like the bottom left hand corner of the YouTube videos and he exclusively targets older people. So all his videos are like men in your 70s what you need to know and a lot of it's about a rectile dysfunction and like he's like recommends exact amounts of food Scott like two eggs per day in the morning for breakfast. And my dad's like is that good and I'm like oh god oh my god. It's like elderly abuse that's like f-dop you're like targeting the elderly because they're like 100% and by his 100% that's messed up. In awful people respond differently. How many eggs should you have for breakfast is not an answerable question outside of context? If you respond really well to high levels of saturated fat which some people do. If you have a high protein diet which some people need, if you're a larger individual and you need plenty of calories and you tend to work a little bit better mentally on lower carbs than higher carbs, you can legitimately have eight eggs for breakfast every fucking day of your life and be the healthiest version of you that you can be. If you have opposite characteristics you're a smaller person. If you are really sensitive to a lot of cholesterol and a lot of saturated fats for a blood work it doesn't do you any good and you're not in a particular you know you get your protein from other sources guess how many eggs you can have for breakfast and be your healthiest self. Zero. Anyway routine zero and literally like a dozen eggs could be the answer for you. So when someone says up two eggs a day is recommended it is in nonsense advice for any real human to apply it is absolutely nonsense advice period. What's still true? Swapping some things for others can work swapping some animal fats out and swapping in nuts and seeds and olive oils tends to improve bad cholesterol and related particles in most people though not all. Here's another piece of good news from a lot of this kind of data we've learned that eggs and dairy on average look neutral to modestly helpful for health within the context of an overall solid diet. So the entire thing about fearing eggs and dairy is out completely but at the same time if you are an individual person you should be eating in a certain way and checking blood markers every now and again to see how you respond because people are different in subtle ways that matter. How to not get ripped off when someone says you should eat XYZ you will compare to what if they can't answer compared to what if they're comparison sucks you don't have to take their advice for example. RFK in his infinite wisdom says that we need to replace seed oils with beef talo. Now if you look at the research on how beef talo affects health it's the same as seed oils. Arguably worse if you extracted and and calorie control and everything like that. If you're eating fast food beef talo ain't don't save your ass. So that is a non-sense replacement that's dead in the water. Another great RFK line thinks RFK is that if we use cane sugar real sugar and soda it'll be better than high fructose corn syrup and that's old amounts of we actually have recorded a whole video in how that's all total bullshit. So don't get ripped off when people say this is better than that look for the hard data to show that's actually true don't be like oh that makes sense it's natural and here's the thing if you prefer for example higher fat foods watch your own weight trends and blood work. If you're eating plenty of saturated fats when your blood work is really goddamn good try eating lower saturated fats higher unsaturated amounta onesaturated fats and do that for a few months. If your blood work is no better or even a little worse and you feel not so great or you feel the same it looks like every answer is for you but if your blood works way better still on those modified less saturated fats than shit and you know you got an answer for how to stay healthier for longer you have to try the shit yourself you can't just take baseline advice how do we fix the science and better swapping longer trials better adherence and trials good luck figuring that out check real out real outcomes so follow people for a long time after to see if their disease conditions change lab signals short term eight week diet and it looks like my you know various cholesterol life approach change is good insight but not perfect insight. Number four this is a big one luckily it's on the downslope a few years ago it was a really really big deal because again white women found out about it and they do go on social media lot the microbiome okay what is the microbiome it's all of the bacteria they have in your gut okay and these there's like trillions of them in there these bacteria and they have different populations and different kinds of bacteria and usually in a balance they're pretty good for you they're actually critical to your health but if you eat some kinds of foods less and more kinds of foods more than the fraction of various bacteria can change and that can affect first of all how your poop looks and smells it also actually potentially affect your health absolutely now what it ideally the science should tell us and doesn't is which exact strains of bacteria that if you have more of a lesser of help fix which problems at what doses for which people and how long those changes last and how universal they really are in the real world there's a lot of breaking points here different labs get different answers their methods vary for samples are often small and inconsistent and cause an effect tend to be tangled we find someone who has dyspiosis which really just means we don't like what we see it's not the typical pattern did the dyspiosis cause their health problems are their health problems causing the dyspiosis is it both because imagine you had health problems that caused your gut bacteria to be dyspiotic or out of whack and we fixed your gut bacteria well now hold on a second that doesn't fix the actual problem is it imagine you found liver king and due to his you know interesting use of steroids he's beat red and you're like oh we can fix the redness and so you just give him a cream to rub on a skin that makes his skin looks like a normal you know Caucasian color person well you're like hey we did it his skin is fine like this but the skin was being caused by high blood pressure and various androgen effects that's what's actually killing him the dyspiotic bacteria could be a result of your health or a cause or both and a lot of that we just don't know what we can't be sure of them is that specific strain of your you know of bacteria is causing your specific issue and if we fix it is that going to be a thing that fixes it or do the effects just come back months later what is still true what we know for sure in the microbiota world and the gut bacteria world is that better diet quality which in this case means more plants more minimally processed foods more fiber comes with more plants and some fermented foods not like crazy white woman and whole foods everything is fermented kind of energy not just the gut in a generally a you buy adic situation where we don't think anything's thrown off the effects are typically modest they're not magical here's how not to get ripped off and this is a big one this is something I actually learned doing the research for this I didn't know this is a big deal probiotics are often strain specific so if you're taking a probiotic certain kind of bacteria will enhance itself in your gut but how do you know how those puzzle pieces fit together probiotics most people just take they're like probiotics they're good for your gut they're like how they're like they help the good bacteria like how do you know it's good bacteria how do you know you don't have too much good bacteria and now it's bad bacteria like I don't know any of those things I actually which is still by that shit right right but but Scott but the heroin grocery store packages the probiotics and such a nice package of course they do and that it's cheap as well in no no it's expensive which tells me it really works oh yeah what you think they'd really charge me a lot of money for something to do oh yeah here's the thing there's only one real thing and that's your condition that you have with your actual strain that's dysbiotic how you control that strain that's an individual case and general stuff doesn't really apply it if a label on a gut product promises effort with effortless weight loss decrease inflammation blah blah blah you can gently put it back and walk away it's almost certainly doesn't do that now how do you fix the science really just need more science here standard lab methods across sites track exact strains instead of just like all there's more less bacteria share data and code run bigger longer trials a lot of these things are the same we just need more and better science luckily ayes here to come help us with that but we need a lot more science until we can make it very precise recommendation lastly number five flashy gym extras like timing various powders and other we can call unicorns take this and it'll be amazing what this is is trying to give you kind of tiny edge tactics perfecting your meal timing and citing studies branch chanamine o acids exotic boosters that promise you a new you by while Thursday of the latest what the studies here should tell us in nutritional science ideally they don't is they should give a small reliable benefits once total protein total calories and training are equated that means we know it's the supplement causing you problem here's where the breaking points are when daily protein is matched timing mostly fades away it's still like 10% of the equation but 10% sure it should not 50% it turns out that if you eat enough daily protein how often you need to eat protein is much more of a while just get it all in for the day and you're pretty much good if you want to optimize that's there for you that if you're under eating protein timing matters a lot because your body's running an empty here here's a great way to put this analogy if you only get to fill up your car with a gallon of fuel at a time or you know 5% charge on your electric car timing the gas stations or charging stations is critical so you're not left out in the middle of the road with no charge or no fuel but if you get full tank or full battery charge you know you're driving for hundreds of miles it doesn't matter same goes for protein most studies do not account for that here's another interesting insight branch chain amino acids don't be simply eating enough complete protein so why would you be say is if a way protein is just better way protein not only gives you the branch chain amino acids it also gives you all the other amino acids not to just stimulate the construction not to just be anti-catabolic but be pro-anabolic as well it's just better period it's like you get a 200 you pay you pay a 500 hours for a computer one of them is just the CPU and one of them is the same CPU plus a really awesome monitor where you're going to spend your 500 dollars it's ridiculous to get another whole thing for it and arguably protein is a usually cheaper than BCA's so figure that one out you're really really getting screwed up for the money thing and very often popular powders for example glutamine which Scott people actually still buy remember we did that um yes thing if you want to go and it was like hundreds of millions of dollars a year spent in glutamine guys glutamine never did anything except for people who are really really sick with intestinal problems and their immune system was stopped that's the only way glutamine helps you that's it all right so everyone is is getting it ripped off with glutamine and it's a little pixie dust bullshit doesn't work now what we can't be sure of is that these kinds of general eat enough protein things wipe away everything for example under conditions of very low calories you may need more protein and timing might matter more extreme training loads might also modify that and for older lifters we know that timing and protein amount is more important so we can't just say all nothing matters because that that's the other tempting thing to do is really just get enough protein you could go like that's not it that's not it by long shot it's a better approximation than timing matters a ton but you can say hey look getting enough proteins the most important thing timing makes the difference but if you get it remotely correct it's most of the batter right there what's still true is the big rocks still win enough protein calories match to your goal progressive training solid sleep and if you want to take supplements there's a few that are good to examples of creatine and caffeine they work damn near every single time how to not get ripped off is by asking questions like okay so when you've got you're saying this supplement helped was protein and take match between groups was where the groups both training with these weight trained populations you can't answer those it's not a good idea to take the supplements because you just don't know other things you want is multi week studies and trained lifters with the real outcomes strength muscle size performance measures of various kinds body fats not single session blips if you show that you take a supplement in all the sudden that triggers antibiotic machinery that in many studies has shown to actually cause long-term growth but in many studies a little blip on the antibiotic machinery does nothing for the overall long-term because your body instantly descents the ties is to it and the next time you take the supplement nothing happened and you've only had enough area under the curve for growth for like 30 minutes at a time out of 24 hour day you're growing extra for 30 minutes by 5% and so and that mutes itself after a while because your body's just like I had I've seen the supplement before doesn't work and so how do you know that a supplement causes muscle gain man ideally you have a study where two groups double wine one takes the supplement one doesn't in the other group actually gain substantially more muscle or at least more rep strength or something like that any kind of real outcome data is really good acute studies they're not so awesome in this regard how to fix the science again bigger longer trials on trained people changing one conditions at a time no no opaque methods everything very transparent and publishing the results were nothing happened because a lot of times nothing happens in supplement companies are like I don't know about this you know supplements like tricastron for example basically have like one and a half studies on them and the one and a half studies done do anything and then the other studies are unrelated molecules that say also they don't do anything one study says it does something but it doesn't ever never got replicated that's exactly the kind of shit you want to stay the way from subprobability that it works well is a very very low it's almost random chance guys that's the situation in summary nutrition science isn't useless it's just better at minimums maximums and general patterns than at tiny personal optimizations for you use the studies that replicate really sound research that over decades has shown this actually works largely ignore the hype and track your own results your weight trends your performance your sleep your blood work stick to very similar diet change one or two things at a time and over the long term combining that with good data you can have a better and better diet and better results but if you think like oh I'm gonna take this one supplement or all everyone's eating too many eggs including me you've got another thing coming folks if you need help with your diet the RP diet coach app something I use every single day it is just absolutely wonderful for me in my prep even in my office season I use it all the time so I can hit my exact macros my exact calories log everything I need and be 100% certain that I'm leaving nothing chance if that's something you're interested in link in description go buy stuff click around it's on the iTunes store and google play and i'm gonna go play with myself now what no i'm not gonna do that now maybe later maybe later what see you next time

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Adissense Pyrdization. And I have the top 10 best ways for you to make sure you stick to your diet. Now we have another video later with the other top 10, 11 through 20. Anyway, of tips, so please stay tuned for that one. But here's the thing. This video assumes that you either want to start a diet or you already have, maybe you've done a few. And it's not going to tell you how to build a diet specifically. You can probably be surmised from here. We have loads of other videos on that. We have the RP Diet Coach app, which for like 15 bucks a month can build a you a diet, exactly to your specifications. Keep you on track. Remember, you bought meals, all that good stuff. This video here is for that extra layer of knowledge that typically only coaches have. That is the knowledge of on the mathematics and application of how to build a diet. You could do it a bunch of different ways of how to execute a diet. You could do a bunch of different ways of how to execute your lifestyle. There's technically a lot of correct answers. But some of those correct answers apply less often than others. And if you just do a random effective diet, it could be ineffective for you the way you apply it could be ineffective. So just like, let's say you're in some kind of real life version of a first person shooter game where you shoot demons. And then the guns are all laid out, which gun do you pick? All the gun shoot bullets. So there's no wrong answer. But depending on the mission and the level of kind of weird snake demon with nildows coming out of his head that you find, one of the weapons maybe much more appropriate than the other. And you wouldn't really know which one was good. I must say it played the game a few times. The game of dieting. And I'll speak myself and our team of coaches here at RP have played like I don't know hundreds of thousands of times. And we found out a ton of stuff that works in a ton of stuff that doesn't work as well. So I'm here to give you that inside scoop. So if you yourself are embarking on a fat loss diet, if you have clients that embark on fat loss diets all the time, or you're about to start coaching your clients, there are really good ways to do things. And there are other ways to do things that are totally fine. May not work out as long we have to be wary of them. So these tips are going to try to keep you more on the straight narrow increase your probability of success. That's it. That's all it is. There are 10 of them. So there's a lot of it again. First, you want to choose the right size for your deficit. And that means how many calories are you going to remove from your regular diet in order to lose the amount of fat that you want. Now, if you just took one pass at this question intellectually, you could say like, well, I want to lose a lot of fat. So what's the most I could safely do? There is a number for that for every individual, a little trial and error figure that out. And the thing is, what is safe? Isn't really sustainable? And you want to be able to sustain your efforts through the entire course of the diet to actually reach your goal. For example, it is actually a true statement that with this security protocols they have in place, going to Navy SEAL triodes as long as your doctor approves that your healthy is actually pretty safe. Yeah, I'm going to die. But is it sustainable? By definition, for almost everyone, it's the opposite of sustainable. You might not last a few minutes, never mind a few hours or days or the whole selection course. So you don't just want to pick a calorie number randomly out of the hat. Too much is too much and you'll fall off the wet. On the other hand, you could say, okay, hey, listen, listen, okay, I heard you. I'm going to pick a very small deficit to go real slow and steady. And at first, that looks like a good idea. It really does. A small deficit is easy to pull off. You won't be unsuccessful with it in the straightforward way of just burning out. But research shows people get less success with a very small deficit because they reached the following problem. Week after week after week, they look at their body. They try to note how they feel. They see how they close fit and not much is changing. And technically, you're losing a third of a pound a week or something. You barely feel it in the diet fatigue wise. They're not super hungry. But how are you supposed to motivate yourself if kind of nothing's happening? Right? Imagine going out of road trips somewhere. Like you've got to like crazy, you know, death metal slash punk slash electronic music concert in Chicago. And you're leaving from Indianapolis. What is that? Like a two and a half hour, three hour car ride. That's called two hours. Well, you thought it was two hours. So you're pumped with your friends. Let's go. You're in the car. Woo, putting whatever demonic music on the, you know, a stare that you listen to. And then one of your friends is driving at 10 miles an hour. And you go, dude, what are you doing? And he's like, well, want to be safe. Want to make sure we get there, right? Fellas, safety first. Don't want to burn out the car or you don't want to get us hurt in accident. You're like, right? Good thinking, good idea. Now that trip is going to take two days. About six hours under the trip, most of the people in the car, you're like, fuck that. Give me out. I'm just going to walk home because my house is right there. We haven't got nowhere. So slow diets in much the same way. Tent a burn people out because they don't show them anything their motivation can class onto, which is why a good start for most people is somewhere in the middle between really way too fast and really way too slow because both things exist. What that means practically is a deficit of you trying to lose something like half a percent to 1% of your current body weight per week, which means if we think about this, let's say you weigh 200 pounds. And that means that if you lose a half percent per week, that's a pound per week, that roughly corresponds to a 500 calorie deficit from your current diet. 500 calories missing in some form of exercise increase, activity increase and usually mostly food reduction. The other hand, if you're on the top end, you're going to lose about two pounds a week. And that means you are going to be at 1% of weekly weight loss goal and that's roughly around if you do the math, a thousand calorie per day deficit, a thousand calories per day. If you're eating 3,000 calories normally to maintain your weight at 200 pounds, you could be eating 2,500 calories potentially or even 2,000 calories potentially in order to get to your goal. Both are totally fine answers and there's a lot of wiggle room. The wiggle room is something you decide when you're actually doing it. What you want to do is get a combination of two things. One sustainability, you've got to feel pretty energetic, pretty good, no crazy sleep loss, no crazy cravings at least in the beginning. And two, you've got to be like, wow, like I feel like I need a less food, I feel a little lighter day to day. And after one, two and three weeks, the weight is steadily going down as predicted. As long as you can check both boxes, generally speaking you're really good to go. Next tip number two is to make sure you're doing a good job balancing your activity slash cardio and your food intake. Because it's very easy to look at deficit and think, okay, I'll just cut all my food down by 500 calories and then hit that. I won't change my activity at all. It's also easy to think the other way around where you say, okay, I'm going to exercise for 500 more calories per day. I'm going to change nothing about how I eat and that's going to be totally fine too. And again, just like I said at the beginning of this video, technically on paper without exposure to the real world, both of those are valid options. There's nothing wrong with them on paper in which is a lot of white people who start and do diets and then don't have a lot of success or any success with the process. They don't lose the way that they want. They end up thinking, well, like I fucking cut the calories, like the stupid textbook told me to, but the stupid textbook might not be reading the right textbook and it might not be telling you everything about what you need to know. I'm about balancing that two factory equation. There is a better way to do it and here it is. First, find yourself a level of physical activity that is sustainable. Ideally, something a little bit higher than what you're used to. A lot of times, step trackers can do a real good job with this. Where you look at your step tracker, you also have one on your cell phone. And if you're walking about seven or eight thousand steps a day, you think, oh, okay, that's nice. Let me bump it up to a minimum of ten k steps per day. If you wanted to do a ton of cardio, you could. But that takes up a ton of time and it generates a ton of fatigue and cardio is a really hard for how not many calories at birth. So what you just want to do is do a little bit more activity than usual, but not a ton more. Maybe 12, 10 to 12 k steps a day. That's number one. The next thing is to go on the internet and find out how many more calories per day, at my body weight, is this increase in activity burning. And that's usually something like 100 to 200 calories. Nothing crazy. Then you see, okay, I wanted to get to 500 calorie deficit. I'm already burning 150 extra from physical activity. That means I need 350 extra calories to take out from food. That's it. So that's not that hard. Once you find that out, you can go and plug and play and then you have found the balance. That balance may change in the future. You made your initial cut like this, yes. But let's say you get tired. You get hungry. And later in the diet, you may have to cut your calories again. If you're cutting calories again, you go through the same formula. But you now do a little value judgment before you execute it. For example, let's say it's been six weeks since you made your first deficit. And now your weight loss is plateauing a little. And you want to keep it on track. You want to keep it under the trend line in your RP diet coach diet app. And the diet app says, hey, you've got to cut your calories by like this much. And you're like, okay, except I accept your advice. And it goes, okay, here you go. Before you hit that calorie cut number, if it's going to give you an option to cut a little bit of calories, cut a medium amount or cut a large amount. And it'll cue you in on which one of things you should do. Ask yourself the following question. Ideally, can I go with more physical activity or less food? In other words, which one will piss me off the least? Which one is going to pull me closer to my limit? Right? So imagine being in a crazy Indiana Jones style like Northern African Desert Prison, two types of prison. In one prison, they work you to death, to the ground. 12 hours of physical labor or also dude whips you every single day. But when you go back to your jail cell, they feed you all the food you want. It might not be tasty, but it's all the food you can eat. No big deal. The other prison style is you don't really do much. You actually just sit around. There's like a lounge area, so whatever. It's not super comfortable. There's tables and chairs and you're there with other prisoners. You can chat. No crazy violence. All the other prisoners are also good guys like you. Just an adventure gone wrong. And there's no work. Right? But they just straight up barely feed you at all. There's almost no food. You get fed just enough to keep your eyes open. So you're hungry all the time miserable all the time. If you were in that first prison, the one where they worked you to the bone, but gave you as much food as possible. If the prison guard came up to you and he's like, look, but it's finally, you know, the night of nation's got to know about us. We got to do prison reforms. I know it sounds crazy in the end of Jones. Do you want more food? Because they said, look, you're something we're treating you with as bad. Or do you, do you guys want to work less? You'd be like, oh, holy shit, of course, work less. Fuck this 12 hour work, they shit. This is crazy. But if you were working barely at all and they came in and said, hey, do you want to work a little bit more and get more food? Or do you want us to cut your food even more, but you don't have to work anymore? You'd be like, are you crazy? I don't know anything to do. I love, I would love to do four hours a day of some kind of work that we get like double the food. And the prison guard's like, okay, great, great. We'll do it. So if you're on a fat loss diet, you could be in a situation where it's like, I don't care even preference. Then you choose to cut a little bit of calories and increase a little bit of cardio. If you're like, I'm super, super tired. I can't move around anymore, but I'm actually eating quite a bit, cut mostly food or all food don't cut any calories. Don't put any calories in for cardio. And the last one, of course, is obvious. You're starving to death. But like, you're not really moving around that much. Today, like, two of these still at 7,000, 8,000 steps, you just like, I fucking all cut my food, but now you're starving. Adding pretty much all of the deficit in through more cardio is great because you've got plenty of time to move around, plenty of energy. You just not gonna want to touch your food because you're already starving. That's how to adjust that on the fly. Point number three, it's probably a good idea to eat enough of each macronutrient. You'll always want a short cut. And they always want to cut some shit out because that's magically going to let them have this super effective diet. We already know not to cut out protein or not to produce protein. Protein is what saves your muscle on your body and pretty much everyone is trying to get lean without getting any less muscular. Proteins out of the way. But a lot of times people say, he lists, I need tons of carbs for energy and for my sport, but what are fats? Fats are useless macronutrient that people don't even need. Low fat diet, fat free diet, like back in the 80s. It turns out that messes with your hormones and messes with your hunger signaling and then you just end up having low energy, zero sex drive for a pretty close. A really bad time. It's tough to recover for your lifting and your physical activity. You're really, really low on energy or super dragging. Your cravings for higher fat foods are insane and you're okay. Maybe I made him steak. Wait, I'll fix it. I'll go keto. I'm going to drop my carbs to almost zero and raise my fats. Well, good by fat cravings. You got all the fat you wanted. But now you're workout energy sucks because you don't have any carbs. You're workout to workout recovery sucks because you don't have any glycogen. Your day to day, at least for a little while, mental space isn't going to be that great because your brain prefers glucose on which to run in your daily energy just isn't going to be as good. So our recommendation here is at least to start with. In enough protein, at least 0.3 grams of fat for every pound by the way you have. So for example, if you're 200 pounds at 60 grams of fat per day, I wouldn't go below that. You can even go above that and then generate your calorie deficit, subtract out the carbs and see how many carbs you get. You know, probably be plenty of carbs as long as your deficit's not completely insane. That way you're checking the box for all three of your macros and you're not measly putting one off to the pasture where at some point you're going to want to have access to its benefits but you don't. Your body does not do super well with extremes. It doesn't do super well with you taking out a bunch of necessities. It does better if you turn down each bar of macronutrients rather than eliminate one altogether. Number four. Number four is one about which most people actually don't know and that makes it a little bit curious. Here's the deal. There is actually quite a bit of research on this and the research is as follows. If you eat the same macronutrients every single day, thus the same calories and you have the same calorie deficit, you can actually see detectable differences in how healthy and how lean and how energetic your diet makes you depending on which schedule of meals that you use and the big thing here is similarity. It seems like human bodies prefer something like four to six meals a day and not something like one to eight meals a day and if you're going to have one meal a day, every day should be one meal pretty much. If you're going to have eight meals a day which would be the same length convenient every day should have eight meals. But the similarity is the big part. Let's say you have four meals a day. Is it okay that some days you have three meals totally? Is it okay that some day you have five meals totally? Is it okay if you have some days one, some days four, some days eight? It's okay, but it's not nearly as good. Your body thrives on regularity. In addition to this, you want similar meal times every single day. Some days you have breakfast at nine a.m. Some days you have an at eight a.m. But not very often do you have breakfast at eight a.m. one day and then you wait until two p.m. to eat the next day. So meal timing isn't all-ter-important. But if you stick to a very similar timing schedule through the day, you're going to have much better results. Well, by a small margin anyway, and one that counts, then if you just do random sporadic shit. And you also want to have similar macro spreads throughout the day, which means generally if you train in the morning, keep training in the morning. Most days of the week. I wouldn't train in the morning and then train at night training the morning, train night. Sometimes look your schedule just demands that you do, and that's totally cool. But a lot of times, it's a really good idea to stay as stable as you can. And because your training schedule will be able to be protein spread evenly throughout the day anyway, and you're roughly evenly spread meals, it roughly the same times. But you also want to make sure that you're having more carbohydrates around your training when doing a few or after. Or if you train these later, if you were carbohydrates earlier on the day, and then more afk, whatever your meals are, make sure each meal split macros-wise is roughly the same, or at least similar. So for example, if you typically have your breakfast at 8 or 9 or 10 a.m. close enough, your breakfast, let's say typically has 50 grams of carbs in it, and whatever, 50 protein and 20 fat. That means that the next day your breakfast could have 30 grams of carbs. The day after that, your breakfast could have 70 grams of carbs, and that's all winners. But it's probably not great or rather ideal. Pretty have one day breakfast zero carb. The next day breakfast 130 grams of carbs, the next day 60, and so on and so forth. All this sporadic nonsense can regularity is a big deal that most people just don't know about. It's a big deal because of habits that stick in and then your day becomes kind of a part of who you are, and it's easier. But it also seems to make sense, at least from the literature based on some kind of signaling and molecular hormonal stuff, such that actually eating on a regular basis, day after day, after day, similar meal time, similar meal amounts, similar meal macros gets you going in a way that just smooths out the entire process, which is probably what you're interested in, and probably what your clients are interested in is you're helping people out with clients. This seems to push back a little bit, and it does. On the idea that about 10 years ago in the fitness industry, maybe a little bit before that, it was kind of first popularized that macros are everything. If it fits your macros was born, and if your daily macros were, they were, you're going to get very good results. So that's still true, but you can get better results with meal timing. So a lot of people will say, well, as long as they get in, all my calories mattress thought the day I'm good, and that's totally true. But if you get them in relatively evenly with even scheduling, you'll just be more successful, lose more fat, half more energy, have better health outcomes if you have regular meal timing than if you don't. By a small margin, but an effective one. So something like the idea that's starting to sound like a sales pitch, we did think of the science when we made the app, and when we update the app, the RP Diet Coach app gives you regular meal times with meal reminders, and a way in which you can make your meals are very similar throughout the whole week. It helps you plan your work out. There are other, you know, because it's a diet planer, it's a diet coach, very different. There are other fitness and diet trackers that will essentially give you like a bucket for a day of food and say, I eat this anytime, and they're not bad, but they're not quite as good as giving your specifics and keeping you on a schedule of a regular intake, which is the big deal here. Next, number five, way that you can be more successful in your fat loss diet is to learn to bulk meal prep. The alternative is to essentially what I call spot cooking, everything. On the spot, it's 1pm, time for lunch. My RP Diet Coach app says lunch, eat your lunch. There's a macros. I go to the kitchen, I look at the fridge, I look at the eggs, I look at the cheese, I look at the turkey, and I go, okay, it's time to cook. I fire up the grill, or the griddle, or whatever I need to, and get the blender going, and I make myself a meal. Unless that's like fitness culture 101. The way I introduced to fitness was some late night commercial with the guy in Leigh-A-Tards was like turning on a blender. Some reason he was in Leigh-A-Tards. The Tony Thick is out of guide. Do you remember that guy's got to be the guy? He goes out of the machine guy. That's right. The hat and the Leigh-A-Tard on and all times. Yes. He's the man. So cooking a meal fresh and having it there with all your great macros, there is not a thing in the world wrong with it at all. But on day two, on day 27, on day 67 of your diet, cooking every single meal from scratch, it's just a lot of work. Now, if you're there for it, psychologically, fucking awesome. Enjoy. Mr. Chef, Mrs. Chef, that's you. The folks that diet the most, which is competitive bodybuilders by definition, because they diet, cyclically, as part of their competition prep every single time. And the diet really is the prep. They have found that if you cook a whole bunch of a few different kinds of meats, whole bunch of a few different kinds of grains, whole bunch of just a few different kinds of veggies, which is really easy to do on like a Sunday in like a two to four hour period at home. You make all that stuff in bulk. You measure out the meals that you can have and plan that each meal, you know, every day, we have four meals. Maybe one of them is a protein shaken night or some Greek yogurt. You're not going to like put that in a top of our container. You can make that in the spot easy. And it's like fun to make it in the evening and pull a few nuts in there and stuff like that. That's totally cool. But three of those daily meals, you are going to have in top or where by the end of that Sunday, actually within like two to four hours and take all day, you're going to have them in a combination of the freezer and the fridge so that you're whole week. All of your meals are there. That gives us two incredible advantages. One is over the course of the week. That saves you. I don't know 10 hours, maybe 10 hours of your time back to do anything you want with it. And when you're on a hard fat loss diet, that's a lot of time you want back. Like there's all kinds of other stuff in your life that's not more difficult to do because you're brain only works out way because you're starving all that time. I'm kidding, but you guys get the idea. Isn't it great that when you're doing something difficult like a fat loss diet that requires a lot of your cognitive bandwidth that you can free up 10 hours of the day with bulk meal prep? Yes, that's number one thing. It gives you this time. Number two, it takes you away from the kind of decision fatigue or rather decision opportunity that can make you falter. Okay? Imagine you told yourself, I'm not going to jack off to porn for the next 12 weeks. You want some of the Josh Hartnett 2003 type of shit. What's that movie called? Scott's video guy 40 days, 40 nights? Yeah. That movie was cool. 40, I think. Yeah. Anyway, Josh Hartnett was dreamy. In any case, you say, I'm not going to do it no more porn. Hey, sweet. Kudos to you. And every single time that you start your computer, you have a porn pop up and a work pop up. Really? Any one of Jack off to this porn? Look at all this porn. Or do you want to do work? Man, that's a tough way to set up your startup screen, 9 year computer. You're making life very difficult for yourself. It's similar to the way that when you walk into your refrigerator or to your kitchen and you don't have a meal prep yet, shit, there's options. And some of them are ones you said you wouldn't do. When you're making a meal and you're hungry for that meal, it's tempting to be like, okay, I'm hungry. The boss has been fucking writing me at work. And literally it's lying at the porn. And I need this. I need just a few more carbs for myself. Why am I so ridiculous that I'm saying this? It should happen all the fucking time. You guys probably know in the comments, you can tell me how often you're seeing a happen to yourself or to others. Like, an extra bagel, that's okay. But if you have your meal prep, that's like coming to work. You can't even access porn on your computer. And your work is preloaded for you. You open up your computer at your work from yesterday. You just get right back in. You just walk into the fridge, get the top of where I go. I don't want to do this. I want to eat pizza. But fuck it's already here. Microwave three minutes out, spoon, done, meal, eaten. And once that meal has been eaten and you're washing your tupperware, you think, wow, I'm not even hungry anymore. I'm not craving anymore. That meal hit the spot. And thank God that that meal was already pre-prep. We're kind of fucking genius. Did this. Who ate I did last Sunday. Huge advantage with bulk meal prep. And I think a lot of people think bulk meal prep is scary. They call my god, like, I'm one of these bodybuilder people now. I do bulk prep. My friends are going to come over to them. They're like, what's all this tupperware? Yeah, you need new friends. I'm kidding. It's just not that hard. It's just really, really basic stuff to give yourself the advantage, plain and simple. Next, within the context of bulk meal prep. Or if you want to cook some of your meals at least some of the time and maybe all the time for whatever reason, on if that lost diet, it is a huge, whole-hearted recommendation of mine for you to try to, at least to some extent, avoid elaborate menu items. Again, we come to the following. When you are fat loss plan, life is harder. It's like living in a world with one and a half times normal earth gravity. Someone's like, hey, can you get the remote? And you're like, ah, but it's over there. That's a whole three pieces of furniture away. Are you crazy? What if the remote just came to you? Wouldn't that be great? Wouldn't it be great if the remote was close? In a similar way, when you are doing a really tough fat loss diet, and listen, if you push a fat loss diet enough, challenge yourself, at least at the end, they all get tough. If you have a Sunday meal prep, and you have to cook some food, and the meal prep now takes five, six, seven hours, because you decided to meal prep yourself three different kinds of meals a day. One of the meals, it's the regular top of where, but then it's got the little pullout mini internal tupperer that's got a little cayenne pepper in it, because you don't want to mix the pepper with the noodles. It's better if you just put it on there. One of the meals starts after the microwave. I've seen people do all this shit. And listen, if you have time for it, and the bandwidth, great. Do the complex meal prep have a bunch of different ingredients. And when you're in a tough spot, and you will be at a fat loss diet, give yourself all the advantages. The advantages come when you have a meal prep that's got like two or three different kinds of proteins, two or three different kinds of carbs, shit even one works, two or three different kinds of veggies. You pour them into the little places in the top of where, measured all out, boom, you're done. That gives you two advantages. When we already mentioned, it's just the reduction in bandwidth, because shit is hard enough as it is on a fat loss phase. The other thing is this, when you're in a fat loss phase, especially towards the end of it, you're going to get hungry, you're going to get craving. When you want your food, your meals to knock out your hunger to buy you honestly, honestly. Another four hours of fucking sanity, so you can do your work, hang out with your kids, take a dog and walk, drive to the store, and not be thinking about like, how many grown olibars could I eat if I wasn't on my diet? Big talk last month, probably 100, I probably die. I just blow up like a seagull who's eating an alkythase. If you're free from those thoughts, that your meals are winning. And if your meals are ultra nuanced, ultra well-prepared, ultra elaborate, ultra delicious, you're going to really crave your meals, which an hour before your meal, it's all you're going to think about. And then you're going to eat your meal, you're going to enjoy the living shit out of it. And then afterwards, about a half an hour later, you can buy diet, damn it. How about another one of those meals, man? And you look at your clock earlier, only three and a half hours till my next meal, three and a half hours of existential dread. If you make your meals just decent, you can take the emotionality out of eating, for at least the last four or hard weeks of your diet. And why would you want to take the emotionality out of eating? Because they only eating emotions, you get nowadays on the net balance, are negative, because you never have enough food. That is the nature of deficit dieting, and you don't feel like you're getting enough food. So the complex menu items take a lot of time to actually prepare, and also they make you crazy, and they make you more likely to just be still fucking hungry and pissed. So stick to the simple stuff, maybe the not world's tastiest, emeralogasi type of shit, and then you're going to be setting yourself up for a higher probability of success, flat out. Number seven, food on the run. I highly recommend to you to either have in your home or office or wherever you find yourself Uber that you're driving, or no of where to get quick, realistically, three sources of lean proteins, three sources, or at least one or two of healthy carbs, and a few sources of healthy fats to build a meal with the good macros that you want in it, but your RP diet coach apps does eight, eight, and 12 PM. If you can't make it to a top-aware meal, or you're not in a position that day to even have the top-aware around you. It's important to know where to get meals on the go. This is a practice skill that you're going to get better at over time, but if you've got kind of like quick draw solution, then you're going to be way more successful because when you walk into a gas station, and you're 30 minutes late for your RP diet coach meal at number three of the day, if you just straight up have no idea what you're supposed to eat, you've never done this before. Fuck man, that's that whole porn analogy. Again, the gas stations full of delicious things. There's bear claws. There's those stuffed honey cinnamon buns. There's more bear claws of a different flavor. And all of a sudden, like, you're like, well, I need food and fuck this diet and she's an am, I'm eating junk. Or you eat something that has some protein, but not enough. If you go to the gas station before then, 20 minutes before your meal, or even at the beginning of the diet, or even before you start a diet, you can sort of get into the gas station around your work and kind of look at what they have, you can know in advance a few items you can get. For example, they might have some muffled milk protein shakes. They might have some really lean jerky, turkey jerky, or beef jerky that you can eat. They might have some really good macros protein bars that are just hanging around. They might also have a few different types of fruit, or some of those healthy granola bars, with mostly just slow to adjusting carbs and not whole that else. And they might have various flavors of nuts that are salted or unsalted or semi-salted, and then you can just pick from that and that's literally like a meal-builder to gas station. If you work from home, or if you're at home a lot, or if you're in your Uber that you drive a lot, you can have those types of things at your disposal so that you have ready to go, and it's so easy to have like two or three meals at any point in your fridge around the house, anything. So even if you don't have meals prep that day, easy on the go food on the run stuff is no big deal. If you work in an office, you can have a few of an office fridge. You can just show up that morning and be like, okay, we got clients in 20 minutes, coming in for a deal. Fuck, I didn't bring my food. That's okay, I'm at a run downstairs with a belly they got. I'm going to buy a few exact items like this, and then when we free up at the clients after the meeting, I'm going to boom, boom, boom, and then right up the whole proposal. Awesome, it's the food on the run, gives you the ability that if you're off track off schedule, off whatever out of your elements, you don't have your meals, there's no need to panic, and there's no need to eat a whole five bags of chips, which for some reason people do, we'll get into that later when they freak out. Point number eight, tip number eight, be ready at the restaurant. You guys live in the real world, I don't, I'm actually a large language model, I'm that even Dr. Mike Isrtle. How could you ever tell? Maybe in a few years this will be an interestingly dated. Good God, in any case, say that again. Sorry, we're going to replace it. Scott, the video guy is replacing me with that. I got a lot of samples of stuff I say, so it'll sound eerily like Dr. Mike, but not quite. It'll probably do that really well when I do with my eyes. In any case, here's the deal. You guys are real people. You can't always carve out 12 weeks of fat loss phase, it's just like what we recommended in the RpDiCoChap, it's like a really good, medium amount of time to diet, to really change your body. It's hard to take 12 weeks out of your life, and you're like, I'm never going to a restaurant in those 12 weeks. You could, people do it, but it's much better that if you get a chance to go to a restaurant, you are prepared. And that means, they use this crazy thing called the internet. I know, I know it's scary, but give it a chance. And you go to this machine called the Google, and you Google the name of the restaurant that your parents are coming into town, and they want to go to a restaurant, and that's the one you and your wife picked to take them out, too. And you look at their menu. And you think, what on this menu can remotely comport with what my macros are for meal number five, which is when I'll be eating this meal. It's not that hard. Most restaurants have a really good option, but it's better than that. Most restaurants have an ability for you to call the server, hey, AU, a Thai treat, servers and kidding. And be like, hey, I know you guys have a chicken breast dish with all this other stuff. Is there a way you guys could just get me the chicken breast itself, and then just like a bunch of veggies, and maybe like a thing like a cup of rice, almost everywhere I've ever gone. It's remotely, any restaurant, both McDonald's ability to customize their menu items, they're like, yeah, sure. And you just say, I'll just pay whatever for this normal one, because it saves a bunch of money on the sauce. I'm a little weird peanuts they put on there for the food decoration, and they don't give a fuck. Whether it be like, well, can we tell you how much it's going to cost you? Like, yeah, sweet. You're a good 15 bucks, you're a sounds fine. That way, you're winning at every step of the equation, which you do not want to do, is to show up to a restaurant, hungry as fuck. Your parents are squawking at you when you're like, oh my god, how long is this dinner? And you look at the menu, and there's nothing on there discernible, or the food items aren't even explained. It's like, oh, like, it's some kind of artistic name. Like, Chuharaska tacos. You know what the fuck is in these? And it's like a hipster place, so you can't even tell what the fuck the ingredients are. And like, is this like a carb or a fucking herb? Is this a smell or is this a food with the fuck is going on? Listen to point into something that has some delicious food that you might like to eat. Or maybe like, I'll have that person's having and it's great. But it's got a trillion calories in it because it's not a diet food because you panic and you chose wrong. Be ready for the restaurant by Googleian events, or by knowing that you almost always have the recourse to just order some clean food and look, people get embarrassed about ordering. This kind of stuff. They get embarrassed about asking restaurant employees this. I urge you at home to consider, and please put in the comments below if you have a good guess. Why? Why are you embarrassed? I said seventh grade. Is your dick out again in public? Again, I'm going to call Ronnie's parents for the fifth time this month. Oh, nobody cares. Nobody cares. Do that Jurassic Park meme with the fact guy. See? Nobody cares. You just fucking do that and you're good to go. Restaurant, win. I'm going to get any if you show up. Smell's really good in the restaurant. Everyone's eating tasty stuff. Your parents and your wife have all ordered a really good stuff because they're not on diet. That's it. You're failing because you're ordering the same shit. Oh, somebody got fries. I'll snack on those two. Don't do it. Be prepared. Number nine. Sometimes you're going to plan a fat loss phase and you're going to get into some rough times in your life. You get a phone call. Really? Hey, man. Have a long last brother. Oh, my god. I can't believe it. Yeah, that news. He's dead. So come to the funeral. You're like, oh, she's it's Christ. You got to go to a funeral in Arkansas. Really? Yeah, Arkansas. Fuck. That's like a week of me having a meet new family. Ugh. Look at a dead body. Ugh. Go to a funeral and pretend to cry because I never knew the guy. Ugh. That's a lot of stress. In that week, you could choose to try to stick to your diet. And if you've got to handle on things, I'm not going to kick that dick out of your mouth. So to speak. That's a Martin Lawrence joke. If you want to stick to your diet and you think you got to hey, listen, amazing. Everyone's clapping for you. But it's totally cool for you to say, look, this week or this two weeks. I'm going through a house sale. I'm going through a divorce. I'm divorcing my children. I, somebody take them. I don't want them anymore. Any kind of big major life event. Super big work trip. Here's an example. Your CEO walks in and he's like, hey, you know that Tokyo count? Look, yeah, whenever you're going to get that account. We just got it, mother fucker. Pack your bags. We're going to Kyoto tonight. We're going to have fucking train to Tokyo. And we're going to give them the best fucking presentation ever. And they're going to sign a fucking contract. And we're going to be fucking billionaires. And you're like, oh, bad. I have my macros. He's going to be like, what? Here's your fucking ticket. See you at the airport. And you're like, shit. Isn't a good idea for you to go to Tokyo to make the presentation of your life. Half delirious on zero carbs. Because that just happens to be that week and you're diet. No, probably not. The other option isn't no diet. And that's the thing that kills me. And this is tip number nine. When you are off your game knowingly and it's time for you to take a break from your diet. That means you don't break in half and Cheetos come spilling out. And you eat them to try to get them back in your body. It is not a license to eat whatever the fuck you want. It is a license to do one intelligent thing. And that's this. Take your deficit out and return it to maintenance. You're going to eat at maintenance for the entire time that that event continues. There's an option in the RP Diet Coach app to manually add a bunch of food to take yourself up rightfully to maintenance. It does it all for you. But if you do it yourself, it's a very easy calculation. Already know what your maintenance says from before you start at the diet. And it's a real close to what it was now that you've been doing the diet for a while. Just knock off a couple of hundred calories, boom, that's your main. It's a few to maintain at 3000 calories. You've been dieting on 2,200 for a few months. Your maintenance is like 27 or 28 hundred calories. Not rocket science. Stick to that maintenance. You're going to have a way easier time sticking to any diet and he works as maintenance eating isn't that hard. You have tons of fats available now in your diet that you didn't see. You can have normal manual items as long as you have the protein a little bit. You're not under any kind of stress anymore because maintenance is easy. So you can do a great job at the Tokyo conference. You can poke your long loss dead brothers body. Whatever it is you're into. And all the while you are not regressing at all. You're just maintaining. So let's say you had an ultra successful diet. You went from waiting 180 pounds to weighing 168. And you want to get to 165 in super close. And then you have to go on this work trip because you close the whatever account are almost closed. You got to go to the presentation of your life. You don't want to come back from Japan and Japan is at the patron saint of fucking amazing food. You don't come back from there. Be weighing 178. And you're like, I'm glad I'm a million in now. But fuck. What you want to do is come back weighing like 169 because of the weird travel bloat. And then two days later you weigh 167. You're looking at the god. I lost no ground. Zero steps for zero steps back. Fucking amazing. It takes some diligence and it takes the knowledge that when the diet is too hard to execute you go to maintenance. You guys have a watch like launch. You guys watch NASA or Tesla, fucking Tesla, what's that space X? Any of those enterprises launch a rocket that's really important in the space? When they get a report like heads gonna be bad weather, they're not like, how much is rock the cost? 10 billion. Ah fuck launch it anyway. What? With the weather is gonna knock it out and that's 10 billion gone if it's unmaned. And 10 billion and like five people's fucking lives gone if it's manned. But the fuck are we doing? They wait. Now when they wait as soon as they say hey guys launch the late until we'll take a look tomorrow, 20-four cycle launch delayed for now. Are the guys who are fueling up the rocket like woo, fuel everywhere, fuel here, light it, throw it on fire party, woo, who cares, break open the o-rings. No. Well the fuck would they do that? That would set the launch back even more. They go on maintenance. It's a holding pattern, double check, triple check everything, leave it to the fuck alone, go through the whole cycle again and then we'll take it up tomorrow when the weather went clear and then we launch. Same idea, you may thought your diet was gonna be 12 weeks, but now it's 15 weeks with a three week diet break at some point when you had to go to Japan to your presentation. And during that time you were on maintenance, which is when you come back, you haven't lost any ground. You finish up the last few weeks and it's super success. Instead of just being hey my diet's over for now coming back 10 pounds heavier and being like that was a fun trip, but I really just erased a bunch of progress. That you do not want. Lastly, tip number 10 and we'll see you guys next time for the rest of these. Again, when I started this conversation with you guys, it was pretty clear that you can do all of these things. None of these are like, don't do this, this is how you diet, this is how you don't. They're options. But some of these options get you into more trouble, probabilistically than others. Number 10 is a big deal because here's the thing, if you have junk food at home, if you keep junk food in your home, but you're on diet, you have been for six weeks. Look, you live with other people, you probably don't live alone, if you live alone, but so. Don't be too lonely. Say, your boy is always thinking about you. It's weird, but not in a weird way, but in a little bit of a weird way. Look, a loving way, but too much loving, like a girl from that hugs you a little bit tighter than you hug her, and you're like, you're great, Suzie. In any case, that's how much I love you. That aside. If you're at home alone, let's say there's nobody else involved in it. You can eat your clean meal, you can't. But you're hungry, and you're tired, and you're pissed, and you're diet's almost over any way. And you got a container of Oreos in there. Who's going to stop you? Nobody, literally. On the other hand, if you're someone who lives with other people, where those are your Oreos, but all you have to do is look up the stairs and be like, hey, Jim, he's like, what? Hey, buddy, how's your day, Ben? What the fuck do you want? Okay. Hey, man, you're going to eat those Oreos? No, you're good, man. You can have them. Yes. Oreotype, Oreotype, Oreotype, step on scale, sadness, faith. You don't want that? Is it possible for you to just do your own shit, have your own mega swag, just like Drake, the junk food out of your life, and have success? Yes. But if you're trying to give yourself the biggest advantages, while you're under the most pressure, it is a very good idea for you to let take as a junk as the French say, I'm a native French speaker, native. I was born in France, and a let throw it away, or let give it to his children, or some shit, give it to your driver to somebody else's house. It'd be nice. You're just like, you're just living in a normal best life, and your friends, hey, I brought you a bunch of junk food to you later at the close to the Oreos, like, holy, fuck, all right, fuck Halloween, this is sweet. I don't even have to leave my house. If there's no junk food in the home, when you begin to panic, fuck are you going to do? Go fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, I got to eat something that's off my diet, I'm starving, open your shelf, two liter container of olive oil, uncooked eggs in the fridge with milk, prepped meals, two-dailed broccoli that's soggy. Uh, do you want to do a cheat on that? Not your knife, nobody does that. Somebody drinks oil when they're hungry, unless they're actually starving, which you're not, you're just in a fat-wast diet, you fucking pussy, in any case, cheating is still possible. You can physically get out of your seat, start your car, go to the store, buy junk food, have people in the community, see you buying junk food. Hey, Bill, I thought you were on a diet. Shut up, Frank, get out of my face. Okay, buddy, see you next time. Unlikely, there's a lot of steps in which your cognition has to actively deal with the fact that you were doing a thing you'd hold yourself you weren't going to do. When cheating on your diet is just a matter of just, just, I'm just going to get the snack, I'm going to eat it, I ain't seeing anything, it's easier. When cheating is a matter of being like, I'm going to drive to the store, to cheat on my diet 11 days before it's supposed to be over, I'm successful, I'm not going to do that. Plus, when you're dieting, that hard, you're so fucking tired. You're like, I'm not going to the store, that would mean I have to get up and pick up my keys. Infinite gravity of how fucking heavy they are at this point in my diet, fuck that, I'm just going to stay here and watch TV. 11 pm hits, your nighttime routine shit starts and you're like, huh, they did another day, sleep, that's it. So no, you don't have to remove all the junk out of your home. And if you have children, please don't, because children are like a well balanced diet of some fun snacks. Sorry, dad's on a diet, kids, no more happiness for 12 weeks and it's not cool. But if you can arrange it in some way, especially if you live alone or even if you live with rumies, just arrange your fridge or a little cubby space in some way that doesn't have junk there. And in best case, there's no junk in the house for the next 12 weeks of your diet. And then you can look at RPD coach app, it tells you what to eat the meals, you've already done your bulk meal prep, you eat your prep meals, everything is happy, ish, and then you get super lean and then you were successful and then voila good things happen. Folks, if you have any questions or comments, please shoot them in below. And I'll see you guys, Scott the video guy, what do you think next week? For another episode, the next 10 videos, Scott the video guy is a YouTube thumbnailing and landing genius. So he says we're probably going to space them out. So here's the deal, you guys are going to have to wait and don't blame me, blame Scott the video guy, there's one, one, one, seven maple street, Birmingham Heights, California, you look at the 9, 5, 6, 5, 0, of sending a mail bomb. I'm totally kidding. Is that even really an address? Don't send anybody in mail bomb, what is this? 90s? Anyway, I'll see you guys next time.

I think I'm pretty close to 100% right on this and I do think a lot of people are just straight up wrong. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Anasanspirodization and today's video is about the stiff-legged deadlift, versus the Romanian deadlift. And the fact that this is an illusory dichotomy. In fact, these are basically no. They are the same thing. Controversial, I know. And I know because there are tons of other influencers, most of them very, very sharp and making great videos that have made entire videos talking about what the difference is between an SLDL and an RDL, a stiff-legged deadlift and a Romanian deadlift. And what I'm going to tell you is going to be potentially controversial, but I think I'm pretty close to 100% right on this, and don't worry, I'll support it even with sources, that actually it's the same thing. Weird. And I do think a lot of people are just straight up wrong with all due respect. I've been wrong many times in my life. Here we go. Maybe this is one of them. Let's find out. What is an RDL? I think it's an SLDL. SLDL stiff-legged deadlift. And it is an SLDL as described to the attendees of a weightlifting seminar in San Francisco in 1990 by the Romanian lifter Nicovlad and his coach, Beregamir, Geraslad. That's my best pronunciation of that. I am not Romanian, but close. The Romanian is a bit sweetest name, but I would be good-minded to have my name be Drogamir. That's fucking awesome. You know that, guys, in your way, class you're fucking losing. In any case, this Romanian deadlift was actually named by US Olympic coach at the time, Jim Schmitz, as the Romanian deadlift because he asked during training these folks where Nicov was doing the same thing. He asked him, what is that movement? What do you call that? They didn't really know they said deadlift. They couldn't really explain it. So, Romanian deadlift. So, Jim Schmitz named it right there. How do I know this? It is well described by Jim Schmitz himself in the Iron Mind article that is linked right over here. Maybe Scott will drop this link in the description as well, but you can just look at it. It's written up and just Google it. It comes up really quick. By the way, for serious strength athletes, Iron Mind magazine is the fucking B's knees. It is unbelievable. I used to read it literally 20 years ago, and it was just great. It is great. Amazing. Can't recommend it more than I already have. Now, how did Jim Schmitz himself and this is directly from Iron Mind directly his quote, described the lift. He said, and I'll just read, so forgive me for not looking at the camera. You grab the bar with your clean grip, pull the bar to the tops of your thighs, but don't complete the lift. That is, don't lock out your back. The knees are not locked out. The chest is out. The back is flat. And then lower, sorry, you then lower the bar to about two inches from the platform, keeping her back perfectly flattered arched, and your knees slightly flexed. Then you return to the almost erect position. I've been almost erect a few times. That's me, not him saying that. But it is very critical here, not to fully lock the knees, then repeat. Two very important details are, number one, your back stays flat or arched at all times, and two, your knees stay slightly flexed at all times. This lift is almost all low back, glutes, and hamstrings. Now, callermy fucking completely crazy. But that is the stiff leg of deadlift that lots of lifters have been doing around world for decades, even at that time in 1990. No, well, let's find out. Again, here is Jim Schmitz. Quote, an interesting side note here is that Yoshinobu Miyaki, Japan's 1964 and 1968 Olympic champion in weightlifting, was at the clinic where the remains were, and he said he did the same exercise back in his prime in the 1960s. I let that sink in. I'm calling them Japanese deadlifts from now on. Weird. In addition to this, my PhD chair, Dr. Mike Stone, who's one of America's best ever sports scientist, wasn't his, used to say, very angrily, I might add when you call it an RDL in front of him, we used to do stiff leg of deadlifts before the Romanians visited. They did not invent that exercise. They did it like many, many other people around the world had four decades. Now, let's get into the weeds of the refined technique. Technically speaking, the RDL is a variation of the stiff leg of deadlift. It is a type of stiff leg of deadlift, which is a broader category of potential ways of doing that exercise, but it's actually the most common way of doing that exercise, and it is probably in most cases the most proper technique. The stiff leg of deadlift is designed to hit mostly the hamstrings, and RDL style, which jimsmiths just described for us, is exactly almost exactly how most people would do it. It's nearly ideal. Now, I just said that the RDL is one type of a universe of stiff leg of deadlift, a spectrum of ways you could do that exercise. And so some of the stuff that was said in the way to do it, like stopping a few inches from the ground, we could critique and say, aren't there different ways of doing that? Yes. And here they are. First, all stiff leg of deadlift can vary on the degree of back arch. You can be ultra super archenier low back, or you can be even very rounded. Number two, they can vary in the degree of knee bend. You can have a significant amount of knee bend, or you can do technically speaking a stiff leg of deadlift with completely straight knees and everything in between. Number three, the degree of bar and hip travel, you can keep your hips relatively stationary and let the bar swing out really far. You can try to keep your hips stationary, this is very challenging, and keep the bar super tight to your legs. You can try to push your hips back really far as you descend and have the bar travel very far away from you as well, or most commonly, you have your hips travel really far back, and the bar stays very close to your hips and the rest of your body. Number four, depth differences. You can finish a stiff leg of deadlift at the bottom at just around or below the knees, or generally if you're very flexible, you can do them all the way to below the floor, which means you're standing on a platform or lifting with smaller weights, and those are deficit stiff leg of deadlifts. Number five is the grip. You can have a narrow grip or a wide grip or even a snatch grip. These are all variations on a theme of the stiff leg of deadlift, and the RDL is one subtype of the stiff leg of deadlift more generally. Now, there are a few other minor distinctions, and I'm sure I haven't even covered all of them, but here are some other things to think about. One is the degree of eccentric control. You'll notice that RDLs you descend relatively slowly, hypothetically you could do a stiff leg of deadlift to descend more quickly. Retracted versus rounded shoulders, you could have a stiff leg of deadlift where the shoulders just hang, you could have ones where you arch and pull back your scapulae the entire time. You can choose to pause in the bottom position or not to pause. You can touch the ground or not touch the ground, and about a million other smaller changes you could make. Now, because in my humble view, probably the best use of stiff leg of deadlifts is hamstring training, let's review what the best practices are for using stiff leg of deadlifts to train your hamstrings. How, when we change these variables, we just talked about that could be different between different approaches to the stiff leg of deadlift to actually train our hamstrings the best. Well, here it is. First, you'll see by the way, many of these most almost all overlap with how an RDL is described. First, you want to have anterior pelvic tilt, which means that you have a neutral back or an arch back, your hips are tilted up and back, that pre-stretch is the hamstrings allowing them to get into a more favorable position to be stimulated for growth. To, you have a slight knee bend, it means you're not going to be really uncomfortable with no knee bend at all, and you can produce a high-alotting situation for the hamstrings without concerns for safety. So that's really good. You don't want too much of a knee bend because the users have to move the bar a lot further to get the hamstrings actually stretched out. Number three, you want a slow descent to maximize that nasty eccentric hamstring stimulus and to stay safe. The hamstrings are a finicky muscle. If you guys have ever played sports, you know the hamstrings like to get injured every now and again, and those are really almost always nasty injuries. You don't want their poles, they're this, they're that. You want to go nice and slow because you lose nothing going slow, and you gain an extra margin of safety and even probably a bit of stimulus as well. Another advantage you're going slow on the stiff leg of the deadlift is your knees and hips tend to go off track because they counteract each other. If you go slow, you can always reinforce that you're still using your hamstrings and they're being pulled apart painfully. If you go quickly, you could do a thing where you do a wrap, you come back up and you're like, fuck, I bet my knees too much. But if you're going slowly, you can auto adjust, make micro adjustments, pushing your knees back, keep it in a forward, back and forward to keep the right amount of tension on your hamstrings. Number four, you want to descend deep enough to painfully stretch the hamstrings, which is where that advice for stop two inches above probably isn't the best advice in the world from the RDL proponents. Because if you're really flexible in hamstrings, stopping two inches above the ground can be just not enough of a stretch and you don't get really sore or make a ton of progress. But if you're in that case, you would want to do some deficit work and really go below the floor, so to speak. But if you have very poor flexibility in the hamstrings, then you'd have to round your back a shitload in order to get two inches above the ground. Once you round your back, your posterior pelvis, tilt into posterior tilt. It takes tension off of the hamstrings and then it's just not much of a hamstring exercise anymore. So really what you need to do is the height where you go to is the most auto regulated part of the stiff leg and deadlift and you go until you feel a deep painful stretch in the hamstrings, not much further than that, and definitely don't stop until you feel that deep painful stretch. And tell you guys about the RP Hypertrophy app. With over 28 preset programs already in the app, you can choose to make your own. You can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs exactly as they were written by a personal. This app programs everything for you. So, to wrap this up, if someone asks you, do you like SLDLs or RDLs, bro? What do you think about RDL versus SLDL? It's tantamount to asking someone, do you like Fedachini Alfredo or the kind of Fedachini Alfredo they make it most Italian restaurants? What? The kind of the same thing, the RDL is the most common and basically the most effective type of stiff leg and deadlift for training hamstrings. So it's just kind of damn near the same thing, or you could think about it as a stiff leg and deadlift is a very large circle. And an RDL is also large, just slightly smaller circle that is entirely enveloped by that large circle. Trying to do a stiff leg and deadlift that is also not cataloged as an RDL. Usually means you're not training the hamstrings anymore, and it's just not really clear what it is you're doing. You can do very bent knee, rounded back, stiff leg and deadlift, really if we're putting a fine plan and it's just a good idea. That's just a fucking deadlift. So again, RDL and SLDL is almost exactly the same thing and in fact the RDL is entirely encompassed by the stiff leg and deadlift category. Instead of asking, do you prefer the RDL or SLDL? And also a lot of people don't know what these two things mean, so they'll just give you wrong answers. They think in RDL as this where it's really not this. It's much more clear to ask things if you want to know how a person trains and what they do and want to try to copy them a little bit to get some similar results. Ask them things like this. Do you like to pause at the bottom of your stiff leg event or RDLs? I don't care which one to use. I'm not a person that gets pissed if you use RDL. It's totally fine. The romanians are sweet. How much do you like to pause at the bottom? Do you like to pause at the bottom? How much need men do you prefer? Very, very straight knees or somewhat more bent knees? How why do you like your grip to be questions like that? Questions that answer where on all of those margins do you prefer to do stuff like a delet? It's an actually. There's no one correct answer because you can use slightly different approaches as new variations. Snatch grip stiff leg event lifts, conventional grip stiff leg event lifts, stiff leg event lift, where you push your butt really far back but bend your knees a little more. Once in which you basically almost bend your knees not at all but you keep your butt relatively stable. Those are all totally fine as long as they are doing the job safely and effectively loading your hamstrings at a stretch. That's the exercise feature that we really really want. And I think one of the reasons why the romanians didn't like to do the lock out portion is because that top end really just doesn't offer whole out of stimulus. And if you get almost all the way up to the top you don't have to re enter anterior pelvic tilt you're already in it. You can simply go right back into the movement and it ends up being a loaded partial and those are showing a literature to be very effective. Why are we saying just ask for variations? Because there is not this contentious battle between SLDL and RDL, the RDL is just a well executed version of a very common type of stiff leg event lift. Which means most physique folks will do something and should do something that looks like an RDL. And if you're stiff leg event lift looks very different than an RDL that will be weight lifters doing. There's more of a chance you're doing it wrong than you're just doing something clever that is not encompassed by the RDL category folks. I know this is going to have a lot of comments. I'll see you in the comments. If you like the video please like it. If you hate it just like it anyway. I want to be your friend. Please, I need any likes. I count all the likes. If I get a thousand likes in a video, I buy myself a cookie and I eat it watching the likes go up. If you like this kind of nerdy stuff, we'll see you in our members area that cost more money because I need Lamborghini's desperately. But there's extra videos there every week for nerd stuff like this. And if you want help with your stiff leg event lift or RDL technique, come join us in the team full rom forum. Well, analyze your technique. We'll make it better over time. We'll give you a ton of programs and a ton of interaction and questions answered ever week and all that good stuff. That's all in the description and I'll see you guys next time.

I have tried to do better. Over the years, I have tried to change myself. So that I'm somebody else. Unfortunately, despite my best efforts, I'm still Dr. Mike Eusertel for Adisonspirization, and let's talk about the effects of the mirror on your technique. That's right. Does looking into the mirror while you train, improve your technique or does it degrade your technique? Unfortunately, this video is by definition discriminatory, and I'll be straight up guys. It's 2023, maybe when you see this 2024, even. And everyone is equal except for one group of people, vampires. I know that you can't see yourselves in the mirror, and so unfortunately this whole video just does not apply to you. On the plus side, you have pale skin and an ability set you sometimes confused for real power. Anyway, Dragon Ball Z references aside, is it okay to look in the mirror at my technique? I get asked this all the time by random people even in the grocery store. On the other hand, there are other people that seem quite convinced that looking in the mirror when you're altering your technique or trying to modify it is a very, very bad idea. And it turns out that both have a little bit of the truth in their pockets. So let's look at the downsides and upsides of using the mirror while you train. Mirror mirror on the wall, who's the jack-dist of them, big-rimey? Oh fuck. I can, you're supposed to say, I bought you off a magician and you're supposed to say, shit, it makes me feel nice. No, no, no. It's got what to fair tail is that from? Little red riding hood? No. No, why sleeping beauty? It's not white. Snow White. That's an honest fucking mirror. Do you want to be lifting in front of Snow White's mirror? That'd be dope because you'd be like, hey, like, that mirror's kind of like a GPT. Like, can you critique my technique? And it's like, yeah, yeah, sure. Like, you ought to put your knees out more. So in any case, unless your mirror talks to you, which is dope, is using the mirror a good idea. Well, there are downsides. There are distinct downsides for using the mirror for your lifting. One is that, yes, you can use the mirror to reinforce your technique. Like, when you're squatting in a Smith machine, you look at the mirror. You can make sure you keep your chest up, knees out, blah, blah, blah, blah. You can only dependably have your assurance of using your best technique when you have a mirror around. You see, you're still lifting with the mirror. And then you like traveling or something, you go to a gym, where it's a great Smith machine, or happens to be actually the same Smith machine. Use it home, but it's not next to a mirror. And there are no mirrors around. And you have your ventilate, a little bit. Okay, I'm going to be okay. But just do it. Just do it. You remember, and you're realizing, remember anything, because you start squatting or I'm like, god, I have no idea where my body isn't space. Definitely a possibility. And because of the fact that you now need the mirror and some respects to have your best best technique, even if you could do great technique without it, the idea that you become reliant on the mirror to some extent is true. And thus, competition lifters, especially as they approach the competition, power lifting for example, straw man weight lifting, definitely weight lifting. The mirror is an unstarter. So a lot of times, we're trained with my wife, and she was a competitive power lifter at the time. I would squat into the mirror. She would just turn around and squat away from the mirror. I was like, but this is a really good idea. In addition to that, another downside of training with the mirror is that you might focus on the wrong stuff. What do I mean by that? The mirror typically allows you or emphasizes your focusing on external visual cues. What am I needs doing? What is my chest doing? What is my back doing? What am I wrist looking like? But if you over-focus on external cues, when they really are the things that are lagging, amazing, it fixes a lot of stuff. But if you have some internal cueing problems, like am I using my glutes like I'm supposed to be? Am I feeling this in my quads? Am I standing and pressing really through my whole foot versus just my toes just to those kinds of questions that may actually can't help you with. And because your cognitive bandwidth is a roughly given amount, any cognitive bandwidth eaten up by you staring yourself in the mirror, and addressing maybe even notably deficient external cues, to your benefit, there's a certain amount of cognitive bandwidth that you just can no longer use to address internal cueing. And sometimes when internal cueing is the limiting factor or the main problem, then yeah, you might like be great at lifting externally. But someone's like, do you feel that on your quads? You're like, ah, I really just like, all my knees, I think, but I look in the mirror and my technique looks great. Ah, but looks, aren't everything as many the teacher told me when I went to the prom by myself every year. You know? But luckily, I met a lot of no one at the prom and no one danced with me. If you could go back in time and be my prom date, would you be a promicide, brush my teeth and say polite things? In any case, those are the downsides. What are the upsides? First, you can check your technique, midset, and adjust on the fly. Pretty fucking dope. You do a Smith machine squats, your chest starts to sink down, or drop and fix it. Right there in the middle of the thing. And point number two is you can play with different fixes, right there during the set instead of looking to video review because a lot of us now record everything that we do on our video cameras on our phones, specifically our lifting. I have a distinct number of lifts that go to Instagram as you may if you follow me on Instagram, see, and also if you're like, ah, Dr. Mike does seem to most all of us training. Like, forms, curls are never post almost calves are never post-wide because that's only fans content on the fuckers. You got a pay-flash shit. But either way, it's getting video tape. The thing with checking your technique of video tape is it's an incredible, incredible tool, but it's delayed. So while you are training and let's say incline benching, if you could see yourself in the mirror, you could correct technique after like one or two reps. And the rest of the technical execution is very good because you looked in the mirror a little of a jakey that touching the wrong spot on that one. But if you go to video review after a set, you already have one whole set of two things. One, doing the movement potentially wrong, which is like that sucks, so it's not ideal for your own idea for your muscles. No big deal, but not great. And two, the way motor learning works is every time you do a certain kind of technique, even if it's the wrong one, you reinforce those neural patterns and you're more likely to shift into that technique later. So you're actually learning the shit wrong. It's kind of like if you're hanging out with somebody who speaks English as a second language, and they're making a steak speaking to you. Let's say we're videotaping the talk. They could go back later and be like, ah, I should have said that other word. That's wrong. I was using the wrong tense there. That's fucking as shit. I'm an next time for later. But as they were speaking to you, they were practicing the conversation, so they were actually just learning to speak English wrong. Whereas if you rudely interrupt them halfway through the sentence and be like, you said that word wrong, I want to correct you. It's in some context and saying they rude, but another context and saying me helpful. But the neural network shit is absolutely valid. If a mirror allows you to catch yourself in the act, so to speak, what was I doing in that mirror, the police coming arrest you? And I know that was yesterday for me. Then you can fix the reps right away and then you can just practice the reps better. That means you're, let's say you archer back better. You get better feel for your quads, stay for free or spine, and you're learning to move better the entire time. So that's really, really, really good. And one of the greatest benefits of having the mirror is you pretend, well, that's actually two benefits. One of them's not on the slides. Scott, how we do on slides later. Do we have a major producer guy who's going to make this all look even better? We'll see. If you guys see PowerPoint slides, the producer guy didn't work out. So two benefits, two more benefits from looking in the mirror. One, if you could pretend to be looking at your technique, but you're just getting lost in your own eyes. Do you guys ever just like look at them in the mirror and just look in your own eyes? And you're like, he's just Christ. What's the word I'm looking for? Ravishing. Just scandalous. Who'd let you out of the house looking like this? You fucking beautiful thing you. What do you get when PhD sports scientists collaborate with pro bodybuilders? The most effective muscle growth training I've ever made. Get yours now. And another benefit is you can pretend to be looking at your technique, but what you're doing in real life. You're scashing motherfucker. Oh, because the gym is full of these, you know what I'm saying? TikTokers. What's that brand of clothing they wear? The gym sharkers. You know what I'm saying? Girl, if you if you if you it was that's got? Young law. Young law. Young law. You know what's so? What's so? As young law do females wear that? I just feel like you know what I'm saying? I'm not young and I don't live in LA, but you know what I'm saying girl? What's up? Also, if you think you're a gym shark, what does that make me? Japanese. Don't they kill a bunch of sharks? No whales. They got to kill some sharks too. Anyway, you can scas on people. But then when they look at you through the mirror, they got that sight. They know you're fucking looking instantly of your gaze and look embarrassed. Girls love that. If you don't have the confidence to continue to look them in the eye, they just can't help themselves. You're going to be getting a lot of dates. I know this to be true. From personal experience, Scott, how many dates have I been on in my life? Negative number. I have more rejections than acceptances. Who counts the rejections? My ego does. Over 500. All right. Recommendations. TLDR. My chathevacop, this video should have been 10 times shorter. Can I just get information from you? Stop at the jokes. You're not a comedian. You're not stand up comedian. You're sitting down and you're go testly hairy. Shut up and tell me things. Okay, great. You're right. Competition strength athletes. I just wouldn't look in the mirror. And if you insist on looking in the mirror for your assistance work in the off season, like one to three months before competition, definitely for your competition lifts. Low bar squat. Well, obviously, I have no idea how the fuck you would look in the mirror. I'm going to bench that would be great, great clever. Deadlift and shit like that do not look in the mirror. When you have your comp set up, it needs to be like replicating the reality of the actual competition. No mirror looking there. When you are looking in the mirror, what I would say is looking straight on is a really good idea. But a lot of weird shit happens when you look to the side. And maybe I'm not so safe things for the spine. Probably a bit of overvaluing how dangerous this is. But for some horror stories and also aligning your body to move really well while you're pivoting. Because everything kind of follows your head. The other way is really not like I've seen people who are do stuff like a deadlift and they'll check your technique from the side like do just save that shit, man. If there's a mirror in front of you, you can check to see if your chest is up. But to see if you're knees are back far enough and if you're pushing a butt back, just put your fucking phone camera on the shit you'll see it once that later. It's like turning the side always wigs me out. Personal preference and maybe some anatomical rationale, I just wouldn't look to the side. So in front, cool. Next, definitely try to focus on internal cues too. Don't become one of these mirror people that you all look for as external cues. Or my elbows are with this, you should be chest where they should be knees where they should be great. Then I'm doing the lift correctly. You don't want to just replace all of your cune with the mirror. You augment it with the mirror. The mirror is like a really awesome magnifying glass at external cue. But that doesn't mean internal cues go away. So definitely have distinct things to look for. Don't just kind of soak it up. Like a lot of people will just like their fans of their own lifting. You know, like you look good. Look pretty cool when you're lifting. You're kind of at your best. And they're just kind of like watch the mirror to be like, yeah. Yeah, I'm the fucking man. Look at me. Everyone on the James fucking lugging me. I love how I do man. Like that's cool in all. You can do that. But it's better to look for specific cues. And that's kind of hard. But when the set gets really going and you make it facial expressions, you're just kind of driving yourself in the mirror. I think it's probably better to be like, okay, what am I looking for specifically? Chest is my chest starts to go down. Then I raise it up. Because sometimes people look in the mirror and their technique still sucks. And I'm just like, what do you look in for? Because I can tell you it all fucking blows. Clearly you're not seeing the same shit I am. And maybe they are vampire and they just have no idea. You imagine someone's doing the shit in the mirror and then it turned to you. They're like, how was it? You saw it. They're like, oh yeah, of course they did. Sunscreen's coming off. You're like sunscreen. It's midnight. I gotta go. Turn into a bat. We're recording this close to Halloween time. So lastly, just try. See if it improves your technique. Look for specific things, try to change them. Don't forget your internal cues. Use the mirror for a month on a lift. And see if it helps you. And if you just find it like annoying and stupid and wrong and it doesn't do any before you fuck, abandon the mirror. And if you really love the mirror, just walk right through it into the mirror dimension. We will finally have friends and happiness. I have read about in picture books. See you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here, really interesting topic of discussion for today more of a little bit of a philosophical situation for you. When is drug use in sport cheating? And how bad is that sort of thing? You get a lot of comments. Let's say somebody like Larry Wheels posts a video and inevitably someone says, yeah, but steroids. And someone will say, yeah, man, he's cheating. It sucks. It's a shortcut. And then if you're reasonably intelligent, you start thinking, uh, interesting. Is what he's doing cheating? Is he being tested? Is there some kind of competition or other people tested? And you start to realize that this moral landscape of using drugs and cheating can be quite complicated. But not so complicated, I think we can peel the support in the next, you know, 10 to 30 minutes depending on how many rants I get in and irrelevant jokes that are funny to no one, including me. So as I see it, the moral landscape with drug use and cheating in sport has kind of two things going on that are quite separate. And often get confused, but are very, very distinct. One is cheating the law. So you cheated by violating it with regard to drug use, the jurisdiction you're in. Let's say the country says, you know, let's say stero use is illegal. You choose to use anyway and you are thus violating the law. And that absolutely is a form of cheating. And no matter what the law is, it makes a lot of sense to understand that breaking the law, breaking any formal codified rule in society is a form of unethical conduct in and of itself, because the very act and ethos of a rule-based order is itself. It's self has a moral worth. Not breaking rules. No matter what they are, is generally a better thing, unavoured. If you really trickle down to what morality is, then just being like bucket, I just like rules rules, maybe rules are made to be broken. Like that's not such a good thing. The average behavior on any system with a set of rules, if you code one type of individual actor and game theory that typically follows the rules and one that typically does not. Generally, the rules-based system will just be better for everyone if more people follow the rules. On average, of course, like if you live in North Korea, breaking the rules is a matter of survival and in the samely really ethical, but in most cases, breaking laws generally not something to pack yourself in the back for. So there is that. Just breaking the law by itself is a little bit not so great ethically and that's not to us, right? So taking drugs when they are illegal, technically an ethical to some some extent. But in the grand scheme, not a huge moral lapse if it hurts nobody, but you, or even not you. So if you take 30 days cycle of animals or something before a trip to the beach and you look nice at the beach, nobody lost nobody found. And if someone's like, you're a fucking criminal, I'm technically correct. But also exactly who did I hurt here? And the answer is literally no one. And what are called consensual crimes or victimless crimes is a real thing. And so yes, nominally you did. You are cheating in some certain way, you're doing something that's not so ethical, but the degree of its immorality is insanely low in many cases. So that's something to remember. So it is also something to remember when you go vote. And like, you know, should we make right performance enhancing drugs have the same kinds of punishments as like fentanyl or some kind of drug that'll make you go out and stab people in the face in the street to try to get more. Gee, you know, that's a tough sell because there's just no epidemic of people who take performance enhancing drugs destroying society or the lives of others. This is not a thing that happens with, it happens with a frequency that's 100,000 times lower per use rate than alcohol. And that shit is legal. I'll get off that high horse shortly, but it is definitely a wrong you're doing wrong, but it's a very, very small. And it actually doesn't necessarily, essentially at all with sport because I know I noticed that it didn't mention sport at all. That's what number two is four. So the second case in which there's second kind of cheating to do with performance enhancing drugs is cheating other competitors in sport. By using band drugs and substances to get the competitive edge for the same reason that breaking the law is bad in a let's say a society or country and nation-state of jurisdiction because breaking rules is generally bad on average as its own action. It's also bad to break Federation rules when you cheat even if it doesn't fuck over any other athletes. For example, let's say it's a competition of 10 people. And the nine people next to you in competition all run 10 seconds hundreds or faster and you run a 16 second hundred. Which I think you can walk a hundred and 16 seconds or something you're jogging. And you gear up to the fucking moon to run a 14 second hundred and you still take that last. Technically you didn't fuck anybody else over. Your gear use your performance enhancement didn't affect any other competitors. They're placing their sponsors. But you still did something wrong because you're lying instead of a bitch because the work governing body Federation invited you to compete. And you agreed when you signed the shit that you weren't going to take anything they said you weren't allowed to take. So you still did a bad bad but it's not the same kind of bad as if you fuck other competitors. So yes, it's bad to break the rules. But also the real bad is when you break the rules to actively fuck other people of shit they had due to them. For example, you are going to take fourth without gear. The top three people who get medals didn't take gear. You took gear and now you're ranked two. You bumped one person completely off the metal stand and one person would have gotten silver's now getting bronze. That's fucked up. You're cheating hurt other people. Not hurt in the physical sense. It took something that was due to them. That is pretty fucking a moral. You're ripping people off of titles and play things and potentially sponsorships and all that are the crazy kind of shit. It's a bad thing you're doing. But it's a bad thing that is shaded in grace. All of the grays are bad but the darker ones are, you know, or the lighter ones depending you can see if it are the really bad things and there's some other shades in which you're like, it's bad but it's not that bad. The real study and thought about morality is not ones and zeros. This is moral. This is a moral. That's what you tell children. When people grow up to be adults, you say, well, some things are really, really, really fucking a moral and you shouldn't do them. Some things are cheesy, you know, just barely. You just put something to you. They're convincing reasons that folks like Sam Harris have described for why you should never lie. But if the CIA catches you with known people who have a tactical nuclear weapon, they're going to detonate New York City and you lie about where it is and, you know, 5 million people die, you did a real bad thing by lying. If the fat guy at work is denophitnessed program and he comes behind, he's like, I lost 15 pounds and I released 300 instead of 15. If you're like, oh, Bob, you look fucking great. You're lying. He still looks like a fat piece of shit. But she was, you know, who did you hurt with that one? This all kinds of really on the margins talk. We could say about, well, you're setting up his expectations for later, Bob, Bob, but in reality, that there's, you guys can illustrate there's huge shades of gray. And those same, the big spectrum of shades of gray, you know, 50 shades of gray better pay us for plugs, right? Scott the video guy. I'm saying what was that movie about? It's like S&M or whatever. And the fash shit was in reverse. You boy'd be all up in that shit. But anyway, I want to be a little intern for the CEO. I think that's what he's about. In any case, big shades of gray even in the context of cheating in sport. So let's open up that big old can of worms and see what the worms look like. So couple scenarios, one, two, three, four, five. Five scenarios that all are starting, I think from no problem at all, no moral ethical problem all the way up to like your piece of shit should really reconsider what the fuck you're doing. First, and all of these by the way, involved drug use. So we can say that equating drug use to a bad thing automatically is a non-starter and here's why. S&M number one, drugs are legal in the country in which you're using them or in the jurisdiction which are using them and the sport Federation doesn't test they don't care. Pro body building in Thailand. You can go by steroids at the fucking pharmacy in Thailand. Nobody gives a flying fuck. And if it's pro body building and it's not natural pro body building, just regular pro body building, they do. Nobody cares. Everyone's on drugs. Nobody gives a shit. The verdict there is that that is ethical on all grounds. You were doing nothing wrong. So if you're at the gym in Thailand, pump them up full of steroids and training and someone's like fucking cheater, you could be like, check out your speaking. I'm not here by leaning any log whatsoever. You know, and if they can understand that, you've been learned a lot of nerds. In any case, that's absolutely a way to be doing drugs and they are not damn thing wrong with that and it's just between you, your health and God. That's it. Next scenario that gets into the grave. That was purely all clear, all good to go. Drugs are illegal in your jurisdiction. Let's say your country, but the sport federation still doesn't test. Perfect example, professional body building in the United States. Generally, United States is illegal to use a lot of the sport performance enhancing drugs that are used in pro bodybuilding. But in pro bodybuilding, they just don't care. Nobody asked nobody answered, no tests, nothing like that. There is not even the implication of being drug-free. So the verdict on that is it's definitely unethical with respect to legal obedience. Again, breaking the law by itself can be caricatured in many valid ways to be at least a little bit and but it is quite ethical with respect to sport competition because you know, gee, you can imagine like seeing a pro bodybuilder like, he's going to the bathroom off stage and a pro bodybuilding show and you're like, fuck, cheater, he's like, what, how do I cheat? Wait, what do you mean? Did I stand too close in front of the judges that I spike the other guy's drink with salt? You're like, no man, you're using steroids. He's like, oh boy, have you been in the show? No, like come on in and I'm like, oh shit everyone's on the shit. Well, like, it's an even playing field in that regard. So definitely, uh, it key not great to be proud of breaking the law in your country. You can think of a country as kind of we're all in the same team trying to work for the same general purpose and breaking the rules and spad. You've been out terrible, but certainly not something to proud of, but on the sport front there is no sport cheating going on. Okay, again, new, if you tell, you know, uh, could cut, if you come up to, you know, how did you pun, you know, Mr. Olympian, you're like you're cheating at sport with bodybuilding drugs. You'd be like, I'm sorry, do you know what cheating means? Have you seen the sport? So definitely not a concern there. Now, uh, scenario number three, the Federation prohibits drug use. We're going to take the legal stuff aside. You guys already know that. It's all it's either legal or illegal and slightly immoral or or totally fine. Just focusing it on sport now. The Federation prohibits drug use, but cheating is commonplace. Perhaps almost ubiquitous. Perfect example is internet, national professional cycling is wholly fucking shit. I saw at least one paper quite well done mathematically, where they estimated that the first time you get to a 50 50 chance of finding a drug-free cyclist is at the time this was in, um, 2010s. Uh, it was ranked 700 on the international pro list. Holy fuck, that means everyone ranked 699 in above has a greater than 50% statistical chance of being on drugs. So you can imagine the top 10, wow, it would be highly unlikely to find somebody who's drug-free. So the verdict for this is technically an ethical because you are breaking sport Federation rules, but of a very, very low magnitude, you are absolutely trying to get an edge on your opponent, but your opponent is using pretty much the same technologies to get an edge. It is an arms race, but it's one that looks like this. It's hard to say that, you know, when people got upset, for example, with Lance Armstrong for cheating and every single fucking cycling race, you've ever done, um, you know, people are like, oh, how could he? It's like, do you know what you're, do you know what pro cycling looks like? They nanning, there's not a goddamn person within fucking eyesight of him that's not fucking using drugs. So gee, you know, it's a different landscape than if, well, preview some of the stuff we're going to talk about just a bit where the cheating is much more straightforward, much clear, it's much more fucked up. So do I have like a ton of love and respect for this kind of cheating? No, not even close. Is it itchie? Yeah, fuck it. It's fucking the whole thing is, uh, but, um, is it this huge magnitude of moral wrong? No, it's blood. It's not great. But it's not the worst thing in the world. You guys know what I'm saying? Um, I'll tell you something, personally, for me, clearly, I'm not fucking drug free. Uh, and uh, later in my life, I will absolutely be drug free. I can hate using the shit. I'm just using a toboddy bill. They fucking hate all this shit. It's involved with it. But, uh, I'm also a competitive jujitsu grappler right now. I have my brown belt and I've competed a ton before. You have never seen me in an IBJJF competition and you never will. Why? Because I'm your GF is like proscycling, uh, steroids are banned, but they test almost no one, almost never. And they, um, will pop up person here in there a few years. It's a big controversy that it goes away. So a ton of the guys at the top, do you guys say many? Are, um, do you guys say the majority of your other? Or, you know, they're taking tons of gear or maybe not tons, but some, like some. And so is it terrible when like the guy who wins jujitsu worlds is on steroids? Like, uh, you know, people are, of course, got rhymes on steroids. Like, yeah. So are all those guys that compete in that drug tested fed and actually to Gordon's, uh, huge credit. I don't, he didn't, just really compete in IBJJF anymore. And, uh, because I guess it's too soft for him or whatever. And also, like, when he did compete in IBJF, he looked like he was on gear at the time at the very least. So it's kind of like, you know, Gordon's on gear. You could tell. And so it's one of those things where, you know, you can't say it's a huge deal, but it's itching enough for me for me to never do it. So I'm never going to compete in drug tested sport of any kind because I have used drugs and they change you sort of forever. So that's just something on my own personal mind. This is how I think about the matter in my own regard. All right. Next up, the Federation prohibits drug use, sport governing body. So as drug use is no, no, no, way, no. And cheating is rare. So an example this is natural body building in the United States. Right now, I have a job for you. I want you to go into the comments and tell me how full of shit I am and how I'm new to the game and I'm a fucking doop and tell me about every single drug free natural body building in the United States is actually on boat loads of gear and make sure to tip the hat to grandma and to your porn collection because you're 15 years old, you live at home and you don't get no idea what's going on. I'm totally kidding on all of this grads. I know I'm going to get a ton of hate for this, but I do actually believe, but at least a very large fraction of drug free body building in the US actually is drug free. But so yes, everyone's on drugs blah, blah, blah save that shit for another time or just go in the comments and hit it up. But when at least a large fraction of the people are drug free and a sport governing body says drugs are not something you can use. Cheating is pretty fucking unethical. Like if you are doing like the fucking WNBF Pro worlds or whatever, drug drug tested Federation and you use fucking drugs to like take third place in that or whatever, what the fuck is wrong with you. Just go and compete and untested body building you stupid idiot, fucking pathetic and if you say whatever, what else is on drugs, it's probably not true. You're just an excuse making fuck pussy. I got nothing else to say to you. And rent. Okay, I'm sure Scott's video guy you think we're getting a comments about that whole rentness. Oh, geez. All right, so enjoy that. Um, lastly, the most in my view, unethical possible way to cheat with drugs and sport has to do the following. The Federation has a tested arm and an untested arm and has an arm in which you can use drugs and don't care. They'll drink the shit. Whatever you do back there and an arm in which drug testing is there and it's strict and you can't do it. If you take drugs and cheat then go into the tested arm. There is a special place in pussy ass hell for you. What the fuck is wrong with you? Compete with the drug people if you're going to take drugs. There's literally an arm for you to do all your fucking dirtiest. Why am I saying this? Because it happens. I was in and there's a powder Federation. I'm sure it's still around. It's called the APF. Great fed. And there's an arm of it called the APF, which is the drug free version. And it's great lifting all around. It's quite powder-lifting great stuff. And there was a guy once who must have the Ziggden's act around that drug test. He was in the APF. The drug test that on jacked out of his fucking mind. He was like 40 something and veins all over his face down his neck. Red, the reddest person I've he made liver King look like pale white dude. Red as fuck. Vines every all need jacked. Red on drugs. Okay, I've been around a while on fucking drugs. I wouldn't even make eye contact with the guy. This is back when I was drug free. I'm like, what the why? Why go any oh he did real well beating drug free people. The lowest bottom of pathetic. Unbelievable. That is for sure an ethical really fucking lame. Definitely don't do that. Right? Which brings me to kind of wrap up this whole situation. That's the moral landscape as I see it. I'm sure I missed a couple of things here and there, but hopefully you guys can ask some questions or make some comments below and let me know like hey, like what about this one about that? I would sure love to respond. I think in my view, the most important moral imperative is to not hurt anyone or take anything from someone that they were to. That's really like the very, very core of most moral systems and more reasoning. Everything else breaking rules that hurt nobody, breaking rules in a way that doesn't affect other people at all with placings and stuff. That can be shaded in gray. There's lots of shades of gray. For example, you could say, well professional cycling, there's some drug free people in there that you are fucking over a few drugs. That's true. It's just marginal. There's a way fewer. In natural body building, there's way more people are drug free, but some of the guys are on drugs. So if you take drugs you're in natural body building. You do it a very bad thing, but technically you're beating some other cheater. It's less bad. Lots of shades of gray there. I would just say, make your own moral choices. Do stuff you can live with because sleeping at night as a mother fucker. It's really great. You don't want to do anything for short-term winnings or pride that makes you feel less than afterwards. Is it cool to win stuff? Yes. Is it cool to win stuff when you had to cheat you way to do it? My answer for me is fuck no. Your answer for you could be more complicated on the margins, but remember that like, you don't want to do anything that lives you for a while. I'm saying, I've seen John Wick. I know how demons can get you. In any case, folks, let me know what you think below. And I will see you next time.

Almost ever in ever talk to says two things about it. One, it's amazing. And two, you legit feel like you're gonna have a heart attack. With this particular supplement, folks were hospitalized and required liver transplants. You guys, the liver is one of the most regeneratable organs in the human body. And you can lose like half of your shit and still grow it back without a transplant. So, all we're talking transplants, this stuff is as liver toxic as it gets. Hey guys, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength and there are supplements and drugs that were previously released. That were so dangerous. Even almost every single one, if not every single, heart core, high risk drug user stopped using them. Because there's dangerous drugs like trans really bad for you, for example. Halo is another stare that's really bad for you. And it's got tons of side effects. These drugs we're gonna talk about today are a whole level beyond that. If when even the skeesy guy at the gym that's not every steroid for his whole life is like, oh, you're taking that, I wouldn't take that. The first is cardering. Otherwise known as GW501516. Scott that sounds like a family drug. I want to take something with a nice long technical name. Carverine, otherwise known as Inderable. It's a PPAR agonist. And what it does is it's kind of an exercise magnetic to some extent. It was marketed for fat loss and endurance. And in mice, it had excellent effects. It increased the fraction of oxidative fibers and it increased running times and the super, super famous exercise magnetic result. And you would think, okay, cool. This is like a, look, a wonder drug for athletes. Why don't athletes use it? Because in the multi-site 104 week rat and mouse carcageinicity trials, it ended up displaying tumor creation at all sorts of places in the body. So let me phrase this very clearly. This drug in mice and rats, which have 92% of the same DNA as humans, caused tumors to form everywhere from long-term exposure. Now you guys know, people don't use this drug. It's not a proof for human use. And users said that it worked fine. But when people found out that it caused a shitload of cancer and laboratory animals under very well-controlled conditions, pretty much everyone stopped using, I don't know, a single person uses car green anymore. There are no doubts on people out there that do. But even the hardcore community that would use kind of anything when they find out about these cancer trials, pretty much everyone just put down the drug and never used it again. Though you can still buy it on the internet, believe it or not. Next is a very controversial drug you might have heard of before. It is known as two four, di-neutral phenol, aka DNP. It is technically an explosive, which is kind of neat, and is an used in industrial agriculture, which is also kind of neat. It is not sold for human use or approved for human use. It is literally just an industrial chemical. But because it is an industrial chemical, you can actually acquire it relatively easily because there just nobody thinks you're going to be eating it because you'd have to be insane to do that. You can also go to home deep-o by a bunch of cleaning products and eat those. Do not do that. That's a very bad idea. Now DNP is what's called a mitochondrial uncopler. Your mitochondria basically take ADP and a phosphate clip it together to make ATP, a denocene triphosphate, and that adenocene triphosphate goes all over the cell and powers all the cell stuff that you need. In that process of making ATP makes plenty of energy through ATP and throws off some waste as heat just in the imperfect process of making ATP. The coupling of energy to the creation of ATP is the big part of that process. Energy is coupled in to make ATP. It's not coupled perfectly because we still have some energy that goes off and just makes heat. DNP is an uncopler which means the more DNP you take, the more you're mitochondria keep turning and the less ATP they put out. But since your body is incredibly incredibly adept at detecting how much ATP it has, if it doesn't get enough ATP because of the uncopler it looks the mitochondria and it goes a work faster. So the mitochondria end up burning fuccload of calories mostly making heat and not a lot of ATP. And they end up getting up to a level where they making a normal amount of ATP are pretty close but the amount of energy that consumes is massive and thus that energy is burned and your fat stores are mainly where that comes from. Now of course muscle loss is also a thing. It glycogen loss is a thing but as far as raw potential for calorie burning DNP has few equivalents because of that uncopling process. And it absolutely leads to rapid fat loss if you use it. In some case reports people don't get an increase in hunger but in some they do. So but it doesn't dependably make you much hungrier which is nice but for some people they still get super hungry. Now what are the deleterious effects? There's actually one straightforward way in which almost all the bad stuff of DNP happens and that is you take so much of it that you overheat. And if you overheat you actually put cook yourself from the inside out it just degrades all of your body structures. It's a way to actually die. The thing with DNP is that it has a pretty decent half life of like a day and a half. So if you've taken an excessively high dose for three days and you get real sick on day number four, you're not out of the woods until day number six. And if you don't get to the hospital and get put in an ice bath for 24 hours to cool your dumb ass down because of what you did, you have a very high risk of death if you go way overboard on the dosage, which typically occurs in that like thousand milligram plus range per day. But remember if you take a thousand migs per day for a few days for a day you feel okay the next day you feel really tired and very hot and the day after that if you take it again you could be like really hyperthermic and that causes actually delirium and makes you have a fever like state. So your probability of assessing that oh it's the DNP that caused this and of getting very, very rapid medical care so you don't fry your brain out of your skull is now much lower because you're making really bad decisions at that point. This is a real big problem. So much so that DNP has killed numerous people not hundreds of thousands of some shit like that but the odd death here and there for some reason oftentimes got in the UK in the fitness clubbing scene like oh I've got to get in shape for a rave coming up. I've got the the cream room in London. Liverpool. Yeah. Well you know, he did he parties and so these folks will take a thousand migs of DNP every day for seven days you can potentially lose like four pounds of fat per week doing that if you don't croak or get such a high fever that if the doctor's managed to bring it down your intelligence is permanently lower for the rest of your life because you fried a bunch of your brain out. Bad deal. Very, very bad deal. Even so there's not a proof of human use band in every sport Federation. The thing with DNP in the real world community of drug derelicts that use risky drugs is nuanced. The people that use DNP at 600 milligrams plus a thousand milligrams plus are very few and far between. They're just the people that did something stupid and then paid often with their lives. There is a group of people that will use DNP in the 50 to 100 milligrams per day range for several weeks on end. They absolutely get an enhanced fat burning effect. So there are people that still use DNP. Again, if you take 50 to 100 milligrams of DNP the probability you're going to croak from excess heat is almost zero. If you take a thousand milligrams of DNP the probability of croak from too much heat is much, much closer to 100 than it is to zero. So there is a dose dependency here and as a person who is trying to give you guys the real deal and how the real CD drug world actually works, I'm not going to tell you nobody uses DNP as a fucking lie. I want to lie to you today in the last 30 seconds. I have a huge dick. See, totally straight face. Real talk people do use this but they use it at one tenth of the dose at which it kills you. Still risky is, here's one of the reasons it's risky. You get the DNP and it's just a little yellow pill from some kind of box from some kind of farming supply store and you have absolutely no idea on the process control used to make sure it's actually 100 milligrams in there instead of a thousand. See if you've thrown it on a field for the fertilizer effect, you don't really give a shit at those doses and levels. It's a Russian roulette every single time. The big downside with DNP and why actually even almost no hardcore people use it is that it really substantially makes you hotter all the time which kind of sucks if you're trying to sleep and it also really reduces your perceived and actual ability to produce energy. Because remember, it takes a lot of your energy shifts it from making ATP to just making heat. And then you have less ATP than normal. You feel every single bit of that. You all real talk you guys. I've absolutely used DNP and I've used it in a context in which it was helpful but I don't use it anymore because it was like look, I could just do like a couple hundred steps extra cardio, reduce my carbs by 25 grams, get the same effect as from DNP but I'm not nearly as tired in my training isn't nearly as total dog shit because it will rob you of your energy. Like you will not believe. Like a set of five in the squat usually get off that set you're like, I was tough. All right with DNP you're like, really fuck. And it takes a minute to get your fucking mojo back and you just feel weak almost all the time. Not a good thing. Not a great drug is just really not fit for purpose. For that exact effect. There are way better fat loss and weight loss drugs out now. Even better exercise my medics out now. DNP is not something with mostly because it can kill you and kills people all the time. And even if it doesn't kill you it just really like a calorie deficit is a much better way to get to the thing with less energy reduction. 100%. Next, we have a couple of substances that were kind of big deals a few years back. And this is a bit of a cautionary tale about that one cool new supplement people are talking about in general. So in 2013 there was this oxytelite pro-ageline formula. Oxytelite pro had a bunch of different stuff in it. It was marketed as a thermal fat loss supplement. And what it did was supposed to do is help you with energy and help you increase your calorie burning, decrease your weight and potentially a fat loss. All of which it did fairly well. The problem is that some of the stuff they put in there caused a severe outbreak of hepatitis and liver failure. Okay, let me put this into perspective. If you take like 100 milligrams of oxandrolone aka anovar for like six weeks, there is a good probability your liver values will go up a little bit and probably nothing else will happen. In extreme cases they can go really off the charts. But it's very unlikely. And that's a very high dose for very solid duration. When you're talking about acute hepatitis inflammation of the liver and acute liver failure, we're talking about orders of magnitude more liver damage than even regular oral steroids give you. This is not oral steroid liver damage. This is holy shit. I'm in the hospital after taking this pill for a few weeks. The wrong with me and the doctors are like, you don't really have like a liver anymore so much. The space for it is still there. You got plenty of free real estate where your liver used to be. I'll be down and I see you if you ever need me. Typical doctor, what is it? The bedside manner. There's a huge recall. Tons of investigation. And there was lots of people that had injured livers, especially folks who were in the military taking these pills to go go go and a lot of these folks ended up in the hospital. This is a really, really, really big deal. And so this got pulled. You can't find it anymore. Thank God. But it just goes to show you that and it was for a while. It was a really hot new supplement. People are like, you try to get an oxyly pro. Yeah, man, there's something that really gets me going. Well, that turns out that's something particularly the age line stuff in there. Probably causing massive liver injury in a large fraction of its user. So anytime someone's got that new cool super supplement, let a few other people use it for a while before you jump in on the new trend because it could give up. And we don't just have one story of this. We have to because use Nick Asset was in a product called lipo kinetics. Scott, who comes up with these amazing, in terms? I want to take something called lipo kinetics. I want my fat to get moving in an electrical way or some shit like that. It was in a few other products as well. And it is a natural product. Okay. Check this out. So natural doesn't mean shit as far as keeping you safe. Lesson number one. And it has uncopling properties that high doses. So it works in a DNP like matter. But while DNP isn't particularly liver toxic, it just kills you by frying you to death. This shit was severely hepatotoxics. So, severely toxic to liver. There were reports of fulminent liver failure, which I don't know what that is. And I didn't even google it, but it sounds bad. You know, Scott, you know when some shit has like a name before it, like you know it's real bad. Like if that just liver failure, it's like a kind of liver failure, like you're doing some time in the hospital. Here's the really trippy part guys. With this particular supplement, folks were hospitalized and required liver transplants. You guys, the liver is one of the most regeneratable organs in the human body. And you can lose like half of your shit and still grow it back without a transplant. So when we're talking transplants, this stuff is as liver toxic as it gets. It was never an approved drug. The FDA warned people about it, but some people were like yellow and whatever. As soon as it was found out that this stuff was calling causing John Dus, Prytis and a colonistasis and all this other really terrible liver stuff, basically everyone stopped using it. But again, it was accurately marketed as natural and marketed quite well. And a lot of people took it. And a few of those people really really paid a humongous price. Scott, that's dope, right? Like how many people would buy something that was natural, but like literally in their mind is zero risk of harm. Natural. We think sunlight harms human, I guess skin cancer. Water, flood deaths. Squirrels, rabies, berries, poison berries in the forest. Sex, year, an old man. Scott, you've lived a really good life. You are at this following time involved in coitus with a young attractive female. And Scott, she likes you back, not for your money for status. And as soon as you have the nut of your life with her on top of her, you have the world's quickest cardiac death and just croak right there. Is there a better way to go out? No, that's perfect. It sounds like a great way to go. Bye. Will she have trauma after that, maybe? Where is that? She has to throw her cure corpse off her body. Good. You can take it. I'm sure that's she'll be fine. She tries it a couple times you're not moving. She's like, I'm not dying under a dead guy. In any case, at least you wouldn't have died from taking lipo kinetics and getting your liver fried out. So real talk, if it's natural, then I mean shit. And if it's this hot new thing people are taking and it's branded all cool, make sure you do your due diligence before realizing if the shit in there hasn't been tested on humans and it's all about time. Now, if you want to have an also bad time, you could try DMAA, also known as one three die methyl amalamine. Or otherwise also known as methyl hexanamine. Chemists are real people too. So DMAA is like a super stimulant. And it was used as an ingredient in the occasional stimulant. It was actually originally marketed as fourth vein is a nasal decompression in the mid 20th century. But it later appeared in pre-workouts known as Jacked 3D Scottie from Lila Jack 3D. Sure am. Every bro in the broosphere has heard whispers the wind just flutters over the rocks. And it's like Jack 3D. Jack 3D. That's a real thing. And there's two kinds of Jack 3D. There's the DMAA Jack 3D, whichever one loved. And there's the not DMAA Jack 3, whichever one was like why are we still taking Jack 3D. It is an indirect, some patho-mimetic stimulant, similar to caffeine. And it absolutely caused massive boosts and focus. Massive boosts in aggression if you would like to release it. Massive performance boost even thermogenesis. This is legit. This supplement worked like crazy. Just think super caffeine or almost meth. Not so chemically unrelated to Meth interestingly enough. Unfortunately, it caused way disproportionate levels of high blood pressure aka hypertension. Vazo constriction and caused its fair share of cardiovascular events. Mario Cardio and Farkion, AK Heart Attack and Stroke. The FDA, the FDA, DMAA. The FDA ruled at illegal and dietary supplements. And their supplements are considered adultered when it is present. It's illegal in most modern countries. Now here's the interesting part. What did users say when they were taking it? Basically they loved it. DMAA makes caffeine look like child's play. And if you have a hard leg workout to get through, Jack 3D was going to get you through that leg workout. And then another person's leg workout. Then they would catch you in the weight room eating weights or some shit like that. I mean, it is cyborg fuel. The problem is every now and again it causes heart attacks and strokes. And a way higher rate than caffeine dose produced. Which means it's one hell of a dice roll. So today, do people still use it? Some people still do hunt it down for fun and use it every now and again. But most people avoid it because G-Wiz, I just throw the headphones in, turn on the heavy metal, have regular caffeine. And my workout goes just fine. I don't need to exactly think I'm dying. And here's the interesting thing. More than a handful of folks died from or had and survived. Cardiac episodes, heart attack strokes from this drug. And you would think, man, the shit really snuck up on people. But it didn't. Scott, you ever take DMAA before? No. Almost ever and ever talk to us as two things. About it. One, it's amazing. And two, you legit feel like you're going to have a heart attack. Sounds fun. Sounds fun. So if you feel like you're going to have a heart attack with something, the lesson here is probably stay the way for me because heart attacks tend to be really, really bad for training. Because after you have a heart attack, you get back from a hospital. You're like, hey, Doc, what am I allowed to do? They're like cardiac rehab for the next six months and maybe you can be a normal person someday. Not some shit you want to deal with. So DMAA, fun for some, who like really crazy stimulants. But again, very, very risky. Few more of these. We have methasterone. But most people don't call it that. They call it super drawle. And super drawle was sold as like a supplement in the 2000s though it's really just an oral steroid in a very strong oral steroid. Causes radical strength gain, causes radical muscle mass gain. Unfortunately, it causes severe, colostatic liver injury. Well, described in multiple case reports. Now look, half of these case reports just people who just have shitty genetics for the shit or took way too much of it without a break. But the other half are normal people that thought they were okay, took it and had a really, really bad time. The thing is, some people still take super drawle every now and again to get that real, last ditch effort to get their steroid cycle to do what they want. But most people even very hardcore people and almost every pro body builder and pro power just uses other stuff like trend and halo and debaul and adidral that's like a category degree safer than super drawle. So it's still around every now and again. But is one of those things. It's not this situation where it's for sure going to kill you. It absolutely is not good for your liver. But some people respond worse and better to it. It's just that it's one of these things that the risk profile to benefit for profile. There's so many other drugs that most people take that do a better job at that profile. But it's really just not a good idea to go too super draw. But a super drawle is dangerous to some of these other ones. Like the whole, like let's say the oxy-leat stuff or the lipo kinetics, no, not even close. And sure, it doesn't cause cancer all over your body if you take it for a few weeks. But it's absolutely not ideal. A very similar compound or an ex compound of list is methyl trianolone. Also called metropoleone, but nobody calls it that. It's methyl trend is what you call it. And it, like, seems like it's a methylated form of trend. I don't think that's actually exactly what it is. But it sure sounds like it in it. Absolutely has the effects that you would think it does. The cool thing about methyl trend is that it's extremely anabolic and endogenic at very tiny doses. The problem for it is that it is really, really nasty as far as liver toxicity and really nasty as far as psychological effects. It will fuck up your life. Nobody has fun on methyl trend. It's something some power lifters will take, like the morning of their meat. So that by the third deadlift they're like putting indentations into the metal bar with their fucking minds. That's the kind of stuff. It's not something you want to be on for an extended period of time. So generally speaking, most people don't use methyl trend. There's other stuff that's just much more straightforward to use that causes lots of muscle growth and strength gains. And if they do, they use it for like a day or a few days, leading in to a big powerlifting meat or something like that. And in bodybuilding circles, it's almost unheard of because like, why do you need to get that juicy? What effect is that going to have on your physique? The trade-offs are absolutely not worth it. So methyl trend is something that like some people use. Again, often in powerlifting strength sport circles, sometimes in strong manion occasion, very acute dosing for one day of the actual competition day. If you use this regularly for weeks and weeks, you're probably going to have a bad time, but your liver will hate you even more. And lastly is Ramona Bant, aka marketed as a complia. This, when I, you guys here me talk at other times, I call some eggletyde and trisepatide and retatryde modern weight loss drugs. That is to distinguish them from non-modern, older weight loss drugs. And there's a huge category of those. Most of them were flubs in one way or another. It's one as effective. You took them for a few months. They were effective. And after a few months, they were not effective. They lost their power or they ran into some health trouble kind of stuff. And a complia was absolutely one of these things. It's a suspended slash with drawn medication and the EU. You're not allowed to take it anymore. It is a CB1 receptor antagonist. And it works on the end of cannabinoid system. And what it basically does is it reduces your appetite substantially. You will notice that if you agonize the cannabinoid system, like smoking that shit, you get two things, mostly. Hungry and elated in mood. The antagonist, at least this specific CB1 antagonist, made you way less hungry, which was kind of cool. And that's why I actually added to some really good weight loss data in the trials. The problem is that it also did the inverse thing with mood and caused severe adverse psychiatric effects, namely depression, anxiety, and as a signal for on a living or self, which apparently we're not allowed to say that word on YouTube, right? It's got how bad was it? Well, there was a citation that showed that the fraction of psychiatric disorder presentation taking this drug was a double that of placebo. Usually when drugs have psychiatric downsides, it's a fraction of that. This is a real serious stuff. And so you actually can't really get this anywhere nor do you want it because you're going to have a bad time by definition if you have this. Pretty much nobody in the bodybuilding space messed with it because it was kind of designed to treat regular weight loss. And unless it's like a thermogenic bodybuilder's can feel it typically don't take it. Nowadays bodybuilders are on Treasapatide and some agulatide like whoa, but those are way more subtle and way, way, way, way, way safer. And so a lot of people still wish that we had a CB1 modulator that was safe, which is just not around, but pretty much nobody takes the stuff. It's not really produced and there's not really a black market for us. So that's for the best. But it is a cautionary tale for the fact that some drugs are mechanistically very well-vetted, have large trials showing they have a good main effect, but the devil's in the details. And if you have this crazy high degree of psychiatric problems with a drug, and you put that out of the population and someone who's already at risk for maybe harming themselves or something like that, every now and again, that's going to lead to a really, really, really bad time. So guys, overall, this is a grand tour of some of the supplements and drugs that over very recent history, there's all happened in the last 20 years, we're supposed to be things that were awesome and helped you. And they ended up being things that really had negative downsides that just were not worth it. In most cases, even for the most hardcore people that regularly shoot bathtub trend manufacture in China, even for them, almost all the drugs in this list, we're just no go. And some of them, like DMP, were a go and very nuanced, very contextual circles at a very, very tiny doses compared to what's actually bad for you. What this tells us isn't that drugs are bad. It doesn't even tell us that artificial things are bad because one of the worst ones here was a natural substance. What it tells us is, before you go put in the stuff into your bodies that you see advertised or some pro is taking it or you saw it in some peptide shop, do your due diligence, talk to Gemini, talk to Claude, talk to Chashy B.T. Talk to Grock, extensively be like, look, I'm thinking about taking this supplement of this drug. Tell me about the health data, tell me about the downsides, tell me anything that'll keep me from taking it and fully imbibe the knowledge they give you back. Because you can roll the dice and be like, oh, I'm one of the first ones to jump on the XYZ bandwand of this new drug and they're probably going to be fine and jacked and lean. But there is a decent probability that new drugs that haven't been well-vetted that have tons of hype around them are exactly the thing that you should not be taking. So don't you shut yourself out to the world and stop taking drugs altogether? That's totally fine as well. Just be smart. Don't rush in. I'm let some other risk of her folks do the testing for you, read the forums and be like, oh, that guy's dead. I'm not going to take that drug. I'm kidding. Sort of. Now if you want something that's super safe and super effective and will actually potentiate you getting more jacked and more lean, the RP diet coach app is a thing that makes me money and it also makes got the video guy money and listen, we love money. You can spend it all kinds of things. That way me. Don't spend it is not a big thing. But you can invest it to. Guys legit, the RP diet coach app is awesome. I use it every single day, no joke. It's not like I'm pimping someone else's product. The shit is our fucking product. I use it three times a day. Scott used it three times a day, but he only has to look at it once. He's just can't read that good. And so he has to look at it a few more times and he has like a ledger that's A means A sound. Ah, okay. And so he does that. Give it a shot. Let me go to the description. And if you want to take any of these drugs, your boy has got to know. I don't have an online shop where you can buy all these illegal crazy drugs. Scott, do you want to start a supplement company that only sells drugs that really hurt you? I thought people do that already. Yeah, I don't have more or less. Stay safe. Be smart. Don't do anything stupid. And if all your young TikTok or friends are taking this cool new supplement, don't be the first to take it. Don't be the middle to take it. Maybe be the last. Get other gains anyway. See you next time.

If you want an amazing workout with just a pair of light dumbbells, you're going to have to get creative. You can make these workouts ultra fast, it will be tough. Let's get to the workout. This whole workout is going to be a sum total of 10 exercises. Two sets each. That is 20 sets. We are going to be able to finish this workout and so will you at home in less than 20 minutes. How is that possible? Science time and taginistic or unrelated supersets. We do a set of an exercise that involves one muscle group. A few muscle groups and then with no rest at all, we transition into the next set of an exercise that uses ideally none of the muscle groups we just use. So while one of your muscle groups or a few of them are really tired and recovering, the other ones are still training at a getting hammer. After those two sets are done right back to back with essentially no rest, we give Nick maybe 30 seconds of a minute rest to catch his breath and then he goes again. It's not going to take long. The only, well, downside like we mentioned before, in so let's get to the first exercise superset that we have. Ready? Let's hit it. Let's go. Let's get to the first exercise superset that we have, which is dumbbell skull crushers, superset it to dumbbell stiff legic deadlift. The stiff legic deadlift is at the glutes, the hamstrings, the lower back, some adactors, basically a huge part of your leg and back. And the skull crushers really just mostly hit your triceps in a little bit of your front delts. There's no interference there so you're going to go right from one to the other. And for some nowhere nuance here, we're doing the skull crushers first because the stiff legic deadlift is harder. We're going to be tired by the time we get to the stiff legic deadlift, then we can get a ton out of skull crushers with the same dumbbells and a ton out of stiff legic up on the foot. Push it there. Let's go finish strong. Excellent. That's slow. Big time. Let's go. And right over the quick transition, stiff legic deadlift is back. Ultra arched. Knees back chest up. Beautiful chest up. Take a nice pause down there when you get there. Looking for that painful tension in the hamstrings. Awesome. Painful tension. Deep stretch. Chest up. Pause. Get it. Awesome. Great. Take 30 seconds and we'll get right back to skull crushers. It's okay to be explosive on the percent of the rep. Kind of a decent the eccentric phase. Slow is good. Good stuff Nick. Finish strong. Let's go. Big moves here. Oh yeah. All right. Right in this stuff like a deadlift again. You guys can tell when this exercise is working when you tilt your hips. Push your butt back. You are going to feel a ton of painful tension in the hamstrings. You want that tension by moving your knees back, not locking them out. Just keep it in a little shy. Of lock out, moving your hips back, keeping your chest up as high as possible with an arched back that'll really target the hamstrings. Oh yeah. All day long. Perfect. Next super set is going to be dumbbell upright rows. Super set of two dumbbell split squats. If you do your split squats it's totally cool to do them on the floor but if you have a little platform for elevation, it could just be you're wearing a bigger shoes or something like that. You step on any kind of mats as long as it's solid. It gives you that big glute stretch that helps you grow your quads, add our turrets, glutes, even a little bit of hamstrings. The upright row hits your side delts, your traps, your biceps, your forms a little bit. Again, whole body but parts of the body that don't interact. So while one muscle is resting the other one is being crushed. When you're doing these folks you want to reach your elbows, sky high and come down nice and slow. Because it's dumbbells, it's very unlikely to irritate your shoulder joint. If you want to go a little wider or a little closer, it's a your call, whatever hits your side delts a ton and allows you to have very comfortable feel for your shoulder joints. Good stuff Nick. Do your best to slow them down. Slow. Yes. Right into split squats. Guys notice he's not slamming his knee on the ground. There's no rush to get down there. You want slow and controlled to get the muscles to work and for it to be nice and safe. Finish up strong Nick. Let's go. Look at that technique. Beautiful. 30 seconds to a minute rest and we're right back in the game. Good. Control that upper body posture. No swinging. Slow. Yes. Finish up strong. Yes. Every set pushed close to failure for the challenge. Beautiful. Excellent. Guys you want just the gentlest little touch at the bottom and if you can hang there for a second or two that's even better. Get you that glute and quad muscle growth that you are looking for. Just with a pair of. 20 pound dumbbells in xk so you can use 5 10s 20s and if you're super strong 30s and 40s. Chest. Yes. Awesome. Go ahead and rack. Let's take a look at what we have next. Nick you're looking a little tired looking like you're working. Almost halfway. Good news. It's time for break. No way they said that wrong. By break and then you're going to superset standing dumbbell curls to dumbbell front squats. Good news. The front squats don't really require anything your arms do and vice versa. But pain. Good. You guys will notice that Nick is curling all the way up to his head. Slash face. It is a way to curl. It is a great way to curl. It is not the only way to curl. He could totally stop. About halfway up and it would be a great exercise. Variation is the main of the game. If you have a few different ways of curling you can use one for a few months, one for another few months, no wrong answers. Come on now. Finish up strong. Excellent. Slow. Great. All right. Let's get your feet on that platform. Folks if you have the ability to squat him heel-choose it's better. If you can do a platform like this that's awesome. Because pointing his toes out a little bit. He's staying as upright as he can. He's only securing the dumbbells on his shoulders. The weight is going through his shoulders entirely. He notices torso as vertical as possible. And the only coming up two thirds of the way that means the tension remains on the quads the entire time. And we get a ton of exposure to that wankened position at the very big stretch at the bottom. These squats are killers. Awesome. Slow on the way down. Big pause at the bottom. Perfect. Good stuff. Mid in or so 30 seconds. We'll be back in action. Excellent. Nice and slow. Full weight your motion. Awesome. We can back at the bottom stretch those thighs. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yep. Gonna shut the strong neck. Let's go. Couple more. Go. Go. And then slow. Isn't it going to do another? Beautiful. Yeah. Oh yeah. Couple more. Oh yeah. Last one. Big chest. Go. Awesome. Amazing. I think I'm going to let my sit up a little bit further. It's really hard not to. Yeah. Number four. Super set coming up. Getting to the end here. It's because nice and tired. But he's still with us. We are going to be doing a dumbbell pullover. Two arm. Super setted to dumbbell chest flies. We're taking care of our lats. Some tricep. Some of the belt muscles as well as of course the pecs. We'll support muscle on the body with a flies. Make you ready to go. Yep. Let's do it. All right. We want to go nice and slow on the way down of a pullover. Really red. Let your rib cage expand. Open up as you go down. You're going to feel it deep stretching the back of your arm and the tricep. The back of your shoulder and swell as your lap muscles on the outside of your back. You'll see Nick is taking a nice long pause at the bottom of the rib wrap. That's where the gross is. If you can take a pause in a muscle stretched position when it's under load, that is going to confer a lot of muscle growth. Slow control. That's it. Come on. All right. Right into flies. Nick is going to have just a slight elbow angle. Very similar angle. The entire time that he's doing these flies. As he goes down, he's going to reach up with his chest. You want to feel a major stress, a major stretch in the pecs. The entire time that you're doing this, you'll notice he goes down slow as usual and takes a nice pause at the bottom. This makes the exercises safer and more effective. Yes. Finish. Awesome. Relax a little bit again. Stop Nick. Yeah. So alive. But barely ready for last combo. Last one. All right. All right. Last few sets here. Nick is going to do pushups and he's going to do as many as he can with good technique, regular pushups hitting the chest, front delts and tri steps. And then he is going to do rows to the hips. Dumbbell bent over, always you can bend over. He's going to have a big stretch at the bottom and he's going to bring the dumbbells up to his hips, hips, activating his last. It's going to be awesome. This rounds out our whole program and it turns out we trained every single muscle in human body except for the caps because who cares about caps and just kidding or not see you guys in the comments. He is pausing gently at the bottom. Only good technique your folks. Save the bad technique for never. More Nick finish up. Yes. Last one. Go. Go finish. Amazing. You guys will want a nice flat lower back here. Next lower back rounds a little bit at the bottom that's totally fine. But at the top it's nice and arched. He's reaching forward a ton and flow-traffing the scapule. There's a ton of back muscle that allow that movement to occur and resist it and that's why they grow bigger if you do it. Excellent. Finish off Nick. Hips. Yes. And then slow. Amazing. Awesome. About a 30 second break here and then we're going to finish off the whole thing. This is tired. I'm just lucky. I didn't have to do this. I could not pretend to be the instructor. Excellent work. How that feel? Very intense. I mean 20 pound dumbbells. You know, thanks you much about it but just go go go go go go go go go. It's a really good way to add intensity without having to get crazy heavy. You only have a few dumbbells at home and a few other things. You can have amazing workouts. You can do this by yourself. No problem. If you download the RPEG.perch or Piat link in the description. It's going to be easier, more effective and you're going to have a total plan. You know exactly what to do with every single time. Folks, thanks so much for tuning in. Best of luck.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pursation. In today's video, it was about the epic timeless battle of clean-bulking versus dirty-bulking. Oh my god, it's bros versus also bros. Pros versus the in-cells that say, pros are on a ton of drugs and clean-bulking doesn't work? Cup and scum and scum and scum and reddit. What a great time. You will see that the title of the slide is Christina Aguilera. Why? Dirty, it's about back my dirty, it's making me speak my dirty. And I'm at the first of all, that song is Bucket Sweet. Second of all, the dates me like shit because it came out 40-fucking years ago. Third of all, Todd damn Christina Aguilera are a conversable sing, Point 3 sub A and 3 sub E. Why? Because hell girl was up. You don't say, and I'm not famous like you. And I'm also married. But that doesn't mean we can't fantasize. And the fantasy song is one of your shits girl, because you can fucking sing. In any case, what? Clean versus dirty-bulking. Here we go. We have a lot of people who debate this on the internet. So with many things, never really get their definition sort of, and they just talk across currents. So, first definition is junk food. In my view, junk food is food that is often, though not always, very often, high in a few ingredients. Salt, sugar, saturated fat. And it's often, though not always, highly processed. And as always, everywhere, highly palatable, which means it's delicious, and you just can't stop eating it, you want to eat more. No one's ever described something as junk food that tastes like shit. Unless you're like, go to Japan at some expensive restaurant. You're like, okay, it's totally Japanese junk. Like, it's a weird take of Japanese people on junk. It's awful, but it's good, because it's like bad. Shut up, hipster, as you ruined food. In any case, that's junk food. That's junk food. That's junk food. Healthy food is food generally composed of lean meats, veggies, fruits, grains, most often, whole grains, but not always. And healthy fats, fats that are high in poly and monounsaturated sources, like olive oil, can olive oil, yes, canola oil, get in the fucking comments. Or, before you do, just pop med the shit, so you can fuse yourself further. And not, not about our stuff like that. The good stuff. And there's not really much controversy between what is generally healthy food, and generally a junk food. There is some context, there are some nuance, but not a ton. You don't take a tub of fucking Oreo ice cream out of the fridge, or just junk food, or isn't all food good food? You can take that shit to the comments if you like, but try to make some sense of the world all categories, or almost all, are fuzzy sets, and are slightly overlapping. So it's okay that some foods are difficult to identify as junk or as whole food, but, or I was sorry, healthy food, but she was, it's a pretty delineated two set system. Now, a clean bulk, to get really to the definitions we want to understand, a clean bulk can be defined for our purposes as a mass gaining muscle gaining phase of intentional weight gain over some months of time, in which you essentially eat zero junk food. It's all healthy food. A dirty bulk is defined as a same intentional gaining over several months of time, a hypercoloric diet, that meets the protein recommendation, so a gram per pound on average per person, and then the carbs and fat sources to meet your calorie goal come from question mark. Because dirty bulk doesn't mean you can't have, we're a whole grain pasta with peanut sauce and lean chicken, like that actually is healthy, that doesn't mean you can't have it, but if you take that meal and you pop a piece of fucking cheesecake in there, you didn't like the fucking pathetic disgusting animal that you are, your boy, then that's a dirty bulk, right? You can even take the cheesecake out and paint yourself some lipstick with cheesecake, and the waitress walks by and you're like, look at me, and she's like, you're never coming back here. The police beat you in the restaurant and you hadn't coming. That's a dirty bulk. So clean bulk versus dirty bulk. Now we haven't understanding. Basically clean bulk, no junk food, dirty bulk, dirty bulk, junk food optional, but it's called a dirty bulk for a reason, right? You don't go to Las Vegas and be like, we would have a crazy night and just go to the casino and just like do slots for an hour, be like the sucks I'm losing money and go to your hotel and watch the hotel TV channels. That's how my wife and I do Vegas, but if you're saying we're having a crazy party in Vegas, you would at least try to do some crazy shit. You might not die. You might not kill a stripper and have to bear it or exactly 8.2 miles north and west of the strip. But you know, I'm saying you might go to strip club throw up on a stripper and get beat up by the mountains, a typical Vegas kind of stuff. Something fun has to happen. So when people take dirty bulk, then music and at least have a cookie or two. And most of the time, dirty bulk means like, you kind of, you do a lot of that shit. And often it means more than one day, starting more than one meal per day is junk food or at least has lots of junk food in it. All right, two actual comparison. What advantages hypothetically, theoretically and practically does a clean bulk have over a dirty bulk? First, clean bulking is healthier. Yes, the composition of the food that you eat does determine some fraction of your probabilistic health going forward. It's not a huge effect, but it is a notable effect. It has been measured in studies. It's something like, oh, 20% of your total health, which means 80% has didly dick to do with the kind of food that you're eating and really more just amounts and timing and all that other stuff. But food quality does matter. So if you're gaining especially gaining, because you're interdaining your body with excess nutrients, which it doesn't like to begin with a health perspective, if you're gaining on clean foods, quote unquote, clean bulk, healthier foods, that it is actually notably healthier for you than dirty bulk. Absolutely, a little reflected in your blood work by a small margin and in your, your, your, your, after a scorer potential and all those other things. Next. If you have trouble not ballooning up to being a gigantic fat fuck on your bulking phases, which I've done on purpose numerous times in my life, and I still regret it. Then, if you do a clean bulk, the fact that clean foods, healthy foods are just not as palatable. They're not as easy to eat and get a ton of calories from. As junk foods, the fact that that is a thing means that your probability of going off the rails and gaining like five extra pounds of fat over the course of the thing, because you just can't stop eating. And you end up you're shooting for 3500 calories as you're surplus, which end up hitting a bunch of days with 38, 40000. This is a fuck, can stop eating pizza. That's not a thing you didn't want to try. So if you're in that situation. And you end up over doing daily calories with super tasty foods, the probability that you can overdo calories with clean food, his piece is Christ that's much much lower. A lot of times bodybuilders who think that clean bulking is the only way to go will have a huge problem, even trying to gain weight, because it's so hard to eat a ton of healthy food. If you have trouble with gaining weight too quickly and getting too fat, clean bulking is a huge, huge weapon in your arsenal, because if you switch to clean bulking or as we'll talk about later clean or bulking, yeah, like it's very unlikely you're going to be able to overeat like crazy, still possible, but much less likely. Number three advantage of clean bulks versus dirty bulks. This is only I've experienced personally. When you're eating healthier food, your gym performance is better. The lung food is fun to eat and it keeps your gym performance still very high, but I've noticed a significant notable. That's why I noticed it. A amount of performance difference, your cardio is better, your recovery is better, just by small margin if you eat mostly healthy food. Now health notes will be like as soon as I've started eating healthy, I like changed my life, like the next meal, I felt like so better, like just lighter and freer and like I carmic energy with a line, it's shut up. Betty, the fuck up outta here, you made all that shit up in your head. But over days and over weeks, more healthy food versus more junk food, you can feel it and your performance is optimized by a small, notom margin with healthy foods. If you're really serious about massing, if you're really serious about muscle gain, if you're serious about a bodybuilding career, which almost all pro bodybuilders are, which is almost all of them, try to clean bulk as much as possible. It absolutely isn't a fact that you have to watch out for. You eat like 12 boxes of fucking hoes yesterday, you show up to squat high reps today, you may be like, bro, I have a headache and I'm gonna throw up, I have no idea why, like, well, let's examine the evidence. You're a fucking idiot and you shouldn't have eaten 12 fucking packs of hoes, that's right, packs of hoes, not individual hoes. Next, and I think last for the purposes of stuff I could think of, I've had when writing this presentation, advantage of clean bulking, is that it builds better habits for your fat loss phase later. When you do clean bulking, you're eating healthy food all the time. When you switch to fat loss phase, you just take a bit of carbon fat out of each meal, same diet, fat loss phase. If you're doing a dirty bulk, and you're like, yeah, man, mostly my meals are way protein or Oreos, and you have to start doing a fat loss diet where you typically try to eat healthier food, because trying to lose fat on a bunch of Oreos is tough, because producing your calories and ultra-tasty food, is a great way to be miserable and starve. You might just be like, oh fuck, I have to eat chicken and rice, and then like, how to cook it, how to meal prep it, just the habit of the revulsion, you don't have to it for a while. Fuck, man, it's really tough, and all of a sudden you're like more likely to fall off the wagon, or just have a harder time with fat loss phase. But with body builders that are high level that mostly do clean bulking, and of course clean cutting, for them the transition from bulking or cutting, they'll literally post in their Instagram, so like coach pulled back the food today, which starts our prep, and you're like pulled back the food to fuck is that in the curtain you look through, and that fucking thing mean. They're eating the same healthy foods all the time, coach just reduces the food, keeps the protein high, reduces carbs and fats by a bit, and then voila, bulk turns to cut. It's a seamless transition if you don't want that whole transitional bumpy road situation. All right, those are the advantages for clean bulking versus dirty bulking, and that's the end of the video. That's it, go clean bulk. I'm kidding, of course. Dirty bulk has advantages over clean bulking. Some of these will be kind of obvious, the rest will be kind of also obvious. First, it's just more fun, at least at first, how is it more fun? If you have a protein shake and a container of Oreos that you have to eat, and then you do that, and then later you hang out with a friend, and their dad comes downstairs, and he's like, oh, you're the bodybuilder, you're like, do you? He's like, man, I just really respect your dedication. You're like, it's tough to do what I do. Lots of willpower. He's like, you eat in like chicken breast and rice, every day every meal, and you're like, uh, yep. Ugh, shirem. And then your friends are like, pizza's here, and you're like, oh, that one's mine. And the dance is like, you eat pizza, and you're like, my life is easy, it's so fun. This is bodybuilding. I just eat pizza and drink protein shakes. So it's way more fun. I set at first for a reason. Junk food gets fucking old. If you eat it even for a few days straight, I don't guarantee you. Somebody in the comments is going to be like, I've been in Junk food for 47 years straight, and I feel great, and then we check up on that comment a week later, and I like this user has deceased. I wish you two would update about that when that be fucked up. Uh, it's not a sustainable practice for most people. Most people just after a while, you guys know what I'm feeling? I'm reaching here, but you know what I'm feeling? Have eaten junk for a few days, like on a road trip or something, and you're like, I need a vegetable. And something fucking colored green that has fiber that it can feel in my throat scratching the throat, so that when it goes down it scratches the gunk out of my fucking intestines, you know, you need enough candy bars, and you're like, oh, I just feel unclean. Like in a moral religious way, you know, it's so awful. You like it. You feel like you get oilier, and the junk food just doesn't taste as good after a while. It's like having mindless sex with tons of super hot girls after a while. It's all the same. I think that's like a dandel's area in revelation or whatever. In any case, that last part's for sure not true, but junk food can get oil. We'll talk about it a little bit, so I don't want to put too fine at point on its fun way more fun, but at least at first, when do people plan dirty bucks? It's at the end of cuts. Good, oh, I'm going to muck a dandel's cut. Oh, good. They make a fucking list like, where are you going? KFC, okay? They're going to retake about. Okay, so KFC Thursday, talk about Friday like in a different stand. We pick up the KFC. We pull around, and if the combination KFC talk about, we order talk about, in addition to that, and then we go home and we just shower in the fucking shit. Amazing. When you're on a fat loss phase towards the end, such fantasies can be quite appealing. And the first few days of that is like fucking bliss. But later, you will find that the junk food is not as fun. I'll get to why that matters in a bit. Next benefit. There is a near zero chance you won't gain weight. An interesting comment in our YouTube channel. We're talking about like, how to eat more from assing. If people can't gain weight, and a lot of it in the context of if you still keep your food healthy, how do you do it? There's a bunch of different really good strategies making the food tasteier, eating is a higher calorie density foods, timing your foods better. And one guy was like, I don't understand how you could possibly not gain weight. Just eat a bunch of junk food and you'll gain weight. And he's not wrong. Obviously, not ideal for body, but link is of all the health stuff and shit like that. But if you're having trouble gaining weight, the undefeated weight gain tool is the Snickers bar. And if you really have trouble gaining weight, you just go watch a few episodes of the show my 600 pound life. You get the fucking hack for how to get huge. Not the kind of huge you want, but if you meet your protein amounts and your calories are set and you don't go over them, you can actually gain all the weight you need in tons of muscle with a two. Again, not the healthiest way, but even if you just pepper in a bit of junk, you can junk your way up to immense calories. How many of you is a matter of fact? Why don't we do a poll in the comments below? Don't let's just keep the shit truthful. You feel me? We don't know if you're lying. We can be skeptical. God knows. You know, so don't lie. What's the most, what's the highest number of individual order items you've ever purchased at a Taco Bell and successfully eaten? A pup, a pup within one meal cycle, two hours. All right, so you go watch a movie with friends. You go to Taco Bell. How many items did you get that you actually ate within that next few hours? My, my peers probably like ten, you know, but I like that. The beef and potato burrito, the cheesy cheese, gourmet dita crunch supreme. I'll the shit the fucking names are the same. If shit is all the same ingredients, I love it. Let me know. But in any case, there's like everyone can eat at least five things that Taco Bell and then itself has to be like 1500 calories. And you can do that a couple times a week. That's an extra so many fucking calories, cookies and chips and whole milk and fuck. Like if you junk it up, there's no way because people people will complain. Like I'm ultra lean, I'm really active and I can't gain weight. After we've sort of thrown all the darts at the board, none of them stuck. I had to try some junk and they're like, well, like what? Like, by the fuck are like anything that you like to eat? No problem almost everyone can gain. That's a big benefit for those of you struggling to gain. You want to use it judiciously, which we'll talk about in a sec. But nonetheless, it's big ups, right? What people will clean bulk and they think that's the only way to bulk. And they'll be like, I can't get above one 79 man. My body just doesn't want to do it. And it's like a fucking sticker's borrow a push a bitch ass right above one 79. No fucking problem. Arguably, much further above if you keep doing that. Next, the dirty bulk is a great break from the monotony of a fat loss, super healthy food diet. I mean, imagine you transition from fat loss diet to a bulking diet. And then three weeks into the bulking diet, you just look at chicken and rice and you're like, I'm out. How am I to the fucking sport? Cancel me. Fuck that. You burn your posing trunks. You're fucking done. It can be tough. But if it's a Friday night, your friends are going out for all you can eat sushi. And it makes body building a little bit easier. No way, I said that wrong. A lot easier and way more fun and way less monotnas. Because when you can eat some junk and eat some BS, dude, it's just it's a big deal. And it's not to be understated. Lastly, if you dirty bulk, quote unquote, and especially in some context, we'll talk about it in just a bit. I keep saying, just a bit. Let's must be a great thing coming up. You can actually read it on the slide if you pause the video. That's what I'm saying next. It's easier to stick to a dirty bulk when you're at school at work on the road, visiting grandma's house for Thanksgiving. Like, grandma's like, don't you love my mashed potatoes? You're like, good grandma, but mac was so no, I won't eat them because my buy steps. Grandma's the born in the fucking great depression. She's saying I understand every saying shit. The fuckers are all being the motherfucker. I made them shifts with love. You don't love me? And you're like, granted, you just say motherfucker's like, hell yeah, pig. But, but, but, but, but, but, but, but, but, but, but, but the fuckers grandma from New Orleans. In any case, it's so easy to just eat some of the fucking protein at grandma's house. The grandma still makes you make the fried chicken or whatever for the holidays, big old turkey leg, shit. You can even bring a fucking protein shake with you, but then all the goodies, she needs the cakes and the fucking puttings and this and that. Every family occasion, every special dinner. If you're dirty, bulky people really came in, we're gonna go out to eat it like fucking out back or whatever, like, can you go? You're like, how's so fucking moving? I can go, where's if you were like clean bulk only? You be the cow. You know, yeah, I'll just sit this one out, I'm just gonna sit at home and eat my fucking rice and chicken and cry tears of sadness because I fucking died in myself out of having any friends. Way easier to stick to shit, that's a huge green check mark into the column of dirty bulking. So, where's this all going? Who wins? Which, you know, I'm saying, Red team versus blue team who wins? Who wins? What's better? And to ask the question of what's better, clean bulking versus dirty bulking is a matter of fact, but lying our thumbnail entirely is the illustration of a logical fallacy called the false dichotomy fallacy. It is the idea that there are only two choices and you either pick one or the other, right? People ask me like, hey, do you find men or women attractive? I'm like, yes. And no, but I've very few people I find not attractive. I only see one of those and it's in the mirror. Isn't that sad? It's got to be the other guy. What do you think I could do to find myself more attractive? You gotta do it to buffer those little things. Talk my genitals between my thighs. Yeah. Bring your eye on it. Put some nice music on it or you're just like, really feel nice about you. You sure felt his swagged and a bit too much. The problem with that is my quads and my current state are so big. I can barely do that because my testicles become crushed. I just found myself attractive again. Thanks, God's video, guys. That was easy. There is no avoiding hard training if you want to grow. But if you want to grow the most, your training needs to be hard and smart. RP Hiperchography app will make sure you're progressing on track, monitoring, and adjusting your workout at all times. So for all that work you're doing, you can be sure you're getting the best results. All right, false dichotomy. It turns out it's not one or the other. It's not clean versus dirty, but rather how clean versus how dirty because remember, every meal can be analyzed on clean versus dirty, even fractionally, if you have a meal which has whole grain pasta, great super healthy peanut sauce, chicken, a bunch of veggies, and you have like an ice cream cone and that's part of the meal. You don't put the ice cream cone in the shed, just with that meal afterwards. Was that a clean meal? Was that a dirty meal? Well, really, it was a bit of both. So my recommendation to you is not to be dogmatic and say clean only or dirty only, it's to do actually the following. First, after a fat loss face is ended and your bulking face has begun, your muscle growth phase, you probably want for the first two or three weeks to eat exclusively healthy food. Why? Because junk food at that point tastes so fucking good, you are gonna go off the fucking rails and eat way too much of it. It's just painful. You need to re-establish proper hunger signaling after a fat loss diet, bring down that diet fatigue. So for two or three weeks after, I would say 100% clean eating. After that, two to three weeks later, whenever you're feeling like mad, I'm getting really tired of fucking clean food. I'm sure shit not hungry anymore, because this is a lot of clean food. You can put in your schedule or an allotment for one to three cheat meals per week. I like one on Friday, two on Saturday or one each day for the weekend, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. That's right, Friday's part of my weekend, VIP lifestyle. So if you do that, it's dealers choice, the cheat meals we have a cheat meal guide as well, hopefully you can find on YouTube. And that means that your fundamental core is clean, bulking, but on top of a few times a week, you've sprinkled in some dirt, so to speak. And it kinda ticks all the boxes. It's still super healthy, but you don't have trouble gaining weight. It's still very good for performance, but it's not overly monotonous. And you can titrate that amount. If you're like, wow, I really shouldn't be going crazy, just one cheat meal of something not too crazy, couple ice cream cones and a protein shake. And if you're really quite lean and you're gaining weight too slowly and your monotony is just through the roof, then yeah, you can have three cheat meals a week, no problem. And if you're gaining too fast, you can ease up on the cheat meals. And if you're having some snacks, and nuts here, some chocolate covered nuts there, it's all nuts that go into this mouth. Oh, yeah, I meant that. And you know, you just, if you're gaining a little too fast, ease up on the snack. If you're gaining a little too slow, and feel free to include more snacks, if you're kind of done eating as much clean food as you can, as you can, as you can, as you can, as you can, as you can, as you can, as you can, at a certain point, you're like fuck that. I'm not staring at another grain of brown rice, ever fucking again. If on the extreme end, you are lean, your doctor confirmed healthy with blood work, and you are gaining too slowly, and you just can't eat enough. Make sure you stick to a core, 75% of your food or so are of your meals, not food by calories. Still healthy, still clean, still no junk, and then just cheat it up a little bit more, even quite a bit, with no worries at all. Because remember, it's not clean bulk for a sturdy bulk. It's how clean and how dirty. Right now, I just wanna get you guys clue you didn't know what's going on in my head. I always have like a stack of analogies in my brain that I can make, and I kind of select out of it, and they randomly assort, right? No, neural network part of your brain that's throughout our candidate thoughts. Then all of my stack is insane references to mixing sex with physically revolting things, like body-exquent, into trying to make a analogy of clean and dirty, and I'm just gonna spare you guys that shit. But if you want extra shit, we have a member section for the YouTube extra videos every week. They're usually nerdy or more in depth. Check that out, and also in the description, we have a link to the team full-rom forum. We do weekly lives to answer all of your questions, the forum, everyone answers everyone's questions all the time. We leak your technique, just try to see if we can analyze to get your squats better, et cetera. If you post videos, we always analyze them. If that's something that interests you, and you have just a teeny bit more money. Remember, 99% of your money goes to Mr. Neckshaw CEO of our P. But one percent of it goes to my personal Lamborghini collection. I met 48 Lamborghini's currently, and you know what? I thought it would be impressive in my underground garage with also a runway for my stealth jet, but 48, it's like 48 states of the United States. I'm too shy, a feeling complete. So please buy something, so I can get my way to 50 lambs, and then I will first have happiness in my life. See you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NSW Previsation, I'm here to talk to you about a globally important topic in our challenging times. What are the most important muscles to train so that you can look jacked? I know, I know, finally we're discussing the very thing our society has built on how random people in the street perceive you. There is a lot of controversy on this and a lot of people have different opinions. I'm coming at it with my own biases, but also I have PhDs and stuff, so I've got to be correct, dammit, and do you dare get in the comments to debate me? I'm going to tell you this right now. If I see you debating me in the comments, Scott's video, can we block people from our channel? You're getting fucking blocked. I'm then even going to read your shit. One word of disagreement and you're fucking out. You're gone, bro. I don't care if you remember, you should be asking money, you're my close personal friend. Guys, if I comment on the channel and disagree with myself, I'm fucking gone. That's how far I'm taking this. In any case, shoot for sure. Definitely, let us know if you what you agree with his list, ranking order, what you disagree with, questions, comments, etc. We'll see you in the comments. Without further ado, here we go. Rank one, and I do mean rank one. In the muscle, you should be focusing on training the most. If you want to look jacked in close or without, by the way, this is an enclosed and without closeness, same list. Bold move, Dr. Mike, showing up without close to a restaurant, is the bulk move, which I do all the time. My parole officer says this is not wise. Shoulders, with them without clothing, shoulders, set up your V-taper. And a lot of the visual subconscious ways in which people judge how big you are, it's a two-factor model. One is just how broad your shoulders are. That's probably the first thing people subconsciously notice about you. If you see someone that's shoulders are really narrow, but they have like really big arms or something, you could be like, oh, that guy, wow, that guy's got really big arms. Put you're not going to be like that guy's bit. What is the situation in which you see someone with four foot wide fucking shoulders? And you're like, ah, if you see someone who's hugely wide shoulders, big ass delts, the first thing you're going to think of is holy shit. And you could look at the rest of the physique, but like, well, actually not as jacked as they look, they just have a wide frame, but it hits you. That's factor one. Factor two is, how does it relate to the waist? Because if your waist is any size that it is, big, medium, small, however big you get your shoulders will make your waist look smaller. And thus it sets up the V-taper look, which means people don't just think you're big, they think you're jacked. Because a guy with huge shoulders and a huge waist and a huge gut that goes out beyond all those, that's a big person, but not the kind of big person you're probably interested in becoming. If you have big ass shoulders, check your fucking big. And if you have a small waist relative with the bigger your shoulders are the smaller waist as relatively because the typically doesn't grow over time, then you are big and jacked. Mission accomplished. What part of the shoulders? I'll just make the super clear the front part of the shoulders doesn't make you look wider. The back doesn't make you look wider. Makes you look wider from the side like this shit. It's the side delts. Upright rows, ladders, cable work, dildo raises. What I don't judge what you do at home in your own spare time. However you hit your side delts, that's how you should be eating them. Often, two, three or four days a week with tons of volume, they barely get tired. You can train the fuck out of them. Eat plenty. As your shoulders grow, you're going to look wider and wider and wider and that's going to be the biggest possible impact on your physique. If I was training a Hollywood actor, which I'm not qualified to do as you've seen from our many videos of the extreme experts that train those folks. And they're like you got to make the willem to foe look as jacked as possible. We're fucking training delts from don't till dusk. And we're not training anything else. No, I take that back. We're training other stuff. Delts are the most important. I will die on that hill, but it's a delts shaped hill. Sleep on the side, don't. I love you, Hill. How long have you two, Mike? What? It's a talking hill, Delta. Huh? Number two, once you're on track to get big delts, the next most important muscle to be jacked in closer without is arms. And I will not debate you on this. Why? Because you may have a lot of debating. You may be intelligent and you may even be correct. Do you know Mike on argument back to you is big fucking arms. Fuck you. Big arms win every debate, a debate club, like world. The Taiwan brain deal. Does it make sense? And a lot of China's new girlfriend don't care big arms. I won that shit. Give me the fucking debate trophy. Big arms are never the wrong answer to anything in this world. Do you guys know what Thomas Edison was known for? Electricity or something? Maybe I don't know. Big arms. He had fucking huge arms. How do I know that? Because he had big arms. I can close my eyes and all the people that have big arms in the history of the universe. I can see them all. They're still in the ether. They never went anywhere. Rich Piano. The King. You never look at rich Piano's arms. You go, whatever. You're like, holy fucking shit. And let me prove to you the point. But go to the ops. Let's say you fucking see a guy like, where do you see people? I got it. I'll have garden bathroom. That's where you check other guys out. You go in there. You get your dick out. You start peeing. You fucking kind of look around. You know, because I got you fucking big. That guy's a pussy fucking. Yeah, shit like that. And if you're like, especially if you're washing your hands, right? You wash your hands and there's a guy that the two ham stall thing where it's one mirror and the blue little silk square d's and yours doesn't work. You have to go lean over to use his or excuse me. But the way you say excuse me, it depends on what he looks like, which brings me to my point. If he's got like big ass shoulders, like, I respect little waste respect. But then you look at his arms and they're not big. Like, my fuck this clown bro. Hey, the fuck out of my way. Little tiny arm little bitch. I'm gonna take yourself. I'm gonna take everything bro. Where's your girl at? I'm gonna take her to. He's like, I'm actually gay. You're like, I'm gonna take your boy. I don't give a fuck. Because he doesn't have big arms. But if you look over and he's welcome washing like this, he's a fuck. Yeah, he ripped off the soapies drinking the shit. You're like, oh fuck, that's my new king. You take a knee in a bathroom and all of garden front of another man. If he has big arms, you'll understand why it's happening. He's like, my fair subject, you may rise a member of my kingdom. And he fucking flexes the bicep at you. No, sir. Please, big arms are fucking king. There's no argument. If you have a guy who's big and every other respect, but doesn't have big arms, he's a really actually big. I submit that the answer is no. Number three, you got big dealt checked. You got big arms checked. You're well on your way, but something is missing. And that's something is actually two things in the very front and top of your body. It is your chest. The armor plate look. You get from big aspects. It cannot be replicated. It cannot be faked. It's the real deal. And with guys and how they size up each other, if you see a guy with big doubts, you're like, all right, respect. And you see that he is big arms, you're like, okay, fucking respect. But he's got like a bony rib cage like man, I would punch that motherfucker to God damn Mars. Fuck him. Pussy. Your big ass fucking arms and doubts, I'm going to do shit. Those are cosmetic muscles. You got a guy that benches four or five hundred or some shit like that. These pecs look different. They have a hang to him. And they come out way too far. It's like phone book shit. You guys know what a phone book is? You fucking ticked occurs. Don't know what that is. It's when you go on your phone and there's a there can picture a book. In any case, big pecs first thought I have as a dude if I punched that guy, I would hurt my hand. I'll get that again. I'll have garden bathroom go to any find your new king. You guys already know the drill. Big pecs are super fucking important. Now, if you have big pecs, put you got little delts, I thought it was boobs. What are those? No one's going to notice. If you have big pecs and you got little arms again, little arms, sorry, no go. But if you have impressive shoulders and big arms and big pecs as far as flat boys are concerned, you're ready as jacked as can be. So you fucking one, you did it. And the rest is really just bonus points. I don't really mean that, but I really mean that. Shoulders, arms and chest in that order is how you fucking get jacked and look jacked in close or without close. Point number four, fourth muscle group that we want to train. Sometimes this very awkward thing happens, where you have big ass shoulders, big ass arms and big chest, and unfortunately make a critical mistake, whoever does you try and impress, I would just be in a fun way like this. You don't fortunately get turned around and then they see your behind. And then they see that your back is like as jacked as they can open bird cage where there's one dead parrot in it, one flu away. It seems like something's missed. It shouldn't appear. It's being there, wrapping to each other and saying unfortunate things that they learned elsewhere shouldn't be some life back there. And if your back is really small, it's kind of like, oh, and people who were not that they matter because they're so few of us people who are actually jacked and actually strong. If you have a tiny, weak back, they judge the fuck out of you. And then they're like, dude, you're rob's pretty big. Are fuck rob. And they do these right there to like, Rob, come here, fuck you and Rob's like, I'm not going to do anything about it because I don't have a big strong back with which to support my manhood. Rob, it doesn't matter how much he benches, tiny back irrelevant in the grand scheme of life. Like, hey, I want to be president one day, turn around. Nope, you're back too small. I got it here. That's how that shit works. So for the hard core and for people that happen to be behind you instead of in front of you, if you get a big back, if you get a wide back with big ass lats, what it does is it exaggerates that V taper even more in the way or suits, you wear fitted shirts, you look fucking ridiculous. You got a guy turn around and you see his last to his fucking dress shirt or the wedding, you're like, do I want a married that guy? I mean, marry, but certainly I could go to the bathroom and please him orally, it's the least I could do. I mean, what are weddings for anyway? So big back is a big deal and with or without clothes, it establishes that fucking presence. Big back plus big shoulders is like super Mario, more part, look, the shit grows, the bonus points. That is really a fucking look. Now, you can't cheat your way to that look with little tiny arms and little bird packs, that's not going to happen. But a big back, big shoulders is a real good way to start it. Again, if you have small shoulders and a big back, something looks miss, that's why it's not rank one. But if you have all the other stuff, a big back really closes it out and it really really awesome way. And if you want to look big to normal people, that's all he needs is lat width. If you want to look big to big people, thickness, front to back. Like you guys have maybe been on social media, seeing pictures of my spinal directors. You've also been on only fans and seen pictures of my other erect things. And then, if I'm quite as erect as I want, thickness is just like your fucking strong. There's no way around it. And it has this like really masculine energy to it. We're like, if you're a pretty boy, physique model and you have like wide lats, you're like, oh, good, you look awesome. But if you're, if you're front to back, thickness to your back, people who know things and who really give a shit about being jacked. Like all of us watching this channel, they're like, holy fuck, that's for real. You can't deny that shit. The problem with thickness is that in close, it just looks like you're fat. You can't tell a part fat and muscle without clothes at the beach at the gym at picking up your kids from kindergarten, wherever you choose to be naked. You end up having the situation where someone sees a thick back and they know what they're looking for. And then your girlfriend's like, does that kind of big or like, what, you're like, yes, he baby shut up. You'll hear you. Yes, he's fucking huge. I want to be like him. I wish I was him. I hate myself. She's like, oh, fuck. But it's true. Big back's count. Training for muscle growth is never going to be the same. Bonus. That's really it, guys. It's four things. Don't worry. I'll talk about your favorite muscle groups in just a second. Bonus. Traps. I do that backwards. Traps and forearms. Traps and forearms. Why? Here's the thing. Buy themselves. They don't do much. If you just have big traps, but the rest of you skinny, looks confusing or looks like you have some congenital disorder in your neck turned out weird. If you have big traps in addition to some big ass arms and shit like that, it gives you that Tom Hardy brick thick yoke look. Tom Hardy is not only incredibly handsome, but it's those incredibly talented actor. It's also, I just want to meet him. I just want to be around him. I wonder how he smells. Do you guys ever think things like that? I don't. That's sinful. If you want that Tom Hardy look, traps don't lie. But they have to complement a great beer with a super awesome, frothy foam. Amazing. Foam just by itself in a cop. You're like, what the fuck? Did you just what is this foam drink? This is down my pay money for this. Just the same way. Traps complement an already good physique and really accentuated. They don't make the physique. So don't start doing shrugs first because you look fucking ridiculous. What about forms? Or I'm say one of a few things about you. If they're really big, chronic masturbator with serious problems, definitely me. But also big forms, first of all, it's kind of just concerning to you. You're like, oh my god, I'm not really a man. And if you're a woman, I'm going to pretend I know what you think. I have no idea. When you see a man with big forms, don't you just think like, I don't wonder if he could consensually, consensually, I wonder if he could grab me with those. I mean, that literally with his forms, that would be weird. But using his form musculature to frustrate me, I could just, I don't even know what I do with myself, except have 50 trillion orgasms because big forms are hot. That's you. And you know, big forms are dope. And they have a huge advantage of like if you're just wearing a shirt and they can't see the rest of your body. Maybe they can always see your fucking forms. And if you're wearing a sweatshirt and somehow the form part is tight, holy fucking shit. People are like, what the hell's up with that guy? Big forms are again like traps. They really compliment an awesome physique. And if you have big arms, but really big opera arms, but really kind of skinny forms, it looks cool, but it's something's off. Something's missed. If you have big arms and your forms are also huge, oh boy, you really do have big fucking arms in the classic sense. So forms are cool, but again, enhanceers. So once you're well on your way to being jacked in the rest of you that matters, training your forms a bit, training your traps a bit, can go a long way to give you that extra special look, whereas you were just jacked before. Now you're like that one guy that your girlfriend wants to have sex with. I think Mike, you forgot legs. Now I didn't. You guys know me on social media. My legs look at times kind of absurd. There's like four of them and they're supposed to be two. They're quite large. I'm fairly confident saying that. At least compared to the rest of my body, I have big fucking legs. The thing is, nobody gives a shit. I've never been in a situation, you know, there's always, and I know you, bitch, I know you who bought the comment. Facts. Look for it. Once we publish the video and it's out for at least an hour. Just can be at least one girl in the comments. At least one. There's always one. It says, I don't like guys with big upper bodies and actually look at lags. Like a peccoy has big, like, a bit shot the fuck up. Where have you been my whole life to get me laid? No, where? Like, actor, Mike, you. We're not always famous and wealthy and you're really short and ugly. Yeah, I know God damn it, but that whole I like lower bodies bullshit as a fucking lie and look, it's not a lie. It's just statistical irregularity. Most women like the big jacked upper body. If they like muscles at all and the legs, they sit down care enough about. Now, which weird for girls to have you a peg leg weird stick thin ass folding over in and itself dying in the lower body. Look, nobody likes that. So you look athletic in the lower body, but most people look athletic in the lower body anyway, just walking around and moving and being young and healthy. And I do a few squats here and there if you leg presses, it just doesn't fucking matter because nobody ever fucking not nobody, 90 percent of people, including women, ever fucking look at your legs to judge how jacked you are. It's just not a thing that happens. Like if it happened, holy fuck. And the thing is body builders and power lifters and strong men, they look at how jack someone is and if they find that the person makes them uncomfortable because of how jacked the upper body, the last resort is looked down to the legs. And when they see that your legs are small, they go out of fucking, that guy's a clown and they're not wrong. But most people don't ever get to that part. You get to that part because you've been in the strength sport game for too fucking long, just like me. Most people, almost everyone, it's upper body only, nobody gives a flying fuck about your legs. In guys, listen, if I was some skinny leg weirdo, it would be of course Dr. Mike saying this. You guys know me. I'm fucking out of that. And no one cares. I care, you might care. Thank you. But we're tiny, lonely people that no one talks to. Upper body is the only thing that matters. But Dr. Mike, you now say, so by the way, if you're like your only comments, and this is like, yeah, I like legs and not upper body, spare us. Just kidding, get in the comments in comments. We can fucking read it clearly. Just kidding, we're not going to read it clearly. But just know you're irregular. You're unusual. Which I've been told I am before. By liars, neck, what about the neck? Dr. Mike, what about a thick fucking neck? I hear you. neck is like traps and forearms. If you have a thick neck and the rest of you skinny, people suspect that something's when I should have zagged in development. If you have a thick neck, whenever anything else is jacked, it looks fun. Sweet. But here's the kicker. When you train your traps hard and your back hard and your shoulders really hard. The cross activation, you guys know when you're lifting hard and going, it actually does absolutely utilize your neck. When you're squatting, really having your do this and this and that, your neck gets a ton of exposure to growth stimulus indirectly. And thus, if the rest of you is jacked, news flash, your neck is automatically jacked. Like you don't say in your boy here, I got a pretty fucking big neck. And I've never trained neck in my life in Diplode, plan on it. Now I grapple too, so that's plenty of neck training. But my neck would be like maybe half an inch smaller if I didn't grapple. It's still be fucking enormous. Like my neck is maybe like wider than my head. I don't know. People say I look like a thumb. It's not a nice thing to say. It's someone who cries a lot at home. But it's not the last truth. I never fucking train my neck. And if you want your neck to be bigger, even though the rest of you's jacked, dope train your neck. But I got to be honest, one's really looking. I've never seen anyone with a big ass shoulder, a crisp bump step. Crisp bump step does not have a thick neck. That's part of the classic physique look. Is a normal-ish looking neck and big everything else. You ever see, you know, as he crisp bump set on the street and someone's like, wow, he's not really at jack. But what do you got to do fucking mind? We still have one of those jacked people on planet earth. In an sense, the most jacked. Nobody cares about your neck. If you care about your neck, dope, go to Jeff Nippur, he'll teach you all about how to give a thick neck. What I'm saying to you is if you think neck is like number rank one or two or three, it's not. You just get the rest of you jacked. Your neck comes up anyway. And if your neck doesn't come up, it doesn't fucking matter because no very few people care about a bigger neck is and ratio your neck to your size. Again, shoulders, arms, chest, back, and the rest is bonus or irrelevant. If you're curious about it, but Dr. Mike, this is nice, but I don't have any of these things. How do I get more jacked? There's a link in the description to the RPI hypertrophy app where you can do preloaded programs to get you jacked in every way that we just talked about or customize your owner even mix and match. You can do this for OGs like a dollar a day and the program auto-regulates and adapts to your every need and has all these other great things and I made it. So it's got a maybe matte suck a little. Anyway, guys, girls, lemono, you think. Oh, and if you want us to do a video about what muscles make of the female, look the most jacked is that what they're going for? Fuck it. Last and all in the comments will make that video too. All right, time to be a canceled. See you next time.

Let me talk a lot about the research, but not everyone's convinced. Science-based lifting has lost the plot, because recently every science-based giant creator has been obsessed with the stretch. We already have direct data that the stretch itself actually grows muscle with no concentric action. We don't have to debate. Let's break down each of these critiques one by one. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here, and I'm here with Dr. Milo Wolf, the inventor of the long muscle length training approach, and the stretch itself, he's here to do one of two things, proof-toss that the stretch is actually important or gracefully apologize for his an aptitude. 3, 2, 1, maybe stretch. First off, the stretch does consistently seem to cause more hypertrophy. At this point, we have 35 studies on the concept of the stretch, looking at more stretch forms of training versus less stretch forms of training. In fact, in 2013, I published my own mathematics on topic, finding that the stretch is important. Probably the most important part of any of it. As far as principles go, the stretch of any important hypertrophy has about as much evidence behind it as something like higher volumes causing more growth. That's a lot. It's a lot. At this point, it's one of the most certainly things we know in the research. But with the stretch, there are two components you need to know about. The first one is actually getting in stretch, and the second one is tension in stretch. Among those 35 studies, many have looked at different exercises. For instance, a cable push down versus an overhead extension. We have two studies on that. One found the same growth in the triceps from both, but the other actually found around 40 to 50% more tricep hypertrophy from the overhead extension, which stretches your long head more. We also now have three studies comparing the incline curl to the pre-chal curl, an in general, the incline curl is better for the biceps, because your shoulders behind you causing more stretch on both heads of the biceps. Next, we have two studies looking at the seated hamstring curl. One compared to a lying like curl and found greater hamstring growth during the seated leg curl, because it pre-stresses the hamstrings with your hips flexed. The second study compared the seated leg curl to the Mordic hamstring curl. Again, more stretch of the hips, meant more hamstring growth. We also got two studies comparing the seated calf raise to standing calf raise. Extending in these pre-structures the gastrochnemias. And as you'd expect, the gastrogrimore in both studies from the standing calf raise. We also have one study comparing the hip thrust to the squat for the glutes. This study found the same hypergropy, but the depth of the squat was relatively constrained. But although studies were on more stretched versus last stretch exercises, though we also have studies looking at the concept of resistance or tension in the stretch. Tensing! Let's go back to the three studies that compare the incline curl to the pre-chal curl. For the biceps, the incline curl means more stretch since the shoulders behind you. But for the brachialis and brachioratialis, those only insert at the elbow. So the exercise that places more tension in the stretch for them, creature curl, actually grew those a little bit more. Likewise, in that study we just mentioned about the seated hamstring curl versus the only curl, the naughty curl places more tension in the stretch. And as you'd expect, for the short head of the hamstrings, where stretches the same in both exercises, the naughty curl calls more growth. From the exercise that places more tension in the stretch. Not every study has positive findings, though. Our own study, comparing with cable batteries, to the dumbbell ladder, is found the same growth in both. Those are all the studies we have on the topic for now. But more coming out, besides comparing different exercises, we also have studies looking at different ranges of motion, specifically we have five studies looking at length and partial versus a four-inch emotion. And those studies, you either see the same growth in both techniques, or actually a bit more growth from length and partial. So based on the available research, whether or not it's choose to include that full peak squeeze is mostly personal preference. The main thing is achieving a full stretch and spending some time. Now, you might be thinking, what if I just took my set past failure during partial's at the end? Well, we actually have two studies on exactly that topic. In the first study, we compared a four-inch emotion approach, simply ending the set at failure to doing those partial's after failure. And as you'd expect, the partial's after failure cost around 40% more growth. The second study, however, compare that technique during partial's past failure during just partial's. And just partial's, it seems to cause a bit more growth. So personally, I'd opt towards just partial's. 40% more growth is a lot, which means maybe a take-home point is like if you have an exercise, maybe at least on the last set, that's conducive to continuing partial's after you've done the full run, because with squats that doesn't work, because then you're going to die. But if you have like calf raises or something, might as well squeeze out all the partial's you can at the end, huh? Yep, I think that a great degree of emphasis on the stretch, whether that's just partial's or kicking the right stretch by as exercise, is pretty much always a good idea. We get to see a case in the research, we're doing more stretch work, cause less growth. But have you considered operationalizing growth as how many people of the gym think I'm impressive, because I'm lifting weights I can't take to a full range of motion? Isn't that the growth that matters? And hey, I'll see you full stack in the chest-pursling partial's. We out here, babe. When you're in the citation, we start. Now we've talked a lot about the research, but not everyone is convinced. And there are reasons to be skeptical of always trying to train the stretch and potentially taking it to a fore. Let's break down each of these critiques one by one. The first one is that the stretch only really lacks in beginners, like in partial's, only really well in beginners. Now, there is some truth to this, in the sense that most studies have looked at beginner populations. There's a reason for this. You see more approach-fing beginners, therefore you can more easily distinguish differences in how well two different training protocols work. You can also recruit beginners easily, there's more of them. Another reason is beginners will let you just train them every one, because they don't care or don't care yet. Advanced lifters are not going to pull out of the regular program and have them do some other wacky stuff. Exactly. And so it's possible that these findings don't generalize to more well trained lifters. But that being said, we do now have around 10 studies in trained lifters, which is a decent amount. It's not beyond all of a but it's something. And generally, of those 10 studies, first of all, zero have found less growth. So at the very least, you're probably not going to miss out on anything by choosing them for such a stretch a bit more. Of those 10 studies though, around half have found more growth when emphasizing the stretch. The other half has found about the same growth. Now, with a relatively small effect, that is the sort of outcome you would expect, because of sampling variants. You would expect some studies to have a roughly no finding. Some studies to have a small but beneficial effect, and some studies to have a relatively larger positive effect. And that's kind of what we see. Just to put this in perspective, another potential retort is like okay, looks so the effect is small, so it cares just train how you like. And it's a very good critique. Unfortunately, it also applies to almost everything else that you do. While E-120 grams of protein, one 80 is almost the same. Why do five meals a day when three meals is just fine? Why train four times a week when you can do two and get great results? It is just a way to try to get into a discussion where you're trying to prove the idea that you just don't want to do length and stuff. Cool. But in reality, it's worth getting an extra 10% of growth. And at the same time, a lot of times it also builds mobility, and makes you more injury resistant. And so it's kind of all good stuff. The only downside is that like, well, G-Wiz, your ego is going to take a hit because just you can't lift as much weight through a full range of motion. They'll be true to cost of training more in the stretch. Is effectively non-existent? Yep. So I don't have a lot of sympathy for that sort of idea. You just don't have a lot of sympathy in general because you're Austrian, right? Professional. Hey, oh, next critique. The next critique is that emphasizing the stretch only works for certain muscles. Often times people claim this is based on the length of tantrum relationship that muscle where it operates in saltwater. Now the truth is, at this point, we have studies in quite a few different muscles. We have studies in the calves, in the hamstrings, in the quads, in the glutes, in the biceps, in the brachios, in the brachioide arms, in the side delts, in the triceps. That's a pretty wide variety of muscles, which muscles did you miss? Chest. So it doesn't work in chest is where you're saying that's exactly what I'm saying. The concept of the generalizable principle doesn't exist. I know. I just made that up on the spot. I am. Yes, but also I agree with you because it defends my very deeply held positions. Hey, there we go. So in science, to an extent, we assume that there is generalizability, whether it's looking at a small subset of population and assuming that generalizability is to that population as well. This also applies to muscles. At some point, you can hypothesize about mechanisms, but if the outcome data seems to consistently apply across different muscles, maybe it's generalizable. In this case, I think it is. Let me talk quickly about another thing as the length-tension relationship. It might be true to say that while you see the exercises in muscles so far studied, they're actually having a better length-tension relationship exposure at the partial ranges. And so that you're really just giving the muscle more load and thus it's benefiting. That might be potentially true, but it takes a bit of a downgrade that critique for two reasons. When you just mentioned, it's like 16 muscles now. It's getting odd when you're picking one or two. The other thing is if we had a supposition that lower loads, grew muscle less than higher loads, we would have some more to stand. But the reality is, anywhere between five and roughly 30 even more repetitions, taken too failure, grow the same set for set. So when we're saying, well, this position just produces more force. The next question to ask is, well, why is more force relevant? I think it's not. Are there complex biomiconic ways in which this can still be true? Yes, but we should consider all hypotheses in a probabilistic spectrum. And thus, if you have to take two caveats to get to your hypothesis, you're down in the less than 2% chance that you're correct about it. And it's just not something to stand on reliably. When you want to go into the gym, use your best bet for how to grow. So Milo and I are all, we're both scientists, so we're only ever about best guesses. And our best guess is it's skipping the length and partial, good God. Our best guess is that skipping the length and part of the exercise, the stretch part, is just probably not your best bet. The next critique is that it's not actually the stretch causing more growth. It's training a muscle where it's strongest, or simply put the concept of new mechanical matching. The principle of new mechanical matching simply states that you're bought in, or recruit the muscles that are best internally leveraged before an action. If, for example, your biceps are scrolling down here, it will recruit at the biceps all over the brachialis and brachioratialis for curling in this range of motion. Now, it's important to understand where this principle comes from and what is supposed to replace? It's supposed to replace hennaman's size principle, which dictates that your body will first recruit the smaller marines, the smaller muscle fibers, the full action, and then it's fatigue sets in, or as force production requirements increase, and then it will start recruiting larger threshold motor units, larger muscle fibers, faster twitch muscle fibers. The theory of new mechanical matching actually stems from something completely unrelated to hypertrophy, which is specifically inspiration, so actually breathing in, and two, engage muscles, specifically during very submax more walking. How this relates to hypertrophy is relatively unclear, and that's why for the time being, I'm not really convinced that new mechanical matching can explain why we see more hypertrophy from training muscles in the stretch. To be perfectly transparent, there is not a single study yet, but as specifically sought out to test the concept of new mechanical matching as it applies to hypertrophy. People will try and apply this principle to already existing findings, oftentimes the challenge is the stretch is actually more important, or we now have 35 studies specifically seeking to examine the stretch. I'm personally not convinced, what are your thoughts? I mean, I'm not convinced either for another additional layer of ground. We already have from static in position over months and months, air accounts was involved in one of those studies, direct data, and from animal studies, direct data that the stretch itself actually grows muscle with no concentric action. We know mechanistically the stretch grows muscle. We don't have to debate if it's not the stretch and just neuro mechanical matching. Neur mechanical matching needs substantial more work to develop it even into a model. It's currently hypothesis, but maybe it's true, but it would be true potentially on top of stretching and lawn muscle lengths as an idea. It doesn't refute it. It's a cool addition, but I wouldn't exactly go and say, this is evidence for stretching not being a thing because we have direct evidence of stretching and hypertrophy when you're not even lifting. There's an additional layer of, I mentioned earlier, that we generally assume things will generalize. But in this context, the research from which this principle stems is in the context of submaximal tasks, highly submaximal, inspiration, walking. Those are quite distinct from maximal tasks like taking a set to failure. It's really unclear whether those tasks would be governed by a similar principle as taking a set to failure. With a set to failure, it may very well be a case of all hands on deck. If a muscle can perform the joint action that is trying to be achieved, like for example, outwexed function during a press. Chance is all it's going to recruit all three heads of the triceps to their fullest, even if they're not internally leveraged to be their strongest because you are going to failure. It will get all hands on deck to perform that joint action. The context in which the principle was first hypothesized, whatever, and if now trying to be applied by some people, or quite different. And until we have research on this, I'm personally going to really get it much creative. Sure, you touched my leg. Again, I got it. But seriously, I have an important point. All of what you said I totally agree with. In addition to this, if no mechanical matching passes, multiple filters, multiple studies, the radical basis, and gets accepted as a thing that actually happens when you lift heavy and go close to failure and hypertrophy training, it's something to stack upon when you're training in addition to stretch. We already know stretch works. We already know that long muscle links work independently via their own mechanisms. So if you're looking to do a curl in such a way that both neuromacanically matches bicep involvement and exposes a stretch, that would give you more growth than either one of the other. So the idea that neuromacanical matching is a reputation of stretch literature is a non-starter at this point. The next critique is that people are over-emphasizing the stretch. And I'm relatively sympathetic as a few reasons. One is practicality. Some stretch focused exercises are kind of a pain. The reverse and only curl for example can be uncomfortable for a lot of people who can fall over in tip-overy after kind of set it up and stuff. It's kind of a pain. The second one is actual pain. People tend to experience more pain, more joint discomfort when they're training at the extremes of range of motion. A full stretch or a full contraction. That's where current injuries and pains tend to flare up the most. And the final one is we don't actually have that much research on the extremes of the stretch. Specifically, we have a lot of studies comparing relatively stretch forms of training throughout the training, but about the same super-spreads curl, we don't have many studies yet and we need one. Until we have those studies, you could theoretically overemphasize the stretch and not get any additional benefit or at least the benefit isn't as of yet as sort of it. Translation from science talk to street talk? You can go for all the stretch you like, just not doing anything stupid that's obviously going to get you hurt. The next critique is that science keeps flip flumping. Yes, some studies have found a benefit of the stretch, but others haven't. It's a really used to say whether it works. This stems from misunderstanding of sampling variants and how science works. Let's assume we know for a fact there's an effect size of 0.2. Just because of sampling variants, the observed effect size will cluster around 0.2, but maybe a bit lower sometimes. Or a bit higher. In fact, some studies will find zero effect. Some studies could even find a negative effect. But on average, the effect size is being observed will be around 0.2 for instance. That's exactly what we see with the research. Most studies find a small positive effect. Some find a study a larger effect and some find no effect. But the average effect size is positive and is small but appreciable. And so if you think that science keeps flip flopping, your point letting single studies impact your understanding too much. Look at meta-analysis, look at the totality of the evidence. And when you look at the 35 studies we do have, it does seem pretty clear at this point that stretching or other the stretch is beneficial for growth. Yeah, science is about best guesses and very good guesses, but never perfect analysis. Imagine you had a friend that was just super gorgeous like Scott the video guy. And you said, oh, ladies really like my friend who's named Scott the video guy. And we had Scott come up to one lady who was cramogene and smoking an elongated cigarette. It just didn't have time for anything. And Scott's like, hello, do you think I'm handsome? She's like, get out of here, sugar, I've been through 80 a.m. you wouldn't automatically say, oh, Scott's clearly not handsome because he is. It's just one lady. And if he came up to nine other ladies and that seven children, I was a result of that, which is Scott's real life, you would be who very convinced that he was in fact good looking. Scott are you filming this? Oh, stop. So, he's had to apply this research to your own training to see more hypertrophy. The first point is to pick exercises that stretch the target muscle under a load. You can think of a bench cable GoPro example. Or you can probably achieve the same effect by combining different exercises that achieve different things. For instance, pick exercises that have more tension and stretch like a preacher curl and exercise that emphasize the actual stretch of it more. Like an incline curl where you get more to stretch on your biceps. Combining these different exercises in your program will play lead to about the same outcome as pain the optimal exercise every single time. But your exercise selection should emphasize both the stretch and tension and stretch. Second, length and portions are a great tool. Use them especially on exercise that load the short and position the most. Things like lat-hole-dels, roads, matter raises with dumbbells. All of those can work really well with lat-on-partials because they're cutting out an unproductive bottleneck to the set. You're not going to get that much stimulus up there, but you're going to end the set way before you get any beautiful work done down in this stretch. I just kind of wish gravity pointed in different directions sometimes. We're sweet. Dragon most of. Alternatively, if you don't like length and partials as if from a training it feels awkward what have you, you can do length and supersets. Just pump out some partial reps after you hit four inch of motion failure. Those are still going to be probably more effective than a four inch motion, but they may not be quite as effective as length and partials. Focusing on stretch is a great way to get more out of your training at no additional time cost. There's not really no opportunity cost of pausing on the stretch. Doing some like impartials as opposed to four inch of motion on a shortened bias exercise. We're picking the right exercises. So, if you'd like more growth but with not much additional time, focus on stretch. Likewise, focusing on stretch, play works across all muscle groups at this point and probably also works in advanced lift-ups. Look, we need more research. At this point, it seems like the average effect as observed is small, but appreciable and beneficial. So, focusing on stretch is recommended. But let's not just say the researcher said in stone. And as we have more studies, we might find out the stretch is more important than we have. Or less important. But at this point, I do think the recommendation of focusing on the stretch, like the good balker, might always does makes sense. Folks, that was a lot of fun. My takeaway from all of the stuff I've seen from you, my lawyer in your colleagues so far, is if you're going to skip any part of the range of motion and exercise, probably don't skip the stretch. What's your super quick take on for the folks at home? Find ways to emphasize the stretch. Don't be obsessive over it, but chances are you'll see more growth than before. And you might even see sort of like, notice, I believe, more growth than before. Like, if you've been training for a while, you might see a random sauce. Oh, Robert, make sure to periodize it.

This whole thing of like man feel pretty good in day bro Let's sort of the plate on the bicep curl. That is not a thing that that get you hurt But it will not get you anymore jack now here's the thing you can get stronger faster by adding more weight to the bar And you can tell people how strong you are at the club as they look at your small arms with Inchradulity in their face your systemic um, RV is here That lets us get up to very high volumes only for the arms That my brothers and sisters in iron and steel is how you get the biggest arms that you can Hey folks Dr. Mike here for RP strength and you have a distinct problem your arms are not big enough and you need the solution now That's good because today we're gonna talk about how to get big arms now and even help you design a program That will get you big arms now and by now I mean but in three or four months because I mean like not literally now Me and if you buy some thaw on the internet and do an irresponsible thing like injecting into two arms you will have big arms now But They're gonna look goofy and that's gonna destroy your actual muscle So if you have a few months to put in to training you can get much bigger arms and the end of this video will actually help you design a workout for your big arms for a five day split that prioritizes massive arms And if you are just so busy with Theo stuff and Making ish happen that you can't be bothered to make your own workout that literal workout as of the release of this video will exist in the RP high Perch of the app and It will be called big arms now Yeah, oh, we're serious folks. All right Let's get to it. So yeah, I'm not just trying to hawk the app and saw you guys workout. So it's cool if you want to buy them However, however, well, we are here to do is understand Why the garms are important not a very long description The fundamentals of how to get big arms the how and the why and then Later a very not so long period of time is how to make the actual program because once you understand what's going on Making the actual program is a very easy. If you don't understand what's going on making the actual program is Like walking through a mine field where like yeah, you can put one foot in front of the other but you have no idea if you're on the right track And technically speaking Scott, let me ask your question If you got your leg blown off by a mine Versus if you never had big arms which ones worse? Oh my goodness never having big arms for sure for sure Because if you have big arms and you have like a cybernetic leg do your Swimming in it that's it over so first of all why big arms Let's go through a couple scenarios you're at the beach big arms You're at the club big arms Meaning your X's new boyfriend you're on good terms with your X hey This is Frank. He's like really sweet to me. It's gonna be nice to him a Frank Yeah big arms now Frank knows where he la you know what's saying where he places in life Second to you later that night your axis like Frank like why can't you do like hard for me Dude, he's like I don't know she love like Just like your X man. She's like what a bottom he was like all news. I told you I don't love him Yeah, but He's just bigger arms than me then you know Scott that's a thing that if you let your current girlfriend meet your X Especially if you're on good terms with your X and the X is just like a bejectively hotter That's like a problem right? Like you're gonna hear about it probably on the right home Or you'll get that like you get back to the hotel room and she just like cuddles into bed and turns away from you and you're like baby What's going on she's like I'm just like I'm good. I'm okay Do you still think about her and then you're in some real shit? That's a few hours of arguing all right If you happen to be Oh, oh father and a husband you're not into the whole club scene. You're not into getting some touch-touch You're picking your kindergarten route from school big arms Yeah, schools out now and that is my kindergarten There's a guy in an unmarked van pulling up to the elementary school you step out to pick up your kids and he just Just accelerates drives away and he never comes back that's how that works and Myself I have been in a few intergalactic hostage rescue situations Nine times out of ten big arms will get you out of that as well fundamentally the end of the aljox side Big arms for any male physique just make you look cooler like Go into a photo shop or go talk to chat should be tea Post up a picture of some bodybuilder and be like can you make this? Have bigger arms and it's gonna look better with bigger arms nine times out of ten nine the nine times out of a hundred Yeah, 100 times out of a hundred so How to get big arms You can just train your whole body and Your arms will get bigger and there's nothing wrong with that however if you want Especially bigger arms relative to the rest of you which you do That's why you're watching this video remember You can take advantage of the massive massive idea of short-term specialization what the hell is that? well Here's the thing Most of your muscles Have really high per muscle mrv's maximum recoverable volumes the total amount of work You can do for that muscle and it still makes adaptations the steel grows instead of goes Dude, I can't do this anymore. I'm over trained you're killing me I'm actually gonna get small I'm gonna get hurt So any given muscle you can train a ton But your systemic mrv your total bodies ability recover is usually substantially more limited and the bigger and stronger Get the more limited is so if we took all of the mrv's of all of your individual muscles and just add it them up The total number of sets per week that would be would be like double what you could survive in an actual workout situation How do I mean this when people get bigger and stronger? They're typically able to handle something like 10-ish maybe 15-ish Maybe maybe maybe maybe 20 sets per muscle per week for their whole body, right? Those like calves and biceps and triceps and chast and back and legs all that stuff together Each one of those is somewhere between 10 and 20 probably closer to 10 to 15 sets per week is within a maximum Recoverable volume for most people but it's close, right? That's a lot and you're gonna need to reload every you know Four to six weeks for that sort of thing be able to be possible however numerous studies now confirm beyond any very reasonable doubt Then in any one given muscle the local mrv for that muscle If you don't have to worry about the system is usually somewhere between 15 to 20 to 25 to 30 and if I'm being very transparent about the state of the scientific literature currently I have to be frank and tell you which we haven't found a top and reliable mrv for muscles There are numerous studies in which I will say relatively untrained people train their quads and up through 45 sets per week of quads how do they get to that they do five sets of one quad exercise? I think one of the studies is something like five sets of like extensions five sets of like press and then five sets of squats Monday Wednesday and Friday Okay in the group that did like 30-ish sets grew less than the group that did 45 sets in the quads So first of all don't just go out there do 45 quads. That's uh you're gonna grab my Lysis these folks worked into it they took a nice long time to work up to values like that don't be it don't be here But there are many other studies now confirming the fact that as you do more volume You get fewer and fewer extra gains but they're extra gains and There has been no reliable top end and we know very concretely that the conversation for that theoretical top end At which you're at your mrv locally and after which you actually grow less and start to degenerate muscle if you train anymore That conversation almost certainly does not start below 30 sets for most people per muscle per week So all of a sudden you that's can see we're going with this if your mrv or maximum or call Revolving per muscle for if you train multiple muscles as hard as you can in the body Is like 20-ish for many people not all there's a big variation But if for that average group of people their per muscle mrv is probably over 30 Then we have a very interesting Unfortunately reality which is like man I want to grow all over as much as possible you can't do it Especially not as an intermediate very much not as an advanced lifter Be enters just grow no matter what but it's dope to be a beginner Scott it's one of those things were like you are getting excellent growth but because you're beginner no one can tell And no one gives a shit It's like when someone is trained for two years, but like man I made my best games on xyz program you're like what games mother Nobody cares All jokes aside We have this interesting situation where I say okay If I want really big arms And I know that my biceps and triceps and four arms Hypothetically grow best north of 20 sets Per muscle per week for each one of them But if I do them in the context of a whole body program in which I'm trying to know everything I really probably can't do more than 20 sets That is where specialization comes from so you take A bunch of your muscles half or more of your muscles and in the program we're gonna be designing later all of your muscles Accept for your arms and put in them down to maintenance volume Here's another really really cool thing that makes the specialization concept very tentable Specialization is not a thing really desired And decided to do it's a thing that kind of falls out from the data and personal experience Like this is just the way it is it's like nobody planned for tall people to be better at basketball We get people planned basketball. You just realize tall people are better at it and then later you realize I as I make sense like you could be short and fast, but tall people are better at blocking They're closer to the net so they can shoot an unimpeded and there you go better reach all that stuff So another cool feature like this to sort of make this whole idea of specialization fall out from the data Is that maintenance volume the amount of volume you have to train your muscles if you just want to maintain them You don't care if they grow because you'll grow them later or they're just not a priority right now She just don't want them to shrink that amount is Incredibly low and I estimated roughly through compilation of a lot of data sources and personal experience in coaching experience talking other people Is for many people it's Especially in a surplus which is probably how you should be eating if you want the biggest arms for a few months of training Is something like and I kid you not four hard sets per muscle per week here's what I mean by that if you train your chest Untoose day and on Thursday Something like that Tuesday Friday whatever With two sets hard sets close to failure heavy challenging in each workout two sets on each day two days a week That's four of my math serves me Well Scott if I'm was his name Terence Howard Oh yeah, maybe not Make up whatever math you want it. That's okay. I was what you see it's actually six and a half oh All right, oh it is Do you remember when Eric wine seemed to bathe at him and it was like the kind of this thing Eric's ever done in his life He's like I see where you're coming from I just be like you're literally really mentally ill and you need to be in a hospital That is all I have to say about that I mean maybe someday I'll be card it off of Rogan for Dude I end up getting on Rogan and he's like you're gonna have to debate Kanye West Okay, that would actually be really fun, you know I would probably start with be like Kanye. I think you're one of the most overrated musicians of all time I think you're a great person and I could completely agree with all of your stuff about the Jews But as a musician I think you just have the biggest hype and you're actually terrible Do you think Scott do you think he would take that incredibly personally? I probably that's probably the most hurtful thing How are you arguing can you convince strategy there Mike? What do you think the better argument to convince is like Kanye? I really want to believe that you're an amazing musician But I just can't see it. Can you like sing from you right now so that I can like In any case where the hell do we get in this? Four sets per week like that split over two sessions will almost certainly for almost everyone Continue to maintain their size and strength kind of indefinitely and that's Really trippy realization it gives us a huge unlock Remember earlier when we stacked up all the MRVs of all the muscles and realized they're like double what the systemic MRV is Well guess what you take 20 sets per week that you're doing for quads go to four The shit falls down you take chest four hamstrings four back four and so on shoulders four And all of a sudden your systemic MRV is here and if you're training arms normally Your your some of all muscles that you're doing volume wise is below That lets us get up to very high volumes only for the arms and get only their arms into the ideal growth range That my brothers and sisters in iron and steel is how you get the biggest arms that you can So for three or four months at a time basically three mesocycles like four to six weeks of accumulation one week of deal load Are pay a purchase of your app does all that for you? You stack three of those cycles together and you have everything at maintenance except for your farms your biceps and your triceps You are gonna be having bigger arms If and only if you don't just train your arms regular but you start at pretty high volumes and you end it very very high volumes That's how you do it now you might say to me look biceps triceps. I get but why for arms Get to Google type in frank mograph and Shot up and that's easy but if you're not convinced type in Lee priest and then shot up again And if I'm being too mean don't shut up run outside and yell at random people about how Lee priest and frank mographs forms make them real man with gigantic forms Scott remember those guys um then world war two that landed on the beaches of Ewo Gman stuff and those people like that work and oirig they have really small forms right? False the real man and they have big forms and honestly the purpose of a form functionally when you're giant man Is to physically grab a woman by her small ways to make her feel feminine and dating Is that the sound they make Scott? I don't know I've never seen one Isn't that I mean oh yeah for or your own displacement Yes, that's good that's what you get paid for or a for a large forum for that matter and those two are related If Scott had an enormous form he would be a father of a family of five at this point All right, let's talk technical stuff. How do we get big arms okay specializations great? We've said okay. We're gonna really cook the arms and how do we do it specifically check this out? What training frequency do we want how often we're gonna train arms? No, I'm's everyday brother That's cool. Is anything wrong with them but typically it beats up your joints a lot and you have to do pretty low volumes every day Just so you can heal for tomorrow So they could better approach is somebody in two and four sessions per week for many people Three sessions per week is a real good sweet spot and since many of you trained like five days a week which is a very rational amount of time to train Then my preferred split is gonna be Monday Wednesday Friday as arms and then chest back Legs and shoulders are gonna be Tuesdays and Thursdays if you really want to really spread things out and be super psychotic Tuesdays and Saturdays but it just doesn't matter much Seriously because you're at maintenance You're not gonna get sore or messed up from Tuesday you'll be totally fine Thursday. It's all Gucci That gives you five day split Monday Wednesday Friday you are cooking your arms to the hilt And that three day thing allows you to both train very frequently which means lots of stimulation building up huge volumes You can't do 30 sets a week if you train once a week unless you have a workout in which you do Scott can you imagine workout in which you do 30 sets in one session each of triceps biceps and forearms Yeah, you can write that number down in your app but I'm really working hard after I don't know eight sets or ten sets or something However, if you train triceps biceps and forearms Monday Wednesday Friday It's just enough time between each workout for you to heal and you can crank some volume So you can do ten sets each time eventually. That's 30 sets per week for each muscle that is a really really big deal And this allows you also to be arrested enough so you're not just going through the motions, but you can make every workout grand grand baby See Yeah Scott is a possible to do 20's guy impression without the the bird slash Dame also coming in and saying something to support her man Her two cents and at the old bag the old bag you old bat Yeah, yeah, body and Clyde. See wait wait wait wait wait Yeah, see I'm done. I swear to God. I does this channel exist. Why do I exist? Scott of your thought that why are you a person and why isn't someone better than you and your spot Yeah, every morning noon and night Exercises. I'm not really personality about this You train for a while you're going to figure out what exercises work best for you. There are some recommendations Ideally tension at the lengthened position should be really high. Skull crushers lying curls stuff like that But what really matters is the overall high stimulus to fatigue ratio and Exercises that you like so you should be able to get exercises that feel really tense in the target muscle If you do incurles and people like where do you feel them like I don't know my elbows not a good sign You should have exercises that towards the end of high repsets you have a really Narlie burn in the target muscle. That's good Exercises that for not so many sets give you a Narlie pump and at the same time They should be exercised as you don't hate doing and that your joints feel pretty good with for weeks on end That's functionally more or less the stimulus to fatigue ratio Heuristically calculated and that means that if you have those exercises just this really really awesome Exercises you can do them for weeks and weeks and weeks on end at a little bit of weight out a few repetitions each time and really build some momentum Whereas if you have exercise that you hate they hurt your joints They can't let you load a really heavy you can't go to failure really a ton It's not really good and that's no no good at all now Technique good technique is a standard when you're doing bicep curls using your biceps Not your lower back not your lutes, et cetera. I'm even saying anything more about that because that's a good known thing that everyone should know by now Don't but Can only hope What I want you to do for this Monday once they Friday and we'll build out a sample version of this program Just a second you can go catch that on the RPA perch via but You just want to choose three total exercises three exercises for triceps three for biceps and three for forearms And you're gonna run them Monday Wednesday and Friday for the first exercise you're gonna pick an exercise that you can go pretty heavy with Sets of five to 10-ish reps even as high as 15 is totally fine Something like barbell skull crushers something like You know barbell or cable curls for forearm something like like one arm off the bench curls or something like that something you can handle with some really really good For the second exercise for that Wednesday exercise for all of them you're gonna pick an exercise you can do in the 10-to-20 Rep range which is most exercises so just pick something you like In the last exercise for Friday for biceps for triceps bicep and forearms You're gonna pick an exercise that is really really comfy to do while comfy here is relative for sets of 20 to 25 Even 30 reps a very high rep effort. We're gonna hit every single type of of rep range through this whole week heavy on Monday moderate Wednesday lighter on Friday and when you go Put your weights into the hypertrophy app you're gonna make sure that you're putting the weights in appropriately and choose Nexides for you. So for example if you have an exercise like OG was Standing barbell curl Sets of 30 your backs gonna give out before your arms will And so if you can do like lying down on a bench cable curls that's probably better for that regard If you're trying to do jam presses for skull crushers By the time you get to 20 reps your pecs and shoulders are gonna give out your triceps are gonna be like this is dumb But if you're doing cable push downs, yes, that's a 20 to 30 or totally fine So typically you're gonna choose exercises that are more controlled more machine-based Require less of your body posture to be maintained for higher reps and exercises that are safe But allow you to produce really really high tensions for sets of 5 to 10 effort 10 to 20 it's really cart Blanche. It's really whatever you like and We are gonna make sure To also focus so that's that's the exercise selection part very straightforward For relative effort Start each muscle cycle week one at oh three or four reps in reserve You know when it starts to get pretty tough few reps into that stop right your reps down on your app And then at the end of each mess of cycle you should be going to zero reps in reserve Which is like you finished the last rep barely and you know you're not gonna get another one You put it down or true failure which is you try that last rep it doesn't go anywhere you put the dumbbell down You're like no nobody noticed that I'm weak and Fallible and then you write down your reps that's the goal How you're gonna progress with that we're gonna talk about in a sec But you start a little bit on the easy side and and very very much on the hard side arms Don't tend to be very strong like your biceps and triceps and forearms I'm gonna lift like the kind of weights your chest and back and legs would lift So the systemic confetti component is relatively low which means If you think you're like a little bit not pushing hard enough in a set push harder Really burn the arms in if you start a mesocycle and you're actually at two or three RIR versus three or four Best totally fine for arms if you do that for quads you're gonna be paying that on the back end for arms You're just gonna gut it out you'll be totally fine volume My recommendation is not look do not just do this if you have been training for a while make sure you're pretty well trained at least a few months of like good training under your belt Then I mean a few months recently lifetime wise probably years Start with about 12 weekly sets so when you make your program You're gonna go in and the app sort of kicks out how many sets you have to do of everything you just hit like the little function button And you just plus add a set and you add another set and however many sets you add through that session and through the week That's how many sets the app's gonna start you add after that It's all regulations are gonna kick in and take care of everything So start with something like 12 weekly sets and go up to something like 21 sets per muscle per week In the first month of cycle, which means what it means you're gonna do Monday once they Friday For tri steps for example and biceps and forms works the same way you're gonna start with four sets Monday four sets Wednesday four sets Friday in that first week in the second week you might move up to five In the third week you move move to six in the fourth week maybe the last week depending on how you do things You might move up to something like seven now at the end of the day auto regulation is Gonna take care of all this for you if you use the app Okay, so if you use the app you fill out how sore you are how tired you are be brave But be honest and then the apps like that like if you tell me you're like healing very much on time and actually a little early You're not sore and you come back for your sessions and your performance is good And you feel like it ought to rule over around with volume then yeah, it's just gonna kick you more sets and it's gonna do this part automatically However, if you're not using the app or if the app's kind of babying you and you might not be filling it out Like exactly super honestly like, oh, I feel like I'm overwhelmed But I know it shouldn't be I know I can still do this then just manually add the sets in the app will let you do that If you're not using the app just just do four five six seven seven D load Now seven sets of triceps is a lot of triceps with one exercise mind you so you can do Some tricks you can use what's called myaret matching So you'll say you have skull crushers and you have five sets of skull crushers What you can do is do four sets of skull crushers Instead or maybe even three but that first set you'll see you get 18 reps The next set you do my reps which means you do as many reps as you can and You know get to whatever RR for that week. Let's say one RR Rack rest five or ten seconds hit that set again and do as many reps as it takes to get close to failure again Rack you do as many of those as it takes to match that first set so 18 on the first set 18 on the second Now if you rest about a minute minute and half between sets which should probably be doing you're going to only be able to get like 10 or 12 on that second one So you're going to have to do another mini set to get to fit a 18 reps and then a third set you're going to go for 18 reps again and it might take three mini sets to get there Did you notice you're doing a some total of as many reps as you would over five sets As many approaches to failure as you would over five sets But only in three sets because you take little mini rest breaks and crank out more reps when you're tired That can allow you to save some time in the gym and it will get you pretty much the identical results And it's really fun though it is very painful so you have to understand something if you want to save time in the gym You're going to have to crank up on some other variable and that variable just happens to be discomfort If you're good with that I do it all the time. It's totally fun. It's awesome Plus it gets you one hell of a nirally arm pump Which is super dope so you don't actually have to do like straight sets with three minutes rest seven and sets of tri-subskis Don't worry this this volume is going to go up in the late and as a cycle My right match system is actually really really good way to go about this That's the first mezzo we start at roughly 12 we go to 21 the second mezzo Start at roughly 16 ish 15 or something like that so five sets of everything and And at 25 sets or so if you can recover On the third mezzo you're going to start more like 20 or 21 like you're starting at seven sets in that first week The dealodes come in really handy and you go up to something like oh, I don't know 30 sets at the end And so that means 10 sets of tri-subs in that workout 10 sets of biceps the myra match thing I would say converts to about two thirds Right, so if you're doing 10 sets of biceps, but you do myra match instead you want to do like six or seven myra match sets Scott you ever done six myra match sets of biceps? Ooh, I don't think I have yeah, you'd have bigger arms if you did mother Four almost kills you so this is guys. This is a very intense program again Auto regulation has to be the cap if you come in for Wednesday and you're still violently sore and ultra tired from Monday Don't go to seven sets just stay at five your body will be the guide But if you're one of these people that just kind of recovers you know, I don't know Technically I could do more just follow this trajectory. It's gonna be brutal But it's one percent gonna go around so basically kind of start at 12 go to like just over 20 We start at like 15-ish and we go into the mid 20s then we start at like 20-ish and we go all the way up to 30 that Template three mezzo cycles in a row which is about four months total of training for most people You guys If you either try your hardest and get close to those volumes, but not quite Or if you actually do those volumes you're gonna grow 97 times out of 100 and the three times it's just like now I don't know I'm like oh a PhD in shit in this but a good luck That's the thing Progressions every single week of this program You are going to either add a repetition to each set or You are gonna add something like two and a half pounds to each set if possible five is okay But a little aggressive if you're adding five maybe try adding five every other week. That's probably good And that's it that's all you change on progression slow and steady wins the race as long as your volume is high And your reps and reserve are pretty low close to failure and high volume Then the progression should be smooth and easy This whole thing of like man feel pretty good today bro Let's sort of the plate on the bicep curl that is not a thing that that get you hurt But it will not get you any more jack now here's the thing you can get stronger faster by adding more rate to the bar And you can tell people how strong you are at the club as they look at your small arms with incredulity in their face Scott That meme of the guy yelling into the girls ear. I figured it out He has small arms and I think he's telling her his really impressive curl PR that guy Is literally yelling I know it doesn't look like my arms are so big But believe it or not that I actually curl more than a lot of I Phoebe pros in my gym and she's not having it because no one gives a shit How strong your arms are are you an arm wrestler if you are check out our Devon Laira video. It's awesome and also like a Cool But you don't have to brag because you're a real arm wrestler and then people find out your arm wrestler at the club Like you want our muscle and you're like now come on. We're just having fun the c'mon, man There's table and you're like all right and you do a spiral fracture to their Both of their arm upper arm lower arm bones and then send them running don't you ever For me ever big we out here I'm saying say that after it always helps so if you want size these slow Many progressions are the way to do it. You're not there to train your ego you're there to train your arms Duration I recommend for ascending weeks of volumes loads and one d-load week retrain Very very easy the apple take care of all that for you. We have tons of videos on d-loading check one of those How and you're gonna repeat this three times after that you will be two things sick and tired of training arms And have much more jackdarm the perfect combination of course now Each mesocycle do you still use the same exercise? I have an idea about this that works pretty well Whatever exercise feels good You get good pumps your progressions are moving along really well your joints feel okay You love the exercise keep it so if skull crushers work really well in the first meso Great in the second meso if you feel great in the second meso, good do it again for a third If an exercise feels bad Consistently shit pumps your progressions are like I'm not getting stronger on this. I might be getting weaker Your joints are like not and you hate doing it then just replace it with another exercise So if your last weeks or your first mesocycles Monday and Friday were like awesome exercises Just use them in the next meso number two But for Wednesday if it was total shit you're like I should have never picked this machine I hate this machine I think it is only cranks my elbows and it doesn't even train my biceps Just completely replace that as a matter of fact If you're more advanced liftor after about one or two weeks if you know it's a shit exercise just replace it then But if you're like have sex just as fine, but it wasn't great and I haven't exercise in mind that I've used before that I love Click it right in this is a specialization program. It's not forever and so you kind of want You want to put your best foot forward you want to like you know have your have your best warriors Scott, you know all those martial arts movies from the 80s where the guys have to fight like incrementally stronger people to get to the final boss Like just get the final boss out in front, you know what I'm saying? Like you know we don't need to work up to shit Also, you know No one really has guns in those movies, huh I guess not But the gun really like it really solves a lot of problems Also like man Scott you've seen the John Wick movies, right? Yeah So when he fights like one or two dudes at a time in a completely cleared space with 10 lines of sight Outside shots and there's 90 people with guns around and no one just picks him off You gotta suspend some disbelief Mike. It's a movie. Did you say some or all These I guess he's fighting people who are like blind Yeah, it's just don't know where to shoot But they go by smell and they can tell where the fight is. I don't know all right That's basically the structure you guys I'm gonna go laptop going it's got the video guys laptop. I have to close like 80 porn tabs It's all transport Really could be my laptop We'll build the app Work out and then we'll talk about a few kind of intricacies of how to use it and then we'll be good to go Scott 321 laptop all right guys. So I've got the template the plan a new mesocycle builder here I've made five days Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday and when I'm gonna do first It's kind of get the just grunt work out of the way and go to Tuesday and I am going to do chest one exercise back one exercise and I'm going to do shoulders when exercise quad hands and why not I guess calves Remember most compound quad training change your glutes enough for maintenance so you're good to go and then I'm going to create exercise slots for Thursday and just kind of flip the script so we'll start with calves We will go to hamstrings we will go to quads and then shoulders back and chest Tuesday Thursday's the other way now it's time for the meat and potatoes and so what we're going to do is here in this part I'm just going to pick a triceps movement and then a biceps movement and then a form movement guys in this demo I'm not going to actually select the exercises for two reasons one I already explained how to pick exercises you guys know what the you're doing two I do like to talk about what exercises it worked for me and I like and as I far and all that stuff but sometimes I don't like to do it too much because I think some people with all do respect all do good assumptions here they kind of think like ah aha Smith machine skull crushers was really what's going to get me jacked it's like no it's just like an exercise I like so I'm really trying to keep this open and guys fundamentally if the exercise feels good it gets you a good pump it just kind of doesn't matter much which one you pick pick your favorites so we have this now there are two ways to go about this this is important for very good program symmetry if you really have a lot of OCD what you can do is for Wednesday and Friday flip the order so what I can do is Wednesday I can go and go hit biceps then forms and then I'm going to hit triceps at the very end and then for Friday what I can also do is go instead and start with forms and then hit my triceps and then hit my biceps so with that allows us to do is every single muscle gets its time in the sun to be first and second and third and there's nothing wrong with that I think that's great that being said if I have a really big bicep pump I actually can't get as much range of motion as I would like on triceps because my biceps in the way when I have a form pump bicep training is kind of pointless because your forms give out early and even on push downs and stuff having a form pump distracts you from tricep training but having a really pump triceps and really pump biceps doesn't really just track from forums so might prefer way of doing this and I'm going to change this in the actual template that you guys will be able to access is really just to do triceps first for all these days biceps second for all of these days and finishing all these days of forms and let's be on as fellas like finishing a workout with forms is just like get the work done you're already pumped you are to go cheat it's cool finishing a workout with triceps is like the triceps are hard to train bro big range of motion bigger weights a lot of my muscle connection and and especially with pump forms it's weird so can you do it in any way you like as long as you have biceps triceps and forms in the day Monday once you're Friday somewhere yes but what I'm going to do and make this template by just flipping the orders around and it's always going to be triceps then biceps then forms if you try this try and it looks like oh shit my triceps got mega jacked my biceps got a little bit bigger my forums hardly budget at all because I was always tired training them it's very unlikely if that happens next time you run this arm specialization phase for you know three mesocycles in a row flip the script and start with biceps or flip the script and start with forms or do that whole thing where you rotate them all the same time so that's really kind of it you guys that is the whole situation when you actually access this template you want to fill in all of your favorite exercises well you can also do is you can just click this magic auto for electric sizes button and then like if it picks cool exercises great if you disagree you can change them so actually like I don't want to hit this because then it's going to save it into the template but if you hit this it just fills in random exercises with all of your stuff which is totally good to go and so now that we have this you guys can access this exact workout and change it anyway you like to fit your needs because in the template you can move anything around that you want and it's going to be when you get their iPad per tri-fayette it's going to be in the mail five days per week section and it's going to be called big arms now do you want big arms now link in description big arms in your future I'll see you guys next time with bigger arms

Hey folks, I'm Dr. Mike Faretta sounds a pretty decent one. I'm here to deliver to you from high on the mountain. The ultimate guide to cheat meals. Aren't you glad you clicked on our thumbnail of, would make the thumbnails much later than these videos. So probably someone eating a whole mess of delicious tasty food. You sure are, because you're gonna get some science layered with noodles of sugar and fat. You cheating mother. Beeep. I've just gotten into beeping myself recently because YouTube will do not, not nice things if you swear especially early. Because children could be watching, but I guess children have a really small attention span. So after 30 seconds, they don't care. In any case, couple of things to say, really seven. Point number one. What is the purpose of cheating? The purpose of a cheat food is to do two things. One is the thing they do and two is the constraint. Thing one is to make you happy. That's right, cheat meals are just to deliver pleasure sensations to you. That's what they do. But they are only useful and allowed, quote unquote, in the context of they are still in line with your goals. They do not screw up your goals. That's the two factor thing about cheat meals. They're fun and they're still in line with your goals. That's the purpose and makes them okay to do. Now, point number two is that cheats can be useful. It's not just fun stuff that doesn't screw up your goals. Though it has to be for sure those two things, it can also be a third. In the context of maintaining your body weight, cheat meals are just fun things that don't make you gain weight in the grand context. If you're blocking, if you're massing, if you're muscle gaining, if you're trying to gain weight and muscle on purpose, cheat meals can help by a small margin add a few easy extra calories per week so that you gain weight on the track that you want it. So cheat meals have that utility. Now notice, I didn't say that cheat meals can bump up your metabolism or give you a metabolic boost or be used as a refeeds. That's all fucking nonsense. And it doesn't pan out in the literature. Nor doesn't pan out experientially. cheat meals are profoundly not for those things, but I'll get to that a little bit. cheat meals are potentially useful for increasing how much food you're eating and getting you to your calories. And to point number three, cheat meals do a few things very poorly and some things people try to replace them with but that doesn't work so well. cheat meals cannot replace a foundation of healthy, fuel for performance and recovery food. So if you're having trouble gaining weight, but you're eating a crap diet with missed meals and not enough carbs, cheat meals are poor solution to that problem. That's like trying to weld together two pieces of steel that are three inches apart. Fucking Christ, you're gonna need a lot of welding and it's gonna make the steel really flimsy because you can only weld so much. A foundation of lots of healthy food, lean meats, veggies, fruits, whole grains, refined grains, and healthy fats should be there meal by meal day by day. And then a few times a week, two to three times a week in most cases at most, I would say, you can layer in some cheat meals and that's totally good. But if you're trying to cheat your way through a bulk and have mostly cheat meals or way too many cheat meals and not enough clean healthy food, that's not gonna work out for you, for my health perspective, for my money perspective, because cheat meals are really cost more money and from a performance perspective, because you will tell with your own performance if you eat mostly healthy food, you're a fucking animal in gym. If you eat too much cheat food, too much junk food, it starts to wear down on you a little bit. cheat meals also are very bad at elevating your metabolism and re-igniting the fire. People say that 99 times out of 100 to justify having tasty food, because it feels good. Look, if you had me make up a reason why porn is amazing, well the fuck I don't have a thousand reasons and booth dope in me and I think, and serotonin, I'm sure it does something that too and shit, it's a great form of preventing global overpopulation. But the real reason the porn is sweet is because it makes me feel good. And not me of course, I'm not a darelocto, does that sort of thing, but you definitely you. It turns out, cheat meals just really don't have a place in the context of a fat loss diet in most cases. They don't push your metabolism for any longer than the meal, it takes to digest, they sure shit do when it's digesting, but also you're digesting, fucking noodles of carbs and fats, that your metabolism goes up, you add this much food, you still gain weight on net balance and then nothing happens a day or two or three later that your body can remember, so to speak. So if you have one cheat meal a week, it doesn't boost your metabolism for the rest of the week, that's nonsense, that shit died seven or eight years ago in the scientific literature. Which brings us to point number four, if you are craving cheats and you're having a tough time losing weight and you're still doing one weekly or two weekly cheats and you love the food, you overeat it like crazy, I'll get to what I mean by overeating. And you start to get into the situation where you can't wait for the cheats to happen when they do you eat the mindlessly. After they're done, you get depressed because you won't be cheating for long. And it's interfering with your weight loss, I've been there by the way, cheating is fucking stupid. I wouldn't even go so far to say in almost all fat loss diet context, just eat more whole food, it'll keep you fuller for longer. It won't tempt you with the thing that you can't even have much of, junk food. Just keep the junk away when you're fat loss dieting. For the most part, we're entirely. Cheat meals are really, really stupid. If you're trying to use them for fat loss to reinvigorate and metabolism, it's just making you miserable. If we are using cheat meals, and you're doing a maintenance phase of dieting or a muscle game phase of dieting, how many cheats do we program per week? One cheat meal a day is kind of a lot. But I think it's pretty reasonable to do two to three or one to three cheat meals per week. I think that's totally fine. Zero is also fine, by the way, you don't have to cheat, but one, two or three meals per week is great. And there is a timing as to when to actually eat the cheat meals if you want to get really nerdy and really pedantic, which is the whole fucking reason our channel exists. So here you go. If we're calling a cheat meal, something that has tasty, feel good fun foods, nine times or eight times out of 10, it'll be loaded with both protein, and especially a fuckload of cars, but especially a shitload of fat. That means if you eat your cheat meal pre-workout, you're an insane person that's just gonna throw up the entire workout. If you eat the cheat meal right after the workout, ideally we want a fast, adjusting carbohydrate source with lower levels of fat, so that food can get into your bloodstream and tear muscles as quickly as possible, to potentially recover and grow. So we actually don't want a cheat right after workout. So when people finish their last death, if they're like, do I can time for pancakes and eggs and toasts and shit like that? Like, yeah, brother, I'm like, ah, the sport nutritionist in me is like, oh, no. So what I would say is best to do is two things. One, save your cheat meals for one or two meals after the workout. You have your workout, you come home, you have half of a fucking container of kids is sure to resureeal, bunch of skin milk and a way protein shake. After that, two, three hours later, it's cool to go hit your cheat meal, especially if your cheat meal is like maybe all you can eat sushi or something, a little bit lower on the fat's higher on the carbs. But if you're gonna go out for burger and fries, you're some shit like that. I would say it's best to save a cheat meal even for two meals after the workout. So your first high carbs super sugary meal, wait two hours or something, have a bunch of chicken and rice and veggies or whatever, wait two or three hours and then have your cheat meal. That's probably best. And the I said two things, the second thing and the last thing for this part is cheat meals are also what a lot of people call going out to eat. And they're supposed to be fun. So I think it's probably best to have them during fun social times because it can increase your cohesion with society. You don't need body builders and fitness types to get ostracized even more than they are today. Pretend you're an old person and go have a cheat meal with a friend as well, I'm trying to say, which means Friday night, Saturday, midday or brunch or whatever, Saturday night. And then Sunday for brunch or lunch or something like that, these are really good times and most cultures for most people to have their cheat meals. It'd be really weird if you're at the office and they let you eat at the office. You've got like two pizzas and a shit-loaded eye coax and a thing of cookies and you're doing your operations engineering and you're eating a slice of pizza and someone's like, hey, jam, look at what's up. Oh, what's your celebrating something by your self at your desk? Like, it's cheat meal man, you know that Wednesday's 3pm, they're like, okay, okay. Jim, do you have a family to go to? You're fucking looking at it, brother. Two large pizzas is my family. Oh. Okay, yeah, Jim, I'll be, if you need me, I won't be at my desk, I'm leaving. That's fucking weird. Hey, if that's you, I feel you. Get some friends. I don't know how to get friends. I still don't have any, watch this. And I've got the video guy. Are we friends? I thought this would keep you paying me. Friend for pay. Wow. In any case, yeah, try to have real friends or even fuck your friends, man. You don't need friends. Drive over, fried and I did 8pm to the Taco Bell. People working in the drive through their real friends because they guarantee you happiness. Twice, once is when you eat the food. The second time is at 3am when you wake up and shit and blood is, I'm just kidding. It's gonna, how's it gonna take that? Example, and analogy way too far. Imagine so cheap. I'm gonna stop the plumber passes out. Honestly, I think it's just quit. Your wife leaves you. I'm done. I swear I'm done. Your dog dies. How can that even happen by the smell alone? Seriously, enough time to go back to cheat meals. All right, so we got that out of the way. Point number six. What kinds of foods make the best cheat meals? People actually ask this. I'll say a couple of things about it. First, just enjoy the food. It doesn't fucking matter. Holy shit. Overthinking ass crazy motherfuckers. And I want of them. And I overthought it. And the final conclusion was, it doesn't really fucking matter. That being said, tying in to point number seven is how to avoid overeating. We'll get to that in a second but first. Whatever you're gonna cheat with, it just has to have one rule. The big rule, make sure it has some protein in it. Because while you're eating for pleasure and you're raising your blood levels of fats and carbs like crazy, when your muscle cells get to be like, oh shit, time to grow. We got this food. But if you don't present a lot of protein with that, your muscles can't really grow much and then just your body fats like, oh hell yeah, it's my party, and then it grows. That's no good. So if your cheat meal is just a shit load of Oreos and Netflix bite yourself, of course. Remember, try to cry off to the side because you're lonely as fuck and your life is pointless. Don't cry into the Oreos because the tears don't mix with the Oreos shit, super well. Add a fucking protein shaken to that. Get you to Walmart by you a fucking big ass container of fair life, skin milk. That was some Oreos, holy shit. That's growth juice right there. That's growth fuel. And if you're really pathetic, after eating, a sleeve and a half of Oreos, pour the milk into the rest of the shit, it eat it with a spoon, like the pathetic, lonely animal that you are. And I am. Can we be friend? So make sure you have protein with it. You know, how much protein, I'll give you a great answer. The same amount you eat with a normal meal, or about one and a half to two times that amount. Why one and a half to two times that amount is even better than just the one time. Because the amount of calories you're having in a cheat meal is generally like two times the amount of calories you'll have in any of your one normal meals. And that means that food is gonna digest for much longer. And you're gonna need amino acids, pair with that digestion the entire time, which means if you're eating more food, eat more protein. Now a lot of times you don't need extra protein shakes because if you get like a meat lover's pizza, that doesn't have like a fucking 150 grams of protein in the shit. I know, it is an 180 grams of fat or whatever, but hey, you sign up for the shit. So it's absolutely totally cool to just have your no burgers and all that sushi, whatever you're eating pasta, but make sure it has plenty of protein. If it doesn't have a protein shake or some skim milk or something like that with it. Lastly, how do you avoid overeating on cheats? It is totally possible. First of all, what do we consider overeating on cheats? I'm gonna pull this number exactly and only out of my anus, but I promise it'll make sense. Take you brain for being able to tell stories that rationalize stupid bullshit on the spot and make believe. Here we go. If you eat much more per day than about one and a third, the calories you normally do, the probability that a ton of that food goes to body fat, it has already topped off your glycogen stores, your anabolic pathways are fully, completely saturated. The probability goes up. So what I'm saying is the following, if you typically eat 4,000 calories a day, on your cheat meal days, the whole day probably shouldn't get much over 6000 calories. It's totally cool if it does, if you're okay with the adabadi fat gain. But if you wanna keep body fat a little bit hemmed in and still have some fun, just make sure that the entire day doesn't take you over one and a third of what you normally eat. So 4,000 to 6,000, that's reasonable. But if you have a fucking cheat meal out of saturday and you go back and look at the numbers, you're like, oh, I had 18,000 calories today. Guess that shouldn't add literally pounds of body fat to your frame in one fucking day. And yes, that is how it works. Your ability to put on body fat is immensely impressive. I would use that rule of thumb, the one and a third thing. Less totally cool, more cool, but if you get over one and a half, one and two thirds, double your daily calories in the total food, healthy food earlier in the day, cheat meal later, it starts to get to be a bit like, are you sure you wanna get that fat in one fucking go? Does that mean you can reduce your calories early in the day? It can, but careful with that. You don't wanna start eating very little in the day after work out, you're like, no push workout meal today for me, man, I gotta save it for my cheat meal later. Geez, that's Christ. So here's a rule I use, I use a combined rule. One is I do a good job of eating lots of whole food through the day. Maybe I go easier on the fats. I'm down 500 calories or 300 or 400 calories below what I would be otherwise. And then my last two meals of the day, instead of eating them, I just have one big ass cheat meal, combined with that extra three or four and calories that I save for not going crazy on the fats earlier that day. And then voila, that brings me well below that one and one third's number and everything is super happy, honky, dory. Now the last thing I'll say is if that was a lot of math for you and you're like, Jesus Christ, you're moving food here and there, and fucking counting, fuck that shit, I 100% agree with you. So maybe for cheating three times a week, try to keep the cheats relatively reasonable and hemmed in two of those times, but one time a week, especially if you're not in a place where it's right post-contestant, you're able to shop 10,000 calories in your face. If you're cheating, it's just some fun shit that you do when you're right around, one and a third of your normal calories or somewhere close, just cheat, enjoy the food, have some fucking protein, enjoy your life, make sure what you're ordering extra sushi rolls and all you can eat sushi place, you do it with your mouth full of food, or hurt more, you're a rurler so that the waitress can stab a picture of you in the back because she fucking hates you, enter there every Friday and that's literally me. Ms. Waitress from that one sushi place, please don't poison my food. But if you do, it's been fun. And if I don't make it on the YouTube video, I died getting poisoned as she wants the name sushi, report that shit to the police. Anyway, folks, do you have any other questions about cheat meals? If you do, there is a comments section, exactly for your questions, I'm gonna try to give them a personal answer to you. And if there's some that are so compelling that I can't answer them, and text very efficiently, we'll make more videos about cheat meals and we're gonna DM them to your phone where you're at the worst possible place in hunger in your diet, 12 a.m. or going through, oh, Dr. Mike, cheat meal picture, fuck. And you go downstairs, you look at a jar of peanut butter, and you try to make it happen. Make what happen, you say you're a sick fuck, I'll see you next time.

This is one of these situations where I questioned my sanity while diving deep into the research of a very well-known supplement called Tercesterol. This plant compound is equivalent to Deca, essentially. This time, the Echysjaron groups did experience significantly better muscle gains than the placebo, but their findings simply don't add up. The Covenine Neutral Picks depot decided to test the Gorilla Mines Tercesterol, they absolutely did not measure up. I believe the study was done on purpose. On purpose to show that there would be no statistically significant difference, but why would they do that? Getting a letter from the FDA is not over small things. If they send you a letter, it means you stop big time. And judging what that letter, there is a lot of suffering. And if you're really in humans, do we see those kind of outcomes? No, we don't. We see outcomes similar to two and a half milligrams, the five milligrams of anobar. For a over-the-counter product, it's a very promising thing. Look at what's happened in the history of the world. You really trust the studies. There's been a lot of hype around these supplements over the past few years, but let's take a couple of steps back, why the hype? Existereges are essentially naturally occurring hormones in plants and insects, paused. Scott, how many plants and insects do you know that are jacked? Thank you and video. Thank you so much. Alright. There's mechanistic evidence suggesting that Acti steroids can influence muscle growth through many various different mechanisms, but they act differently to anabolic steroids, which act through the adrogen receptors. Okay, interesting. There was a study published in 2019, warm study. One study, looking specifically at a gesterone, what they did in that study, that was a wide-up-funded study. They took a bunch of trained lifters, 46 if I remember correctly, 10 weeks, and they had two groups that took a testosterone, and one control group that didn't take much. They all did power lifting style training, and they took different dosages of a testosterone, and they assessed muscle growth via BIA, biolectical impindance analysis, which is a very small degree of precision. Yeah, for the audience, the scales that you see in many commercial gyms, or even the commercial scales that you can buy for your house, that are supposedly very accurate at tracking your body composition. They are not very, very sensitive to changes in water. You could literally go from one day to the other, and see that you've gained or lost muscle mass, and they give you an estimate of fat-free mass, non-necessarily regional hyperhperch fee, as you would with an ultrasound, or whole body hypertrophy with an MRI machine, which costs thousands, or a dexum, maybe. Or a dexum. Anyways, they took these men for 10 weeks. They didn't control their diet whatsoever. Nor did they have any suggestions for what they should do with their diet. After the 10 weeks, the groups that took a testosterone, saw increases in body weight, because they were likely eating more. Increases in strength across three groups, and BIA, the biolectical impindance analysis, showed that the groups that took a testosterone gained around five pounds of muscle somewhere around that bulpard, in 10 weeks, in 10 weeks. In 10 weeks, in trained lifters. And then what I was like, well, this clearly works, we will ban it. And even the title of the study has something along the lines of ex-distarides as a non-conventional and a ballic agent. So that study comes out in 2019, and essentially gives ex-distarides out of hype. Banned by water, impressive results in 10 weeks. But obviously, we're talking about results that have a huge question mark right next to them, because BIA body weight changes, you know, diet air control. So it could have been it, could very well be that a testosterone in that study actually did cause muscle, gain, robustly, and strength gain, and it could be that it is an effective supplement. But one not particularly well controlled study is not grounds for really conclusively saying this thing for sure grows muscle. We would need more studies, some of them preferably better controlled. A hundred percent plus here's the kicker, and that study specifically, the supplement that we're supposed to contain a hundred milligrams of ex-distarone per serving, only contains six. So you're saying it's even more at a ballic. Exactly. That would be the twist there, right? But typically, a testosterone is not pharmacogenetically known to cause anabolic effects, or predicted to cause anabolic effects at six milligrams, like the good reasonable dose is more like a hundred. Yes. Okay. So like this is one of these things where if you try to prove that creatine is effective, and you had a study showing you gain five pounds of muscle, but people took a quarter of a gram of creatine per day, you would be like, whatever results you think creatine did, it's just under power to do this. Yes. The time where you could go, this may be even more potent, would be if they had really robust muscle high-perch fee assessment methods, let's say they used ultrasound, they had a larger sample, they controlled for diet, matched protein, and obviously reasonable amount of a duster and there. Yeah, but even if they didn't, yeah, even if they didn't, so basically so far, that study has suffers from basically three kinds of significant limitations. Limitation number one is that it was wildly underdosed, even for theoretical mechanisms of it, we would be curious how that would work. Two is that it has various internal validity design flaws. And three, that is actually just one study, and so drawing very robust conclusions to apply in the real world, like making supplements for sale, is a curious thing to do off of one study and highly not recommended. Yes. So far so good. Clearly there must have been a few dozen other studies, or at least a few other studies, which showed that Tercasterone gives you veins in your eyeballs, level of vein jacked, hashtag vein vibes, pack. Who's that guy? Oh, I think he took out the mask. He took the, let me see your grill song very literally. It doesn't matter who we are. I loved that song. What matters is a plan. I want to get a lot of stuff to put on. The Greek National Team Jersey from 2004, baby. That's a great question Mike, because we're not even a two-kestern yet. We're at the restaurant. And but it's important to set that context, because then there was another study in Petri dish, where they saw in some muscle cells, some activity that could potentially hand at some effect towards high-perchery, very optimistic. But obviously we need human study. We need human studies in order to actually verify. We're at least really good like animal studies, you know? Or at least that. But even then, as we know based on the hierarchy of evidence, there are steps. You start with Petri dish, animal studies, and then you slowly work your way up to multiple human studies, randomized control trials, so you can confidently say, yep, this compound works well. But at this turn, and that study specifically, for the turkestern scam, if I may call it that, oh, shouts fired. I'm not sure what the legal definition of scam is, so don't assume me. That has been understanding. I'm misunderstanding. When it comes to turkestern, we have a 2024 study that looked at acute effects on things like IGF1 and metabolism, insulin-like growth factor 1, which is highly anabolic, and metabolism, which is both a sum of all catabolic, and anabolic reactions. Continue. Where they gave a bunch of turkestern to a few months. A bunch of sorobostos. Yeah, well, supposedly a thousand and two thousand milligrams. Lone story short, but we're no differences, but that sort of studies again, a proof of concept study to slowly build upon. There was also study by Hosse Antonion, he's lab that looked at supplementing turkestern for, I think, eight to ten weeks again, but they also used BIA to assess body composition. They found no difference between turkestern and placebo. Okay. Here's the kicker, the extra kicker. There's a lot of plot twists here. This was back in the day where there was a big turkestern scandal. So for the people that don't know, turkestern was all the hype, based of the Ecti steroid hype and that single study we mentioned, people started selling it, promising it will give top results. Then this scandal broke out that most, if not all, of turkestern that was commercially available, was not real turkestern, it didn't contain turkestern. A lot of the, like the famous products. So that study was dismissed because essentially the criticism was one BIA methods, whatever, but also, oh, there was no real turkestern around in the market. So the brand that they used didn't contain turkestern. Fair. This doesn't disprove turkestern. Okay. Fair critique. There was another study by the same group. Published in 2025, found the same thing, similar design, small sample, lots of limitations. This time with real turkestern. This time with real turkestern, supplied by coach Greg specifically. It was. Oh, cool. What is in this real turkestern now? He had the real thing and she had a back and forth with the lead researcher, Jose Antonio. That's based on what Greg said. Because that study doesn't exist anymore. Retracted. I don't know. It is not on the journal website. There's no, there's no signs of it anywhere. Well, I searched on the, the researchers profile. The, their Twitter accounts, the journal page. I, the only evidence of that study existing was a screenshot on a video Greg made criticizing the study. Rightfully pointing out some, some good criticism. But it's the same criticisms applied to the little bit of evidence we have for ex-distarides. So the use of BIA, small sample size, Yara, Yara, Yara, Yara. Believe it or not. When it comes to turkestern and research, that's all. That's it. That's what we have right now. Are you serious? That's it. Well, so it was actually no study that illustrates turkestern works. And there's one not so great study that illustrates that it doesn't work. Yes. So that's why I said, I at the beginning that this led me to sort of question my own sanity. Because I was aware that turkestern was mostly hype because I had seen the research back in the day, back in the day. I mean, like three, four years ago. And I had not heard any respective voices in our field, mentioned it. I, I consume a lot of evidence based content. A bit of higher level evidence based content. Keep up with it. Research, Yara, Yara, Yara. But I thought, okay, it's all the hype again. It's being sold. It's real to Kestern. Now surely we'll have a few, a couple, three, something. We'll have some studies showing that it's effective. But to my surprise, and no matter the deep dive, there was nothing else. The main reason why this is hype is the classic marketing trick of you get a ex-days guarantee. You're mining back, refund, whatever. If it doesn't work, if you don't see results. From what we've seen in the literature, with the two classic placebo studies, steroid placebo studies, where they told competitive power lifters and trained collegiate level athletes that they were taking steroids. Those people were told that we're taking steroids. They weren't. They weren't. And they made significant strength gains, even though they were pretty strong already. And this is placebo. Versus placebo, yeah. But they were also reporting, feeling much better, training going well, hitting PRs. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So the idea that, oh, okay, if it surely works, if that person is selling it and is telling me that if it doesn't work, I'll give you your money back. But the funny thing is that you look at abelts, ab creams, any sort of gimmick. You're like, wait a second. Yeah. They also do the money back guarantee. Everybody. Now the money back guarantee as a business practice is excellent because you're not trying to rip people off. You really didn't like it. You get your money back. But as a marketing tool, can make people think that, well, if they're offering money back, if it doesn't work, then it clearly must work, which misses two things. One is the placebo effect. And two is the amount of friction you get from getting your money back. It gets $30 and you have to fill out a form online for two hours and send something off of the mail. Like, that's already two hours of your time. So if you make anything more than $15 an hour, it's literally worth a few to just never bother to get your money back. Yes. So that's kind of another big thing. Yeah. It's a kind of a kind of an app. And you can click one button and you get your money back. Okay, fine. Even then, most people don't do it. So it's a great business practice, but it's the same thing about the effectiveness of the product. Yes. And it's funny because it comes back to, okay, we're using testimonials as evidence, while also criticizing and rightfully criticizing some of the evidence shown in the effect. Right. Which is fine. And those treatings are fine. But then we can't say, okay, we'll put so much stock on people's, like I review on a website, where you don't know, co-founders of their background, where there was actually any progress, no measurement of progress, yada yada yada. And also you can't account for the sea, but also it's selection bias. I could be a world in which, test, test, test, test, test, test, test, test, test, test, test, test, test, test, test, test, test, test, test, but then at that point, the person who dropped it shouldn't pass and whatever he passed. Yeah, this is my really great trajectory. If you make this up, what is going on here, it certainly will remain true. People who will be on the other side of the road, would live like light focused on your journey. So if everyone gets there to their entrance, why don't you just let me know? Because it will be subject to re sulphatism and you may not get anything you need to focus there ... That doesn't exactly sell. So here I am selling my new supplement. Pax, try it. Pax, air. I want it all scum. You want to buy equity? It may work. You never know. The funny thing though to go back to your castroon is that all this is not new information, which was shocking to me. Jeff Nippard had broken down the research, which remains the same, even though he did it like three years ago. So the newer research basically was like, eh, yeah, and the new research was the one study. The two studies that showed nothing. The one study that was retracted or mysterious that disappeared. And then the other study that was like nothing's happened. Yeah, and the IGF one where it was at night cute study blah, blah limitations. But even then. So there were two studies that showed null findings. One study that showed. Not also null findings, but it was mysteriously disappeared from the internet. Yeah, I don't know what it was. Do we assume that that study was just like kind of like walking down a city street at night, looking down at its phone. And like just like like like, you know, the Scott, what's that called the stuff you use on women all the time? chloroform. Yeah, it appears that way, but this is weird. And I'm not pointing any fingers. I don't know what happened. Maybe it wasn't never published and like Greg got a screenshot before it was like, I don't think Greg's making up screenshots. He's no, no, no, I'm not saying that. No, no, for sure. So I'm saying like probably came out somewhere preprinted somewhere announced in media, but never the screenshot was from the journal website, which is MDI journal, so I'm very familiar with it, branding. And have you tried to reach out to their editorial staff? No, but it wasn't nowhere to be found on the website. Googleing the exact title yielded zero results. That's tough. And on no researchers page, even on research data or Google's goal, I could find any signs of it existing. So we're talking about a supplement with no evidence that is making a shit on a money, lots of people buying it, some swearing by it. But as it stands, it is 95, 98% hype and 2% evidence. And yeah, I don't know how to feel about that, especially when people have been told. So I thought this sit down, I was expecting to come up with a bunch of new studies and break them down and be like, yeah, you know, since the whole scandal, there's been like 10 studies and you know, some show something, something, but I found myself essentially relicking at the same literature that B.W. had exposed a bunch of years ago, plus two studies with null findings. I used to clown on this research practice, this publication practice that I really didn't like. I still don't like it, by the way, I'll clown it in again. And it's the publication practice of having an insufficient amount of creativity to write a proper conclusion to your article that you're publishing in peer review. And just falling back on the trope of, while this evidence is interesting, more research is needed. I used to read this in like the 160 fifth creatine on female soccer player study. I'm like, no, no, world hunger still is not solved. We do not need any more money to fund creatine studies. We don't need any more research. We really kind of know how it works. In this case, it's a supplement that's selling a lot. And I think the people selling it would really be interested in researching it because they think it works. And the research find out at works, hey, then the money train ramps up. So I think it's an everyone's interest to do some more research on tracastro. You know what I mean? It's really, we would love to see more research conducted on tracastro. But that's also like I'll slightly push back because the only reason we want to see research on tracastro is because of the hype that's been built on to caster and being effective based on the hype of equity steroids based off the one mess study. So when it comes to like a hint that a this shit might work, that hint is not really there. We semi created that. Yeah, agreed. So when we push back again, okay, it's got get the boxing gloves. Then we can take another position. We can take two simultaneous positions. This is going to be a quantum interposition here. I must be Trump. Yes, two perspectives, both of which are worthy of research, perspective one, the people selling this supplement that hashtag clearly works would like some evidence to show that it works. So they can really push back, like push into these claims. And then call it evidence based and cite the studies. This is great. The other perspective of people who think it maybe doesn't work is let's do research to just prove this. So we can save people a whole bunch of money and hope. They don't have to buy tracastro anymore and think they're going to get jacked. When in fact, three good studies later, the evidence is clear that it is not making people jacked. Both are good reasons, right? At the end of the day, we just don't know. So more research is exactly designed for things like this where we don't know. Yeah, I agree. The issue there is the disconnect between our world and the world of academia. I think you're going to say like the secret vampire underworld. Oh, that is our world. Ah. I think there is a disconnect because like an academia, like that's what a lot of people in our space don't realize. They're like, oh, why aren't you guys going and doing this? It's like, it takes time money and in many cases, there's other projects or stuff that there is research showing that, hey, it's worth looking into this. Versus, let's not look at the supplement that people are buying similarly to abbelds or whatever else scamp product you want to call. But whoa, hey, whoa. Look, until we have multiple well controlled studies in humans showing that to a casher on, produces a meaningful effect on muscle growth and muscle growth being assessed with direct measures of assessing muscle growth like ultrasound. I would urge people to save their money. Obviously, do as you like, if you want to support your favorite creator, what, abs? I do that on another website. Yeah, called mostly friends. Mostly fan base people. But until then, chill and also keep the same energy with other supplements. If you're going to buy their casher on, buy my supplement, pack air as well. I swear it works. Mike Swar's it works. He also holds equity. I'm a scientist too. Yeah, he's a scientist, PhD. Here's a bunch of testimonials called the video guy. Here's a mixture of work for the editing team. And the video testimony looks like just off camera or putting a gun to his head. He's like, I also love air pack air. I love it. I love it. The camera goes off. Like, I'm at another satisfied customer. Pack rapid out for us to a guest room. A lot of evidence. If any save your money is my personal opinion, based on the current literature, creating one of hydrid remains your best over the counter supplement, slightly boosting muscle growth. Yes. And that's that. Thank you so much for listening and having me. Pack, it's been great. Having you guys, thank you for tuning in. Link in the description for pack air. You can be the first person in America to breathe true Greek and Ebola care. See you next time.

masturbation just isn't enough and you need bigger forms so you can feel more masculine and have giant arms Well good news. I have five of my favorite form exercises and none of them involved flicking the bean What let's go check them out You might already know this but big arms are the unlocked to everything you've ever wanted in your life a new career a new girlfriend a new boyfriend a new family A trip on the blue origin rocket to the edge of space you can have all of them with jacked arms If you want to get juicy forms, there are two ways to do it One way is the old fashioned way. That's right the M word the thing you do online by yourself with the websites You're not supposed to go to in the evening and in the morning sometimes just after lunch But the other way is to actually train your forms if you want bigger forms I promise you filling them out is gonna make everything about you look better You'll feel better. You're gonna be awesome. You're gonna have friends this intro is way too long Mike shut up and show us your top five favorite form exercises. You got him The first exercise on my list is the seated two arm at a time dumbbell wrist curl One thing that really helps in wrist curl and then forearm training is really Accentuating at least for the first few months that you train that peak contraction just to connect with your muscles It's helped me a ton is I used to need a lot of volume on these But now I need much less because I'm just better at contracting that muscular jerk He called for a second and then a nice slow eccentric lowering of the weight until they're just to the edge of your fingertips And then back up and again You can use any range of weights for this, but in my typical experience with almost all of these exercises sets of 15 to 30 repetitions per set are really where it's at why the range of motion is so small The total amount of time spent per repetition on forms is tiny if you think about well five reps in the squat Can get you to grow muscle, but if you time out five reps in the squat Let's take 25 seconds and if you do these reps that's like 20 reps of wrist curls So sets of 15 and above are usually very good anything below that ends up being heavy and weird and kind of feel strange And your wrist that doesn't give you a pump it doesn't get you very sore so my best advice for all these exercises go light and for this exercise My next Favorite for our exercise, well, they get the job done anyway is the barbell wrist curl I prefer to do it in a power act because it's the most pathetic small muscle of the human body Which no one cares about and then you occupy the rack of competitive power lifters and peach gang muscle Monty is the people that really need to be using the rack. I kid of course, but if you're a trillionaire like me in your own Want to 500 of your own gyms and every minute of powerly in the world you can afford to do this sort of thing Let's talk about this exercise. There's not a lot of Glamour to this exercise and it's done almost exactly like our last exercise except with a barbell The thing I would say that's challenging about this exercise is you don't want any friction of the barbell running up against your thighs So if you're gonna do this thing where you come forward with your hips just enough to let the barbell hang You're gonna go all the way down until it's on your tippy fingers and you're gonna come up for a one second Possible top and that's basically the barbell risk curl and this setup is excellent for my reps Do as many of these as you can rest two to three seconds do as many as you can rest two or three seconds Do two or three rounds like that rest a minute do that several times your forms can take a huge Meeting and they need a bunch of reps and they need a bunch of failure proximity So just do three sets of eight and leave the gym a bunch of sets of total per set with all the my reps in there 15 to 25 reps you'll be money If you have a free motion dual cable cross machine you are in luck Because you can purchase a cross bar attach it to both ends and do the free motion Straight bar wrist curl what sounds ridiculous why Mike you're an idiot You're short and you're balding you're in your 40s your Jewish on top of that not an insult, but could be Are you having just gone insane why not you're to regular cable risk rolls well a good cable attachment You could do the problem is a lot of cable attachments on a regular cable station Have a lot of friction when you try to spin the bar But with this attachment we have almost none this is an exercise I love it's a nice thick bar and I'm able to just get a really good purchase on it. It's well Merle and I'm able to crunch at the top and do a real big stretch at the bottom It sits in a mid range. It's perfect for my reps This is a phenomenal phenomenal way to train forms and here why so much variation? Couldn't you just do one of these you could but you get bored your body gets used to the same thing So exercise like this so the one we have after a really good thing to throw in your program every now and again Just switch things up keep you fresh mentally keep you fresh physically keep your forms growing in a Gorge with blood Fiends in the girl the fucking the good girl bad girl machine. I'm like, oh my god like if ours luck like to giant Well, you know what you're gonna say Exercise number four is the one arm bench wrist curl This one's really cool Because it allows you to experience significantly more tension at the stretch most of the other movements do And that's really awesome because it probably grows you more it also allows you to really maintain an awesome Mind muscle connection because it isolates everything out you can only focus on your forms Make sure that you're going all the way down for deep stretch But as you come up you don't have to come all the way up could just stop right at parallel and come right back down sets of 15 to 25 reps or really really good here on a first set But what I like to do is do whichever arm for me is the kind of the weak arm my right hand for obvious reasons Has bigger forms so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna do my left first Let's say I get 17 reps immediately with no rest. I pass over to my right 17 reps immediately with no rest. I pass over and do however any reps I can with that left and back and forth and back and forth Why one the weaker arm anchors the repetitions and make sure that it gets closer to failure Because it's more capable and thus over time it'll balance out your forearm size another thing is While one of forearm is resting the other one is working and vice versa Which is super cool because then you can squish a lot of time down when as soon as you get the dumbbell in your hands for this exercise You were working working working either with one arm or the other arm when I like to do I last tip as as I'm working out my Forms if a guy Especially or maybe a girl walks by that I happen to like and they make accidental eye contact with me Which never see me in public never do I like to do a couple things like The give one of those are just one of these Or my favorite the double wing or My personal absolute favorite the cold stare as they walk by ready It creeps people out Last forum exercise that I have to share with you guys is what I call the bar push off It's a weird exercise against weird you're gonna get stairs with gym people and I ask you questions You're not gonna answer them just send us some of those people to our YouTube and maybe we'll just monetize I don't know how to help you but at least you don't have to explain a weird exercise, but I do Jesus here We go this exercise you basically get into a push-up position and you press off of a bar that's somewhere between Nehyde and kind of upper tummy height Depending on how strong you are how blasted your forms are already for all the other extra curricular stuff You've been doing it you know what I'm talking about You're gonna do a partial rep to a really deep stretch and you're gonna come back up about the midway point After the midway point either slip off the bar or there's basically no tension So it's these weird half reps you're doing at the full stretch midway point full stretch midway point If you hold that full stretch for a second or two it really helps the good news is is tension at a very good stretch The not so great weird news is that counting reps is kind of weird You don't really know if it's a rapper not so what I would recommend is this choose a total number of reps That is typical of your form workouts. Let's say earlier in the week you did some dumbbell risk curls I got 62 total reps on for all sets set of priority of 60 repetitions And with as many myorep breaks five second breaks or so between sets get 60 total done I'm even have to split these up in the sets and make sure you're really milking that a centric and milking that bottom stretch for a few seconds That is gonna get you crazy pumped how do you periodize this and progress through it and Reps every time 60 and week one 65 and week two 70 total week three and so on and so forth Is this something you do all the time know if you're bored and just tired of doing all the other form stuff This thing ribs and it's actually quite effective make sure you're nice and stable So you don't slip off the bar and bear yourself from another muscle mommy But if you do embarrass yourself just act with you really really upset so shouldn't maybe you'll come over and how do you Folks those are some of my favorite form exercises feel free to try them try my reps Try my rep matching try different reps try different sets One quick tip is you just don't need a lot of rest between forearm training sets as soon as your forms aren't so Pumped out of their mind and so crampy and so full of lack to gass a that you can't contract your hand You're good to go really five or 10 seconds maybe 15 seconds rest between sets is awesome for most of these cases And the best news is you're gonna get bascular you're gonna get better endurance and then that one hobby You love to do that you do all by yourself. You're gonna be better at it go go go do that hobby not on YouTube another kind of tube See you guys over there

People just say it. They say this machine is bad. Usually they don't even know why. It's just like lame or whatever. And they're like, uh, the Smith machine. It's not hard corner. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NSOM's Pre-Dization. And on today's episode of BS, don't worry. I'll get to swearing later, is the idea, the BS idea that the Smith machine is no good. It's no good. Most of this comes from quote-unquote hardcore bros who, uh, they don't know why they say it, but they say stuff like the Smith machine is gh... ghastly. It's just ghastly, darling. They say in other words, it also strikes with a G, which as of the 20, whatever the fuck year, we're not allowed to say. And understandably, to certain extent. And anyways, jokes and jokes people, but I digress. Number two, that was point number one. People just say it. They say this with she is bad. And they usually don't even know why. It's just like lame or whatever. And they're like, uh, the Smith machine. It's not hardcore enough. But that's not really a reason. That's just another word placing them to substitute what would be an explanation. Now, if they were trying to explain themselves and they actually knew things, they would say, maybe something like this, couple things, maybe three. One is some good reason to believe that when you have a frictionless environment roughly so with a free bar at all movement, for example, you get the full e-centric load. And it even concentric load. So e-centric to concentric ratio is the same, same load, same force production requirement. And thus you get the full power of a load of e-centric. If you have a Smith machine, especially when that's a little bit rusty and old, on the way down, the rusty old shit actually decreases how much weight you have to lift because the weight rides the rust. Friction on the way down means you don't have to impart as much force on the the way up you actually have to fight the friction. Which means the e-centric force requirement drops, the concentric lifts, the amount of total weight you have to use matches, the concentric, because if you're concentrically going to do 10 reps, well, you can't use more than that. The load has to drop and thus the e-centric load drops, the concentric is good as it ever was, maybe better, the e-centric drops and that e-centric lowering is probably more growth inducing on average than the concentric. Or at least as good and you're missing some of it. The e-centric growth is super important and on a Smith machine, you probably get less of it by some margin than with free weights. So technically speaking, theoretically you could see a potential reduction in set-for-set weight from weight matched growth, maybe. In addition, another critique is that a Smith machine for athletes or for people interested in real-world strength, wrestlers, people who lift up, like movers or something, people who are trying to lift their groceries and stuff, the lack of free motion means not as much involvement of stability, and that means a lower transfer to real-world strength. The legitimate legitimate critique, absolutely. And then lastly, the lack of free motion means that if you use it wrong, it can really screw up your joints. If you put your feet too far back or too far forward in a Smith machine squat, you can really fuck up your back or really fuck up your knees, as you lose a degree of freedom with how the bar moves, and then like it just puts your back and knees into a shitty position. A position that is almost impossible to get into in a regular squat, that's free weight because if your knees feel weird, just shift your hips back and now it takes the stress off the knees. If the back feels weird, you'll shift your weight forward and the knees take the load. So you get an even distribution of load. You can't really aggravate stuff nearly as easily, but on a Smith machine, your bottom is locked, top is locked, and you could really get into a situation where you expose your joints in a not nice way. And you might not even know you're doing it until three weeks later, you're like, ffff, fucking hell those hurt. This sucks. So if you're using the Smith machine wrong, you might not know about it. It takes a lot of insight to be able to use it properly. It's probably not going to hurt your joints, but it really, really can in a way that free weight auto-corrects. Number three. Here's the real deal. So yes, there are critiques against the Smith machine, but here's the point number three. If you use the Smith machine right, if you use it correctly, it's a fine variation and in effect a great tool because it's like 10 exercises in one. You can do rows on it, you can do deadlifts, you can do inverted rows, you can do pull-ups, you can do flat press, incline press, call crusher, upright row, hold the crap. It's a lot of exercises in one. It's a great tool that you can use. And what do I mean by right? How do you use the Smith machine correctly? That means adjusting your positioning if your joints feel uncomfortable or weird or if they have pain. If you're doing Smith machine, close grip bench, you're like, ow, ow, slide upper down the fucking bench and be like, okay, that feels better. Because with a barbell, everything auto-corrects anyway, so it feels weird on one, you can always move the bar in your own hands. With a Smith machine, that bar only goes up and down. It doesn't do shit else. So it's up to you to get the right settings if you can do that. It doesn't take a ton of insight. If you don't know how to properly position yourself, look at some YouTube videos. Get on the team forearm for them. We'll critique your technique and link down below and have to say it. Or just find someone knowledgeable and ask them to look at your technique and you can work out in this Smith machine in a totally safe, ultra-effective way without having to throw out the baby with the bath water. When people say the Smith machine sucks adding no context or nuance, I get the same face that Arnold did when he rolled down that hill in the Martian landscape and fucking total recall, which is legendary, move. You're not... I really hope you didn't the voice acting for that. That was fucking legendary. disagree with me. Think the Smith machine is terrible on I-vevo. See you in the comments below. See you in the comments.

When you're about to bench press or strength, you want each rep to feel as easy as possible. When a power lifter does a set of five with a new PR weight and he racks the weight and goes, that was easiest. His bodies are like, yes, that's success. But imagine in hypertrophy training, finishing a PR of leg press, rack in the weight, be like that was easiest. Your buddies are going to be like, uh, cool, why did you leave the machine? This is what you want to say to your hypertrophy training, buddies, is to finish that leg press of like dude, my quads are cooked. That's winning at hypertrophy training. So if you want to train for both at the same time, you might have to make some choices one way or the other that don't optimize one or the other thing. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. There is a technique difference between size and strength training that most people miss. Not because they're bad people, although many of them are actually bad people for no related reason. It's because folks get the two size and strength training very mixed up. And that's usually okay because they're both amazing. However, one little change in mentality and approach, especially as you get bigger and stronger and more advanced, can be a big deal for maximizing your muscle growth and in the other direction, a big deal for maximizing your strength gain ability. Let's take a look. Starting from the commonalities between size and strength training, which I want to emphasize are massive. The cross sectional area of your muscle, if we cut your bicep, this is terrible, down the middle, and scope into it and see how thick it is, that is the single biggest determining factor for size. It's the only factor for size and it's the biggest determining factor for strength. If you have a bigger muscle, it is going to be stronger, period, and muscle size in an absolute sense is like a car engine. Not all the eighths produce faster cars than v6s, but on average, the engine size is going to be the biggest determining factor. So cross sectional area, muscle size is a big deal, but in strength training, other factors come into play. The degree of brain and spinal and peripheral nervous system activity can help you become much stronger, even though it doesn't really affect your size at all. That's how compound lifters are often similarly sized, driven, small than bodybuilders, but they can lift more because their nervous systems are there to give you as much possible strength from that same amount of size as you can. And there are also architectural factors. It turns out that if you practice similar or the same lifts for a long time, weeks and weeks and months and months, your muscle fibers actually turn a little bit into the direction of force produced by that lift, which is why weight lifters who do lots of high bar squats are really good at high bar squatting because their nervous systems are really well trained for it. And because their muscle architecture shifts in direction and optimize their high bar squat, if you're a bodybuilder and you're doing leg presses, you're the leg extension, you're doing hacksquads, you're going to be really, really big and generally good at high bar squats, but that last 5, 10, 15% of strength is due to architectural and nervous system factors. And a 15% difference in strength is like you're a very good power lifter compared to your the best power lifter in the world. So nervous system and architectural factors add into strength training in a way they don't really add into size training. However, there are lots of other commonalities. And one of the biggest ones is both require you to train multiple times a week for the same muscle or movement and both require you to go hard. Or as Jeff Nipperd likes to say, haired. Jeff, I love you, but it just so happens that you're from eastern Canada and I don't want to say you people, you people talk funny and you're great because of it. Now in Michigan, we don't have an accent. Oh, we do. Don't we Scott? Yes, Midwest trash. Hello, instead of pillow, rough instead of roof, and we don't drink milk here, we drink often times milk. But Scott, do you know the only people I've ever heard say milk are our, our, our midwestern girls with a bowl rings. And so they can say whatever they want because they are gods and jellic children. Let's see that's hot. Super hot. There are differences in training approach between size and strength. There's lots of commonalities. There are some differences in what we're trying to train, but the approach is going to be a bit different. Here are some really core differences in training that's not getting to the big difference in mentality and technique. Exercise selection. When we're training our glutes for hypertrophy, I mean, we really want to target the glutes. So we asked the question of which exercise are really targets the glutes. We don't really care about how much weight is on the bar necessarily or what exercises use in competition. Because there is no competition. Our hypertrophy training is just the outcome we want. So like a front foot elevated Smith machine lunge is an amazing glute exercise. But in power lifting, for example, and training for strength, we want to train for specific movements because that's how we test them. So dead lifts are excellent movement that also stimulates plenty of glute hypertrophy. Good god, plenty of glute hypertrophy, but maybe not optimally, however, does make you really really good at dead lifts. That doesn't mean you can't do front foot elevated lunges for hypertrophy work for power lifting. It doesn't mean you can't do deadless hypertrophy, but at some point, you might have to make a choice on the margins and targeting specific muscles is the goal of hypertrophy. Targeting specific movements is the goal of strength. You want bigger shoulders for hypertrophy. You want to make overhead press for strength and things like that. The second difference is in repetition range. The best way to get directly stronger is to train between sets of three and sets of six repetitions roughly, somewhere in that range, plus or minus. Sets of three to six are amazing basic strength builders. And if you want to build muscle size that converts a very well to be made stronger, then sets of five to ten, a probably the best hypertrophy range for strength application. Like if you're a power lifting and you need bigger legs, because you want to squat more, building your big legs with sets of five to ten is going to convert to bigger numbers on your squat, then building your bigger legs with sets of ten to 15 reps, for example. So three to six and five to ten four strength and then the kind of hypertrophy that maps really well onto strength. However, four pure hypertrophy anywhere between sets of five and sets of 30 reps close to failure is a really good five hypertrophy and the distinctions within those ranges are very nuanced and very situations specific. So there's a much broader range of hypertrophy training reps and they don't tend to be as low as strength training reps. So if you want to train for both at the same time, you might have to make some choices one way or the other that don't optimize one or the other thing. And lastly, a big programming difference between hypertrophy and strength training is going to be volume. Strength training benefits from a lower fatigue environment. And it's a amount of systemic fatigue that it causes because lifting heavy is a special kind of dub to your nervous system and other things. You're not you're going to accumulate more systemic fatigue doing it so you can't do as many sets. You don't need as many sets and you can't do as many sets. So anywhere between five to 15 sets per muscle group and or movement per week seems to be optimized for strength training for most people. So if you do a sum total of eight sets of some kind of squat per week, you're well in that range. For hypertrophy training, it's really more like 10 to 30, especially more like 20 to 30 and specialized programs. So if your chest just isn't growing and you've been doing sets of eight for the chest or sorry sets of eight, eight sets per week for chest, it's a great way to get your chest strong for sure. But to get it to maximum size, you can't want to flirt over 10 and then considerably over 10 especially if you ease in. And more simple way to say this is in most cases, strength training is going to require considerably less volume than hypertrophy training. Sometimes by as little as half of the volume, hypertrophy training may require double the number of worksets that optimizes it versus strength training. So if you're training for both, again, you might have to make some trade-offs and say, what am I really training for in the next mesocycler two? I'm going to lean in to more high volumes, higher reps and so on and so forth and maybe movements that are more targeted to the muscle and less targeted to the overall exercise competency. However, here's the real place where this video kicks off with a real point you might not have heard before. And that is I've been struggling a lot and I can't express my feelings but for going on YouTube and being public with it. So I just wanted to say, out loud, I can't believe I'm doing this. I am in love with Scott the video guy. It's a romantic love, it's a sexual love, Scott. I love you too. That was nice. He's definitely not kidding. And I meant it. He, if he says he meant it, then he meant it. That's what my psychotherapist says always works. Here's the deal. Here's the big kicker. There is a difference in the goal as you approach any rep of an exercise with strength training versus hypertrophy training. And that goal is too fold for strength training. The goal is to move weight from point A to point B. For hypertrophy training, that goal is to stimulate the muscle. I sounds very similar but they're different enough for more advanced folks for to actually matter. In strength training, you want to use the technique and mentality that lets you lift the most amount of weight. In hypertrophy training, you want to use the technique and the mentality and I'll get to more about what those are later that hits the target muscle the hardest. Because remember on strength training, if you successfully squat 500 pounds, no one at the judges table asks you, did you feel it in your quads? Can you imagine that? We have Dylan the second camera child with us today. And you have a great thing to do. It's an awkward nickname, but we're working on it. Can you imagine if you did a squat? You're like, all right, I got 500 in the judges like, did you feel it in your quads? You're not really the red light in the squat. It's nonsense. It would never work like that. But if you did a lot of squat reps for hypertrophy and someone's I did your field, your quads are like, not really, well, that really is kind of a problem if you're trying to grow your quads. Because clearly some muscles are working, but your quads aren't the ones being pushed closest to the limit and they're not the ones that are going to be growing the most out of that movement. Maybe it's your glutes, maybe it's your adiatures, maybe it's your lower back. So here's another thing. The strength training approach to reflect those points makes the lift as easy as possible for however much weight you're using. When you're about to bench press for strength, you want each rep to feel as easy as possible. When a power lifter does a set of five with a new PR weight and he racks the weight and goes, that was easiest. His buddies are like, yes, that's success. But imagine in hypertrophy training, finishing a PR of leg press, rack in the weight, that was easiest. Your buddies are going to be like, cool, why did you leave the machine? Clearly you should be doing more reps or more load or doing a technique that exposes your target muscles more attention. This is what you want to say to your hypertrophy training buddies to your muscle growth buddies is to finish that set of leg press and be like, dude, my quads are cooked. That's winning at hypertrophy training. Those are different things. And so in size training, the size approach makes the lift as hard as possible for however much weight is used. You have a 20 pound dumbbell in your hands for curls. You're trying to make that dumbbell in the technique and mentality that you're using it as hard as possible on your biceps. Completely the opposite approach as for strength training, which is to make it as easy as possible to get from point A to point B and successfully complete the lift. If you mix those two at some point, you're not really sure what you're training for and for more advanced folks, that can be a bit of a problem because for strength training, then the kind of avoiding the muscle growth stimulus. And this doesn't happen often, but if you're trying to train for strength and you're really worried about which muscles are being activated, you are 1,000% overthinking the movement and you have to be athletic and smooth and coordinated instead. So to put this in other words, and kind of really unify these concepts, strength training follows the path of least resistance. With all of the muscles helping that could possibly help that lift. On the other hand, size training follows the path of most resistance for the target muscles. And we're not worried about what other muscles are helping and ideally not a lot of them helps. So that target muscle or muscles plural if it's two at a time that you're training have to be the ones bearing load, which is exactly the opposite of what you want in strength training. You want to spread the load out on strength training, you want to condense the load in hypertrophy training. That is a big deal for folks that are more advanced. How does this change their technique? How does this actually, where does the rubber hit the rope? For strength, you want to pick each technique of your lift to create the smallest individual range of motion at any joint as possible. All of the joints that you're doing, you want them to have the smallest range of motion and you want to avoid deep stretches at any of your joints. Think about what a conventional deadlift looks like, which muscle is getting a major stretch in the conventional deadlift. It's not your quads, you're a half squat position. It's not your adductors, they're not in a deep stretch. It's not your glutes, it's a half squat position. It's not your lower back because that's pretty straight. It's not even rounded over. There's almost no stretch on your lower back. And so there is no muscle getting a maximum stretch really on the conventional deadlift, which is a really good thing because muscles put into their maximum stretch are able to generate a lot of tension internally, but the external tension is much lower. And we don't want low external tension because external tension is the only thing that matters in strength training. So you want to spread the load out as much as possible and keep each muscle to as a little range of motion as possible. More muscles, each one operating at their strongest point instead of exposed at the very weakest point is how you submit enough to do as a much weight as possible. The opposite is true in size. The technique in size is to create the largest individual range of motion for the target muscle and to make sure that you position that muscle in a really deep stretch under load consistently. For example, this stiff leg at deadlift. In the stiff leg at deadlift, the glutes are working plenty. The quads are hardly working at all. The lower back's working not much. What's happening is the hamstrings are isolated. It's like some big dude walks up to you and for your friends are bar and he's like, hey you and everyone turns around. He's like, no, just you and the red shirt buddy, I have a problem with you. The rest of you guys are cool. Red shirt guys like Jesus Christ. He looks at his friends and it's like, I need to jump in. Did you say something to that? I'm not going to back you up. I guess you. And so you're the hamstrings and that example because you're like, shit, fellas, lower back, lower back. I got actually, I got to catch a new bar. I had a bad early work tomorrow. Glutes go to like, I best not my beef man. I promise you know, I was just wore an oath. Jesus Christ wasn't going to be fighting in bars anymore. Shekana on a hand from me last year and you're like, quads and quads is already out the door. Like, is it really just pretty much all on me? Yep, put in that super deep stretch and that's how we hit hamstring. See if you do three sets of eight with regular dead lifts versus three sets of eight with stiff leg and dead lift, stiff leg adults are going to nuke your hamstrings into in the atmosphere, but regular dead lifts, everything else got to get a little bit fatigued, but your hamstrings are like totally fine. If it's fatigued, does anything else. So we're putting them one muscle really gets a range of motion and one muscle gets put into a huge stretch position, which is why stiff leg dead lifts, you're never going to lift as much weight in a stiff leg and I've lift as you will with a conventional dead lift. One aster strength, the other one is for size. It's a big deal. It's a really big deal in context. Now, how do you harness the mind muscle connection to guide you to the right hypertrophy technique? Because you could say, okay, okay, I know to put the muscle in a large range of motion that's a target I know to put it under deep stretch and that's good enough already, but I also know that during the lifting process, our bodies are actually in our nervous systems are optimized to generate as much force as possible to pick things up as efficiently as possible, which is great. Because that means human learn strength training technique pretty fluidly, you teach them how to do the efficient technique that spreads the load of many muscles and they get it real quick and they can tell like when I'm inefficient I'm off-center, nothing good is happening. But your body tries to come back to that efficient technique where the hypertrophy training, when you're doing pack flies for example. You're really opening up your chest and really opening up your elbows to stretch your chest as you get more tired especially as you begin in your immediate, you're going to start to close that angle of your biceps. You're going to start to limit that chest range of motion and you're going to start to close in on yourself because your body's a shit shit. I have to survive this exercise and get as many reps as I can. I can't expose myself like this. This is inefficient, but remember, inefficiency in a sense is what we're trying to do when I hypertrophy training. So how do we use the mind muscle connection to do that? Well, with strength training, you want two things. Good technique, overall which is practiced, spreading the muscles, spreading the load to all the muscles, and monster drive and athleticism. If you're thinking about how your quads feel during squatting for strength, you're thinking about the wrong thing altogether. You need to be thinking good technique and then just pushing as hard as humanly possible. And you're going to know that that is what you're doing when you feel out the path of least resistance. If you're coming out of the bottom of squat and it feels really hard, but if you push your hips back a little bit and starts to feel easier, follow the easy technique. The easier the movement feels rep after rep after rep, the more you're winning a strength training because you're being the most efficient and can thus use the most amount of weight and get the biggest PRs. For size, good technique is reinforced by the path of most resistance. So if you're curling in a certain way kind of into your body that feels like it's easier, if you curl more of an arc and out of your body, you're like, oh, this is way harder, good, good. You're supposed to make the technique more difficult when I perturb your training for that target muscle. And there's another way to cheat the system here and really detect if you're doing a good job stimulating the muscle. It is to feel out the max tension in the target muscle. If you curl in a certain way, you're like, if you're feeling my forearms, my delts a little bit, biceps feel fine, and then you change your technique for the better, you're going to feel as crazy deep tension in your biceps. That is how you know your winning. For stiff-legged, that lifts and hamstrings. You're going to know when your hamstrings being hit because at the very bottom stretch, you're going to be like, oh my god, my hamstrings, feel that going to tear apart, that's what you want. And for higher repetitions and hypertrophy training, the muscle that is burning is the one that is probably getting the most load. So if you're doing lunges in a way that burns out your quads at home, but your glutes feel okay, you might consider your technique a little bit differently, lean a little bit more forward, keep your hips back and far away from you during lunges. And all of a sudden, your glutes start burning more, your quads start burning less, and you know every single rep, you're trying to get max tension through that target muscle. You're trying to get me maximum burn at the end of the set for that target muscle, and you're trying to do the exercise in such a way that the technique is more difficult and the target muscle is feeling at the same time. You don't want to do a technique that's so difficult that the target muscle doesn't feel in anymore. That's like some internal rotator in your shoulders that's doing all the shit. That's no good, but if you can combine maximum difficulty and maximum target muscle tension and maximum muscle burn at the end of a set, this is a triple checklist you can use to ask yourself, am I really doing good hypertrophy training technique? Yes. And if you have any three of those things that you're doing strength training, you're doing strength training wrong. Strength training means no one muscle ever feels at a time. It means the path of least resistance is maximum, and to be completely honest, it means you're not even thinking about what muscles are feeling what? You're thinking about re-open full childhood memories. If you implement this technique especially for your size training, in which you are trying to get into the path of most resistance, you're trying to feel that tension in the target muscle, and you're trying to feel the burn towards the end of the set, how is this going to affect your results in the gym? We'll check this out. You can absolutely strength train your weight to massive size. People empower lifting and strongmen do it all the time, but that will require you to use heavier loads, because you're optimizing for heavier loads, and not optimizing for getting as much hypertrophy out of lighter loads as possible. So you need to be working at time with heavy loads and growing a lot, but you could be growing more in using lighter loads instead. These heavier loads over time will add chronic wear and tear and multiply your acute injuries. So not only after a number of months, your elbow is going to feel a little bit more jelly, but any one time you do your maximum force production style, jam, press or skull crusher, you're more likely to risk pulling your tricep or something like that, or pulling your pack, where's if you do it hypertrophy optimization style, after weeks and weeks and months and months, your joints probably feel better, and any one rep is unlikely to injure you as much compared to that optimized strength feel. In addition to that, strength training, because it requires massive psychological activation and neural drive, because it's physically lifting as much weight as possible, it's going to lower your systemic maximum recoverable volume, because every single rep of strength training beats the shit out of you more. There's only so many reps and sets you can do until your body's like, I can't do this shit anymore, especially in nervous systems, like, I can't, I don't even want to come in here and do this. Whereas if you do hypertrophy style training, you can literally recover from more reps and more sets so you can pour more training down that funnel of growth and get more out of it. If you follow that hypertrophy technique and my muscle connection, maximum range of motion for the target muscle, deep stretch for the target muscle, maximum tension and burn for that movement path, and making that movement path the most difficult for that target muscle, then you end up reducing chronic wear and tear for the same growth, reducing acute injury risk for the same growth, and you can maximize your recoverable training volume, which means that you get more growth with all of those other bad things being minimized, and you're also in a bonus way able to focus on muscles that really you're not connecting with the tongue, because if you're trying to do rear delts, and you're like, I don't know man, stuff's just moving back there and you're doing them for strength, like it's got to get the 20s for set of eight. You're going to get some good rear delts growth, but if you really lens in in your mind's eye on that rear delts going through that big arc, tension in the rear delts, and a burn in the rear delts, then all of a sudden you might connect with your rear delts better and over time see more growth in a muscle that otherwise was not so great. So not only does hypertrophy specific technique maximize growth overall, it can let you target muscles that otherwise would just kind of be skipped over and not get as much of a stimulus. There's one downside to this type of training. There is a way around. You could focus so much on the feel that you prevent yourself from ever going super, super heavy, and you prevent yourself from making progress, because all you're doing is thinking about how this muscle feels, and you're losing track of the idea that you need to be training really hard and progressively so. Some people take this to the extreme, they say, make every make, you make even a lightweight feel heavy, and it's like, it's really so much you can trick the body and someone it just needs progressive overload to grow. So how do you combine this progression idea with the idea of a really deep focus on the mechanics of the movement that stimulate the muscle the most? Here's how. First, you want to track all of your loads and your reps and your sets. We do have an app for that. The RPI per trifi app, link in description. I love the app. I use it every day for training, and when I'm not training, I use it anyway. I just scroll through it and type stuff, delete stuff, you know, make some workouts for fun, manuals, I don't have any friends. Can you guys tell on a how any friends? So the app is great for that. Any other app is awesome to just make sure you track your ship. Why? Because every week or so, you're going to add two and a half pounds or so or one rep to each set. Now, you're always going to keep focused on the movement no matter what. So here's the thing. Every single rep you are focusing on maximizing that range of motion, on hitting that target muscle, on maximizing that tension, and towards the latter reps maximizing the burn as well. Absolutely, each rep 100%. However, each set, as you stack these great reps and great reps and great reps on top of each other, keep in mind you have a goal. You look at your RPI per trifi app and it's 15 reps at 97.5 pounds. It's not 14 reps at 92 pounds just because you felt like it that day. So what's going to happen is when you focus on every rep being awesome exactly how we discuss that deep mind muscle focus and you're doing the right amount of weight and challenging yourself to do a little bit more reps each week or a little bit more weight each week with no rep drop off. Your simultaneously doing the great technique that's going to optimize every reps had per trifi stimulus. And at the same time getting enough reps and sets to continue to challenge yourself so you don't fall by the wayside just kind of training on vibes. Vibes are amazing to train on as long as you have a hard cut off a hard minimum to go I have to hit this many reps and this many sets. And if you can't do it without sacrificing your technique, the set is over. That's failure. To be honest, if you start a few reps shy of failure and you progress through several weeks of training, you should be able to hit amazing technique, never sacrificing your technique and also make gains. Those two together are like peanut butter and jelly. They're like condoms and lube. They're like a daily party and no social media to expose your ass. The best combinations in the world. Scott do we have any other combos that are go to? Thank you now that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Here's one last hit bit to kind of tie all this together. Your core guide that you can take in with you for hypertrophy training is follow the deep muscle pain. If I'm doing flies and I have searing pulling tightening radically expansive pain in my packs with each rep, I'm probably doing the right thing. If I pee oring on cable flies in my shoulder sort of feel it, but I don't really feel it in my packs. It's probably not the ideal way. Will it still grow you muscle? Absolutely. Physics is undefeated. You move once twice three times. You're doing good work. But for maximum stimulus and minimum fatigue that deep, discomforting, stretching, pulling and burning pain inside of your target muscle is the guide. So if you're doing a rep of squats and it feels kind of like, yeah, my quads are kind of slipping away. Do your next rep maybe a little bit slower. Push your hips forward at the bottom. Really open up your knees. You're going to feel it in your quads and it's going to suck more of that suck is what you're after because that is where the best growth comes from. At the end of the day, the philosophy here that you want to take with you to grow your training and muscle growth is if you feel more deep tension and more burn in the muscle by moving a certain way, lean in. If you feel it less by moving another way, don't do that for strength. That's great for hypertrophy. Wherever there is fire, there is you jumping into the fire. But hey, if you were a humanoid hot dog, the just wanted to please is the overlord master is by cooking myself in the fire. That's exactly what you want to do. And if you want your legs to look like running Coleman 2000, 3 over cook hot dog legs, lean into the deep pain, that deep range of motion of that specific hypertrophy technique. It's going to hurt. But at the end of the day, you'll be jacked and then finally come up to that one girl with the gym and realize you have no conversational skills at all. You sit at home and make YouTube videos and your life is arguably meaningless. See you guys next time.

Folks, we have five abs exercises shared with you, but Jared and I don't actually have abs. Literally, we just physically don't have that muscle. But Miss Brihoney Terry has more abs than she knows what to do with the she was like, hey, let's make an ab video and I was like, all right, fine. So here we are. Let's get started. The decline set up bench is something you're going to find in a ton of gyms all across the world. Really simple piece of equipment. This exercises performed in the usual RP style which is basic common logic of training at this point through science. You're going to control the center get a nice full stretch and athletically come back to the starting position. Here's the thing. There are a few common ideas about this exercise. Some of them are right on. Some of them are a little off-base. I used to think, the higher you put the incline or decline, the better the exercises for you. It does make it harder. But actually, if you put the incline really high, it creates minimal tension at the bottom and maximum tension at the top, which reverses the force curve we want ideally for muscle growth, which is a ton of tension at the bottom and a little bit at the top. This is nothing wrong with doing a barely there decline, just doing more reps. If you are doing way more than 30 reps per set, which would be honestly really impressive, no worries. You have two options. One is just hold a weight plate over your chest and voila extra resistance which you can add five pounds over time every few weeks and there you go. There's a progression. The other thing you could do is reach your hands up over your head. And if you reach your hands up over your head, it extends the lever arm like crazy and makes the exercise very difficult. This is especially true. If as you come up, you don't swing your hands forward to make it easier. You keep your hands over your head the entire time and lever all the way up. For all these variations, if you want to make it as a tad bit harder, really controlling the Eastern trick. A big Q that you always hear is give to people is lean into the stretch, slow it down in the deepest portion of the stretch. So for this, what I'm going to tell you next is basically give a light, light, light tap of the scapula before coming right back up and you're going to notice she's probably going to get a little shaky whenever she comes up. So what that does is it kind of keeps you're already fully extended when you get to here. So going back and lying down on the scapula is really just kind of a resting portion. It's kind of like whenever you're in lateral raises and you have the lateral right here. Nothing's really happening. That's why you like machine variations usually. So when you come up to here and you can stop those about right here, I mean gravity is your done. Gravity is force completely straight down, up and down. Same thing with this declin. So though, instead of extending all the way and lying back on that machine, what you're going to do is slightly tap the scapula and right when you feel it, you're going to come right back up. Again, as always, give it a try. Whatever fits for you, whatever you like, whatever your level of advancement is, don't go beyond that until you're ready to do the next variation, but they're all great variations. Give them a try. Let's know what you think. Oh, that's very heavy. Yeah, people should do it. What are you? What are you? What are you? What are you stretching for? You're not doing that stretching. I'm not stretching. I'm showing off. Showing off what? Which time are you? If you're raising your knees all the way up as high as you can, ideally to your face, you're getting a curvature in the spine. That curvature is literally generated. That flexion by the shortening of your abs. So it's an amazing exercise. But because your knees only poke out so far, the lever arm is actually quite short. Let me tell you, I know a lot about short lever arms. In any case, if you get really advanced and you can do sets of 20 or more hanging knee raises, you can start to escalate the situation by straightening out your leg. And if you can do hanging straight leg raises, where you take your toes and push them up to the bar, then you're really advanced and your abs are really strong. So if you're not used to training abs, like me, I don't have very super strong abs in that position. So I do hanging knee raises for now in my development. I just started training hams a little while ago. Eventually, hopefully I can transition to hanging leg raises. You can also do a really cool thing where you do, as many hanging leg raises as you can, straight leg. And then you transition to hanging knee raises when you get too tired to do a full range of motion hanging leg raises. That's going to be awesome because it's a mini built in super set. One more thing, make sure good technique is always it thing here, which means push your hips all the way back at the bottom, tilt and tuck your pelvis forward as if you're having per 10 sex with a per 10 person with per 10 hanging in the middle of the room. Sure, Mike, or they're just really tall, like really tall. And you're hanging by a house and just getting quite hot. In any case, what I want you guys to really focus on is an athletic, concentric movement, really getting an ease up in the best situation. Gently pause and get the top or just briefly just getting to the top and then here's the important part. Control that descent, control that eccentric. As your abs lengthen, you're going to be providing tension, which is going to provide hypertrophy, which is going to make you look exactly like re and then you will be a literal goddess who smites all of mankind per her wish. Okay. Is that true? Everything you tell is true, obviously. Our next exercise is the roller roller. I just made it up. Not the exercise. Our friends are mon and Dylan. Respectively, please link their instas below, show us how to do this exercise. It's an excellent exercise that allows for a ton of gradation. What it does is you put your feet or your knees, dealers choice, or even your shins on top of the roller. You have your hands out somewhere in front of you. Again, dealers choice, lots of adjustment based on strength and preference. And what you do is basically raise your knees up and then lower your knees down. Raise your knees up and lower down. You're going to raise up athletically. You're going to lower down under slow control with a little pause at the bottom. This is kind of replicating in some sense a hanging knee raise, but with a better force curve. And it's very gratable. You can do partial reps if you like. Where you're putting your hands in feet makes the exercise harder or easier. This is an amazing exercise and because you have a lot of access to rollers and gyms all across America and the world. This is kind of one of these things where it's an extra variation. It's an extra machine that wasn't designed for abs, but co-opted for abs. It's like, you know what I'm saying? I wasn't designed to be making sweet love to guys, but I like doing it. Gentlemen, hello. You're going to notice on this list, we don't necessarily have any oblique emphasis exercises. Obviously, when you're training most muscle achaire, you're going to have other muscles involved. So when you are doing ab growth training, so I purchase for the abs, you're trying not to really grow those obliques too much. Everybody wants that nice, like, broad look, small ways, especially on stage if it's body-belief specific. And just to look good naked, that's what you want. You kind of just want a slim look all the way down into the hip. So not really training the obliques too heavily here. If you want that really cool shape, the shape everybody kind of goes for whenever you're on stage. Try not to train the oblique too heavily. That's not the same. You're not going to have some in there anyway. Just no twisting motions or anything like that. If you're a fighter or you're an athlete, you might incorporate some of that stuff into your training at some point in time. But really it's all programming dependent based on what your outcome is. Folks, our next exercise is the lying elset. The lying elset is a really cool exercise because just like many of the other ones here, it accentuates the tension on the abs at their length and position, which is good for muscle growth. So what you're going to do is you're going to start in a position where your knees are tucked completely up. Just super easy, everyone can kind of just chill there. You're going to have your hands on the ground. You can even have your hands underneath your butt all for comfort. And then you're going to extend your legs just to one inch above the ground the entire time. You essentially hover your heels all the way from when your knees are tucked to where your legs are completely straight out in front of you. And you come back that basically activates the abs and then relaxes them, activates the abs and then relaxes them. There are so many different ways to scale this exercise. One of the ways to scale it is just don't kick all the way out. Kick halfway, come back, kick halfway, come back. Another thing about that is you can flip the order if you're pretty strong and you can do a legit elset. Do as many reps as all of these el sets as you can until you get close to failure. And then start doing a mechanical drop set by only coming out three quarters, coming back. Only coming out three quarters, coming back where you can't do that. Come out halfway, come back halfway, come back. One set of these things for a total of 25 or 30 reps where at the end you're doing very slight top end partials. Your abs will be cooked. Compress as the amount of time you're training expands the stimulus stimulus to time ratios awesome. And then you're really winning. Then you can go outside of the gym. You can do tons of activities with your friends like and our stuff like that. The RP hypertrophy app comes with dozens of pre-made programs from two days of training per week all the way up to six days of training with specialized programs included for shoulders, arms, chest, back, legs, abs and glutes. Each one with male and female options. You get them all and can use them as often as you like, even building off of them to make your own customized versions for only about a dollar a day. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. The Abroller is a piece of equipment that is guaranteed to humble you unless you already have exceptionally well developed abs. And then are you just watching this video for vibes? If so, hello, back to the Abroller. The Abroller is an amazing exercise because as the movement lengthens the forces apply due to the lever arm and relations or gravity increase radically, which means at the peak contraction there's a minimal amount of force, kind of zero. At the most lengthened part of the exercise when you're all the way on the ground, the force is maximum. This is a crazy ab exercise that you may start by doing like one or two reps with and looking around the room being like, I'm like, if I do in this right, you are, it's brutal. If you can get up to sets of 10 on this and you're kind of done with ab development to be completely honest. I'm kidding, but not entirely. This is an amazing exercise. Lease warm up for it by doing a few sets of crunches. That's a 10. Really warm up. You're lats and your shoulders if you happen to be older or have an injury history. This exercise is really, really, really intense. And make sure that when you're doing it, you're controlling slow on the way down, pausing a little bit at the very end and coming all the way back up. The one final cue I was giving her there at the end was keep your hips up. So kind of like when you see this, the deficit pushups, we're going here. And the first thing people do is they give out, you start to see the stomachache closer to the ground. Because you want to really use the abs, hips up as you're rolling out. It's really going to force your usual abs on the way back up. So we put those there for a slight elevation, but you know, that cue itself as well is going to make even the other variations on this exercise hard. Another cool thing to say about this exercise is that if you're doing it, you may be able only to do three or four reps at a time. That's okay, you don't need to do three or four reps sets. What you can do is my reps, do three or four reps come back all the way into the curl position and just chill for like five seconds. Another one or two reps, chill for five seconds. Another one or two reps, if you can bank eight reps, nine reps, ten reps all the way to 15 reps in a single workout, slowly adding reps over time, is 100% where you want to be. Exercise, the exercise is awesome. I'm just sure she'll let, I'm not the person down my way into there. A very wise philosopher, one set, I'm not a girl, but I'm not yet a woman. It was Britney Spears. Britney Spears also said something very similar. She said if you use these five ab exercises progressively in your routine, not at the same time, pick two or a week, any two, run them for four to 12 weeks, progressing in reps or load, switching out the exercises once you get a little stay on you, you can have chiseled abs underneath the fat, use the RP diet coach app to get the fat off or whatever diet app choice you like, get the steps in, RP high perch of fat for the gains and there is a 100% corporate guarantee that you will look exactly like Breyani Terry who you should be following on the internet anyway. She was at a virtual war. Britney Spears has a had a wartime. Britney Spears has had a wartime. Britney Spears has a wise one. Max, we've all been all of us and we'll see you next time. We're going to train you to box. You're a box? No. Good. Good. Tighten your abs. You're going to shoot unbelievable. One, two. Yeah, that You're a fucking champ.

Folks, you are on the go, but you still want to hate your protein. You want good macros, you want healthy food. Where can you go really really quick to get an awesome snack and awesome meal, especially for lunch? Let's find out. I have five places to talk about, and probably have to stop leaning on this person's car. You can eat this with your hands. It's disgusting. Mmm. Smell's like stuff. Huh? No. I'm sorry. Where was I? Six out of five on tape. Super greens are incredible. I don't know why they're called super, but let's find out. It has a shape, I guess. I don't know non-uclidean geometry, so let's go find out if it's still possible. Eat healthy and McDonald's in 2025. All right, folks. We are going to rate every single food today on a one to five rating scale. Three separate scales. One is macros. Doesn't have lots of protein and relatively low calories. Two is what is the cost? Because if it's a zillion dollars, I'm not trying to be finding it very convenient. And three is taste. Well, use my own all of us taste buds to see if it's good that are somewhere between. Let's get to it. Number one on our list is Chick-fil-Aid. Why? Because they have one menu item, which makes them one of the most goded, amazing macros, quick stops if you're on the run and you need food. The grilled chicken nugget, how is this even a real thing? Is that a B attack in me? Oh my God! All right, anyway, these are amazing. Grill chicken nuggets, we just ordered one container of 12 of them, and a little bit of sauce, including almost every kind of sauce, unless you triple quadruple dip, you are looking at 12 grilled chicken nuggets, coming in at just over 35 grams of protein. And under five grams of carbs and fats, respectively, you guys, I don't have to tell you twice. That's a good protein shake. A really good macros protein shake. And they're grilled, they're nuggets, and because Chick-fil-A makes them, you know they're gonna be unbelievably delicious. What's with the cameras, are you guys doing? Um, I wear adult film creators. So it's a porn hub thing. I'm kidding, or it's just YouTube stuff. Okay, okay. You know what can I do? Do you guys have the grilled chicken nuggets? Yeah. I'll take a 12 order of that. Yeah. We are 942 today. Awesome, thank you so much. The pornography jokes, especially funny here. It's just slightly out of reach. Uh, have a great day. Thank you so much, you as well. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Oh. All right, folks. So we chose this honestly because a lot of people said you got a new Chick-fil-A or else we won't watch the episode. I've actually never tried this. This is gonna be a first time. I will say the first rating of price is a bit steep. I'm gonna give it three stars out of five, because it's nine dollars in my 42 cents or some shift for one of these, man. 35 grams of protein for nine dollars. I'm gonna be getting something else, you feel me? I hand job. Is that cool to say? Anyway, let me try this. I'm gonna evaluate taste and macros. Oh, sorry, earlier, we're quite wild eating this. On macros, this is a five out of five. 35 grams of protein, less than five, carbs and fats respectively, it's a knockout. This is gonna be basically the best macros we'll do all day long. This is a winner. Let's try it on taste. Ehh, just kidding, let's do it. Aw, um. You can eat those with your hands, it's disgusting. I thought it was gonna be grabable, but those all are juice on it. Mm. Legit, please don't tell me in the comments. Three out of ten. Not the best chicken ever had, the moral hardiness of foundational Christianity, I do love, like it's a kick set up to three and a half start. It's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's not, it's not gonna have five. Three out of five, three out of five. Hey, Scott, why don't you shut up? Hey, do you want one of these? I'm confused now. So anyone out of five, right? Out of five. Okay. Ha ha ha. Mmm. Mmm. Yum. You want to get us the camera nod? Yes or no? Sideways nod? Ha ha ha. It's not that great. It's a three out of five. The three out of five. It's a little pricey. Do you have a five price? Five out of five macros. Three out of five. On the taste. Pretty goddamn good. Newtritionally, this is a clear winner. The macros matter. And you have the patient's to stand and check the ley line and pay a thousand dollars. This is your shit. Let's get on to the next restaurant. All right. Next up is subway. Super healthy, super ubiquitous. Everywhere around the United States and mostly the world. Let's get in there. Get something healthy. Come back out and talk about why it's awesome. All right. Folks, check this out. So what we got from subway is a protein bowl, which you can really do. It's got chicken in there. And we asked for double chicken. It's got some veggies. I've got spinach. I've got green peppers. And two crimmers that are tiny a little bit of ranch dressing. This whole thing has fewer than 10 grams of fat, fewer than 10 grams of carbs, and probably, cheeratively, something like 50 grams of protein kind of depending on who's scooping to be honest. That's pretty damn good. So on macros, man, 50, 10 and 10, that's a five out of five on our scale. For cost, this did cost about 10 bucks. However, it's more protein than Chick-fil-A was. And you get veggies for extra health, extra satiety, extra stomach fullness, extra benefits of fiber, micronutrients and stuff like that. So on cost, relative to what we're getting, I would give this a four stars out of five, instead of a three. And then lastly, the taste. Well, let's taste it and find out. Yeah. I think that's a good idea. So I'm going to try to make sure that we're going to have a good time. So I'm going to try to make sure that we're going to have a good time. So I'm going to try to make sure that we're going to have a good time. Mmm, smells like stuff. The veggies are awesome. That's some way. The noise really fresh. The chickens are amazing. What, to me, age? The chicken plus veggies plus ranch, better than Chick-fil-A. Sorry. So I'm going to have to go with a four out of five on this one as well. So the taste is four out of five. The macros are five out of five. And the cost is four out of five. Not bad. Not better at all. Alright, folks. Number three on our list is one of my personal favorites. A jibboat lay, which I think is Italian for a f***ing, though. Anyway, let's get in there and get some food and come back out. So here's the thing. All of these restaurants. I'm trying to get a little something different. But it still fits like macros and healthy. But not like the exact same version of everything. So we could have gotten a salad, naturally, and would have been awesome. But I got a regular burrito bowl. And kind of like I typically do it. I got chicken in there, black beans, white rice, and that Narlie cheese sauce. Oh, wait, wait. No, I'm not thick. K-SOW. Did I pronounce that, you guys? In any case, that gives us roughly 50 grams of protein. Roughly 80 grams of carbs and about 25 grams of fat. I would consider those macros a 3 out of 5. They're good, especially for like a nice filling meal. More calories, a post-workout meal, and a training day. This isn't just some old protein and veggies type of stuff, which we're getting in a lot of the other places. This is like a still a very decent, very healthy meal. I have every kind of autism that people have ever figured out. So I'm not going to do veggies in here because the thinking with the mix all the rice, I don't know. Call me crazy because I am. But for me, this is a great meal, very go-to, very healthy, very sure for good macros, but not great. So it gets a 3 out of 5. Now, on the price situation, it's like 10 bucks. It's like 11 something, but for this many macros, and this many calories and such a high-quality source of really good protein, I'd say that's a 4 out of 5 on price. That's pretty damn good. Maybe even a 5 out of 5. Scott, what do we think in 4 out of 5 or 5 out of 5? Uh, on price, price to macros. I think it's a 5. I don't think anything's in it. Yeah, 5 out of 5. So, so far, we're up to 8 total. Now, here's the thing, taste. This is a personal thing, but it's my personal thing this time. So let's taste it and rate the ship. Shhh. Shhh. Shhh. Shhh. Shhh. Shhh. Shhh. Shhh. Shhh. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Damn Rob. No. No. Sorry, where was I? Hmm. 6 out of 5 on taste. I'm kidding. The map gets too hard after that. 5 out of 5 on taste. I fucking loved your polka. I don't know what the fuck would sound like. It's amazing. I love the taste. It's my favorite burrito place. Qdoa was great, too. I was going to talk to you about other burrito places. We're trying to be a loving channel. Chipotle is an un-negated god king of taste. It's unbelievable. So we get to full on 5 out of 5 on taste. And I'm sticking with that. Chipotle, you're amazing. Folks, I have a huge problem. I'm always in need of pandas, but they're nowhere to be found, especially fast. I have to go to China to black market, stop the pandas usually arrived at that appendix press. They're alive, amazing pandas. Let's go in there and get us some awesome pandas cuisine. Alright, folks. Panda, I got a chicken teriyaki bowl, which is awesome. And if you're looking for good macros, an amazing taste and low price, this is really the thing to go for. About 35 grams of protein. And right around, oh, give or take 15 grams of fat. More like 10 if I'm being charitable. 15 total with the veggies and about 10 grams of carbs. This gives us a four. I would say macros just because it's a little higher fat than some of the other competitors. And on price, it's actually the only thing we've ordered so far that it's distinctly both. Or that it's distinctly below $10. So it definitely gets a five out of five on price. This is an incredible value for what you're getting. And for taste, the first thing I'm going to do is see what fortune I have. I can't open it. Oh my god, alright, finally. Could you use mythical strength for that one? Now the first thing you do with a fortune cookie? Yeah, I forgot what I'm going to f*** up. Well, for those of us all non-sense anyway. No, kids, I'm kidding. The Santa's Real, too. You have a huge cock. I can't do it, right? I knew these things would fall as shit. I mean, it's because you're going to impact on everybody's nose. What the f***? This is kind of like life advice, really. Very proximate advice. Go for a long walk to clear your mind. Okay. What is heperman in my shit? Ten minute walk after a meal? It does do it the morning. Alright, the arbiter of taste has arrived. And he is eye. Eye as me. Okay, we weren't able to assess the taste, so it's zero out of five so you guys next time. Super greens are incredible. I don't know why they're called super, but let's find out. Mmm. Yeah. MSG. Which actually, believe you're not guys, it's in bad for you. That's a myth. Now, I already know how this tastes because they eat it like, I don't know, twice a month. No contest. It's got to my life of your sixes out. Six out of five on taste. Call the watch this, right? You guys want to see a magic trick? Ow. Now it's gone, we're going to go unbelievable. So we have four on macros, not amazing but pretty good. Five on cost, this is less than ten bucks, six on taste. That is a perfect score of 15 out of 15 on our bullshit rating scale. And the first perfect score we're going to see all day today, maybe not the last definitely the first. Pan-dix presses go to everybody. And yes, I'm going to answer the obvious question. It is made of real pandas. And it's f***ing worth it. Let's get out of here. Folks, our fifth restaurant of today in our attempt to get really quick food is a McDonald's. Let's say in France. And it's an American tradition. Let's go find out if it's still possible to eat healthy in McDonald's in 2025. Alright, folks. I got two snack wraps because we desperately look for grilled chicken items in McDonald's menu. It turns out they just don't exist anymore. But we're like, oh, we'll do a grilled chicken sandwich. Doesn't exist. We'll do grilled chicken on a salad. Doesn't exist. So we're like, all right, snack wrap. Now here's the good news. The snack wrap is incredibly easy to make it super fast. It's pretty damn tasty and it's really affordable. However, the bad news and our number one ranking, macros. Two snack wraps together. Have roughly. This is painful to say, I'll loud. 25 grams of protein. 60 grams of carbs, 30 grams of fat. And my old rule looked back in college. If something is more fat grams than protein grams, you're going to have a bad time if you're trying to do good macros. So on macros, I'd say this gets a one at a five to be completely honest. Now, the good news. Two snack wraps are a sum total with tax and fees of seven dollars, which gives it absolutely a six out of five on price. McDonald's is unbelievable. How do they do it? I have no idea. Now it's for taste. I don't know. But I can tell you one thing. Scott's actually hungry. So he thinks one of these snack wraps is for him. Do you guys think Scott and video that I can take this for me? You guys think they take the ship for me, babe? You'll move nobody playing out here. Hold up, hold up, hold up. Yeah. With that, Scott has a shape, I guess. I don't know, not in the UK, the UK and geometry. So this is quite complex. No. Not bad. 4 out of 5 unchanged. 4 plus 6 is 10. The one on macros really kills us. Total score of 11. That's not great. Got to low score. Now, pretty tasty. Thing is for how much chicken you get. You have to eat through a lot of breading and a lot of wrap. And by the way, those macros are charitable. I asked for less sauce and usual on the auto ordering and computer system. I asked for less cheese than usual. So to be honest, it could have even more fat if I went raw dog. Yeah. Now, don't go to McDonald's if you want to eat healthy. Nothing else. I have folks that shoots been going on too long, so we decided to get drunk. Let's get liquor. Just kidding. We're going to see if the ultimate on the go location of a gas station can measure up to our restaurants. Let's find out. This was easiest. Why? Because I go in. I don't find shit. It's got the video guy smarter than me, so he goes, this is what you want. And I get a core power. Strawberry is a flavor that is literally made of physical goats that will once alive, but our honor to be dead because they're in here. It's go to not check the south. Let's do our algorithm here. On macros, this is over 40 grams of ultra high quality protein. Less than 10 grams of carbohydrates, less than five grams of fat. That is absolutely a five out of five on macros. For the price that we're paying is basically like something like five bucks or so somewhere between four and five, which is honestly like kind of a lot for a protein shake, but for a core power is a great deal. So I'd say that's another five out of five. And on taste, well, don't we have to try it to find out. And if I can open it, I'll try it. Ah, back, back, back, back, back. Ah, I, we're adult film creators. So it's a porn hub thing. Hmm. Imagine a scene that male hero strawberry has his arm just clasping. The desperate frail hand of a female heroine strawberry. And they're on a tower and below the tower, a thousand feet down, it is entire planet of silky, milky white beautiful cream that's so sweet and amazing. And she's like, oh my god, I'm a bad character. I didn't even let me go. And he's like, I never liked you anyway. He's a big girl. Anyway, it's a thousand feet to far away to fall. Yeah. Balls into the shit. You just see the red of strawberry spreading through. And then eagles with golden talons. A huge eagle's like, lower the ring size. They come in. And they have a huge bucket. And that's exactly how fair life strawberry is made. Literally to the teeth. Sorry, Coca-Cola incorporated. I just busted Jal asks for that secret recipe. It's f***ing amazing. It's amazing. It's amazing. It's amazing. 5 out of 5. 15 straight up score. Can you get drunk on fair life? Count me in. F***ing flies. I just farted to you. Huh? All right. Anyway, so we got to do a ranking here, right? Because we got to rate the shit. We have a whole rating system. Remember just a quick ratings review. Macros on a 1 to 5 scale, 5 being amazing macros, 1 being McDonalds. And then we have cost 1 to 5 slash price. And then we have taste on a 1 to 5 system. So we added everything up and as expected, right? Imagine imagine in rebel versus empire battle. A dimly lit starship hallway. You can't really see what's back there. And all of a sudden, a panda figure emerges. You know, like I'm like nine, it's an adorable panda. And he goes, pfft, red light. Saber light, let's hope you like it. F***ing. We're all f***ing. Which is exactly how you would be if you were at Panda Express. What I'm trying to say is Panda's goded and undefeated. So Panda gets a 100% on our 15 out of 15 ranking system. It's amazing. You want food that's incredibly well priced, incredibly tasty, and incredibly awesome for you. And it expresses really hard to be. Rank two comes our sleep or category, fair life. Imagine what they're doing right now on the empire. I know exactly what they're doing to like we could build another big battleship or even another Death Star. What we're going to try to do is feed Panda's fair life. Because then I don't even know what's going to happen. It's going to be the most powerful that you ever fare life. Goded again, 100% of the ranking system. Now, we have a tie break situation. Both Chipotle and Subway. And I'm going to have to say from me, if you're looking ultra macros ultra healthy, Subway is it? If you're looking to feel your Tom Tom for a reasonable price. Why did I say Tom Tom? I hate that term. Chipotle is awesome. Because I'm a Chipotle man through and through, I'm going to put Chipotle above somebody. Don't take it personally. And then we have a fight to the death quite literally for last place. And that's between Chick-fil-A and McDonald's. Now look, I'm going to give Chick-fil-A the victory here and by victory, I mean, massive consolation price. So second to last Chick-fil-A, it costs a lot of money. And the chickens kind of weird and not that good. But the macros are dope so it gets the victory. McDonald's tastes are right. It's super cheap. But the macros are just pure dog shit. I'm pretty sure they gave up on healthy food, which they make sense, because who the hell goes to McDonald's for healthy food? Anyway, that's the ranking scale. And listen, pandas aren't just adorable. They're dangerous too. Remember that next time you scroll on TikTok for pandab videos. Midnight because you can't sleep because you scroll on TikTok too much. I'll see you guys next time over in Dr. Mike. Thanks for watching.

Scott, you know that guy that's always banned and he's up his knees and he's about to leg press after squatting and it's been like an hour because it take him forever to squat set up Yeah, and you're like already on your 15th set of like belt squats or something your quads are cooked and he's like up Just getting the leg press. What is it that we're here for? What are you doing? Are you trying to get jacked in a decent amount of time or are you trying to see how injured you can make your back while quote on quote squatting? Because it's a squat such a bad match up for your biomechanics that had barely hits your quads at all But you heard you got a squat first heavy first and you're doing it religiously So you're not leaving anything on the table. That's not a good thing Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP strength and you might have heard before that doing compounds first before Isolations and your lifting is better for results, but is that true? Let's find out Do you probably heard before Things like you got to do squats before leg extensions or leg press's compound movement multi joint first Isolation later you got to do pull ups before straight arm lat pull down You got to do dips before you do try set push downs no doubt many of you have heard this a ton But is this practice worthwhile? We have four questions to answer today and we'll answer all four of them question number one is Why is this advice given out like why do people say this kind of stuff is there any merit to it? Question number two how in what circumstances can this advice of compounds before isolation be true? Question number three how can this advice misapplied lead you a straight? Is it ever not true and why and then lastly number four a very super quick guide to making the best Exercise selection choices and strength physique and General lifting for overall physique and health outcomes Let's talk about it. So number one. Why is this advice given out? One reason is that it started being given out a long time ago and So many people said it that everyone just kind of assumed it was received wisdom like Mother's has just what you do and most people just don't question it that doesn't mean it's Completely baseless in fact. It's based on a few really really good ideas If This advice is a good idea. It is a good idea for a few different reasons It is correct if you want to lift as much weight and as many reps with that weight in a compound movement as possible So if you do isolation's first you'll limit your performance on the compound either you have to lift less weight and the same reps or You can lift the same weight, but you have to get fewer reps If you need to demonstrate and train maximum coordination and speed and athleticism During a lift it had better be compound and it had better be early or first in the workout We'll talk about why in just a second and If you are trying to train athletes to be better at sports with weights or you're trying to do overall Strength training making a person stronger Then this advice of compounds first isolation's Isherylations isolation's later is generally really good advice Specifically Here's how the logic works if you are trying to get a strong as possible overall Compound movements are king Multiple muscles are used to the same time just like in real world strength feats in Real world strength you generally try to summon a lot of muscle to do a specific task like pushing or pulling or lifting something One muscle at a time is kind of weird strength training and so compounds win Because you can use more weight because it's more real world for strength because it transfers better to all kinds of other Move performance and because you're using multiple muscles and joints Summing up how much force you're producing total which means you're actually just stronger the more compound and exercise is you can deadlift a whole lot more than you can curl So if you're trying to get a strong as possible overall compounds really are king If you see someone who's like I'm in the gym for strength, they're just one arm curling all the time You're like what you're doing if they're doing close group benches that makes a lot more sense Now if you are trying to get Stronger on a specific compound lift like I'm trying to get my squat going or my deadlift for my bench press or my overhead press or my pull ups The ability to have much of your training for that lift get you maximum weight and maximum reps for whatever target Rage of weight and reps you're doing is critical That's gonna make you stronger. Let me put this into perspective If you are trying to squat 350 pounds three plates on a side for the first time in your life and you are trying to 125 pounds for reps after leg presses after leg extensions You're just not getting any more close to the amount of weight on your back 315 That you would need to in order to train the balance and coordination at such heavy loads The integration of muscles at such heavy loads the nervous system at such heavy loads You would be met at much better off training something like 275 2 300 pounds four reps, but for that you would have to be fresh So if you're very serious about squatting 350 pounds for a single I want to see you hit 250 to 75 300 pounds for reps fresh That's a much better way of training to squat 315 Then if you do all your squats the same way but tired after isolations than it's to 25 on the bar It's 195 pounds on the bar it's to a five on the bar There's gonna be some transfer. It's gonna still make you stronger But not as much as doing it fresh So if your goal is strength maximum strength improvement Yeah, you got to do compounds the ones you're being tested on fresh as much as possible If you do isolations first both your maximum reps and or your weight are impossible and Thus compounds first are a great idea for maximum strength overall and for specific compound lifts Almost overall maximum strength you want compounds first and if you really care about increasing your bench press You should be doing a lot of lifting where bench presses first facts now for athletic coordination using lifting to make athletes stronger at sports If for example, using squats for improving your jump height Isolations slow you down after you fatigue your softly isolations your slower on the compound lifts your rate of force development is lower and the way you're activating your body to jump or to push your to pull Has to take into account that one of the muscles let's say your quads from leg extensions is now fatigued That changes the nervous system's way of activating all the muscles to get you to jump or to get you to push a slide as hard as possible For sports stuff Thus it's teaching you with a body that's kind of weirdly tired in one way and so the amount of transfer of training you would get from doing After isolations squat jumps versus fresh squat jumps is just much lower And so if you're interested in maximum carryover of athletic performance Compounds are really big deal first not second not third so you keep being your isolations to the end if you're training for strength If you're training for specifically some strength on a lift compounds versus really good and then also if you're training for athletic performance And so for now, man, sure shit seems like compounds before isolations is kind of a really good thing However, this is where we get to point number three How the advice of always do compounds before isolations can lead you astray in physique training training to get jacked There are two main kings two variables you have to attend to to get your best results Specificity and SFR stimulus to fatigue ratio Specificity just basically means targeting specific muscles with the most stimulus that they can grow Like if you need bigger biceps you should be training your biceps a lot Our compound lifts the best for biceps some might be pretty good, but maybe there's not the direct answer to that question specificity matters And stimulus to fatigue ratio means maximizing how much growth Stimulus you get how much the muscles will grow after training, but minimizing things like joint and connective tissue stress and Psychological disruption and axial back fatigue and all so stuff So keeping your fatigue lower, but your stimulus higher if in high-perchurfied training We can get Excellence specificity and the highest stimulus to fatigue ratio is possible We don't care if it's isolations first or compounds first that let us do that And if it happens to be isolations first that let us maximize Specificity and maximize stimulus to fatigue ratio We get a lot out of the exercise by paying a small fatigue cost Then that's the correct way to do it and the rule of compounds first before isolations no longer applies for us Now sometimes for physique training compounds first is great advice Especially when the compound is limited by the target muscle and has a great stimulus to fatigue ratio for example If you're doing incline dumbbell pressos, that's a compound movement. Let's say you're doing it first If incline dumbbell presses fail because of your chest and Stimulate your chest like crazy and They don't really beat up your shoulders at elbows much you love the exercise. It's not super fatiguing That means it's amazing on specificity amazing on stimulus to fatigue ratio and then you can absolutely do it first compounds Before isolations later, may you maybe you'll do some flies. So in that case, that's totally cool Now this also has benefits because luckily you have a good stimulus to fatigue ratio Specific exercise as a compound that means it's going to come in and bring a high muscle activity Like compounds can do because of their stability and the weight used Your faster twitch motor units are gonna turn on because of the stability and the heavy weight and that's gonna be really really good stuff But If your compound exercise of choice is Limited by other muscles then the ones you're targeting for growth from that compound exercise and if it's stimulus to fatigue ratio fresh and raw and heavy isn't ideal Then isolation first can be better for example If your lower back is the limiting factor in your barbell squat and And you're strong strong enough that you're squatting a lot and those heavy squats are really starting to beat you up They take a toll familiar lower back from your hips from your knees Systemically they make you get crazy out of breath the super crushing weights psychologically drains you and even if squats don't be you up A ton a ton but like they beat you up some and they're already kind of kicking the dead horse that is your body Because you've done dead lifts early on the week and overhead presses and rows and now you're entire core Your back your posterior chain is so fried that like heavy squats on top of that is just like oh man I'm never gonna recover from next week If that's the thing Doing leg extensions or leg presses isolation stuff first before squats can help How the leg extensions or leg presses maximize Specificity in the quads by directly training quads when the fresh no debate right? Leg extensions is just quads leg presses. It's mostly quads and What they do is they really so the stimulus there is already really good and the specificities amazing Then you move on to doing squats afterwards Remember now that your quads are super pre-exhausted for me their tons of extensions are tons of presses when you're doing your squats You're using either less weight or doing fewer reps But since rep ranges are kind of independently fixed we want to target whatever upper range went to target anyway We have to dial the weight down. So instead of squatting three plates on a side maybe it's two plates and some change Now when you squat that weight It's gonna have this huge impact of being even more specific to your quads Because remember how your lower back used to give out beforehand well now your lower backs fresh It's got reps in the tank but your quads are damn near close to failure As soon as you do rep number one so after six or seven reps of squats even with two 25 Your your lower back might be completely I do this is easy I do three 15 for five or six reps no problem But your quads because of the 80 reps of extensions or presses you did before that summing up Really cooking which means now the specificity of the squat is Higher for your quads in Credible incredible that's amazing now In this instant for the squat as the exercise the raw stimulus magnitude how much high Perchryffy stimulus the squat actually gives you just the squat by itself as an exercise Is gonna be lower than if you did a fresh of course it will be if you did squat fresh You might be able to do a couple of sets of eight with three 15 and that's one hell of a stimulus couple of sets of Eight reps with two 25 if you do squats after five sets of leg presses Let's say I mean just the squats alone the raw stimulus is not nearly as high But how could it be if you're doing like a plate less on the side for the same sets Perhaps no way right However the lower weight and or lower reps in the squat done post isolation Means much lower fatigue Because to 25 for sets of eight does not beat up your body remotely like three 15 for sets of eight does not even close And tiny bonus here and it's a smaller acute injury risk as well Like if you were gonna snap your shirt up with three 15 for reps you probably don't snap it out for two 25 for reps So the stimulus to fatigue ratio of doing squats after isolations is Probably higher than doing them fresh The fatigue is way lower the stimulus is lower to but check this out the stimulus is just a bit lower Their fatigue is substantially lower that's a big deal So the SFR of leg press before squat Might be much higher than squat before leg press as a total sum of exercise squat and leg press and one leg press Then squat on the other if it's leg press then squat the stimulus to fatigue ratio is higher If it's squat then leg press the stimulus to fatigue ratio is lower But the raw stimulus magnitude might be higher so for example if you force sets of heavy squats and then four sets of lighter leg Presms you might stimulate more muscle growth then if you do four sets of lighter leg presses first and then four sets of heavy or Squats but they have to be later cuz you're more tired now the overall stimulus might be better from that Compounds first squat first exercise. Yes. That's absolutely true. However The stimulus to fatigue ratio because you have to lift so much less weight in the squat with your Overall body and systemic fatigue pay in the price in that condition of leg press first and squat Whereas squat first leg press second you got to go max out on the weight This the fatigue is so much lower and the stimulus just a little bit lower That the stimulus to fatigue ratio how much good you get for the cost you pay is just much better it's like If you pay a hundred dollars for really good meal Big Stimulus but the fatigue quote unquote of paying a lot of money. That's a lot of hundred dollars. It's holy shit Now if you get a meal that's not as good as the hundred dollar meal, but pretty damn good 80 90% is good But it costs 50 bucks You're paying half the quote unquote fatigue cost for that meal the money But you're getting 80 90% of the benefit on taste and on food experience in just the same way that workout that you do Isolations first compound second may very well not be the hundred dollar meal worth of fun But it's 80 90 dollars worth of fun. That's how much muscle growth stimulus you get out of it And it might cause half of the fatigue because fatigue works on an exponential and so if you're doing very close to your fresh one rep max That's unbelievable amounts of fatigue per rep If you go to three 15 which you can do let's say for sets of eight that's still a shit little fatigue the way less than if you did 365 you're wondering what max or something When you go not a 2 25 the amount of fatigue that isn't your back shoulders everything is just Way way way way way way smaller. So you can have literally half However you measure it of the systemic joint connective tissue fatigue in injury risk From doing squats after leg presses then before and 80 or 90% of the same roster in the last bag You say hold on doctor Mike has made any goddamn sense. I don't think Jim to grow as much muscle as possible So why would I settle for less fatigue? What's the bet of the less fatigue if I'm trading off? A you know 10 or 20% of my growth will hold on a second you just take an extra leg press set Error and extra squats set and you tack it on and you get 55% of the fatigue Into 100% of the stimulus Compared to that other workout of squats first leg press second Will you do maybe one or two fewer sets but you get double damn near the fatigue and right around the same amount of stimulus Stimulus to fatigue is so important because if you find a good stimulus to fatigue Set up for example leg press then squat versus the other way around You can just crank the juice out at a little bit just do a few more sets and you get this crazy Just machine that does out stimulus at very low levels of fatigue that's a big deal So if you're always sticking to compound lifts before isolations You're risk having needlessly low stimulus to fatigue ratio you're that guy Scott you know that guy that's always banded you up his knees and he's about to leg press after squatting and it's been like an hour because It's taken forever to squat set up and you're like already on your 15th set of like belt squats or something your quads are cooked and he's like Up just getting the leg press What is it that we're here for? Are you trying to get jacked in a decent amount of time or are you trying to see how injured you can make your back? While quote unquote squatting because it's a squat such a bad match up for your biomechanics That it barely hits your quads at all but you heard you got a squat first heavy first and you heard compounds first And you're doing it religiously so you're not leaving anything on the table. That's not a good thing You risk having needlessly low stimulus to fatigue ratio and Trouble specifically targeting a certain muscle like your quadriceps your triceps your lats or whatever you're ready to hit If your goal is targeted Maximally effective muscle growth training then It doesn't matter if it's isolation first or compound force both can be the correct answer The true correct answer is which one is most specific hitting the muscles you want the most and which one of those gives you the best stimulus to fatigue ratio Sometimes it's compounds first sometimes is isolation It's just not a dependable rule in physique to do compounds for or so Let's sum all of this up For strength training compounds first is usually the best for maximum tension maximum training response maximum gains in strength If you're serious about training for strength, I had better not see you do five sets of electric Sensions before you squat that's in backwards For athletics you need speed and athleticism and coordination and maximum force production compounds first almost always in athletics big bonus For physique it depends on specificity and stimulus to fatigue ratio Sometimes compound for a compounds first works Sometimes it doesn't work as well as doing some more isolated work first It's just not a dependable rule But you can find out what hits you best whatever gives you the best pumps whatever gives you the best Sonus whatever gives you the best progression and whatever it feels easiest on your joints Easiest on your spinal cord easiest on your psychology that's the thing you're probably gonna want to do Because it's dependably gonna make you more jacked over time. It's like a lot of IFBB pro body builders do this If you see either workouts a lot of times they'll do cable push downs Then they'll do some Smith machine score crushers then they'll do dips and then do a close grip bench for triceps And you're like why you start with close grip bench because of like Derek Lunsford started with close grip bench first He would be doing close grips for sets of 12 with 405 and there's elbows with last a few weeks and then throw up two middle fingers And never show up to the party again in the real world as you get bigger and stronger You got to sometimes be like all right Accelations first here just so I can cook this muscle a bit without using very heavy weights and without having to use compounds for heavy weights and Some combination of that and high reps to really cook my central nervous system my peripheral nervous system my cardio, etc Some point compounds first are not the good answer at some times they are and I'll end this on a funny note To me funny, we'll find out if we have a similar sense of humor in mere seconds For general physique over all looking sexy look in your best being healthy and Especially if your time constrained you train a couple times a week 20 to 40 minutes each time Rapid fire exercises my best advice to you is use Only compounds if you can do it a couple of sessions here is totally fine But the problem of isolation is for anyone unit of time One rep you train one muscle biceps biceps biceps If you're doing underhand pull downs you train biceps and rear delts and back all in each rep the amount of time efficiency is like Multiple's higher than doing isolation so if you want a great routine the safe time And to get their best shape that you can and just maybe an hour or two total of working out per week Almost everything if not everything should be a compound minimum rest for high reps between compounds Alternate compounds something that pushes something that pulls so on and so forth That's how you build the best plan for general fitness so this whole compounds first isolation thing for general fitness It's almost always just compounds when or anything where I'm compounds But in advance hyperchryffey training sometimes isolation first is best when it maximize the Specificity and it really maximize the stimulus to fatigue ratio because it makes a really heavy brutal compound No longer is heavy no longer and brutal and almost as effective but much less fatiguing If you guys want this kind of programming to be done for you you customize the AI helps and then you Execute the plan after that the RP hypertrophy app exists There are links to it right in the description below go get it. It's gonna be awesome. You're gonna get so jacked They you'll have a hard time understanding how you ever lived life smaller and that's on you and your psychotherapist to deal with folks I've been Dr. Mike and I'll see you next time

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization, and it turns out that calories in calories out is a myth. This is not how the world works, man. It turns out that hormones and keto and magic. Wait wait, no, no. Kiko's not a myth and the idea that it's a myth is BSL safe swearing for the end of this. So the idea that calories in calories out is a myth is promulgated and propagated by various folks in the fitness industry. And it turns out that it's not a myth. So let's get into the realities. First, calories in calories out is essentially covered in the mass energy conservation principle, aka the first law of thermodynamics. And that first law of thermodynamics to my virgin eyes, perusing the literature, has yet to be broken ever in any system, definitely in a biological system and in all studied systems so far. It just seems to be never ever broke. But a lot of people say what it doesn't apply in biological systems and they're wrong. But how did we get this wrong? It turns out it's pretty tempting to get this wrong because of a couple of, oh, elucary things that can occur. Here are a few of them. First, when people say look, I know Kiko is real, calories in calories out, Kiko. Kiko, it's like guy co except no gecko or you eat the gecko. He's so nice and British and all of a sudden there's a pole through his body and you're rotating him and don't worry, he's already dead, but he's just like just sizzling. He probably tastes pretty good. Any case. People say look, I know Kiko is real, but I like eight, a crap ton of calories for months. I didn't gain weight in another time. I almost nothing in a game weight. And it turns out that people are just really bad on average, tons of exceptions, of course, and you're one of them. Of accounting for diet and activity and they're just really bad at tracking. So they'll think they eat something when reality they forgot it was this much versus that much. They miss measured. They say they did 30 minutes of cardio, but they reduced their daily walking and they didn't even measure that. So because they mistreated it, they say, hey, look, you know, typical thing I'll see on social media is someone will be like, look, I've been in a surplus, but I'm not gaining. How do you know you're a surplus? A assumption, assumption, assumption, incorrect three assumptions, they're not a really a surplus. So that's definitely a thing that happens. Next, people assume a stable metabolic rate when that rate can actually change. For example, if you are low on thyroid hormones, they can look like calories in calories out. Doesn't work. Except the calories out part is way down because your thyroid stopped working. And when you get on thyroid medication, all of a sudden, calories out works again. It was never the calories in calories out. It was the problem. It was the fact that your hormonal systems were no longer pushing up that calories out part of the equation. Water rate, another culprit. Water weight is hue mungus in this case because people will assume that their body weight and tissue is the same thing that their reflexive proxy variables are each other. So what they'll say is, we know, I ate the, this many calories and I just didn't lose weight. All right, but is that because you're storing more body water over time? Because you're eating more salty foods, you're drinking more fluids, time of the month who knows. Or is it because you're just not burning any more tissue? Because it's probably not the burning tissue stuff. When I've had clients in the past, fixed their body water issues, usually by starting to track their fluid and sodium and realizing holy crap, I've just been increasing this for a while. Because I'm so hungry that I just drink a bunch of diet drinks because the sugar rate I want more and I'm eating a bunch of salt because it tastes good and then it turns out I was getting body water this whole time and as soon as that flushed out, hey, at lost five pounds over the past five weeks, just like thermodynamics would have expected. Another thing is assuming a stability in digestion where there's definitely some flux going on. Some foods are harder or easier to digest and there's not a one-to-one pairing of things that go into the mouth and things that end up getting and analyzed into your tissues. And I watched this, this was so painful. My wife and I listened to this podcast. It was like a major news outlet, has like a podcast where a reporter goes out and records herself in the field and like this reporter sounded like the most valley girl vocal fry she was like, and then we went to the like a market. I was like that, damn, get to the point. In any case, she did this thing where she talked to some scientists and they're like, well, you know, like when you eat almonds, some of them made digested a much less and you poop a lot of them out versus fat if presented as an oiler or butter, so when you read the labels in its off and that's why calories and calories out is inaccurate or it doesn't work. And it's like, you know, that's a calorie label problem in a food processing problem. Those calories that didn't mean into your mouth, it means into your system. Most of what you eat in your mouth ends up in the system, a huge fraction of it, but with some foods, it's a little less and more than you would expect. So it turns out that I don't know if anyone that had trouble losing weight because they were eating nuts into no matter something, but on the margins, their R-Lity is a little idiosyncrasies you can point out, they do not refute Kiko, they just say that all calories in means calories in processed by the system, and if you're pooping them out, it doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out, like, well, yeah, except for the stuff you poop out. So theoretically there's no problem with calories and calories out. And a lot of people will miss construe body composition changes for the first law of thermodynamics violations. Let's say we'll look, your saying calories in calories out works. Explain this. I need a super keto diet tons of veggies and these meats. I start 200 pounds, and I ended at 200 pounds, except it was shredded in more jacked. Like, I got you. Did you start TRT? We all the other. I did. Did you start lifting weights six times a week, man? RPI purge her fiat, like, oh my man, a satisfy customer. Thanks so much, there. You built a bunch of muscle and burnt a bunch of fat. Your mass is still the same because you were eating at maintenance. And I go, yeah, all right. So I guess Kiko really is real, bringing in baby. We hugged it out and then I'll be in like you know when you pull the way from a hug and both you catch ice for a sec and you had the same like, Why we shouldn't kiss? I'm gonna be crazy. I'm gonna be crazy if we just made out right now. You would be crazy if we held each other just for a little second longer than society wants us to, you know? I mean, not why would we do that. So him and I end that little dynamic and it was a good man. Jesus, it was so good. Scott, you remember Frank? They don't call him Scott the video guy for nothing. He was in the video industry a long time. Exercise videos. They've got to press Scott the video guy. He's seen a lot through that lens. In any case, the TLDR of all this is people get the calories inside wrong with bad assumptions. They get the state transformations in the body wrong, muscle, and fat and vice versa and they get the out wrong because they misestimate their activity in thermogenesis and hormonal burning. Kico is as real as it gets. But in the real world of assumption and measurement, sometimes you gotta be patient to see it working out and you have to make sure that your assumptions are what they are. Be patient, plug in the right calories. If after a few weeks you don't see the changes, don't think Kico doesn't work. Just lower or raise your calories to what you think they should be to make your weight go up or down and you've got a winning formula. Hey, before I leave, when you have an opportunity to come in for that second hug and make the grand gesture do it, you can only love truly once in your life. Am I supposed to say something at the end of this video? Oh yeah. Oh yes, Scott, the video guy. Subscribe if you're want to be in our members channel because we got tons of great videos, team full rom for them. That's the thing. And the R.P. high-perature fiat. It's coming. Unless it's already here, Scott, when are we releasing this video? The app will be out. I hope you're enjoying the app. Oh, that's what I was going to say. Bullshit. Lying. See you later.

Yes, the World Health Organization, they classified, as per team, one of the main ingredients in diet soda, as a carcinogenic, class two carcinogen, the World Health Organization, the CAsian Remakes mistakes. He folks, Dr. Mike here for NSU, can you drink soda and still be healthy, no way? Wait, really? Wait, that's fine, not how. And everybody knows soda's bad for your health. Grandma knows it, great grandma knows it, shit. Great grandma when she was on the Oregon Trail, she knew soda was bad. But it's only bad if you do like four things. Here are the four things. Here's how to make soda bad for you. One is you drink regular soda, not diet soda. Diet soda is generally quite neutral to your health. Regular soda has a crap load of sugar in it, and it's maybe not ideal in those circumstances. But even that's not bad by itself. You have to do point number two as well, if you want to make soda bad for you. And you have to drink enough of it to turn you hyper coloric. That's some kind of weird chemical state where your blood boils or something. It just means you're getting in more calories than your burning. So if you drink in 10 regular Coke today, and that's a crap load of extra sugar and extra calories, and you still eat your normal diet, you'll start eating way more calories or drinking. In this case, then you're burning, and you'll start to add body fat over the long term, that will degrade your health for sure. If you're already in an unhealthy body fat percentage and unhealthy weight, and you drink enough soda to prevent weight loss, then you're not making yourself less healthy, but you're keeping yourself less healthy. So bad move. Point number three is you drink soda while also eating very poorly. When we look at people who drink soda, most of them are less healthy than people that don't, but when we look at the data a little bit more close, so we realize a lot of those people, it's not maybe the soda by itself, that's doing all the health maladies, it's the fact that they also eat like total crap. I haven't seen a whole lot of people have a sandwich and a Coca-Cola and a irregular healthy sandwich, and then that's it. I have seen a lot of people do a diet Coke or just water, a sandwich, and two apples, that's a healthy lunch. But when I see someone have a Coca-Cola or a sprite regular with their lunch, often times their lunch is like a few Twinkies or two burritos or three double cheese burgers, and then you're like icy. The soda is just a part of your world where you eat like junk all the time, that's really the big problem. And lastly, if your dentist hates you because soda's doing not good things to your teeth, then it's bad for you and that's no way to go. I think they dentists hate us all. I actually have to go get some shit done. My teeth later today. I'm not dreading it because I enjoy the calm, but I think I'm also a serial killer or something. People say they hate the dentist. I think it's great that the cleaner teeth, but they always have bad news. They're like, hey, listen, and they judge you morally. Every single time they're like, how's your flossing? You're like, oh God. Let's go to any other flossing get right, Mr. And don't calm me, Mr. You're strapped to a chair, you're like, oh my God, I can't move. A typical dentist office visit. So, how can you drink soda in still be healthy? Can those be done together? Well, yes, in four specific ways. First, just drink all or mostly diet soda. Drinking diet soda has essentially zero impacts on your health. It's more or less an inert, neutral substance. And yes, the World Health Organization, one of their cancer branches recently published a thing where they classified as pertain one of the main ingredients in diet soda as a carcinogenic, class two carcinogen. The thing is going out into the sun as a class one, cross-cinogen, drinking hot beverages, as a class two. And they made this recommendation totally in the absence of dose. Yes, if you have 1000 theoretical cans of dad coke per day, you could get some cancer. But at 20 or less, your an order of magnitude away from the amount of coke that could potentially cause any kind of problems. So within even up to 20 diet coke today, for the rest of your life, your probability of developing cancer is as close to zero as statistics can detect. So no diet soda is not actually bad for you. And yes, the World Health Organization occasionally makes mistakes. They're pretty good normally, but we all get it wrong of an out of here. I've got a ton of other videos about this. So feel free to give them a Google. Anything about my last name or Renaissance Pre-Dization and Diet Soda, tons of information. Second, if you drink regular soda, just drink it in moderation. You don't have to have 50 cans of it. That way you don't gain weight from it, or you don't maintain it on a healthy weight. If your weight is already unhealthy and very high, probably wouldn't fill those calories with regular soda. But if you're an normal act of person of a healthy weight and you're taking a flight somewhere and you order a regular coke and you drink it on the flight, nobody's dying. I'm not gonna screw up your got microbiome or some crazy make belief bullshit. You're gonna be totally fine. So a moderation is totally cool to have soda. If you're active, if you mostly eat healthy and you're of a healthy weight, and that's really point number three previewed. If you're eating well and you're active and you don't take a ton of junk food with your soda, diet soda in any amount, or even a can or bottle here of regular soda, is just not a big deal. Soda's no less unhealthy for you or no more unhealthy rather than ice cream or popsicles or something like that, but you have some ice cream here and now again because you know like, hey, ever now and again, you have ice cream. As long as not all of your meals, ice cream is not, you're a long enough that buffalo looking person, then it's totally cool. Ice cream and moderation's fine and so is even regular soda and moderation. If you don't like moderation, diet soda, you can drink, well, G up to 20 cans a day, no problem. And lastly, talk with your dentist because they may give you a sensible average cut off for how much soda you can drink in a day. Cause you can say, look, 20 cans and he looks at your teeth and he's like, nah, that ain't it. Hey, not okay. What about six? He's like, yeah, like five or six cans a day and most days, I think you're totally good to go because dentists do understand that they're supposed to care for your teeth, but they also understand because they're also human, I think that you are human being in your life. They're not gonna say like zero coffee, zero soda, zero sugar, zero everything they could say that but they know you're not gonna listen. And also, fuck that, that's a shitty life to live. What they can tell you say, look, no, five cans a soda a day, you're totally good. I think that'll be just fine. If it's worth a trade off to you, it's totally fine. Anything worth of that, it couldn't, you know, specifically with the teeth genetics that you have sir, it could go south for you quite quickly. So if they tell you that, you're done to understand there's a context in which you can drink soda, then you're totally good to go. It won't destroy your health. You'll be happy and to most importantly of all, you're going to support the profits of the Pepsi and Coca-Cola corporations, which are American institutions. God bless America. See you guys next time.

Anytime someone says activation exercise, it's not always, but mostly code for, I never went to school for the shit. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for an Assault Spear Disation. Let's talk about the most common Hollywood training mistakes that I don't want you to make. Because the Hollywood people, they have lots of money and fame. What do you have except for white walls and no one to love you? Don't wait, I'm talking about myself again. In any case, here's the thing. We've done a bunch of videos and reviews of various Hollywood celebrity training and some of it's really good and much of it is really, really terrible. Let's zone in and what kind of commonalities that I've noticed and probably you have as well with what is it that makes these sessions so goddamn terrible. I don't always, but sometimes. Again, it's always, I mean, nothing but karma glove to all the trainers and celebrities involved. We all fuck up, have an out again and then sure I should. I don't do everything perfectly. So I'm sure there's someone doing a video on me right now about how terrible my fashion sense is just kidding. No one does videos about me because I'm irrelevant. Ready? Three, two, one. I have 11 mistakes that I have noticed how I would trainers make with their clients. The first is excessively long warmups. Worming up is not complicated. You do a set of 12. You rest. You do a set of eight. You rest. You do a set of four. The way it's getting every time. Then you do your first work set, second work set, third work set, et cetera. And you're into your program. You can do a little bit of cardio, stair climber, step mill, treadmill for maybe five minutes before maybe even less and then you're totally good to go. Maybe more warming up than that is like something's wrong with you medically and you need to be with a physical therapist before you enter a personal training situation. Number two, mobility work to nowhere. A lot of these folks that trains Hollywood celebrities talk about mobility all the time. Mobility is just your ability to exert strength and various positions of flexibility. Flexibility multiplied by strength equals mobility. I don't know what the fuck this has to do with looking like Batman. I'm sure the trainers don't know either. If you're in the gym to get resolved to be stronger and cooler, just do full range of motion lifting especially accentuating that deep stretch. You get all the mobility you need from almost everything in life and then some. Overfocus on mobility is great for people that need mobility like gymnasts. And yep, that's about it. Next number three, activation exercises that are different from the working exercises. You'll see people do a plank to activate their core for squats and then just squats. First of all, as a PhD in sports science, I know I'm waving the flag of accomplishment. It's fucking achy, but bear with me. I'm not entirely sure what an activation exercise does. You know, not just saying that for Fesitius comedic effect, I actually don't know. And I am a little Fesitius because I know what it can't be and that rules out anything that it can be. Anytime someone says activation exercise, it's not always, but mostly code for I never went to school for the shit because if you bring that shit to a rigorous university setting where they teach you formal sports science, they're going to be like, what the fuck does that mean? Come up on the board and draw the diagram. When you fail to do that, because it's a make-belief term, that means nothing. People will make fun of you quietly and you'll notice that the fuck down. That's how my first year of Hogwarts went anyway. Activation exercises. Not really sure what it is they do. We call those warm-ups in sports science. They can do really well. The best warm-up slash activation exercise for the exercise is the exercise done with lighter weights. It allows you to work on the same techniques you're going to be doing, the same cadences, the same positions, activating the same identical muscles in the same patterns. So just do that. I'm not sold on the activation shit if you can't tell. Number four, unstable movements. What is the enhancement effect you get of doing a squat on a boastsuball versus on the ground? I'll tell you that effect. Something like half of your fastest-witch, most growth-prone motor units simply never turn on because when your body assesses through its nervous system, that the situation has two unstable, it won't allow you to do full force movements. It's a safety thing. If you try to jump up as high as you can on a huge sheet of ice, you will fall on your ass and fucking crack your hip open. Your body kind of knows that through its evolutionary wisdom and it just won't let you do it. So if you'd sense this instability, you actually can't jump high, which means you can't activate your leg muscles. You'll make sure a lot, which means for hypertrophy purposes, which require you activating the fuck out of every last little bit of your muscle, this is just a lot left on the table. Unstable moves through study after study after study do not allow high motor unit recruitment, full muscle activation and thus are inferior for every kind of result you can think of, that for I really want to get good at squatting on a boesu ball, which last I checked has daily dick to do with fucking anything. Next, number five, mixing in corrective and posture exercises with stimulant of exercises. Guys, pretty much the only reason Hollywood celebs go to trainer is if you can look a certain way for the role. I don't give a fuck what Batman's mobility is. I want him to have Batman pecks and Batman arms so that he can make me feel Batman safe and Batman hug me in a totally straight way. I don't want to smell his chest maybe it's some aftershave and I don't know, maybe that's smells good to me. In any case, again, sports science, PhD, physisiousness coming in, corrective, I'm not entirely sure what that means. Don't worry, most of the people advocating for it don't know either. Poster? I'm not so sure there's a dependable set of exercises that can improve posture and the best Dpts will tell you the same thing. So first of all, it's nothing to do with anything and second of all, it's not even we're not even so sure any of this is having an effect. Number six, they avoid very often the hardcore compound basics, the slab, fucking pounds of beef. They work for great grammar or for grammar. Mom did it. Why the fuck aren't you doing it? For example, they'll take something and replace it with a fancier looking version that is less stimulant. You will rarely see celebrity trainers programs to flag a deadlift for their clients. With a barbell, just like grammar used to do, big fucking hanging hamstrings. You ever see grandma that fucking, you know, portrait on your mom's desk and I can't grab my head some fucking hamstring sweep, what the fuck? And your mom's like, yeah, she was fucking stiff like a deadlift in 495 for reps, fucking with chewing tobacco in her mouth. Fucking grandma, great depression type of shit. Do we see people using with celebrity clients, single leg, cattle bell, deadlift? Yeah, it's a fine movement, but I thought celebrities are busy, needed to get in shape fast. How to use that real shit folks? You want to be jacked. Don't do the shit they do. Do hardcore shit. Next, number seven, you just don't have a very high, effort relative effort per set. Relative effort is the technical scientific term. Dr. Bradshom fell using them on others to indicate proximity to failure generally. How hard are you trying in any set relative to a hard you could try? Frazing it that way, you immediately see you once you've seen enough celebrity training videos like to kind of just go through the motions. You're going to go through the motions, you're going to get not so great results. You're going to get some, but you're not going to get the best results. Try fucking try. Here's the thing, a lot of celebrity trainers, they don't want to push their Hollywood actors, they want to get them hurt, which is totally understandable, but getting hurts, not a matter of usually going close to failure. It's more from matter of are you warming them up properly? Are they in generally good physical condition? Do they have good technique? And are you not using excessively heavy weights? To put it in another way, if you put a celebrity's 20 retnacks on the bar, they're almost certainly not going to get hurt. What they're going to get is pain, the pain of getting close to failure as like to gas the builds. That's going to hurt them in not an injury way, but it hurts their, it's offense their sensibilities. And they might not come back to train with you because they want to pussy foot around and just get a decent shave for the next role they're going to hire someone else. I totally get that. But since you're not a soft ass Hollywood celebrity, most of them are actually really good people and hardest fuck, but the ones we review a lot of times is just not their best work. So fucking try people, try. You're not going to get Galgado's body by fucking doing the send-in reps. So they've never actually seen Galgado go out. Galgado, okay, finally someone corrected me. It's Galgado, right? Because Jesus Rayleigh or whatever fucking hot is fuck. Is Rayleigh girls with soap? Mary J.K. Fogado here, but alternate universe, what up? I know like Scott, how many Hebrew words do I know? Shalom, which means hello, maybe goodbye and also like peace and a shalom, which means three and Ken, which means yes, low, which means no. And you guys, when I went to Hebrew school back when I was like seven, I had such fucking insane ADD. I don't know what the fuck was going on. That's all I remember. I know a couple prayers. And any case, Galgado don't be upset at me. You're the shit, but folks train hard. God damn it that's all I'm saying. Number eight, low per muscle per week frequency. I see female celebrities hitting their pecs once a week. Girl, your pecs are going to heal two days later with the fuck or the other five days for. Not getting big pecs, that's for damn sure. And the last few days your pecs might even recede in size a little bit. You're missing out a ton of opportunity. If you're serious about a perchery training, two to four days a week per muscle every week, that's how you fucking get the best results. Don't train your biceps once a week. Train them at least twice, maybe three times, maybe even four times. Whatever you can recover from, that's what you do. Once a week, if you're a huge pro bodybuilder, maybe take to that log and recover. Scott, what's that one girl's name? Breelarson, girl, and then take you a week to recover from the shit. Number nine. There seems to be almost no emphasis on tracking what they're doing and progressing them through it. I didn't see anyone writing anything down. I didn't see anyone use the RP, I purchased the app link in description in order to make sure that what they're doing today is a little bit harder. Next time is a little bit harder. Next time is a little bit harder. Next time is a little bit harder than D-Load. No one's writing anything down. It just seems random. It is random. I've seen a ton of trainers, coaches, or clients like that. It's not optimal practice. These are fucking Hollywood people. They need to be in shape. It's a huge matter of money, of how good of shape they're in, of how much the movie has an impact. You would think these people track. Some of them I'm sure do, some of them are great, but a lot of them just fucking just don't do it. That's just not being very sciencey and very effective. Number 10. A lot of them confuse strength work and work capacity work for actual body composition, which is to say hypertrophy training. You're going to have some of these trainers training, there are celebrity clients and they say, well, we're working on strength here, core strength. Why are you fucking kidding me? Who cares? You guys ever seen a celebrity in the movies? You're like, yeah, I wish you was stronger. How do you know everything is a fucking prop? It's just appearance. And if you want to train for appearance, you got to train like that. Don't go doing tons of strength work, thinking it's going to somehow magically enhance your appearance. Don't go doing work capacity works. And a lot of the stuff I've seen is they get two kettlebells and just walk around the gym with the shit. Oh, work on a work capacity. Work capacity for what? In sports science, work capacity is never just said by itself. It's work capacity for something that matters. What matters if you can fucking hold a bunch of kettlebells and walk around the gym, you get ready for fucking travel with your suitcases, nonsense of the highest order. You and the gym to focus on a certain thing. You train that thing. Don't worry about all the other shit. You don't have to be a fucking jack of all trades master of none. And lastly, using fads that were clearly debunked a fucking generations ago. For example, lots of celebrities are using the vibration platform. You stand on there. It goes up and down. You think things are happening and they're not. The vibration platform is amazing for acute flexibility enhancement. If you stretch while out of vibration platform, it's almost as good as stretching while your highest fuck. You're just way more flexible. How? It's the nervous system. That's the answer. What other benefits does it give you? Hmm. No way? Yeah, none at all. So fucking stop using it. It also costs a trillion dollars. Why the fuck is it still being used? I know the answer. Celebrities? They need to feel like shit is working and they need to get all the advantage. You put them on the vibration plate. You put them on the fucking boesu ball. You lie about them about some core work bullshit. Ease up on the training. Cryo chamber after they're like, oh, man, my trainer's amazing. Because they have no idea how the fuck they're categorizing the trainer whatsoever. TLDR. Taking all of this anger and frustration I have. Talking to my psychologist about it. Coming back to you guys and trying to sum it all up. Take effective movements that stimulate the muscles that you want to grow or preserve. Progress with them slowly and strength over weeks training each muscle to four times per week. You're going to get some fucking results. Fans here lifting usually gets you neutral or worse results not better results. If Hollywood trainers are babying their clients. You're not a fucking baby. Your heart is nails. Go train hardest fuck. Every Monday we release a training video. You can get an inspiration from their how hard these guys go. Whether or not you download the hypertrophy app link in description below. Get in the gym and fucking make some noise. Hollywood motherfuckers. Talk about it here. See you guys next time.

I thought misery was what? Like I signed up for. I got plenty of it. I just did a kind of an early stupid way. So for literally years, I sequenced dreamer bulks with dreamer cuts. I got up to doing an intro workout shake with 240 grams of carbs. And the thing is what I would do is I would drink that shake during the workout. It was annoying because it was like a gallon. And then I would pee for like hours after. And then I would f***ing starve for the rest of the day. Because my body's like, where are these carbs? They're supposed to give me full. Like I hate all I'm sorry. It was a stupid stupid thing. Don't just hook line in Singapore by an assumption and blindly do it for months like I did. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for our piece. Strength and check this out. Good advice is everywhere today on the internet. But when I was going up back in 1896... 1996... There was not nearly as much good advice. And nowadays, I'm pretty decent at seeing a bunch of stuff on the internet. And the vetting for what's probably a good idea and vetting out probably wouldn't isn't a good idea because you know, I'm all educated and shit, but training for 25 years blah blah blah. So it's kind of expected. But back in the day when I was younger, I didn't know nearly as much stuff. And I kind of took some advice. I sort of and I mean, sort of wish I hadn't. And the sort of is because in a long view this really helped me. Because I get to teach all of you fine folks on the internet now and in real life and college and stuff, about how to make better decisions than I did. And I will say something that... You can't be the best teacher about which decisions are a better idea than not. Really, without having made bad decisions as well as good ones. Because teaching out of theory only is cool, but doesn't go far enough. And I've been involved with the variety of lifters over the years who were either self taught and struggled a lot, did a lot of wrong stuff. Or lifters who were kind of brought into a really good system and kind of educated right up. And those lifters who were brought into a good system. I mean, from day one, they're training better than everyone else, which is awesome. It results wise it's the best. But those lifters often have time, a bit of a hard time figuring out what's wrong with someone else's workout. Or how exactly they would teach a good technique to someone because they just... They were first in, they brought it up so naturally, that it's a being a little bit tougher for them to really be able to parse out what's good and what's bad. Because if you've only ever been fed good things, just kind of assume everything's good. So what I want to do today is take a look at about seven of the things I used to do in training and dieting that were kind of like not ideal and advice I received and advice I developed. And to tell you about why they weren't ideal, how you could apply them or how you could apply the opposite of them to get the best results. So without further ado, point number zero is I did do a lot of underground jello wrestling in Myanmar and it's fun. But they put minds into the jello. Scott is not f***ed up. They like to see you explode and that was not fun, that part was terrible. So that I do regret someone's like, hey, my God, you're in Laos, it's really fun, right? Like yeah, she go across a few borders and get to Myanmar and really have fun with jello wrestling. All right, how's great advice? And I regretted. I met very many excellent Myanmar. People. It was easier when we said Burma. That was a very real Britannia comment to take that back. Okay. Number one thing that I did. I read a lot of bodybuilding magazines and a lot of books. And what I got out of that a lot of times was e-big to get big. And that kind of like, can you want to get big, man, you've got to get a huge brother. And at the time I was looking up to a lot of power lifters who were doing the getting big and kind of a yellow way. And I sure I shit that. So for literally years, I see quince dreamer bulks with dreamer cuts. I'll talk about the dreamer cuts in a second because that's also what I think I did wrong. The dreamer bulks were like gaining a pound of weight per week. Sometimes two pounds of weight per week. Four. No. I don't know. Eight to twelve weeks at a time. With that did was add it up. Cloth of fat tissue stretched my skin screwed up my physique. Should I had to get surgery for recently to figure out? And it didn't add nearly as much muscles I would have expected. And it was just really not good for my health. And also I ended up getting so winded from exercise because I was so much fatter so quickly that I wasn't even able to do high-repe work without something else like my lower back beat limiting factor. Maybe miserable because my calves were so low and lower back were swollen and walking around. This is priestairides by the way, which is even worse on steroids. And so it ends up being like dreamer bulks. It's a really cool idea. How about I get huge and finally girls will like me. But in reality, bulking much slower is what I would recommend. And I was just wrong about this. I wasn't like I invented this idea. I can't get credit for that. But I really got sucked into that big, big idea. And there's the good idea there is you have to gain weight over time. But the best idea is gaining like half a pound per week for 12 weeks. And then dieting off all the fat. And then repeating that is a way, way, way better than what I did, which was gained like I don't know 18 pounds of mostly fat. And then spend a long time dieting it off. But not too long because I did this number two mistake shitty advice again that I took. My men took for myself after that is radically fast cutting. Here's the thing about cutting. When you lose fat in the process of gaining and losing cycles. The fat loss isn't like to be some cool exotic looking thing at the end. It's just to get rid of the fat you gained during the gain phase. And you kind of intuitively want to do that as fast as possible because what do you want to do? You want to get back right into bulking as soon as you can. So what I would do is I was losing at least 1% of my body weight per week on pretty much every cup that I did. Which means in the food came down a ton, which means the energy and training came down a ton, which means I probably lost a little bit of muscle on most of these cuts regained it on the bulks. And then ended up just being this thing where I was suffering a ton on the bulk from stuffing myself and being super unhealthy and feeling and looking like shit. And then suffering a ton on the cuts because it's way too few calories to feel really good training, good cognitive performance, good daily energy, good sleep, and then I would just zigzag like this. And the good news is over the course of the long term, the zigzag ended up being really good and I got jacked and leaner all that stuff. But if I was to go back, it would be the same zigzag, but less up and less down little minis zigzags and up straining your physiology much less. And I'm giving you the same or better long term results for muscle gain and fat loss and don't make the whole process nearly as miserable, but I thought misery was what like I signed up for. I got plenty of it. I just did a kind of an early stupid way. In addition to, so error number three and number four are sub-ears of stupid cutting practices. One of these sub-ears number three is that I would regularly do no carb diets for cutting. One thing I noticed was on a no carb or very low carb diet, basically keto, I would do that all the time back in the day for cutting. I would end up having very low hunger, which was good for me. Keto was always good for me, like after why I just don't feel like eating anymore, then proteins and fats don't really get you excited. But it robbed me of psychological energy and physical energy and pumps and probably quite a bit of muscle as well. My training went to a completely different standard, a lower standard. When I started dieting more rationally and having moderate carbohydrates in the diet, my results just got way, way, way better. But I was a maximalist back in the day, in some ways, I still am. Carbs have calories in them, that I don't need, and I was big in the keto space, I was consuming a lot of that literature, I was quite enthused with it. So I was like, let's just get them down to zero and go. And it worked. But again, a lot of misery for concomitantly not so impressive results. Number four point that I also did, which kind of sucked, was I would, at the end of cuts in which I wanted to get much leaner and for clients I was coaching, believe it or not, and bodybuilding have never competed in bodybuilding myself at the time. Yay. I would have people do what I called Palombo days, named after Dave Palombo, who was big fan of the pretty radical cutting, big fan of low carb. And at the time, I was a big fan of Dave, he's a great, he's a great person. I don't agree with him, I don't agree with him, I don't agree with him, everything, that's okay, no big deal. And he has these things that in an emergency situation are really, really great, called Palombo days. And that's basically when you do just protein and veggies for every single one of your meals that day. If you have really to get a shape fast, you really have to catch up behind schedule on a show prep. They wanted a couple of Palombo days or something I think Chrissoceto called going nuclear, like down to the very core of just protein and veg, is effective. I mean, you could have a day where you eat 1,200 calories, but you have enough protein. Have a, is that compute, while you just don't eat really much of anything else except for like 20 trace grams of carbohydrates from the veggies. And so I would do these days when prescribing to clients, everyone hated them, they were miserable. I hated them when I did them, they sure have shit got you to lose weight really, really fast, but it's very, very miserable. I'm not saying these are bad things, I just overuse them like crazy. So a modern approach with modern carbohydrates and not having to do as many low carb law fat days is a really good thing. I thought they were magical, the more I've sprinkled in, the better things would get, and you get too much of this exacting bullshit. But hold on, this exacting gets better. After a while, and I got a little bit more sciencey, the nutrient timing stuff started coming out. I was a very enthusiast about anything that had a proposed structure to it. When someone said, this is how you should do things, I was a very, very interested in it. And so this is a similar thing to like Mike Menser, Fan Worship. Mike Menser has a lot of fans. And one of the reasons is he gives definitive answers. He gives a system. One set is all you need to total failure. That idea that there's something definitive and it's not like, well, you could do a little of this, you could do a little of that. Bring it in a certain kind of person. I was for sure that kind of person. So when I got into the workout window nutrition stuff, which is greatly overvalued by the way, I was like, okay, let's take this experiment to the moon. So when I started doing was pushing more and more of my carbohydrates into my workout window, myself and a few of my friends got blessed their souls. And my PhD program tried to consume the vast majority of carbohydrates around the workout window, which means what? At the very extremes, what I was doing was having protein and, protein was 50 grams of protein or something in a shake. And then another carbohydrate shake with it. Then electrolytes, lots of fluids and a ton of carbs, usually through gay to gay to gay to gay to a extra power. I got up to doing an intro workout shake with 240 grams of carbs. It's got laugh. So crazy, right? And the thing is what I would do is I would drink that shake during the workout. It was annoying because it was like a gallon. And then I would pee for like hours after and then I would stard for the rest of the day because my body's like, where are these carbs are supposed to give me full? I ate all I'm sorry. And so it turned out that the marginal and a benefit for anti-contableness and anableness and preventing muscle loss and growing muscle from having that many carbs in a workout window is like that. That point zero. And 140 grams of carbs of Rokashake would have done 95% of that and 100 grams of it would have done 100% of that. That when I was really doing was making myself uncomfortable during the workout. And uncomfortable rest of the day because I was so goddamn hungry because I'd stacked all my carbs and calories in with highly, highly-glysemic carbs that basically don't fill you hardly at all. It was a stupid, stupid thing. I would not recommend doing it. It turns out nowadays we know that nutrient timing isn't the super big deal. A little bit more carbs around your workouts totally cool, but we do mean a little bit more. And that post workout window, if you have a ton of rice or pasta or bread or something like that, that's really smart. But during the actual workout because we make a ton of carbs, it's really just backwards. Most of them just don't even get into bloodstream yet. They kind of stack up and wait and all that stuff. And the anabolic effect just not there. So a lot of excitement over a whole lot of nothing. And yep, just a lot of waste of time. However, I was not done wasting time. Years later, I got into really trying to push the optimum on macronutrient and take as far as proteins related to carbs related to fats. Proteins went squared away. Can we do what that was? But then we had this thing where carbs have like all kinds of kind of glucose, insulin, meat, and anabolic benefits. And they fill up your glycogen, which makes you more anabolic. And so carbs are really good for muscle growth. And you look at fats and you mostly look at literature. And it's like if fats are good, they're essential. But as long as you have like a certain amount, then you're good to go. You're taking exagital steroids or testosterone. Like I was at the time, you just didn't even need as many fats to do with those hormonal things because your hormones come from a needle. So myself and a few of my friends were pushing the pace on how much carbohydrates we could eat with how low fat we could eat at the same time. We thought it was going to turn us into mega bodybuilders. And we were already pretty jacked. But it didn't do a whole lot of anything except make us very, very inconvenienced because you can't eat really almost any normal food anymore. I was eating multiple days of 700 grams of carbohydrates with 30 or fewer grams of fat. Scott, how do you think that's possible? Sure. You can't have oatmeal. Yeah, that's true. So at that point, it's purely incredibly meats, no oils, some veggies, dry carbs, and that's kind of it like rice or whatever. Pasta, maybe. And lots of fluid carbs and stuff around the workout. It was cool, good, good pumps, but it turns out much of the literature that's come out since then. It's shown that anything between moderate carbs and moderate fats to high carbs and lower fats, like in my case, not 30, but 80 grams of fats, is really good. If you start to get lower carbs and higher fats, there's some data to suggest that muscle growth doesn't occur as well by a little bit of a margin. If you go ultra high carb in a really low fats, you're at least suffering for no reason at all. If you're not on steroids, your testosterone's too low and you're actually getting like not as good results. So anything between like 50, 50 fats carbs calories wise outside of the protein, and you know, like 70% carbs, 30% fats calories wise, is really, really, really good. The rest of it too extreme. It doesn't work in practical sense. It's annoying as fuck, and it just doesn't yield results. If I got way more notably jacked, eating 700 grams of carbs and 30 grams of fat, I would probably continue to do that, so it just didn't play out like that. So no big deal. The last thing point number seven, seven, five plus two. I knew that. I knew that. I guessed it before you did. Brazilian jujitsu for cardio was my big idea. I was like tired of walking and getting all my steps for cardio, and I was like, I'm going to do jujitsu, and I plan to do it anyway, and it's going to burn a lot of fat. And it did, but it also cost me like, I don't know, the use of like every other month I had another joint that wouldn't work. Eventually, that got better, but jujitsu beats you up for teags you injures you like almost nothing else because it's a combat sport. And so a lot of people have asked since like, hey man, I'm thinking to pick about jujitsu for bodybuilding kind of cardio, and I'm always like, I tried that. It was stupid. Don't do me. Don't do my stupid advice. Just think about it. Okay, do I really want combat sport or do I really want bodybuilding and really lean heavily to one of the other? If you do jujitsu with bodybuilding, do it slow, do it easy, do it for technique mastery, flow rolling only, until you really, or ready to say okay, I'm it's okay. If I get hurt a little bit, if it's okay, I get fatigued a little bit again. Nothing about it building coming up. I'm really going to focus on jujitsu. The two don't play well together. Nothing really plays well with jujitsu because it'll, you up because that's a whole sport. It's literally trying to people up. So my big conclusions from all these things guys are as follows. Moderate pace on dieting up and down. Half a pound a week up, half a pound to a pound a week down, in tissue, not one percent, for most people for looking your best. Moderate macros. No crazy high carbs, super low fats. No crazy high fats on ultra low carbs. Something in the middle bias to one of the other a little bit, but nothing crazy. Steps for cardio, daily steps, 10,000 daily steps is amazing. Jiu-Jitsu is awesome in its own right, but not exactly good for bodybuilding cardio because it'll, you up. Those things have given me the best results and you might be able to benefit from some more extreme approaches, but remember, try them at a modest level first, see how you're feeling it out and go from there. Don't just hook line and sing or buy into some shit and blindly do it for months like I did. You could do that, think you could go poorly for you and you're being fat and alone when you're 40. That's hypothetical though because I'm not that fat. See you guys next time.

You, you want huge delts, which you keep doing the same terrible exercises that a lot of other people are doing for delts, that at the best case scenario, just aren't ideal in the worst case, you're just a damn waste of time. We're going to show you what they are, make sure you're not doing them, and show you how to either modify them, or use entirely different exercises that are way better, so you can finally have freaky delts, and get the attention you need. Let's go get big delts. The standing barbell shoulder press is an amazing shoulder exercise, especially for your front delts, and even a little bit for your side delts. But it is often bastardized in a terrible way, with people doing a push press version of it, which requires leg drive, which is a thing inherently wrong with that just makes you use more weight for the same exact shoulder scenario, and people half-wrap it in that middle range. Really just kind of peel it out of a power rack and do some moving around and call it their shoulder press PR. It's cool for vibes and lets you use a lot of weight, but there are way, way better ways to still do a standing shoulder press and get way more out of it for delgrow. Instead of doing all that wacky stuff using leg drive like crazy in a rear partial range of motion, conventional standing barbell shoulder presses are really intense, touching all the way down to your clavicles, keeping the bar very close to your face as you pull your chin back, and as soon as the bar crosses over your forehead, push your forehead in your entire body forward, lock the weight out up and behind you that engages the side delts a little bit, and allows you to lift the most weight in a very well organized manner that minimizes injuries, maximizes hypertrophy. After you've done your set of that, if you so choose, you can add a superset on top with a few push presses using leg drive to take your shoulders even further beyond failure, then they typically would go. That combo right there is absolutely better than using a ton of weight with a real crap range of motion, she also can feel good about yourself temporarily and trust me. Take it for me a person who's never felt good about themselves, it's overrated. That's just sad at this point. This is just a workout, it's warfare, the weights don't care how heavy they feel, and the moment you want to quit is a moment the real war begins. The one arm at a time, swinging, front raise with dumbbells, is a goaded exercise for looking like you train. It's supposed to hit the shoulders, but it really only hits the front delt, and it doesn't hit the front delt on the stretch position, a ton and hits it in the most contracted position. Also, the swinging makes the reps and strength hard to track, and encourages you to use other muscles of the body and thus enhance systemic fatigue for basically no reason. The cool thing is though, it's a really fun movement to do because you get to swing around a lot, you get to pretend you're your favorite 1990s pro bodybuilder, and look in the mirror while your videographer pans around in grainy 1994 style video. This is not a movement that is remotely efficient and not the most effective movement to make your front delts bigger. There are movements that are similar that are still front raises that can make your front delts absolutely bigger and even hit your side delts as well. Instead of doing the one arm at a time swinging front dumbbell raise, what you can do is get on an incline bench and do dumbbells. With essentially your pinkies pointed up as high as you can, you can still go out to the front. Largely hits your front delt at a time, but it puts a lot more emphasis on the stretch position which grows more muscle. It's two arms at a time so it saves you a bunch of time and because your pointed up pinkies up, it actually recruits your side delts a ton more and remember side delts are the parts of your delts that give you that bubbly look and make you look wider in shape. Front delts don't have that effect on your physique. So that exercise is superior to the swing front one at a time dumbbell raise and almost every respect except one. It absolutely fails the vibe test of being hardcore-pilled and 90s bodybuilder goded. Some things you're just going to have to trade off for getting bigger delts. Okay, not the ideal shoulder move is a standing dumbbell internal and external rotation. Why is this bad? Because you see gravity only points up and down, not side to side, not front to back. So when you are doing internal and external shoulder rotations to warm up, all those structures and the shoulders, that's a good thing. And that's totally fine to do especially if you have a history of shoulder joint injury. But if you're doing it standing up, which like half the people of the gym seem to do, literally applies nominal forces to the shoulder. Stop doing it. Here's what to do instead. Instead of standing for internal and external rotations, you can lie down on a bench or you can do it with cables. In that case you get all of the benefits of this awesome shoulder warm up. But literally you get the benefits because the forces actually apply to where they're supposed to go. Instead of you standing there and pretending to do internal external rotations against force, but really you're just holding a dumbbell that's only difficult to hold up and down and not in internal and external rotation directions that you want to apply the forces. So on a cable or lying down on a bench, this is totally good to go and absolutely my recommendation. Guys, for a lot of this shoulder training, what ends up happening is three mistakes are made. Maybe it mistakes are a little bit of an exaggeration for some of these, but tendencies that make shoulder training not nearly as ideal. Let me talk about all three and how you can obviate them. The first mistake that's made is oftentimes cutting the range of motion substantially and cutting it away from the deep stretch, when which training is most productive for hypertrophy. So instead of doing mid range of motion shoulder press stuff, try to think about getting as deep of a stretch as you can in every single movement, especially ones with a forces aligned and then you're really really good to go. That is a big fix that'll let you use less weight, save your joints, and make you even more jack. Another problem is a lot of folks will use movements and use them in some ways that involve other muscles and other motions that don't really have much to do with the shoulder without really any enhance. The one arm at a time front raise that we're doing, yeah sure it involves the shoulders plenty of the front delts really, but what ends up happening is you end up swinging your body around just to use more weight. If you just sat down or stood stationary and did two arms at the same time, you would use less momentum, use less weight, accumulate less fatigue, and get all the benefits with just the same. A lot of times this happens in the shoulder press which turns into a push press with leg drive, nothing wrong with a dedicated planned push press, but if you call your push press the shoulder press instead and pretend that it's the same thing, you're going to be in for a lot of fatigue accumulation and using wave of your loads that you ever have to have never shot a big load in my life. I've shot plenty of small ones. The other mistake that people tend to make in many cases of shoulder training is to mistake front deltraining for shoulder training. Remember, the side delts get a lot of work from almost nothing that you do for upper body, while the rear delts get a ton of work through every single back movement that you do, and the front delts get amazing work for every single chest movement that you do that requires pressing of any kind. Side delts also visually stick out to your sides, and I know that sounds crazy, but it really is true. And so if you want that nasty Jared feather, IFBB pro or max drasny, the editor boy, the IFBB, the great IFBB bro, kind of side delt vibe, you're going to want bigger side delts. That's what gives you width. The thing is a lot of pressing, a lot of front raises are cool, they're fun, you can use a lot of weight, but it really doesn't hit your side delt, nearly as much as varieties of lateral raises, be they with cables, be they with dumbbells, or whatever else in implement you're using. The reality of shoulder training to get bigger shoulders, especially ones that give you that awesome look, is that you're going to have to train your side delts a lot, and a lot of times that's not glorious training. And listen, sucks, I know, but that's what gets you bigger shoulders. Give some thought to those sort of mistakes, stay away from making them, and I'll say one more, though this one is a bit more nuanced, a little bonus round. Try to pick movements that are very difficult at that bottom end stretch range of motion. You can potentially even try some exerciseer in which you cross the body with laterals, but you have to do them with cables that doesn't mean lateral raises with dumbbells are a bad thing. But if you have a shoulder exercise like the dumbbell front raise, and you have an exercise alternatively that you can do, that is the cross body side delt lateral raise, especially from a pin that's hip height. Man, that's probably just going to be a better exercise than those cases. If you have to choose, choose the exercises that develop a ton of tension at the bottom, that actually target your side delts, don't use unnecessary muscles and movements, and that make sure to get a nice deep stretch of big range of motion. If you stick to those, there's less glory, but more shoulder size. They really have to ask yourself the question, what's more important? Glorious shoulder size, and that's a trick question, because once you get big enough shoulders, you're just glorious, see you win both. The behind the neck press is often bastardized beyond all recognition, and that's the bad way to do it that I want you to avoid. Going in the mid range, barely coming down at all, using a ton of weight, it really just turns into a f***er exercise in which you try to see how much you can be behind the neck press, which just ends in either nothing, because not much happens to your muscles, or disaster when your shoulders just snap right off of your body. There are better ways to do the behind the neck press, and, in a little preview of what we're going to talk about next, alternative exercises if you can't do that exercise effect. If you're going to do the behind the neck press, try to come all the way down to touch the very bottom part of your neck, pause for a second, and then come all the way back up. This allows awesome hypertrophy from that deep stretch, and is nice and safe, because you're always in control and movement all the time. If you do the behind the neck press more dynamically, you're probably going to be fine, but you could snap your shit up. If you're saying, look Mike, I can't go that low, my shoulder hurts, super uncomfortable, no worries, just switch to the seated barbell shoulder press to the front, and touch all the way down to your clavicles. And if you can't adjust your grip in and out to find whatever position is comfortable for you, that is going to get you all those awesome benefits of shoulder pressing, but without pretty much any of the downsides. Oh, hey guys, sorry, I was just leaning on that, no. The incline dumbbell shoulder press, the incline dumbbell shoulder press, is a movement that is a combination of movements, that's why I'm calling you the incline dumbbell shoulder press. It's technically a dumbbell shoulder press or a dumbbell seated shoulder press. The problem with it is most people do it, and what ends up being a high incline, they take a very big arch. Sometimes they're actually on an incline bench, not straight up and down, and what they'll do is they'll partial-romb that middle. That means you can shoulder press the 90s or the 110s, but the reality is that for the amount of fatigue you impose on your nervous system, on your joints, the amount of annoyance you have to have lug in those dumbbells up there, you don't get nearly as good of a stimulus as you may think. And so yeah, it's a shoulder press all right, but there are way more efficient and effective ways to do the dumbbell shoulder press, then I'm going to show you in just a bit. In the stead of doing all that nonsense, which is cool for vibes, what you can do is to acetyde dumbbell shoulder press properly. That means super upright torso, no leaning back. You can still arch your upper back, but don't lean back all the way because it gets your upper chest involved, it will let you use more weight, but you don't want to do that. And then you're going to take the dumbbells and position them all the way to the outside of your delts, trying to touch the bottom inner part of that dumbbell to the top part of your bicep, all the way below your front belt. That is going to be a massive mass of stretch and strain on your front delts, even hits the side delts just a little bit. And when you press up, don't press up and forward, press up and back, which will accruet your side delts a bit more and get to bigger traps. And there's a bad thing about getting traps that are too big. It's just kidding, there is no problem ever with traps that are too big. In fact, two big of traps are not a thing. Try this exercise, it's going to work out much better for you. Yes, you can't lift as much weight, but you get bigger muscles, less joint pain, it's a huge win. The incline face down y-rays is a fine movement, good range of motion, great for the freedom of motion of the shoulder joint, it's a unique angle. The problem is that that movement is maximally difficult at the top or had particularly happens the least, and pretty much has no force applied to it at the bottom where ideally you would apply the most force for the most growth. That's why it's not an ideal movement and we have a kind of interesting replacement for it. Since we already used the incline y-rays for another exercise replacement, what we can do is essentially a barbell low incline front raise. This allows you to experience maximum tension at the bottom, still get a decent stretch and come all the way up for that awesome full range of motion, but you get that. Much tougher experience at the bottom, much easier at the top, it's a barbell alternative, it's incredibly safe because if you bail, just put the barbell line of thighs, and you're good to go. All the benefits, not on the downsides. Folks, that's all I have for you for today. Huge thanks to the added team and Max the editor boy for stepping in and doing some shoulder exercises. Remember, the benefit of having big side delts extends to having an awkward time sleeping, walking through doors, getting refitted for suit coats, and the glory of having massive side delts, which counterbalances all of those go go into the world and have big shoulders. Tell him, Dr. Mike Sanya.

We have an announcement. Theoretically, we may have stumbled upon the world's best chest of exercise. Hey folks, I'm Dr. Mike, who's your telpharanosontopriorization. And technically, for stronger by science, this is Milo Wolfe. That's me. You're a coach for SBS? I'm a coach for my own company, for SBS. Oh, you've got your own company. My word. Milo is The world expert on a range of motion in training. And that's not an exaggeration because he really is. You are the author of the most preeminent review and your entire doctoral work is essentially on range of motion in training. That's correct. We have an announcement. Theoretically, we may have stumbled upon the world's best chest exercise. Because we are both scientists, we have to make a caveat. Because of individual differences. Because of variation, you can't actually have a world's best anything exercise. Why? An amazing exercise that theoretically checks all the landmarks could for one person be fucking beautiful. And could for another just hurt their shoulders. And or just not give them a big pump or big soreness or big progression or anything. And all of a sudden you're like, okay, well, the theory is theory, but it doesn't factor work. Like if someone says, this is the best restaurant in the world. You can take 100 people to a day level. You can take one guy to it and he's like, I didn't like it. You're like, what are you going to tell them? They're supposed to like it? All right, whatever. It's not for a friend. Variation. Even if you have a king shit exercise. Stainless is real. And at some point nine months into doing an exercise, you're like, you know what? Fuck this. Anything else will be better at this point. Do you try that anything else? It gives you less joint pain irritation, less psychological. I don't want to do this anymore. Bigger pumps, more soreness for less volume. And all of a sudden, even if it's just for a few weeks or a few months, that different exercise is better. There is an analogy to this that I probably shouldn't say, but I'll say anyway, when you don't say in, you do them with the same girl for a long time. Anything else is better. Watermelon, coal cut in it. The world's best chest exercise with the nuanced context that the director of the Yes, of course, there's always nuance. My proposal. And I want to see how my mylo takes to it. Canberd bar bench press. Here are the advantages. Number one, it puts you in an accentuated loaded stretched position, which your research has leaned is probably the most hyper-trophic. Big green chalk mark. Yes, that's a far so good. Second, this imponent allows you this stability, loadability, and small progressive element of a barbell. You can put two and a half pounds on there. You can put five. You can put ten. You have the ability to make it universal for all humans and body sizes, because if you say a machine is the best, you get someone who's five foot one on there, like your girlfriend or whatever, and she's like, I can't use this. And you're like, oh god, damn it. You put someone who's six three on there, and they're like, I can't use this. You're like, okay, fuck, but for most people, the camper bar bench really just accommodates almost everyone unless you're so big. You can't fit through the camper. Only shit. Why the hell are you lifting? You want already. It's got all those benefits. And the barbell tends to be a relatively stable thing with dumbbells. There are some instability that may be a little bit less hypertrophic, because you spend time stabilizing all the research we have on both eyeballs and standing on that. The hypertrophy is really dog shit, because you're just bouncing. Not the same thing with dumbbells, but with a barbell man, you track and you're good to go. So far so good. So far so good. And then lastly, we have the idea that for machines, any time you have a machine, the eccentric is a little bit reduced because of the friction. But the friction is added to the concentric, which means the ratio of concentric eccentric is concentric loading is a bit higher fractionally the eccentric. But from theoretical work, we understand that eccentric is probably really grows a lot of muscle. Maybe a little bit more than concentric, even if it's tied, probably a little bit more in the eccentric realm. So because it's a barbell freeweight movement, you get all the eccentric loading. Is there a chest exercise you can think of that on those or other metrics is theoretically hypothetically superior to the cambered barbench? What do you think? The closest I can get, and again, caveat of individualization, a lot of people, for example, the final exercise that's going to show the shoulders would be the double fly. Yes, double fly is relatively stable, not a stable as the bench, relatively loadable, though you have to grab some points, which is totally fine. And adding reps, I was on that study. I'm sure it felt that about repetition, it works totally great. It's an isolation movement, so it's not compound movement, which isn't a dig at it. But chest is fine for chest, it's totally fine. So the cambered barbench press, I can make another dig at it. It is really the golden fleece. But oh God, damn it, everyone has dumbbells to do presses and flies with. With a fucker, you're going to get a cambered bar. My best recommendation is if you're serious about lifting, honestly, the thing costs like 250 bucks, you can just fucking get a ship to you. As far as barbells go, that's fucking cheap. And if you don't have 250 dollars, just save like $25 a month for 10 months. And then you have 250 dollars. Anytime people say, I don't have that kind of money, I'm like, you just don't want to save money, which is totally cool. But because I'm Jewish, it's not totally cool. And it's an athlete to me and it fends me. If you can't save money, what are you doing? Being that you're Austrian and I'm Jewish, you have a bit of a history, they're don't we? A little bit. Yeah, it's all love. Now, back then, I'm saying, back then, they didn't want me. Now I'm hot, they all want me. So cambered barbench, if you have access to it, if you can talk to Jim owner to buy you one, or if you can get a buyer yourself, big tip is control, any centric. If you can get all the way down amazing, if you can't know where it's just go as deep as you can, pause for one or two seconds at the bottom and makes the exercise safe, it makes the exercise super effective because you spend even more time pulling your muscles into bits. Lockout doesn't have to be full, you can get just to both parallel or something like that. And then come back down or you can do a full lockout or problem. The cambered barbench has a double sticking point. It's really weird. Stick here and then you stick here again. It's the weirdest thing in the world. It's the so challenging. And my last recommendation is load and sets. Take your normal bench press weight, cut it at least in half. Do the normal sets you do for chest, cut those also in half because this is such a stimulative movement and so challenging. It'll fuck you up with almost nothing. Do not put your regular bench press weight on there. As soon as you get down to the bottom, you're like, oh, we should. It's going to be terrible. Lastly. If you really had to think it through. Have you ever considered going to art school in Austria? Yes. And what kept you from art school in Austria? I'm going to get myself cancelled if we keep going down this joke. Because I think I'm allowed to make Jewish jokes, but you never can tell can you. I'm pissed realin' it. And it's a lollipop. Folks, I've talked myself into a whole bunch of nonsense as usual. My lollipop has been more than happy. If people are curious about your body of work, how about your body in general, where can they find you? You can find me on Instagram at Wolfcoach. That's my last name Wolf. Do you actually coach wolves? I don't. You should get into it. I didn't just pick an animal either. It's a national last name. Right. It's just crimps. You have tools inside your A-side. And what are they doing? One of those me, I'm enjoying myself. And the other one is whatever wolf you personally have. Great. Just excellent. At Wolfcoach on Instagram, my wife on YouTube. In my actual body of work, by which I'm even in my studies, that would be, if you go with my little wolf research aid, you'll find it. Excellent. Excellent. Folks, look into that. And my little huge pleasure having you on the channel. Thank you, sir. Try the camera of interest. See you guys next time. Peace. What do you get when PhD sports scientists collaborate with pro body builders? The most effective muscle growth training I've ever made. Get yours now.

We've spoken about this some safer use model. There's certainly no safe way to use PDs in the manner by which that we use them for the outcomes that we're going for. It's impossible, you know, and we all know the bodybuilding is a long game. I think maybe if I had to characterize it, as anything, it'd be still getting you to the same place, but reducing some risk and negative health costs along the way. Joe Jeffrey, who is he daddy and what does he do? No, I promise I would say that at some point. Hopefully it's funny, guys. Joe, who are you? And why are the hell are you on this podcast? Well, firstly, thank you very much for having me, Mike. I appreciate it. We are, we took the long trip to come out, so it's certainly worth it. As is Mike Wright, police said, my name is Joe Jeffrey. In one line, for Z coach, actually in one month, it's been a decade. Wow. Yeah, decade of coaching competitors. So that's still my main gig. I still want to do most of the time. We also have for Z collective the app. What all of our educational stuff goes on, I run that with Mike's strong. I feel like this is terrible already. Yeah, it's awful. You're the fucking year of the worst guess we ever had. So, um, yeah, you're one of my top go two guys and one of the worst top go two guys. And by one, I mean, one of two and really just, pretty much the best at everything related to this entire field. Yeah, you're not here by accident. Where is your accent from? You from Ohio or something? I am from England. I'm from the Midlands, specifically, no fountain. No of Ampton. No fountain. Now, what kind of lot are you folk over there? What kind of lot? Yeah, that's right. I said it was something so like, you know, like, are you a misjurvists, rabble routers or you criminally prone? How much of picky blinders is true? The people want to know. No way far away from picky blinders town. Oh, shit. That's a Birmingham. So I come and mandate that we go over this. He seems to be your camera man, just a bit rough guy. I think. Well, he's a juicist who wipe them. Oh, oh, one stripe. Yeah. I knew I saw something in his eyes. Yeah. I'm a wipe up. That's all. Oh, yeah, you're doing the jitzing. Yeah. I mean to strike wipe though. I'm amazing. I'm amazing. Yeah, I've been training for about a year. Very good. Yeah. We got to maybe get a roll while he's. I did actually bring a couple of rashguards. I'm amazing. Yeah. Let's do it. You've got a, you've got Matt Seren. You've got a jeep to have Matt's in the room right over there. Okay. Yeah. I'm ready to get some of you guys. Oh, please. I'm mostly useless. We were talking about that on the way over here. Like, be like rollin with a boulder. It's strange. I think it's worth me. Yeah. A boulder that fights a laden has terrible, like smell. Yeah, that's not a special weapon. Yeah. It's a very close to you, but you don't want him close to you. Yeah. I certainly never rolled with anybody that is remotely your shape. No way. Well, no, because you're rolled with like bigger guys. Yeah. But like, you know, if you ever rolled with somebody so large that you can't touch your knees to the floor when you're mountain. Yes. Yeah. So he didn't ultra have he. So that's the way guys. Yeah. But I've never rolled with a muscular person. Yeah. You know, James might be the most muscular person. Yeah. He's a little jacked. He's pretty changed. X men's physique competitor. And from Bramdenham, which is from Peaky Blind, is that something like that? Nothing. Have you been scouting upset yet? Have you visited Birmingham when you know, no, we go to the only place in England that matters. Well, London leads me leads and getting London. I've never minted leads. Now, how dare you? There's tons of great people from leads like. And I can't think of this exactly. Anyways, um, you are known for many things. One of them is having an eclectic. Ordination of pastries. Yes. You can do your psychological analysis. Very hireable person. Oh, yeah. Front facing customer job. Yeah. A Walmart store representative. But outside of that, you dabble in something called the safer use model of enhancement. What is the safer use model? How does that make sense? Why are you a proponent? What are the other ways people go about taking drugs, putting them in the radius to try to make the muscles bigger? Yeah, we've spoken about this term quite a bit. This safer use model. And I don't know, I'm certainly not the first person to use that phrase. And I don't know if I would because of what it sort of turned into. What do you prefer? And maybe it's hard to say, maybe harm reduction, harm reduction. Yeah, because when people hear the words safer use model, I think they infers safe. If they don't have the ER at the end. Yeah. So there's certainly no safe way to use PDs in the manner by which that we use them for the outcomes that we're going for. It's impossible. You know, there is absolutely a deleterious cost no matter what way you go about it. If you're going to use super physiological levels of any pharmaceutical medication, you can expect that there's going to be a deleterious health cost. But safer, yes, it does make sense. But I think there was just industry issues with people using that terminology. And I think it also alongside it inferemate safe. I think it also, in my experience, turned a lot of people off to the message. Because we're outcomes driven before anything else. Getting jacked as the point. Yeah. And I think maybe if I had to characterize it as anything, it would be still getting you to the same place that you're trying to get to. But reducing some risk and negative health costs along the way. Sure. You know, rather than I think people here say for use model and they think maybe TRT dad, right, which might be like 300 million times. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, you know, that's not the only thing you guys do. No, no. Matt Handel's most of that kind of stuff. You know, if you look at my cohort of clients, I'll compare to those. The majority of them pros, people on national stage or limpious stage, whatever stage. It's not like drug models for people that don't really want to do the thing properly. Right. It's more so maybe taking what we know works because it's not hard to generate a works model. You know, taking enough of anything for enough stuff. Right. It's going to work. Yeah. And many times it's not even about reducing exposure to let let's say if we characterize that as total milligrams. If somebody is running two grams of antibiotics, the safer use model may not be taking less at all. It may be just restructuring a stack design to be more favorable to support health outcomes as compared to whatever it was that they were doing with significant reliance on and deliveries or something like that. Yeah, I guess the way I can caricature it is the following at any given total dose and thus total effect on your body of like steroid and other performance and answering drug intake. We can arrange the drugs and choose the specific drugs to balance well with each other such that even though the doses are the same and the outcome on the physique is very similar. Some of these arrangements promote less of a degradation of psychological health and physical health, some substantially less. And some are even arrangeable in ways that are synergistic. And so you can actually take a little bit less total stuff and get the same results you would have with a bit more total stuff, but way less significant harm and thus that only is the harm better being lower just because you probably don't want to die or have really bad health really soon. But also because and this is something I learned from mentor of mine, Bratara Chavez, someone who does something similar to what you do is it's not a trade off of health versus performance. Health is the underpinning of performance. If you're truly in bad health, you can sort of forget about pushing performance. So is that a fair summarization of what sort of the goals are with your approach? Yeah, I think you summarized the sort of key indicators of what most people would see the the safe use model as well. Maybe what we would want to sort of quote unquote prescribe the people pay attention to. Yeah, whether it be stacked design of hydrogen use between specific amount of and justane, DST derivatives maybe 19 or endrogens, various metabolic pathways. It's want to say metabolic pathways. You know, we're looking at more things than just the endrogens receptor rate, growth for moon, insulin, maybe, PPAR, maybe met forming things like that. Because it seems and to provide clarity on this, we don't know for sure because there's no good long term data wrong. Polypharmacy using body builders, you know, it it seems from anecdote and just speaking mechanistically about the pharmacology that turning up a single dial aggressively appears to lead to let's say for the same total net anibalism, for example, turning up one dial aggressively versus multiple dials modestly for the same total net anabolic outcome appears to lead to more favorable health outcomes for the same to protein accretion you can share for the same level of getting jacked. On that note, what are your general approaches to steroid use types, dosages and then so on? Like let's say someone comes up to you and they say, I'm willing to take one gram of gear, a thousand milligrams of steroids per week, be they some combination of oral and injectable, be they any kind of steroid and what I want to do, they they say is I just want to take the next X, Y, Z, 16 weeks or something to grow high quality muscle in a slight color or surplus. Just on the steroids, I'd just want to re-ass this question on the answer. Okay, what what do we talk about as a good first move for you? You know, obviously you, blood work check responses talked to the individual, you know, all that. They just give us a real basic understanding of what that could look like because your answer could be like gets a thousand milligrams of DACA, see you in 16 weeks, some people say. And then maybe there's a more nuanced approach that has a little bit of testosterone, a bit of pre-mo, why the pre-mo, why the master on so on and so forth. So what is, what is kind of an approach that if someone told you, hey, I'm using a thousand total and here's how I'm doing it, you'd be like, oh, that actually makes plenty of sense. First is one that would just be like, why are you doing that? Right. So you said that they're already currently using that one thousand milligrams. They're going to be using it soon. Okay. They're already currently using it. They're currently using it. Yeah, no ramp required. Oh, no, yeah. So currently using and they're like, hey, is this right? How would a correct guess on your understandings look for them? And what would be some really incorrect guesses at what you'd be like, you need to change all this right? Yeah, obviously for context, there probably would be some form of titration that would lead to that kind of juicing and if they were not just staying there, I would imagine that would be there's what we would call like a peak hydrogen exposure. Yes. You're generally what you'd work up to over the course of a macro cycle. So we're talking purely stacked design for this individual. If they did have some comprehensive history on what that tolerance to total test or stone was, that would be really useful. Sure. Let's say it's a gram. Let's say they fuck with a gram. Ever since we've tested a gram of overall antigens and from their experience, they don't they can't really tell which ones are doing what they just want to take the right stuff so that under the hood, all the right stuff's working. They don't know what effects of blood work. They hypothetically feel fine on anything between a gram of, you know, DACA, even fuck it, let's say they can handle a gram of trend. But like blood work wise, how was your blood work on that? There are no idea, probably bad if they don't know. So if they use some sort of multiple lung regions, I would strip it back to a pretty basic, just testosterone and a DHT derivative. What's a DHT derivative and what are they exactly? So a DHT derivative to keep it super basic is a molecule that's been derived from DHT. It's not DHT, though, this is key. It doesn't act like DHT. A lot of people confuse things like mass-drawn and premabola, which are both DHT derivatives to be the same as DHT. For example, in the hair loss debate, you know, because we know DHT, which means dihydrotestosterone is responsible for a good portion of angogeneic halapation, all of it though, angogeneians in and of themselves play a part, scalp inflammation, etc. We won't get into that. But DHT derivatives like premabola and mass-drawn are excellent choices when it comes to, we say reasonable amount of safety data. They're both approved for human use, they're both used in clinical settings. We've got decades of high quality literature of their use in humans, which is generally what I would prefer when it comes to compound selection to be able to draw some reasonable will say outcome-based assessments. I'm not a fan of research chemicals in general, but I would say you can based it on your own personal research. I wouldn't personally want to use something that has maybe made it to a single trial in a rodent. Better to use something with many human trials. Yeah, ideally. Okay. There would be a DHT derivative in there and we'll come on to the reasons to why that would be. And there would be testosterone in there. So testosterone, at least in my opinion, chief fundamental molecule of any good stack design. And actually for context, if we're going to outline face-specific goals, is this a massing phase? Did you say? Yeah. Yeah. Okay, cool. So testosterone for the resultant DHT and extra dial, extremely important for your health, extra dial specifically, extremely important for your physique and your performance as well. But massively important for your health, extra dial is so important. And when I say, extra dial, we just call my estrogen here. Yeah. The aromatization of testosterone into each of your gym, but estrogen is fantastic. You know, it's neuroprotective, cardio-protective, renal protective. A lot of the relevant toxic outcomes of angiogens, estrogen can directly moderate. So with one, estrogen as high as possible, and I'll put a caveat on this, in the context of the overall stack design. So we're thinking about the angiogen to estrogen ratio here, not only the total blood serum, extra dial. So if we had this 1000 milligrams, we'd really be saying, we want as much of that to be testosterone as possible. And some portion of it, whatever is necessary to manage the angiogen-eatrogen ratio to be filled up with that DHT derivative, what kind of science would you see in someone that showed you, it's time to back up on the testosterone and time to the raw energy, achieve derivative that does not convert to estrogen at high levels. The most common one is like some onset of gyna, gyna, nipple sensitivity, swelling, but blood pressure increases as well. Extra celly, leflopotentage, there's another one. Emotional issues, sleep disturbances are pretty standard. I think emotional issues just higher estrogen cards. Normally, mood swings just having a lot of feelings. Well, it could be high emotion, high anxiety is a pretty typical high students into but it's also high-endred in symptoms. So sure, it's hard to say we're kind of in neuro disruption would have there. But mood swings in general, but it's normally going to relate it in my opinion. Okay. But anyway, I'll just provide some context on that. So it's not simply about just letting your estrogen run wild. But there's everybody is going to have a biologically into individual, androgen to each gym ratio that they work best at. And they vary wildly between individual. So it's really hard to say, and this is one of the problems when it comes to putting things on social media, you can't say like, here's the best kind of stack design is like, no, it's because I've got clients that can absolutely tolerate a gram of testosterone, no DHC derivative, no problem, feel great, perform bay. Great. Other clients, 300 milligrams, and now need 700 milligrams of a DHC derivative. Yeah. But a key thing here is, well, let's say, this individual can tolerate 400 milligrams of testosterone in and of itself in absence of a DHC derivative. When you start to walk in that DHC derivative, you ask you in the hydrogen-eatsurgy ratio. So you put in more hydrogen in, you're not put in more estrogen in, that's obviously skewing that ratio. And also that DHC derivative is going to have some binding affinity for the aromate enzymes. So you are also shifting down, so you're a mixture of dial with the addition of a DHC derivative. Not just replacing it, but taking away some of what the testosterone that's left over as converting to. Right. So further skewing that hydrogen-eatsurgy ratio. So, and why this is key is, if you're working up to that gram, and you've got up to 400 milligrams of testosterone, you can't tolerate any more. And then let's say you add in 200 milligrams of mass-drawn. To go further than you're now 600 total, it may be of benefit to re-acemulate the testosterone. Right. Because otherwise your hydrogen part of the ratio would be really, really high estrogen, lower lower lower lower than you may be on the other end of, you can't handle the high androgen-low estrogen type. Yeah, it's quite common. You know, quite common you'll see people run like a TIT dose, and then like two grams of mass-drawn or two grams of pre-mosms and whatnot. Yeah. And it's not going to be, it's not going to fail good. You definitely know it to perform well. It's not going to offer you the best outcome for you. Yeah. So keeping that balance is critical. So basically find out where within that gram, you feel that you can get the most benefits from testosterone. Yeah. Fill the rest in with the DHT derivatives like pre-moin mass. You're doing other drugs falling line and where do you see their role or has the role been misunderstood? For example, Deca, Nandrolone to Canoate and P.P. Very related molecule just a shorter estrogen. Yeah. EQ, Equipoise, old and own. Do you want to go through these one by one? No, no, just you can if you'd like, but basically just that Schmorgasbord of drugs that a lot of people take in addition to testosterone and they say things like, well, pre-moin mass, they don't work as well. I don't feel them as much. Is there validity to what they're saying? Is there individual differences where people really prefer these drugs? Or is it mostly a matter of like you're confusing the side effects for the main effect? That's definitely going to be one part of it. There's a hell of a lot that we could go through in there. But to cover the doesn't work as well, my general question would be on whatever evidence are you basing that claim because all of the evidence that we've currently got and we can use things like the Hirschberg model, which is pretty rubbish. You know, you're using like the levator, Arne ever wrote and these seven all vesicles and you know, they're not fantastic at tracking out anoblism, but even all the human data, there's various published pieces of data that I could provide as references if you want to put them on the podcast material. Because we've got a big list on physique related with this. But sure, sure. If you look at the protein accretion rates between the variety of molecules that have been approved for human clinical use, these are anoblicandrogenic stories. At reasonable dosages, sort of ways, just about the same. There's not statistically significant difference. Where there is statistically significant difference is in things like maybe actually sell in the flu retention or impacts on glycogen synthase, creating synthase. You know, these kind of mineral retention impacts. But if you're talking pure contracts all the way, per milligram, all androgen synthase do around about the same thing. So they're getting you jacked under the herd, even though you may feel a little different local alternative, really a cosmetic effect. Yeah, when it comes to the impacts on the anoblic machinery, like muscle protein synthesis, et cetera, prima bollen, master on nandrolone, trembleone, equipoies, boulder known, probably even things like DHB and Trestalo. As far as we know, you know, I'm not going to say for sure, because a lot of those things haven't been using human clinical synths that really shows. Just as far as we know, they all seem to do about the same thing. And in my experience as well, you look at people that go through an off season and then a contest prep. Let's say all of these people are doing different stack designs. Everybody ends up gaining about the same amount year on year. There's no one that's astronomically far away, other than what's just been driven by genetic abnormalities. If you take the same crop of genetic freaks at the top, they might all be doing a completely different stack design and realistically it all does the same thing. In my opinion, you just want to pick the one that has the least negative cost to your health, right? Because sustaining it repeatability is the most critical thing in my experience. Like how long can you actually tolerate this degree of like anoblism? Because it's X milligrams over a lifetime. And we all know the bodybuilding as a long game. Years. Yeah. That leads many. So it's been able to sustain in many cases the multiple grams of exposure. So basically, if you can run like DACA for four weeks and then you just feel like you're going to explode because of the water retention, it's not a thing that you would want to use at that dose for longer or try to because like look there more sustainable things. And another thing I asked with these molecules is, you know, what's the relevant benefit? You know, if we look at Nandrolone as a molecule, what does that offer us that's unique over something that we know is very well tolerated like Prima Bolin? What is novel? So some guys will see like it helps with their joints. What do you say? Yeah, I do know what? That's quite an interesting one. Now there is some survey based data to support that. There was a survey of men on T.R.T. We're given Nandrolone alongside their T.R.T. And they rated their joint saunas as less, you know, so it was an improvement. But was that the Nandrolone or was it the more total milligrams that they were taken? It probably does have some effect on the joints. It might be via the glucocortagoe receptor. It seems, but there's a lot of places I'd want to visit for joint relief before Nandrolone. I probably want to figure out why they had to share it. Do an issue in the valley. Yeah, why would you do that? Yeah. Okay, so your basic assessment is that while there may be times in places where you would use other drugs, a combination of as much testosterone as optimizes your estrogen and the rest filled in with something like premable and the remaster on, it's a kind of good place to start someone's thinking. Yeah, in a massing phase, yeah, because you don't need any specific action for decrease in muscle protein breakdown, for example, like, we just talk about animalism, aren't we? And the only way that animalic hydrogenics steroids do that is via the hydrogen receptor. They're binded the hydrogen receptor, they transcribe animalism, turn on muscle protein synthesis and m-tore and all this other stuff. That's the only mechanism by which all of these molecules do exactly the same thing. So if that's all you need, then it's a pretty simple outcome. Okay, we'll talk about the cutting phase a little bit later. For just this massing phase idea, what about peptides? Growth hormone is a peptide hormone. Yep. Insulin and any other peptides and kind of hardcore answeraries, because they're next question after we answer areas. But growth hormone insulin and any other peptides you feel are valuable for that sustained use. Yep, growth hormone, fantastic for a massing phase. So testosterone, we know for sure increases MR and an expression of IGF1 in the muscle cell. So we talk about IGF, you know, everybody knows about IGF1. You know, you say like, this supplement increases IGF1 or we know that IGF1's a good thing. But there's more than one type of IGF1 you would have this. In doc-rin IGF1 systemic IGF1, there would be kicked out hepatically by the liver. Then also autocryne and paracryne IGF1, which would be like inside or around the cell. The muscles are like, yeah, exactly, yeah, I kind of grow factor. So we know that testosterone increases expression of that localized IGF1 in the muscle cell. So then when we can use something like growth hormone to shift up IGF availability, there's going to be a one plus one equals three impacts on the animal is introduced. So there's going to be some characteristic effect. There is only a synergistic effect. And what I mean by that is if you look at studies that use high dose growth hormone, like growth hormone deficiency, you want to see a single study where new muscle is added. Actually lean body mass because of waterway fluid. Yeah, you will not find a single study on growth hormone and they use in dose is 16 units a day, 32 units a day. 30 degrees is a farm grade as unfathomable. You'll sleep well forever. Yeah. But you don't see any protein accretion interesting. Yeah. So growth hormone in and of itself is very antibiotic but he can't grow muscle. Yes, a facilitator. Yes. And it needs testosterone and related angrions to power that pump. Yes. But once you have testosterone in the mix, in your mind what is the amount of growth hormone that's reasonable, roughly translate to that gram or weak of total angrion exposure. 4 to 6 units is a pretty small difference. That's a business dose in your mind. Like a dose that will accomplish. That's a dose. I would say it's going to be effective. If you're using a gram of antibiotics, I think 4 to 6 units of growth hormone is a fair moderate dose. Growth hormone is an interesting one. It seems to have the steepest inverted. I'm talking purely anecdotally here. This is just from nature. It won't be a waste. But research based we can just have open a eyes research here and do that for us. It doesn't have any real world experience. You have all of it. So tell us about your real world. It seems to have the steepest inverted you have any molecule. When I say inverted you don't talk about like dose response where inverted V. It does pretty much. It does a hell of a lot. And then it comes back down pretty down quickly. It comes back down. I mean like the side effects get too crazy. Yeah. Yeah. The negative outcomes far out where you know the insulin resistance, the excessive bloodthage, the extra celly, the fluids. I mean the blood glucose is a real issue with growth hormone. And people end up, this is a separate topic inside of it. People end up chasing their tail with basal insulin use to almost falsely push down their blood glucose and then they have hyper insulin e-micking. All this kind of stuff. But quite honestly you know a lot of my clients that are pros will live in the kind of three to six unit range. Maybe people that are a little bit more quote unquote unabolically resistant. We might use eight to ten at the most. Okay. But in my experience you get an awful ten, even people that don't have the kind of greatest response, see a negative return on investment. And anecdotally the more people that I talk to that have pushed further beyond that's when I'm coming back towards that. Okay. It's 10 units at the most as well. Okay. But the animalism is one thing. But the anti-lipogenesis that grow from own offers is probably as biggest reward in a massive phase. It's just from folks have heard describe us. It's just more difficult to gain fat. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because I think if you have like the perfect stack design for a massive phase, I've like anibalism, anti-lipogenesis, and then maybe periods of lipolysis. Yeah. You know. So if you could structure this so that any time you ate food, it was partitioned into the muscle cell. Right. And like Adapasites were so insulin resistant, which growth moment does interest me. You know, people do talk down on the insulin resistance of growth moment. But that is very specific to an Adapasite. You know, and it's very good to have insulin resistant Adapasites. Right. Because the fat cells don't get fat as my chest. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Interesting. Okay. So that's growth hormone. What is your position at insulin? What does it do for us? Why do we want to take it in conjunction with adrogen at growth hormone? A lot of people say, I don't really mess with insulin. Do they have valid point? Are they missing out? Yeah. Talk talk us through that. Well, incredibly useful in a massing phase. I would say I use insulin more as a profile acting health tool than anything else, which might sound strange to some people. But it is very safe, you know, and can't get shot down for that. But I mean, if we're rank in safe in terms of the proximity of the effective dose to the LD50, especially basal insulin, like 50 years at that dose, you expect half of all people taking it to die. Yeah. Right. Okay. Yeah. So the LD50 of Lancer's insulin is 1000 that's multiple pens at the same time. Over three pens, you know, and I think interesting if you have one last round ride, well, a lot of people do try to kill themselves of insulin fail. Now, there's a lot of case studies on PubMed that people that have tried to commit suicide of insulin and show up hungry. Yeah. I mean, it's not to say that like, like, if you pin a load of insulin, you'll go high, but you'll pass out and you might have a seizure, or something. Yeah. You might do. But your punk is will kick out, will you go on? Yes. And you'll plug glucose. We'll come back up and yeah, it's unlikely you're going to croak. Yeah. It's one of those scare tactics from the 80s that just hypothetically it could kill you in an acute dose. I think that got a lot of spread. I don't know any body builder that ever died of acute insulin exposure. I've known for anybody. And I've known plenty guys to die from all kinds of other shit. Yeah. It's diabetics have a long line of death behind them. Yeah. And so then so far, maybe maybe very few, maybe zero. Yeah. And I mean, the thing of angiogens is like, they're a kill you, but they kill you very slowly. Yeah. In the way that you might not automatically blame. Right. So it's a very nice, I haven't stopped smoking. Yeah. But anyway, back to the beginning. Yeah. So it's not going to have robust impact on things like muscle protein synthesis. So, you know, it's not going to be something that drives protein, accrual, like angiogens or secondarily growth for moon will. But it will assist in things like nutrient partitioning and intercellular volume of glycogen and intramuscular triglycerides, at sodium retention, things like that, which can help you train it, or certainly make you look better while you're doing it. Yeah. You're like a fluffy other muscles. Yeah. So intramuscular fullness will be great. But in terms of like an actual long term physique benefit, it's not going to offer you that much. But in the presence of high-endrogens and high-chloric load and high-growth moon is going to allow you to control your blood glucose to some degree. But you have to be careful with that. That can be a double-aged sword. You know, insulin can both improve insulin sensitivity and destroy it. At first, improve it and then destroy it. Yeah. Yeah. So back to that kind of inverted you. If you're just taking more insulin over time to account for the blood glucose increase and you're ending up hyper-insulinemic, then that's going to be a problem. And if anybody wants to know how to monitor this, blood glucose isn't a good way. You know, just to keep blood glucose readings, you know, you're taking a hundred units of lancers and doing your blood glucose like yes, it's 4.5 or done well as an American money. 60,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000. But there's a there's a there's a marker you can get and I think quest to over here. I think life extension to over here as well. Called Homer IR, H2MA, H4 and IR, Homer started model of assessment of insulin resistance. So that will give you both, your blood glucose and your insulin. Wow. Because you need to see both sides of the coin to see what's going on with insulin resistance. You can have, sorry, you know, not at one more point. If you're somebody that's got really high blood glucose, you might be stressing about it. The stress might be one of the reasons. Go and get your insulin checked because it might be that you got really low blood insulin. And you put it into a home or I are and you're actually very insulin resistant. A insulin sensitive, sorry. Interesting. Okay. Okay. And then what is your insulin adossing protocol seem like in most cases? So I try to stick to like the the quote and quote therapeutic, dosing guidelines of things like basal insulin. So I would use a basal insulin more for like what we spoke about, you know, taking a bit of stress off of the beta cells of the pancreas. And that would be 10 to 20 units, maybe 30 if these people are under extreme colorate load of it's because of called insulin glyogen, glyogen, hydrogen, I read it. I don't know if I've ever had any one who said it sounds like an alien. Yeah. But basically land testers, the most commonly known brand name. Yeah, you'll see Tracee be used sometimes. Okay. So that's like that. Okay. Lantus is the most common. This is an insulin that acts over 12 to 24 hours. So I call it just give you crazy high spikes. Doesn't give you any one. Have a great time. See me. Yeah. It's basically a flat line over 24 hours. There is a slight peak. It looks about 190 minute mark, but it's basically flat lines. Sure. You don't need to be under high carbohydrate loads, you use it or anything like that. There's people that use Lantus on a keto diet and regulate their blood glucose. Oh, I'm definitely normally here. And then I would use a rapid act in analog, most notably around the peri workout window, my cow. So and this would be, if you follow in a nutrient timing structure, which most kind of bodybuilders are, higher carbohydrate, pre-workout, injury workout, post-workout, I would typically, and I do prefer the rapid act in when I say rapid. They're not that rapid. There's there's immediate action and things like that now, like, what's it called? This, I don't know how I don't use it. But the rapid act is a lot of super fast acting. Yeah. I think begins with L or something. But I see the greatest utility in the sort of area under the curve that you would get with one of the rapid act in insulin analogs. Which is like two to three hours. You know, so if you want to cover your pre-workout meal and your intra-workout, you know, it works quite well. Okay. And then post-workout and maybe whatever mills after that is getting the kind of tail end of that show. So this would be like a human log, or if you're in England, no rapid. Okay. And three to five units. Pre-workout, we pre-workout meal, feed, feed five units. You post-workout meal. Works quite well. And I can't say, you know, this many carbohydrates to this many units of insulin because it's going to completely depend on your own individual metabolism of the drug and carbohydrates and whatnot. So it's going to have to be something that you experiment with and you're not trying to remove your pancreas from doing any work. Because the pancreas isn't, it's not a negative feedback in the inhibitory system like the HPG access, for example. Like interesting. I didn't know that. No, so if you take 20 units of lantus, your pancreas, especially on your normal calorie amount, is kicking out a lot more than 20 units a day. Yeah, oh yeah. You know, so let's say it's kicking out 60. It's probably a lot more than that, but let's say 60. Well, it'll just push out 40 in the 20 more. So if everyone, that's what we mean by taking the stress off. Interesting. The pancreas. Yeah, literally the beta's, I was just needs to produce less insulin. Very cool. And that's mostly during hypercoloric. Yeah, gaining phases. Yeah, I'm not less drowning. Yeah, I don't know. I'll drown in. Yeah. I don't know. I'll drown in a fat last phase. No, and it's not said you can't, you know, we're past the carbohydrate insulin model. Right. Very busy, but especially if you're using drugs like growth for malign or your himben, if these drugs have actions on free fatty acid mobilization and you want to take great to this great as advantage of that. The presence of blood insulin, blood glucose, blood amino acids, blood dietary fatty acids, they significantly attenuate the free fatty acid mobilization that can be driven by these drugs. Right. So you take growth hormone, unafowl us die. The growth hormone helps release fatty acids and the blood other cells of the body use them up and thus you lose body fat. But if you present insulin during that time, then you might not have any different change in how much you weigh total, but you'll keep more of your fat and you'll potentially gain less muscle because of the fact that you're not using the growth hormone for its fat loss balance. Yeah, you'll certainly lose out on a good portion of the free fatty acid mobilization. But you know, that's more to say for a basal insulin. You know, if you've got some in running 24 hours, there's nothing wrong with using growth hormone in the morning to push this heavy lipolysis. And then if you want this insulin around Perry work out, that's fine. But you know, remember, it's not offering any kind of muscle protein synthetic benefit. And I find the the appetite drive that provides to be not useful in a deficit. Yeah, for sure. We're going haybinds, lind during a deficit. I've got to fix this. Yeah. Yeah, what do you think about growth hormone timing? A lot of people see this. It's like behind it. A lot of people see that it's not a big deal. Some people see look. The traditional lately is really what drives it. The best. What do you think? I think this is quite a tricky one that we can postulate on. You know, we can like mechanistically show master bay on it. I think they've got a favorite kind of mechanistics. So here's a theory that I'll postulate. And I think the person that's probably postulated on this, the most I'd like to give credit to is somebody called Chester Rockwell who's, I imagine a name, nobody watching this as heard. He was, if you had Chester Rockwell, he was one of the greatest evidence-based PED educators ever. And he was an anonymous poster on a private forum called BlastInCruise.net. Wow. And this is about minimum 10 years ago now. But he would, he's written articles and wrote for me that were referenced in the hundreds of citations. That's awesome. Yeah, he's, but one of the points in there was regarding the potential of in-doc-rinsosystemic IGF1 to be a negative feedback regulator of local IGF1. So why is that important when it comes to timing? Because we know there's a dose response of systemic IGF1 that's going to be kicked out from any bolus dose of growth of mone. So if I inject three units of growth of mone versus six, the six units obviously is going to push out more systemic IGF1 per bolus. Now that could be problematic if, in fact, as is presented by Chester and it seems like the evidence agrees with this. Actually, before we get to that fundamental knowledge, the IGF1 that is at least the most responsible for hypertrophy is local IGF1. More so than that, systemic IGF1. Right. We don't know the complete ins and outs of this year. I know Dr Scott Stephenson recently wrote an article on IGF1 where he was, again, possibly, the potentially this systemic IGF1 has more of an impact than we thought initially. But look, the, the large amount of the work, the line show of the work's been driven by that local and if systemic is a negative feedback regulator of the local, then we want to keep that as low as possible. Which means that we want the bolus of growth mone that we present at any one time to be as low as possible. So that would mean the timing consideration would be if we've got X amount to get in in a day, we at least want to make each bolus as small as possible. So like a lot of jargon to say basically, I probably wouldn't do one shop per day if you're using large amounts of growth mone because that bolus dose will likely present a peak of systemic IGF1 that will have negative impacts on local IGF1. So let's say using six units, you might want to do three and three. Three, three, four units two and two, are we splitting it? Yeah, I mean, how to say like whatever doesn't burden you. And I'm talking specifically about hypertrophy here because timing is less important with hypertrophy. There's a bit like the one consideration. Yeah, I would say for hypertrophy, but for fat loss, it could be a timing issue. Yeah, because we've got the decay rate of the free fatty acid mobilization to pay attention to. So when you look at the rate of free fatty acid mobilization from a single bolus dose of growth mone, it peaks quite late. It looks like four to five hours on average. So most people are sort of waking up in the morning and performing form of nonglucose intensive work, which is going to mobilize fatty acids like going out for a walk or no intensity cardio, whatever it may be. That's, or that's at least what you should do if you want to maximize free fatty acid mobilization. So you know, it's hard to say well pin it four hours beforehand, block the gap in the middle of the night. I'll do that. Yeah, if you wake up in the middle of the night, anywhere, I think that's fine, but I certainly wouldn't say an alarm to do it in sacrifice sleep quality. Yeah. Quality is kind of a king. Yeah. Yeah. But pre bed. I'll say pre bed is absolutely fine. You're still going to have significantly superficial logical levels of free fatty acid mobilization by the time you wake up. Sure, which is good. Yeah. I could talk about dosing on fat loss actually. Yes, what is? Yes, yes, yes. Yeah, because luckily for us, we actually do have high quality data on what kind of dose of growth mone maximizes free fatty acid mobilization. It's a lot lower than most people would think. Although that is only one mechanism by which fat loss can occur. Sure. I won't go too far ahead. But um, so a single bonus dose, this study was intravenous, but I did do a bit of work on the physique-lictiform where we mapped it over to the equivalent subcutaneous dose. And it appears to be about 1.5 units per 100 kilos of body weight maximizes the free fatty acid mobilization that you can generate from any single dose of growth mone. So spreading it out like four times a day. I could, but you have to be fasted rate. So you're likely only going to get one dose that has a robust impact on free fatty acid mobilization. And you're going to maximize that outcome at one and a half units if you're about 100 kilos or let's say bikini competitor 50 kilos, 0.75 units. But that's not to say that more doesn't result in greater body re-composition outcomes because there's more to the mobilization, right? You know, you've got the metabolic flexibility, how it comes. You've got the nutrient partitioning shifts like you spoke about the insulin resistance of the anoposites, more substrate to be partitioned to muscle cell. You know, things like that. That's obviously going to lead to re-composition. But purely from this mobilization yeah, one point five units is going to maximize it. So if you have a situation where you can get those smaller number of units into you a few hours before you do your cardio or you have your big fasting window like let's say overnight, then maybe it behooves you to at least consider doing it at that time as well as whatever other times that air convenient. Yeah, for sure. Yeah, as long as you know, I wouldn't want to say someone pin and grow from my not five times a I think twice a day's fine for most people. Yeah, okay. It's too when you wake up when you go to bed and you're going to nail off 99% of the sure the big impact sure. Factors, yeah sure. If I wake up and I go train and have carbs, do I still want to shoot growth then or no? When you wake up, correct? There's nothing inherently wrong with that. It was what's the goal? Anabolism. Yeah, it doesn't matter. What about the hyperglycemia being worse because I'm concomitantly taking a carbohydrates? That I've never seen any acute impacts on blood glucose increase and we've grown from own administration. Okay, not like it's going to shift up and then inhibit your ability to partition carbohydrate. In fact, it's in about mechanistically quite the opposite because the insulin resistance that it drives at least acutely is locally to add a precise and not to my total tissue. No, really. This is research confirmed. I can reference for you. Yeah, I mean over time, chronically elevated blood glucose will lead to insulin resistance. Of course. But the mechanism by which that presents is throughout a percent insulin resistance. Is it true that maybe one of the number one factors for long-term insulin resistance is actually your chronic body fat level? Oh, 100%. Okay. So if you're chronically very lean, like all of these things are much more secondary, and if you're really trying to major in the minor as we have 23% by the fat all the time, then you really should be concerned. I mean, I cannot tell you the last time I had a client that had a poor home or I are or even an A1C or something like that. Even my clients use an 10 units of GH. Guys that lift. Yeah, guys that are. If your resistance train, sleep well, control stress, control your nervous system health, which is a huge one that most bodybuilders miss out on, and don't gain an unnecessary amount of body fat. A lot of this stuff you weren't ever need to think about. Yeah. We have so much more to talk about. I'm glad you're here for a while. Anything to say about peptides, you know, my friend has a peptide store. It's called Dildo peptides. Mom. I think it was a dot gov.xxx dot gov.edu. And he says I should buy peptides because he sells them and he likes money, but I sense that there may be other some benefits. And either any peptides to you that are, let me give, like, and this is a kind of a real talk thing because you and I'm both both been in industry competitors and all other stuff. So me, there are roughly like three categories of substance. Shit that fucking works. Shit that does under the hood, good stuff for you. You don't can't feel it at all, but for trust me, it works. And then shit that people might be excited about, but doesn't fit any of those two categories yet. And I just don't fuck with any of that shit. Yeah. Scotty swear, I'm gonna swear last after this. It just had to be the real delivery. Does that make sense? 100% of the behavior. Yeah. And that's something that relatively intelligent people embody, but eventually arrive at. Maybe this work work. Yeah, maybe another category would be like things that come along that people are insanely attracted to. Yeah. And for some reason, a huge cohort of people say it works amazingly. And then somehow it just disappears because I never did. Yeah. Yeah. Because the placebo is always in category three. You have to ascend to category one or two. Or you forever stay in three of some combination of for sure doesn't work. We just don't really convincingly know. Yeah. Is there anything in the peptides fear that currently gets into the category of either fucking works or it works, but you're not going to feel it feel it, but after months and stuff, you'll be healthy or leaner or the immune system will be stronger. Whatever it is that peptides do. But GOP one in GOP, I guess. Okay. Okay. So basically, basically drugs like ozempeck, just up a tied, retattrotide. Yeah. Incredible. Which by the way, there's, I know a folks who are using retattrotide already because it turns out the chemists can make it as soon as it's published in. You don't have to wait for the companies to make it. Miraculous effects. The next generation. Yeah. Unreal. Unreal. As my favorite review article on a retattrotide is literally called this is the title of the article, the formal journal, unleashing the power over tattrotide. I got chills when I read them. Oh, yeah. Here. Okay. Those are for sure legit, right? And we could just do a whole lot of podcast about those. I want to real quick. What are the benefits for folks? Not okay. So if you're interested in appetite regulation, the new king is here and he is not retiring, these drugs will end. Any appetite you have, dose by dose to wear a contest dieting just pisses you off because you can't think anymore and you can't lift weights because you're so weak. But you won't, you won't have appetite as a problem. Yeah. Or they're the solve problem pharmacology. It's just like, I was reading a thing not for me, of course, because your boy, I'm too erect, Joe. You feel me I'm too much for these hose out here. But I was reading for someone else about like a rectile dysfunction. And it basically is medical journal that was said the following like erectile dysfunction is no longer a problem that is intractable to pharmacology. Like you will just fix it. It doesn't we'll get blood in there. Don't you worry about enough the Alice and Viagra year gold. And it's if you're still alive, we got you. And I think for hunger, the at least three categories and classes of modern weight lust drugs, GLP ones, GLP, GIP agonists, and then triple agonists with Luke agonist with Luke agonist which is retaturized. Of course, there are others going to be in the mix. They just solve the fucking problem. I'm just going to have hunger. But since the only thing they're good at, what are the other things that folks who are taking gear and wanting their ultimate physique should think about introducing these at low doses into their cycle. What GOP one I'm going to? Just not just GLPs but GLPs, GIPs and the impact on the entire category of drugs. Yeah. So the impact on insulin sensitivity and what they do to baseline insulin is pretty incredible. So they make your insulin sensitivity go up. But they also help you secrete more insulin, which is odd counterintuitive, but actually works. And we'll arguably make you even more anti-cata ball. And at the same time more likely to encourage an abolism. Which is like baffling. Yeah. But if you're interested to know a lot to what magnitude that effect is, it should have a study on sure. So we probably never get that, you know, but sure. Although they have probably billions of dollars in their fund and it's not going to guess the high-patreon. Yeah, it goes for like can we make like fat people as fat? Yeah. Just absolutely a society scale. The most important part. I'm just going to something just as a sort of offshoot anecdote here. One of the most interesting things for me with the use of GLP when I get an S and GIP is more so now. In my competitive clients is the impacts that they have on not hunger because that's an expectation. You know, we all know that they're going to completely attain your hunger, not a blade hunger. Is the impact it has only removed from mouse brain? Is the psychological impact? I think that's wild. Tell us about your experience with our clients. Well, I'm not sure if this is by direct mechanism because I know that there is some sort of tertiary research on addictive addiction. How comes with the use of GLP when I get some things like this? They're quite interesting. But my sort of hypothesis here is turning down the food noise is almost like shifting down sympathetic drive. You know, because you know what it's like when you're super hungry, you smell something you want to eat. You can't sleep. Yeah, it's stimulating. It's nerve-racking. Yeah. It's like a shift up in quarters. Oh, it's up in adrenaline. You know, you feel it. Dude, if you're having a good day on prep and you drive by a McDonald's that's got the fumes coming out and I should hit you wrong. You're just like what the f- what's best I'll be doing with my life. And we don't have that problem. Whoa, you guys don't have smell like it. You don't have an obesity prominent England. Well, actually, I think we're ahead of you. I know, Scott, can you believe it? Scott, I'm going to say something I rarely say on this channel, but this is a matter of war. Release the bald Eagles. Release them. Joe, let me feel you. I'm going to happen. Okay. These bald Eagles are going to fly information as they always do from the continental United States all the way across the Atlantic Ocean. No matter if you're being required and they're going to attack the the British kingdom. But attack in a very specific way. There's no the totality. They're going to with their beaks and claws pull a body fat off of very overfat a UK citizen and some early reducing their BMI. And return it to his rifle. Oh, they're not eating. That's right, Joe, just saving it up and like bloated fat American Eagles, they flutter their wings back. Another six thousand article miles and then deposit said fat into where we're going to this. The food system or just into the mouths of we're waiting to wait and wait and miss a sippians and they get baby bird it and then they're fatter again and then America wins again because we've had it. Scott, American number two, how does that feel to you to hear Americans? I don't know. It was no mean number two in terms of population average. I think it's just right you guys haven't beat us on morbid obesity because only like the Pacific Islanders have done that. They're undefeated. But you guys have currently beat us on overweight miss. Yeah. It is a very, very British thing too because you guys aren't like the fattest, but like just over the line of fat. You're like, well, I'm not quite fat in my just a bit overweight and like that's exactly you guys. You have the most of those things. And imagine a malagamation of accents that leads to as you early as said in our friendship, Joe and I were hanging out once and he's like, Mike, tell me, why does every Americans impersonation of British accent basically like a chimney sweep foyer old from the 1920s? And my instant response was, that's what you people all. And if I remember, you had no response back to me. Yeah, Mr. Cleverman. Like, well, I did grow up as a chimney sweep. Because we all sort of do. You have to early in English childhood as first everyone's a chimney sweep. Then everyone goes to Hogwarts. They're, their summers are spent in the Lord of the Rings land. And then you come back. And when you're like 16, 17, you get thrown over to Burma, where you're slicing people's faces with razor blades for a while. Yeah. Scott, what happens after that? You're somebody like a, like a captain. You never don't smoke cello doing the boat cost. Just so boring. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You're incorrect, you mean? Yes. This is, by the way, just verbal streamer thought insanity. And I promise you, I'm not okay. I've never been okay. The food noise reduction. Yeah. I'm sorry. Let me go back to that. Yes. So it's like, you know, what I was mentioning earlier, the nervous system shift. I actually, yeah, so this is a completely separate topic, not to verbal thought diarrhea like that. That's what I had cast on. But I have to say the most robust shifts in physique outcomes and experience and enjoyment of doing the thing that I ever see with any client is within the schema of nervous system regulation, which sounds a little bit holistic, but you know, I'm not going to have that word. You know, like, maybe this is to get a thought of. They fucking blow it. Dresses and shit. Scott? No, yes. Happy girls. Summer dress only. Don't all that boo. Now, dreadlocks are dope. But we all know the impact of like stress reduction. Yes. You know, and hypoth theoretically, it Joe, I want you to ram down this, because theoretically, everyone's like, it's the thing you see. And it's similar to now, people are paying attention to their sleep. Right. Now a lot of people are like watching humor, and there's sleep's important. Back in the early 2000s and every time before then, kind of executive CEO types, man, saying, I'm trying to be a successful say, and they want a body hack and hack their way to success. They knew for while I could get an ad, better, everyone knew that. I lived or something. Everyone knows that. I had a run, whatever. And then when people said, like, sleep, they were like, sleep. And it's a thing you knew you were supposed to be doing. You really weren't doing it. Oh, well, we were just, you know, another big project and up with the guys and the four hours of sleep. But that's how it is. And it's just a drink, brunch, whatever. Nowadays people are like, no, no, no, no, sleep is the real deal. You know, Brian Johnson, Mr. Van Blaren, man, he's great. He's like, you know, sleep will fuck you up. He's a homicide crack. More people are waking up to that. Stress is today in my hypothesis here, what sleep was 20 years ago. Everyone knows they're supposed to be managing a better. But I got kids to feed mamma babies as crying out here. I can't be stressed. I'm not even stressed. I kick my kids out, quit my job. But stress and stress and body building people know I got a de-stress, right? We got people that Jared, like Jared Feather. He knows stress, fucks you up. But he's got like eight jobs. Yeah. And he travels down to everyone else's contest and sleep's not people's couches. And so he does literally sleep on everyone's couch. Yeah, when he came to save me, I gave him a whole bedroom. Johnson done the bed at room. He said, no, no, no, sleep on the couch. Yeah, well, come on, sleep on a bed. Jared, it's a much worse upbringing than a couch. That's a giant. Giant empty shell of a humanoid size cockroach is where Jared grew up. But the stress thing is that thing. And I suspect in a few years of the rest of us will be like, fuck, I really should have been paying more attention to my stress. Can you talk us through that? How that affects physics? How the jail belongs? Help everything else. Yeah, this is huge. Yeah, well, I'll come on to the GOP ones. And so essentially what we're talking about here is the easiest way to describe this is the relationship between the two branches of the autonomic nervous system. So how much sympathetic tone are you driving? So that would be your fight, flight, freeze versus how much power sympathetic tone you express in per 24 hour basis. And Paris and Pethetics recovery, sleep, chill vibes, post eating. Yeah, yeah. And you do see other like Dr Steven Porgas, polyvagal theory stuff. They can delineate these branches even further into like, door sill and vagal and things like that. But I don't think you need to sort of robustly understand that kind of stuff. So in essence, a lot of what bodybuilders for Zika Flitz, whatever do you sympathetically driving, you know, in a training. Yeah, in convenience of having a diet like a weirdo, stimulant use? No, they don't do that. Hell, stimulant use. Crazy stimulant use. And then sleep disruption from undefeating, just undefeating in general. Yeah, expenditure being high. People will do a hypercoloric diet for a contest, even just normal. And they will be like, yes, sleep shit, but that's to be expected. And I'm always like, oh, but if we fix that, your results would cocoon into way better outcomes. It's not just like a thing, right? Anything you brush aside, sleeps a big deal. And it's a part of that stress cycle to keep you awake. And a part of that is of course hunger. But then it's also the pressure of competing, right? Like people have that mission mindset. Was there like, I'm in the hyperbolic time chamber, Drangbalzee, like, how do I, I'm not allowed to feel happiness yet. That's after the show. And that fucks people up. And androgens. I've got a lot of, yeah, I've got a lot of hypotheses on androgens impacts neurologically. There's not a lot that we know that we can sort of get some hypotheses from some road at models and cell line data and things like that. What seems to happen is that there's some kind of downregulation or decensatization to GABA, probably dopamine as well. And then an increase in glutamate, you know, an increase in excitatory neurotransmission. Yeah, I always, when I'm in a lot of gear, I just feel like, oh, yeah, I was totally different. You can't rest. No. It's a very sympathetic. It's a totally different kind of rest. It's a false rest. Yeah. You're rested, but you're never really rested. Right. And over time, these things end up permeating themselves and resulting in huge issues. You know, like, if you have a spin sometime, looking at like the, uh, chronic fatigue subreddit or M-cass, you know, which is like, mass cell activation syndrome or M-e, you know, I don't want to say like, the illnesses that don't really exist because that's what you just did. You know what I mean? That's like, I don't know how else to say. But what we're really looking at here is like, symptoms of nervous system dysregulation over a chronic period. Yes. No excessive sympathetic tone that accumulate stress chronically and leads to ship falling apart, really. Yeah, psychologically physiologically. And obviously so many bodybuilders end up there over time. I was there for a year and a half. Yeah. And it's extremely hard to get yourself out of. So one thing I do with clients and one thing I'd love to see from more coaches is a comprehensive this kind of sound hella holistic, like I'm podcasting from Bali or something. Um, you know, I've just been to Bali actually. Sure. Well, you're Australian or something. Oh, yeah, that's it. Everybody, everybody's in that. Yeah, man. That is fact. You wouldn't believe how many Aussies are over there. I really have every single Aussie of a retoucher. They're like, I can't meet this week. I'm in Bali, but I'm the last year. All right. We're looking at our in a half away. Yeah. If they're spoon. It is a big place. There's a good. Yeah. Have you been? No, no. I don't like food poisoning that lasts for three days straight and almost kills me in a Bali hospital. It did get a Bali building. Scott, you like that? Everyone has a story. As soon as they're like, why haven't a Bali? I'm like, oh, yeah, I want for an almost died by like opening up one corner of his mouth in the shower and getting a one drop of water. And like, yeah, no, I had a guy. I have a mate. I had a mate dog like that. And I'm like, I'm sorry. What? I ended up in the hospital for three days in Thailand. You know what's funny? The person, a reference in my mind who I told that story was about, wasn't even you. There's another person who did the same thing in Bali. Like, whatever you get a little tummy bug for 12 hours. Whatever you go back with your mates, more beers, let's fix the problem three days, man. You start doing like, is this hospital room in Thailand? The last thing I'm going to see. Yeah. Yeah. I lost something like 32 pounds. Here. I know, my mate had to beat me up from the airport. And now you got off the plane. He looked me up and what? Yeah, a lot of fun. That's a skull. Those, those, those, lady boys really take it out of you. You know, anyway, I'd like to see more coaches building in a comprehensive, we'll say like, nervous system regulation protocol. And you know, the things were bodybuilders. They're so gold orientated on it. It's like, I've got clients that I could say like each sand and it be a gift. You get harder from your coach. Yeah. So if I say, you have to do this breath work every day or something or yeah. We got super convenient. The things like there's an app called state right now, which is an app about self-regulated breathing. Sure. And I did a big carousel post on Instagram the other day. It was like 40 references on there. And what happens to your new chemistry when you do the self-regulated breathing practices? You see a shift up in garbage, shift up in dopamine, push down in quarters, I'll push down in northern Eiffron. You know, direct opposite indication of what this sympathetic tone impact is going to be doing to you. And it's going to allow you to recover from training better, sleep better, improve your digestion, decrease appetite, improve your experience of doing the thing in the first place. Sure, which is I think this is a complete separate topic. But I think the lack of mindfulness in bodybuilding is like such a problem because most people wish every day away. You know, it's a weird thing to be fully invested in something and just wishing it ends really soon. Everything you do is a means to an end. And then you get to the end and it isn't what you even wanted it to be anyway. Yeah. And even if you wanted it to be exactly what it is and it's miraculous and glorious, like, well, you did piss away two years for that thing. Yeah. And then the next day comes and it's finished. Yeah. Yeah. You can only coast on the rainbows for so long. Yeah. So GLP, sorry. Yeah. Yeah. But that V can reduce food noise substantially. Yeah. Right. Which I find is quite a knock down of sympathetic tone and then it makes for a more relaxed calm individual who's happy to eat whatever they're eating. So no problem. Yeah. And they can just go on with their day. Yeah. And talking about the mindfulness thing again, you can't be mindful of experiencing a given moment. You know, if I was starving hungry and 2% body fat and I was sat here talking to you, my full attention wouldn't be on what you're saying to me, or you had turning or hearing your voice or it would only be on that next meal. Yeah. You know, yeah. It's a real animal in an electrified cage to type of feeling. Yeah. And that is actually like, what are the most brutal models for reducing stress and animals? It's just like shock empiriotically, don't let them sleep. Their stress gets as high as the possible in a few days they die. If you're always tightropping between like when am I going to get my next meal, you ever see the body builders do like that that eye thing they look around like look around the room kind of thing like that. You go that's what I don't want to be here anymore. And so if you can tune that down, you know, to being more parasympathetic dominant, you get more recovery, more relaxation and better. And in my view, another broader shout out, broader, excited basically sort of something like stress is the great killer of physique. Absolutely. And I talked to you and you're like, absolutely. And I was like, I'm a Jared and I are doing something wrong. And it's so easy to forget that. And it's so easy to fall in love with the notion of, you know, I'm like, Cicifus and I'm pushing the fucking stone. I don't care about anything else. Yeah. The stress. I can handle most stress none of the people. I'm going to prove it. But it turns out that the people to do the best in body building are folks that either genetically naturally or through some unlock revelation are people that like get whatever work they need done through the day, which isn't much. And mostly just after training, play playstation a lot. Either meals and go to sleep. Yeah. And that's it. Well, it's interesting you mentioned like Cicifus because I find when people lose themselves in body building, which is which is easily done if you don't regulate your nervous system well, you end up stuck in a loop of only doing Cicifian tasks. You know, doing things that actually have no end, like prepping your next meals and then you've got to go and train and then you cardio and then the next day the the same thing again. Well, if you're so permanently chronically stressed about the next thing to do, you don't actually get to experience the thing of doing anything else outside of that. Sure. And you do literally force yourself to live like Cicifus. Sure. Because how many body builders have we seen that do this and end up hating it? Most, but you don't hear from them. Yeah. But both don't almost ever post that Instagram. Hey, guys update on why left body building you're going to go now. It's just all dog picks and picks up me and my wife and my kids. Yeah. But I used to love body going don't anymore. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I used to say stuff like that. And the end up only hearing from the survivors, huge survivorship bias. And a lot of times the posts do the best for body builders are ones in which they lean into their aggressive world dominator side that sympathetic fighter flight side of what you've got to take every day is a gift and you've got to just crush every day when people are like, you got to calm coming up and like, yeah, they're a kill it. I'm like, I'm not killing anyone at a body building competition. So it's dancing mostly new dancing with only men, by the way, for opposite of anything to do with killing or minefields or anything like that. But when bodybuilder say like, hey, man, just another day of prep got my work out done. It was great. I loved it. And now I'm just like eating and relaxing with the family until this evening when I do a little cardio, then I go to sleep. Nobody wants to hear that shit. They want to hear war and fire. And so bodybuilders realize that's what they want to hear. They get more likes. They start talking about that other shit more. Even if they hardly, if their war and fire happens for five seconds before each top set and it no other time during the day. But that really is the unlock, isn't it? To get that sympathetic action to only exist within the confines of right before your hardest sets of the workout and never again. Well, that seems to be the the trait of a healthy nervous system. Isn't one that's relaxed all the time? It's one that can mobilize between sympathetic comparison, pathetic as needed. You know, and that's something that's working on these practices like, like I was saying, if coaches can get their clients to have at least a few practices that they can include, like pre-meal for example, there's an app called state that I was mentioning. There's an excellent for self-regulated breathing. And if anybody thinks this sounds too holistic, go ahead and look at my most recent post on my Instagram. There's hello references on self-regulated breathing. That's awesome. Meditation is absolutely huge. If you can build in a meditation practice daily, then it will change your life. And timing nature is another one that has solid evidence based for a lot of people, right? Yeah. Just just little things that if you can be parasympathetic more often, you probably should. Yes. And yeah, to get back to the point, yeah, jail people weren't certainly do that. You they do that. They help anything else in the peptide space other than these. You just like one of those things. I mean, you got things like malanatan. Okay, you know, helps you get tan and prusion and sun sensitivity a lot. Drops your appetite a little bit. It gives you a wicked boner. No way. Yeah. Well, you know, PT1 for 1, which is a lot of such useful female, not female erectile issues, female libido issues. That's a offshoot from malanatan. PT1 for 1. Yes. I don't know the mechanism of action, but I do know that if you take it at PM, AM, you're as a male. Yes. What does it do to the ladies probably similar, but with their lady penis. Yes. We are talking, I'm not going to say, because they were talking body but I love it. I don't know what such thing is. You're a clitoris and I will get to big from me later. I'm a married man, but in another world, line them up. Yeah, apart from that, there's no nothing to really sing the praises of. No, but it seems a lot of things come along and do, you know, there's nothing that has been robust enough in human trials for me to be interested, including sands. Yeah. Yeah. Sarms, I do think, and I've said before that non-sterrodo sands will be the future of pathogens. You know, one day we will have things that interact with the antigen receptor, only in skeletal muscle or whatever target they want and transcribe cannibalism there, in absence of any off target, andigenistic. One day we will have that. We don't yet. Have you seen the regeneran studies? No. Regeneran pharmaceuticals, and this is published work, I can send it to you. Please. Is now in stage two trials with a combination therapy for muscle accretion? One of the molecules is a male statin inhibitor and the other inhibits another pathway. I've read up on it, make sure I don't say it wrong. But this drug is was co-administered to primates during hypocaloric diets, with and without semagletiid additionally. And so the primates that were taking just some agolytide lost a ton of weight. But something like a quarter or a third of it was lean tissue. The monkeys that had this combo drug therapy, this non-hydrogenic antibiotic with semagletiid, lost like one and a half times as much weight as the semagletiid monkeys. But gained muscle at the same time. The revolution is here. We just don't have access to it yet. But in literally one or two years, this thing is going to be market ready. Yeah, so I wonder quite frequently when um, you know, even gene editing or something is going to be a bit down the line. Yeah, I was here. I was trying to... When body buildings just going to be removed because anybody can look like that. My bet is within within five to ten years. Yeah. More like five to seven. Yeah. But it really depends on regulatory constraints. The only thing left in body building after a little while will be which muscles do you want bigger and which one smaller and then training will have a place. Once training is no longer relevant even for that, well then you just kind of take stuff to look like what you want to look like. And then cool, problem solved. You know what I mean? We can move on to other endeavors. Isn't the competitive body building might still be a thing? Then the person that gets the exact proportions and exact ancestry. 100% which is already is. But if mostly just people with shit genetics versus people that's literally good genetics, then it'll be like, well actually you can engineer genetics to look like sort of what every want. Bodybuilding can still survive that. The training culture might be different. We'll see how that goes. Tons and has a promising stuff. But basically for you right now as of market availability in early 2025. So I'm some stuff like that. They're not as promising as they were touted. No, I mean sometimes got close. Like Austrian got pretty close. I think dosages like there's like maybe 300 micrograms. Then one milligrams, three milligrams did well. And then I think it was anything over five milligrams. Sorry if I'm getting this wrong 20 body that knows I'm wrong. I do actually have a lecture on physical activity. Go through every single published study on Psalms. Oh wow. Ever. If anybody wants to see that, let me play the ages. So please do what it. Sure. And they all had off target side effects above so five milligrams a day which is so far below what we would need in terms of actions at the undergroom receptor. So, pre-mavola and a master on other closest. I mean their Psalms. Sure. You know their steroidal Psalms. Yes. So that that's as close as we've currently gotten. That's why they're still the first line therapy. People that are undergroom sensitive like women. Sure. Sure. Ancillary drugs. There are people who just take test, pre-mo, growth, insulin. And maybe they'll take a GLP1 Agnist or something modern weight loss drug for contest prep. But what about ancillary drugs that are probably just good to take for people running higher doses? Whether it be muscle gain or fat loss phase. Nothing fat loss specific. But maybe things like I've heard you talk about metformin. Maybe tell me a certain. Are there any others? And then please include in that discussion also. Well I'll be asking this question anyway. Vitamins, minerals, etc. Maybe folks who aren't hands need more of. But let's start with the ancillary drugs first. Yeah. So their pre-mitch is only two that I would say have a cost-to-benefit ratio that would deem. I would say feasible for use for any PED user. And that would be metformin. Like you said, it's a potent antioxidant and potent anti-inflammatory. Keeps your health here. Yes. An oxidative stress is one of the primary chief negative impacts of PED use. So we want to do all we can to control oxidative stress. And that would answer the question about Vitamins and minerals that you ask as well. And then tell my son as well for sure, which is danger to use in receptor blocker. So a lot of antigen users have escalated blood pressure. So it's going to be a much better option than an ace inhibitor for that. But regardless of whether your blood pressure increases or not, there is angiotensin to escalation as a linear dose response to any exposure to antigen's. And for anybody that doesn't know what that means, that essentially is going to lead to the majority of the negative cardiac outcomes you can expect like ejection fraction reduction. The shift of kills you later. And tell my son will mute some of that. Yes. A good portion of it. And not to say that you won't experience cardiac hypergibi because you will, even natural individuals have constant response. Yeah. But it will at least quench a solid degree of the antigen media it increase an angiotensin to you. So just those two. Yeah. Okay. What else would that? Well my Scott has got a catholic, it's not like a cam lab. It's in a trailer. It's that like basically his meth a drug that we can take that'll also help us spot it. Well, it depends on your definition of meth. Especially in America, there's a little dopamine agony to be in prescribed left right and sent enough for ADHD. All that to talk about mixing an all up Joe. So one of the fifth of means isn't it? That's what I tell my dealers like. Stock their same person. Okay. That's actually really helpful. Met form and is it going to cost me muscle growth because I've seen studies quite on quote, explain that. Do you definitely have seeing studies because well that's why I said a lot of people do say that met form and will negatively impact your ability to gain muscle because of its signaling of these should we say catabolic pathways? Yeah. You know, in P.K. A lot of catabolic pathway. Uh, all the attenuation of M.D.D. does that in the liver but no whenever reads that far in the abstract. Right. Luckily we actually have data on what is a forms of MPK met form in activates and it's not the always the forms that are in skeletal muscle. So I just straight up doesn't cause muscle loss. And we've also seen this in the hundreds of millions of people that have taken that form and that are clinical in a co-population. There is absolutely no description of muscle loss. It's actually to be curious. These people also know a train. Then it means in a loose muscle it's going to be that. Yeah. That's nice to know. Some of form is nice met form and obviously dosage is something like 500 milligrams a.m. 500 of p.m. So even just 500 milligrams p.m. is in a familiar people. It's enough for nothing. Yeah. You can crank up to a gram especially if you've got so what's the data stress mediated issues like acne? A great common one. Yeah. It'll help with acne. Uh, it's the first lanthera. Be frankly, as was using P.C. a.s. Very frequently. Will it help me be less ugly? If you have acne, thank you Joe. Scott, you're no help. Why are you laughing back there? What are you? How are you going to help me? I might uglyness problem. You're black belt and you're not careful. You're muscular. It doesn't matter if you're like, that's what I'm going for. Yes. I couldn't manage to do the muscular one. So I'm trying to do the one. The only one. Well, you're well on your way on both. I must say. Vitamins, minerals, other things OCT. Here's what I've heard. Ashwaganda sounds like a like a fine ass black bitch to me. What's up? So does she do anything helpful for humans? Do we want this inner system? Another quick couple and then let you let you go off. Ashwaganda CBD. Vitamin D, magnesium, zinc. Uh, I'll just go through one at a time. We'll just go through one at a time. We don't do much of this if you want to start talking about me. I have the neuroscience stuff. It's really interesting. Ashwaganda was patented forms like sensor, in the KSM 66. It's basically it appears to act like a positive alicirate modulator of GABA, which is a lot of words to say that it basically increases this inhibitory signaling, which is why people associate with restabilization and sleep and whatnot. So can it be useful for sure? Yeah, if you're somebody that is anxious or has high stress or high cortisol is what it's marketed as something that a plate's called as a that I'm relore or the most common to. I looked into Rallora after you recommended it. Right. I would love for you to talk about Rallora. I started taking it and I notably feel better. Excellent. That's GABA, which for me is unusual because most of the supplement I'll take and I'm like this fucking doesn't nothing. I'm doing it. Yeah, well that's GABA. Yeah, it's a pretty potent GABA activator. You have to be careful with GABA, because you know Xanax is the drug you guys have over here. We don't have the real lot of Xanax. Yeah. So that's a direct agonist of the benzodiazepine site on the GABA receptor. So in you know, if a government GABA will give you worse, we've drooled than any drug on the planet. You know, the withdrawals are literally true hell. It's like when you're on it, you feel like you're in a warm comfort blanket. And when you're addicted to it, you can't tell the blanket's there anymore. But when you get it pulled from you, it feels like your skin has got ripped off. Yeah, maybe that's OPS as well. Oh, yeah. We don't have a problem with that America. You got from, you have less real Pennsylvania. He's never seen any problems, OPS or Xanax to him. This is all like you might as well be like fucking the Wizard of Oz talking about nonsense. Yeah, a lot of OX here. I don't even know what you're talking about. Luckily for people, cratum is legal here. Is that luckily, but doesn't create them fuck you up? Isn't it also addictive? Oh, it's very addictive. And it will be a root you with droolers, but it's never killed anybody. Okay, you can't overdose on it. And it's a very safe transition from pharmaceutical to people that stuck on them and also not at their own fault, because that's the majority of them that have been prescribed these things. Sure. Yeah. So cratum is a partial agonist of the MU opioid receptor. So, you know, I wouldn't advise somebody that's never had a drug problem to go and start to do. Don't start using cratum. It's not going to enhance your shift. If you use OPS and you suffer with droolers when you stop use or you don't want to taper or whatever, I would go and record and say absolutely use cratum to either taper or just use it in place of, yeah. For example, my dad, he's got nerve issues. He had an operation, went wrong left in paralyzed, but along it, along sorry. He's prescribed tramadol on like 300 milligrams a day and tramadolers and no people, but it's also an SNRI, a serotonin or epinephrine re-uptake inhibitor. There was rules that terrible, but he doesn't know what he was doing, you know, to now my gay, my aim is to get him stable on something like cratum, we call it cratum in England. I call it cratum. Oh, good. Also, I'll say that. But anyway, we weren't completely off over there, GABA. In KSM 66, yes, absolutely. We don't have long-term studies on Ashwaganda. I think 12 weeks is the longest. I think up to 600 milligrams per day. Clearly, say from where I told her right about those individuals, if you've been to much time, I read it. You'll see some crazy stuff with people. Like what? The red red. It's got no, Scour, can you believe this? It says redner has crazy stuff on it. Redder is, it amazes me. Redder, I think it's so interesting. You can be in a real, real open cells. It's the largest, crazy echo chamber of placebo effects I've ever seen. You know, it's like Ashwaganda gave me a reptile dysfunction for two years. You know, or I took Ashwaganda once and then I've been having panic attacks every day for, but really there's no sea really unlikely. Yeah, but you know, people say that we've drawn effects or paradoxical effects, the things that I can't say that I've ever seen that happen to anybody. And you've coached a lot of people. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, it works well. But there's a, there's a turn of neutral, either we could talk about that. I think we'll be more relevant to body builders using that, um, a specifically looking to control maybe glutamate imbalances. I'm really interested in like actor protectors like bromentane, especially like intranaisal, okay, bromentane. That's something that upregulates tyrosine hydroxylase, which is the enzyme that produces dopamine. Just not direct dopamine agonists. Okay. But you can increase total neural dopamine. You could say with what, well, what would that make a person feel like? Um, so it's got anxiality effects. Meaning anxiety reducing, somebody, and it would be more sort of good mood, goal-oriented, but not stimulatory. But the main point here is that it's neuroprotective. It is neuroprotective. Yeah. So tell us about neuroprotection and why some of the supplements will be talking about or bigger on that. Well, why is that a lot of things in your opinion because they reduce neural inflammation? And that's really bad, isn't it? Mm-hmm. Or oxidative stress? Or some of them just directly work against some of their desensitization and downregulated to recept the size that you can see with excessive use of other pharmacological agents. Like you mentioned opia, so gabaragonists even a denocene agonist like caffeine and things like that. You mentioned magnesium. My deesium is an NMDA antagonist. So for tolerance of caffeine, for example, you will decrease your tolerance to caffeine if you take NMDA antagonist, especially potent ones like ketamine. Oh, shit. Yeah. We can't really do much after you take ketamine here. No, for a depends on what you take. You know, hours. Yeah. So if you've ever done a big injection, you've kept me in this. That's something that's not going down on the floor. If you like, yeah, psychanalogesparamys is that's one that, um, or really it takes you places? Oh, yeah. Is it addictive? Am I allowed to talk about something? Yeah, fuck yeah. Well, I did 200 milligrams intramuscular injection of cadamine. Yeah. And it was one of them and I've done high dose streams as well. You know, I've never taken an LSD. Maybe I've taken a high doses of 2 CB. Oh, does that does that do stuff? Ridiculous. Okay. Ridiculous. The time that I did, um, 120 milligrams. Your average recreational dose is 20 to 30. Nice. We had a 10 man Jake thought it'd be a good idea one day. That was full scale DMT like visuals. Break down of the visual field. Yeah. Like shapes and color. I remember I looked at my friends wall and it just went. Yeah. We put in the Tokyo scenery that I came through and I got it. And then I turned around at jazz and she was looking at me like she wasn't actually laughing. Yeah. And then she said to me something about like, I've turned the clocks back and I looked at the clock and it was spinning backwards and then the sun came back up. This was at night. Oh, my then time side moving backwards and I relive the whole night in reverse. Yeah, it was so and then my my shoved dealer ripped me off. No, I just take this was ridiculous. Holy shit. Okay. So what's ketamine like that? Just said I thought they're going, am I inside or am I outside? How long does that last? Oh, that is too long. What's too long? It was about six hours. I was starting to write that down to CD one on it. Does that fuck you rain up or make you an addict or degenerate? No, actually. It's similar to streams in the senses. It's like a HEC to a acne. Hard, hard reset. Yeah. Well, I've never had any kind of gum done with them from two to about half from MDMA, partly. MDMA is fun while you do it. Not so fun for a day and a half. Yeah. Me and my wife had a solo session last weekend. My name is. Yeah. We do it quite frequently. The MDMA and the body tattoo. To CB. I'm five. I'm gonna say the same time. Yes. She's like touching me. You're like, where? She's in five different parts of MDMA. To CB. Nitrous ketamine. All the same time. This definitely shouldn't go on you. What, you know, it's God. This is my only from past. Is it something not at the same time but staggered throughout an evening? Oh, nice. Wow. You really like to get a lot of most things in my life to autistic precision. My man, the alarm's on the phone for the perfect time in and well, yeah, like, you know, if you can still read a lot of phone. There's some of these is a little bit more of a time. What a close one. What is someone's time? What was catamit? What was catamit? What was catamit? MDMA. Yeah. So catamit would be one of their magnesiums one, agmitting soul face, another common one. Yeah. You know, these are considered neuroprotective because they reduce excitotoxicity. Not sure to make such a toxic. Yeah. Your brain just cranking into a hospital. Hypothetically, I at least believe, and antigens have a potent impact on glutamate. And that kind of excitotory signaling. So I think some for like magnesium, specifically the L3 and A, that seems to have the greatest effort because, of course, in the blood brain barrier, would be the best option for a bodybuilder type, yeah. And also, I think things like lithium or a tape or a good idea. Which is something like lithium should do pre people go lithium, you know, it's because it's traditionally used by bipolar for example. Yeah, that would just carbonate form. You know, low dose lithium, microdozed into a game reduce excitotoxicity because it directly inhibits nor epinephrine excretion. I think that would be a good idea. It was all about 5 to 10 milligrams. Do you ever have people dealing with like getting on antangestide drugs to try to bring down their anxiety from gear or do you think that's like a last line of defense? Well, the thing is like, yeah, a lot of people do get prescribed. What kind of anti-angestiatry drugs do you do when I bait the blockers? Beta blockers? There's a few more that are coming to mind right now that folks have mess with. There's a couple of things that do okay. Now, and our band's on this typically. I'm problem with those is you cannot manage the key, the word being, I don't want to get too full of software here, but the key would be a manage. Managing something is not the same as fixing it with. Sure. You know, so I would generally discourage. And this is coming from somebody that's had an anxiety disorder. You know, I would generally discourage the use of things that manage things. We know the only way is to desensitize the nerve because it anxiety's just an nervous system, response. You know, it's your perception of it. It's funny. You know, I remember reading this study at one point, sorry, it's another offshoot. Whereas they gave both participants the same drug that was sort of nearest to me, and then they had the research participants, act extremely stressed in front of one group, and then excited and happy in the other group. And then they monitor on the anxiety scale questionnaire, the response, you know, so. And when you're in an environment that's exciting and uplifting and you have the exact same neural environment, we'll say, like, high dopamine, high nor open f-rim, high cortisol, when you're doing something you love doing, like you're just a, let's say, two, two, three roll. It's great, you know, you want to say it's unbearable. You have exactly that same chemical magnitude, but if you have that trying to fall asleep, you're like, I'm having a panic. Or standing front of the garlic, people, right, it's horrible. So your perception of the event is the important thing, and how you're nervous system feeds back that information because it's all neuroplasticity in the direction, the way that you interpret it. Sure. You know, so that was a completely random. No, no, that's very, very insightful. So we have, so I forgot in my play a decent roll. Could you go over the law? If you don't tolerate actual kind of work, some people know, right? Yeah. What about CBD? I don't know a hell of a lot about CBD, but what I have seen is that those suggest required to reach clinical significance, a quite high and very expensive, but it does seem to have pretty solid anti-inflammatory, like systemic anti-inflammatory action. So certainly if it's something that you can afford, would seem to work well. Not something that either the person that used. Okay. Okay. And then extra amounts of vitamins and minerals for people that I'm gear. Yeah. So we do know that there's a dose response increase in oxidative stress with all PDUs. So therefore the amount of anti-oxidant defense you could say that you're going to require as a PDUs or is higher than the layperson. And it's going to be on a dose response. So the first thing that most bodybuilders don't do is to nail in your fruit and virgin take. Get a white as parent. Yeah. Get a wide variety of the most nutrient-dance foods that you can like. My clients always say 1.2 kilo combined fruits and veggies per day, minimum. It's going to serve you in many other ways as well. Fiber content. Micro-neutrium, potassium, super important. All of your micro-nutrition, fighter nutrients, antioxidants are going to be nailed in there to be honest. Now, farmers who to call antioxidants as well are a good option might not be forming. And then if you really want to go in, a comprehensive supplementary antioxidant protocol, I think is a good idea. Like what would be in it? Things like touring, which is also a GABA. It was like some GABA, so it will be calming. It will be a nervous system karma. I think glue to thio and if you can afford the s-assetil glue to thio and is a good idea. And that's all rule or if you can get glue to thio and ivy. Oh great, I did. Just use the oral s-assetil. How do you, you mean ivy like you have to ivy? Yeah. What you can go to an ivy? Or I think you can intro musculine do it. Glue to thio. Oh, but if you can get the s-assetil like strong do a product called glue to thio and mex, which is the s-assetil and if you can use that those daily, as equivalent to a bolus ivy dose of glue to thio anyway. Now, you can use NAC and assetil cysteine to shift that glue to thio, but what I will say is that NAC is a potent modulator of glue to me, which sounds like a good thing right off the bat, but it has pretty heavy impacts on dopamine-nergic function. For example, in research studies, co-administered NAC, and FETAMines, attenuates the stimulant effect of the unfettered me. So if you're somebody that that's kind of cool, how's ADHD and needs unfettered means to find, no it's not cool because it attenuates the dopamine output. Sure, I got you. If you only quench nor open effort and kept the dopamine sure, that'd be epic sure. Yeah, so people find that they can be a bit flat and a bit anodonic on NAC. If it doesn't do that to you, that's fine. But if you like stimulant, it's like if you like caffeine, you take NAC, you'll be pissed off because it will attenuate the effect pretty heavily. Sure. So also, a pecanoginal, which is a passive form of pine bark extract, has some solid clinical research to support efficacy and push-up glue to thio as well. So these are all anti-inflammatory anti-oxidate antioxidants and support overall health, brain health. Everything just works better when it's not an acratically inflamed. Yeah, and I mean, I could give you a list of a million, so look, not least, let me know. But a lot of supplements that I would deem useful for in enhanced population, but I think they would be the big hitters. Those are the big hitters. Joe, last question for you for today's chat. Second to last. Given all that we've talked about, what does this look like with compounds, dosages? For someone who wants to be in a, and I quote, TRT dad. Here's what I mean. Yeah. I mean, my 40s and my 50s. I don't want a replacement dose of testosterone or angions. I want to be out of 100 people in the top five for testosterone slash. Oh, so that's a good specific metric that you give me there. There you go. Because there's such variability when you work with people like this. So you're talking about being a vigenetic elite testosterone. I want genetically testosterone all the time. So you're talking about like 1,200 nanogram per deciliter or something now around. Yeah, so just, you know, a lot of people, the biological into individuality so wide, which for anybody that doesn't know, that just means the differential individual response to each total milligrams. Like my TRT dose is 200 milligrams a week and that has me like mid-le of the range. Oh, wow. Yeah, a lot of people here. I'm just a pussy. A lot of people that would be, you know, 1000 plus. But you know, 200 to maybe 300 milligrams per week is going to be that 1000 plus range. But you know, when you say TRT dad, I think a lot of people look for what's the most that I can take in absence of any like negative health cost given that I can sustain as well because it's a different amount of, I'm like blasting and cruising and all maybe this kind of titration and cruise or whatever. These people like Matt for example, my colleague upstairs, he retains 400 milligrams of exposure. Yeah, because over time we've sort of delineated this level. His blood work looks like this. And it always comes back like this and his echocardiogram doesn't change every six months. You know, so currently he's sustaining that exposure. No problem. Now where that is for everybody's going to be a little bit different. But I do find like talking in averages three and just to 500 milligrams per week is about that, you know, constant cruise that you can retain and be like Superman. And I can't wait for the day that I get this fertility strike done and I can do that myself. Boom. Don't you have two semanika do you have years left? Okay. But yeah, I mean, so TRT dad, 200 milligrams is probably a good place to start. Okay. And get blood work and it just from there. But then to layer on to that, I would recommend not filling up all the other metabolic pathways in the similar fashion growth hormone growth hormone met forming, tell me, Sartan insulin if you're hypercloric or even you, Cloric. Mm-hmm. Let's say I'm TRT dad or that upper end of still not paying any downsides. 200, 300, 400 ms of Androgen testosterone per week. Let's say I have a four to eight week period. During which I'm interested in getting a bit more anabolic oomph. Mm-hmm. Let's say it's a hypercloric phase. I want to gain a bit more. Let's say it's a hypocloric phase and I want to get a little bit more shreddy. Mm-hmm. But make sure I keep all my muscle maybe even grow a bit for the beach vacation or whatever. Sorry, holiday. I don't see people say hello. Is that when orals come into play? Oh, you could. But a could I get? What would you say? 48 weeks and I want to kick things up on a notch. What's the best Jojaffrey waiter go ahead and add that? I mean, orals would be nice because you don't have to wait for the slow cleave down of a longer ester at the other side of it to return back to your baseline. If this is a very acute goal like a holiday, you know, using an oral dht derivative like anovar especially which we know really isn't particularly hepatically toxic. It's nothing to really write home about has robust cosmetic impacts. You see what it does to shift that uh intracellular volume. It makes you round and fall and yeah, it's weird. The mechanism isn't really completely elucidated. You know, we don't literally turn what happens. I think it's Androgen to yeast rematioship because we know when there's a change in Androgen each germasure. This is well documented that fluid balance shifts to favor more intracellular versus extracellular retention. So it is going to drive more intracellular mineral retention substrate retention so it makes you look pretty fucking good. And of course, as a lipolytic impacts, all Androgen's do, you know, if that beta hydrogen energy, here's actually now it's a beta hydrogen energy. You got things like climbutral, you know, okay. So for fat loss phase is climbutral. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. And that also spares muscle tissue in a special way. Yes. Also burns more. So I am a rainy bokeh on climbutral and you him been. Well, I went through all the data that I could possibly go through. If anybody's interested, it's on fzcolletube.com. The climbutraly book and the yhimbini book and we've also got a bundle we can get both of them. Everything you'll ever need to know about those molecules, how to use them, whether they need to be cycle, is their downregulation, decenstization, anything like that. But climbutral is fascinating as a molecule, sure. You know, I really enjoyed writing that ebook because I came across so many interesting things like daytoring humans up to 720 micrograms and these individual. Why, for reference, 40 to 80s typically the dose most people are using, how did people not just explode at 720? These were individuals that had heart failure already. Okay. Yeah. So they were testing essentially what the beta hydrogen energy receptor would do to something like hydro-fibilation or something like that. And what do they find? They were fine. They were fine. Well, they were going, don't go taking crazy doses. No, they're not like that. Yeah, they tartrate over a long period of time. Sure, sure. It's interesting because there is a decenstization to the sympathetic element, but the the live-politic beta-hydrogenergic action. There is no. These are silly. No, it actually seems like there's not regulation because they're so if you get used to 20 or 40 micrograms of clan instead of taking it out for a while and letting it wash out, keep it in, escalate until you're used to that. And the under the hood, beta-hydrogenergic stuff, and the fat loss stuff just keeps happening more and more and more. Whereas you don't know, feel a crazy caffeine, shit anymore and you get some sleep finally. Exactly. Get the fuck out of here. Scott, order me more clan. I've never taken clan. Stimulants are not for me. Really? No, psychologically. It just... You might blow me up. What do you feel when you take simulants? Anxious and very precise and not creative. I can do math problems like you would never believe. But also if I have to interact with other humans, it's bad time. Yeah. Yeah. Unfortunately, I'll just keep taking them. My man. Yeah, it's tough to quit them, but once you quit them and you norm out, you realize there's like gradations of emotion you haven't experienced all the time. Yeah. Just the scream of stimulants has kind of washed away. Joe, as far as getting your own responses to these things that we talked about today, how often is blood work recommended? And one of the tests people aren't getting, but they should be in their blood work. Because everyone gets a test people. That's a good one. That's a good one. We'll just talk about the tests. You're after describe any of them. Just which test should I be getting and how often? Just to stand on the right side. Well, I think we all know sort of the basic blood panel when you get hematology. You know, you're our BC panel that's going to have hematocreat him, a globe, an et cetera, et cetera. You know, people use again. You normal renal panel that's about a pile of panel renal. Yeah. He's loving to far on it. Maybe go ahead. HP, I wouldn't see. If I was going to talk about numbers that I think more body builders should get, I think sustatency is a great one. Okay. And flammatory marker. No. What is it? It's a renal marker. So you're thinking about sea reactive proteins. My bad. I'm a faggot. So, si starting seeing. So for example, you know, you're creating a bit, your creatinine is always heavily escalated on your blood work because you're very muscular. A little bit. Yeah. So creatinine is part of the EGFR equation. So you've got a full cesscalation on creatinine that's then feeding into that GFR equation and pushing your GFR in a full direction because it's escalated due to muscle mass, not due to your renal feeling kidney. Yeah. So si starting to see eliminates the creatinine element facing equation. Yeah. So HPA1C for blood glucose, long term monitoring. Okay. No one's ever really diabetic in the sports. So just like I like home or I are for insulin sensitivity. And then I think a year in Alice's for microalbuminorea as well. If you've got any renal issues, there's a good idea to get a really clear view of what's going on there. But I'd more so because body builders are going to get in blood work. And you know what? It's not hard, I'm good blood work. You know, people can have good blood work and not be particularly healthy. You know, what I will say is as well, lipid wise, HDL attenuation is going to occur from hydrogen use. There's nothing that you can do about it. Sure. We know that hydrogen's media, a decrease in HDL. We don't actually know if that means anything. So whether it's important or not, we can't say it. But we do know the LDL has a causal relationship to cardiovascular. Does the higher LDL the worse it is for? Yes. So LDL is one that absolutely you need to control. But if you have heavy genetic LDLs given, there's nothing you can do about it. Echo cardiograms going to be your main portal called to look at cardiac. And how often should you be getting one of those? Every six months like daily and echo. Yes. Holy shit. I mean, my preference would be, but at least once a year. Once a year. Yes. So your blood work every six months or every three months. I mean, I'm talking competitors, competitors, people are like, what about TRT dad? How often is he? Once a year for him? Yeah. So once a year, a good solid health screening with Echo. Yeah. Might as well throw an EKG in there. If you get like cardiac ultrasound. Yep. What was actually like? Well, it was as well. Is what I would recommend that you do is keep a sort of detailed log of all of your PDUs. And then every time you get an echo, monitor the changes in ejection fraction and ventricular hypertrophy. And you can run this kind of calculation like a x exposure, x milligrams over the last 12 months did this. So prospectively, if I do x milligrams over the next 12 months, it might do this so that you prevent yourself running into that sort of negative, let's say 55% ejection fraction where you don't want to be doing this thing anymore. Right. The idea with blood workers to give you some warning time to change what you're doing. Yeah. You just tell you, hey, you're dying. Like, like it. Yeah. Blood work often is a bit like, you know, door that you need to open to investigate further. Yeah. As well. Yeah. I think 40 cells are good marker to get as well for as quite hard for us to get in the UK. But I think yeah. Yeah. DHA as well. I would check it's not a normal in the CEO, pregnant alone, so fate as well as another one that I think is worth checking in on. There are the only unusual ones I can think of right off the bat. Sure. If this is all too confusing for me as a viewer, it's too confusing for me already as a host. How do I get in touch with you or somebody like you to help me out? Right. So the absolute easiest way to access all of my material or ask me a question or I can almost guarantee answer any question that you already have is to get the physique collective app. So if you go on the app store or the play store and search physique collective, the app will pop up. It's only 999 a month. You can sign up and get the answering cancel if you want. It's fine. Because you're still a passion project for us. We don't take any money out of the company. I mean, I don't know that. So we are really trying to just develop the most comprehensive educational experience for PDUs. We've got something like 300 hours of video content on the whole crap. Yeah. I just hit 8,000 replies on my question and answer thread. So I've answered 8,000 questions on that now. Do it every single day. So if you sign up, I can almost guarantee the question that you've got has already been answered or there'll be a video on it. Videos are in all languages, subtitled, easy to find, etc. Wow. Yeah. So if you want to directly message me to book in a consultation at Joe underscore for Z collective on Instagram. Amazing. Scott, are we going to throw his Instagram with a description? Thank you. My man, Joe, this has been as always every time I talk to you, I learn a bunch of new stuff. And I have a huge attachment to my ego and I don't like to admit that I didn't know stuff. So let me restate that statement. I already knew everything you told me, but I protected it. I was in there. Yeah. I think so. And to train them. Of course. Huge honor to have you and hopefully we'll see more of you on the channel. Yes. Thank you, my colleague. All righty. Folks. Bye.

The game for 1000 calories, damn it, I'm not getting weight, what's going on, but like, you're not getting weight, so you're not into surplus. That's what's going on. No mystery. You have to eat more. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. Let's talk about common mistakes in muscle game dieting. You want to get huge, you want to get jacked, you want to get swollen, you want to get yoked, you want to get cock diesel, and you're like that term. Why are we saying cock so much folks? Let's take it easy. How many mistakes do I have listed here? 10. 10 common muscle gain diet mistakes. Not training mistakes, but diet mistakes. You want to gain muscle and you're eating in a certain way, but you're couldn't make it in some of these mistakes. Let's make sure you're not. Stay number one is not knowing your maintenance and thus being mathematically unable to generate a surplus because you have no idea what your maintenance is. And my definition of surplus is something above maintenance, but if you don't know this part, how the hell do you know what to eat in order to have a surplus. This seems like a make belief common mistake that I made up just to be able to have some filler in a YouTube video to get more ads out of it. But I swear to God, it's not true. And you guys have been in the gym many, many years. You know it's not true because people talk to you in the gym and they say shit like this. They be like, yeah man, just trying to get these gains, you know, and you're like, that's right, man, you know, like you're between sets of hacks, why give nothing literally you're in prison. You have nowhere to go except talk to the person who just started talking to you. And then again, man, it's all but diet, right? You know, like, yeah, it's right, man, that's super important. And then you make the mistake of getting curious and you go, what's your diet like, you want to help somebody. They're just trying to eat, you know what I'm saying? I'm like, ah, to call one of our good friends. Ah, yeah, so how do you know if you're eating enough. Nobody lost nobody found no question asked no question answered. Yeah, God, I have an understanding of maintenance before you generate a surplus. How do you do this? You try to monitor your fruit intake. And just even just the three macros, protein's carbs fats every day, even just calories every day. For one or two weeks, he relatively normal and just eat how you always eat and which I assume you just normally have a roughly a maintenance of body weight. And then you get a value out of that cell, 3500 calories, and then you go from there. Critical critical, and if you don't do this and you're not gaining muscle that you want. There's no mystery because how the hell would you know if you're eating enough. Point number two, a stake number two is not setting a surplus and actually sticking to it. If you want to gain muscle a surplus is critical because can you gain tame? Yes, for a time. But once you get sufficiently lean or sufficiently well trained, gaining either works way, way, way, way not as good as muscle gain on purpose, gaining weight, having eating a surplus or it just doesn't work at all. So if you have a surplus that you've generated, say you know your maintenance is 3,000 calories, you're not making a first mistake. And then you generate a surplus of 300 calories per day on average, so 3,000, 300 calories in which you're eating, you have to get to that surplus and you have to stick to it. If you don't have a target of how many calories you have to eat, then you just can train hard for weeks and weeks and be accidentally at maintenance, more accidentally in a small deficit, but actually gain no muscle at all. Imagine eating protein and getting into the gym and getting hard workouts and doing all the things. And at the end of 12 weeks, the reality is you didn't really put on any muscle because you simply didn't eat enough. That's so dumb, it's so wasteful and it's so easy to stop. But stay number three, not measuring your weight, getting on the scale regularly and thus not knowing if you are in a surplus. The way to find out because here's the thing, even if you do point number two, set a surplus and stick to it. That's all theoretical. You assume that you're roughly correct in your measurement of the maintenance, 3,000 calories. You assume that you have imposed 3,300 surplus, but remember food labels are off often by as much as 20% or more. Remember that your thermogenesis is different. They stand different times of the year to for hormonal states, how much you walk around versus not. If you're tracking your steps exactly, yes communist party of China, nowhere exactly where I am, and all times. All these things change in your assumption that you're in a surplus, maybe incorrect. You may be a bigger surplus than you thought you were and you'd be gaining too much fat. You may be in a smaller surplus than you thought you were not gaining as much muscle as you like. You may not be in a surplus at all. How do you fundamentally know that you're in a surplus? The assumption is good, but you got to know some stuff about it. Just like, if you're like in a war or you're firing rockets at something, you can assume that you got the coordinates right. But simply it's probably good to look at the satellite imaging to see if you're hitting anything. And if you're not, looks like your assumptions are all. Very simple concept, which lots of people just end up not doing. So then you get the following social media question, which I get all the time, and I'm sure you guys get a bunch yourselves, is like amen, I've been eating insert calorie number here that sounds impressive to my person, 4000 calories. But in 4000 calories, I'm not gaining weight, what's going on, but like, what's going on? If you're not gaining weight, so you're not in a surplus. That's what's going on. No mystery, you have to eat more. But that person already did a really good thing. They're saying they're not gaining weight. Some people will see even less. They say, I mean, in a 4000 calories a day, but I don't think I'm getting any bigger as stronger. Oh, gotcha, has your weight been going up over time? And some people will be like, well, I'm not sure. Folks, no, wait a minute. You want to do the shit right, and it's not that hard, which you have to do is measure body weight. Probably every day or every other day, get a nice weekly average going. Microsoft, Excaler, Google Sheets can do this for you with minimum effort. You're even if not a more the RP diet coach, a shameless plug. And it's totally good to go. And if you're gaining weight at the roughly the appropriate rate, you're awesome. You're golden, you're doing everything right. But if you're not, you can fix it. If you're not weighing yourself regularly, you cannot possibly be legitimately. Confused about what's going on. You can be illegitimately confused, which means confused for no good reason. Next, people sometimes impose a surplus, and they'll detect even how much weight they're gaining. But they won't change it at the margins when they know there's something wrong. So people will say, yeah, man, I've been getting two pounds a week for the last few weeks. Is that good? What do you think? I think it's too much. I'm getting too fat. What should I do? Reduce the surplus. And then you get into that weird fear that mostly guys have of that if they have a certain surplus, and they're gaining it too fast of a rate and getting too fat, they think that dialing that surplus down is the same logical equivalent as just going into a deficit. Remember, a slower rate of gain is still a rate of gain. And in many cases, it's a rate of gain that's leaner and healthier and all the good things. So if you're eating 4,000 calories a day and you're getting too fat and you know that shit, you don't have to go back to 3,000 and go back to maintenance. You could just go to 3,500 or even 3750 if you're really super averse to gaining slow, and then you can make that adjustment. Another thing is this works in both directions. People will set a surplus to monitor their weight, and they'll do shit like this. This is more of an average of female problem, a female mistake. They'll say 2,000 is my baseline maintenance. 2300 is what I'm going to eat at. They eat at 2300, but they are, it's summertime now and they're getting more steps, and they're getting more muscular, so their metabolism is increasing a little bit. Their training is at a new level, it's super hard, and they also picked up like a recreational hobby. They're playing tennis with grandma a few times a week. And they started at 130 pounds and then they're at 130 and they're at 130 and that one 39 and they're at 129 and they're at 129 and they're at 131 and they're at 130 and that's like a few multiple weeks of weight average or some top. They're not gaining weight no matter what, they're not actually at a surplus or a very, very small one of that. And so many people in that situation will be like, you know, yeah, like this is going on, I impose the surplus and they'll do this to go, I'm not gaining weight, but my training is going really well, I feel like I'm getting bigger, so I'm just going to keep it here for XYZ amount of time. Folks, the purpose of a muscle gain phase is to gain muscle. The absolute best, no debate way to do that is to gain weight. I mean 50 pounds of fucking day, I mean half a pound per week, a pound per week, something minimal. But if you're not seeing that in your averages, you have to eat more food and I know you may be a verset that idea. And you may think, well, there's some stuff going on under the hood, body water, I'm still getting tissue and you may be right, you may still be getting tissue. But much less tissue than you could be gaining, if you weren't plans, oh god damn much, you actually ate more food. Yes, it's going to be uncomfortable, I had a situation in my last mass phase, I'm going to act of rest right now, where I was eating 4,500 calories per day, which to me is a lot of food, fucking annoying. And my weight chart showed me that I should actually be eating more like 4,700 if I'm going to gain the weight I need to. I didn't want to hear that shit, I'm like fuck man, I can barely eat anything at all. I'm fucking insulin and this and that, try to eat more food, it's awful. But that shit is real life, and I have to be honest with myself and change my surplus if my weight data isn't showing me that I'm gaining as fast. And I know the sounds but dantic is fucked, but people do it all the time. Even I consider it, I told myself, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it should still happen under the hood, I'm like, I'm still gaining muscle somehow, bullshit. Yeah, somehow, but I'm right here to gain muscle somehow, I'm here to do a real good job, and that means being uncomfortable when the time calls for it. Number five, using weekly individuals are using single data points, daily data points of body weight versus weekly averages. Weekly averages tell you the story of what's happening with your tissue muscle and fat, your actual body of molecules that are not water. Daily fluctuations tell you a body water story. So some people will impose a surplus and two or three days later they'll gain five pounds. And then go fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck, oh my god, I'm just getting super fat doing this, but, but, but hold on. What is the weekly average tell us? And I like why I don't know yet, it hasn't been a week. Well, I'm shocked to fuck up and do what you're supposed to for a week. Now, after a week of weights, you get a weekly average, your last week may be weighed 170, 9 pounds. You went up to 187 on Wednesday of this week, but then you wait cool to off and you realize it was just like, a bunch of Chinese food and tons of salt in it. And you get as low as 177 on Friday, the weekend goes normally and it turns out that at the end of this week, your weekly weight average is 179.2. You gain 0.2 pounds. It's low clap. Not terrible. It's the thardo something definitely, you know, likely in a surplus and it's not the end of the world. But you remember the same person that unwinds day because of that super high weigh in from just one weird day of body water, you wanted to pull back the surplus. If you pulled it back in, mind you, this is near and dear to my heart. So I'm so passionate to that, I've done all these things before, made all these mistakes. You pull that surplus down and at the end of the week, you actually lose weight and you're like, oh fuck, what did I do wrong? I mean, the answer is, you should have stuck to the process. Hashtag trust the process? You don't need to trust you. Trust but verify and that verify takes one week of weight averageers and then you know what's going on. And then next week you'll know better what's going on. If you cannot plug and play, if you cannot assume that you're taking a good guess and be patient enough to weight one whole week to modify your results, this whole game is not for you. Just I can go. Scott, if you need to, I want to kids do it nowadays that's not bodybuilding. TikTok, go on TikTok and make a dancing video where you think that people watching your dances because you're a good dancer, but really they're just touching themselves. We allowed to say that on YouTube. We'll find out. Time to get canceled. All right. Next, your weekly average could be good, but your possibility can be extreme. Your body gains muscle best when every day more or less you present a small surplus. Just an affects your food to feed the muscles, not so much extra food to feed the fan of ton. Weekly average, one pound of game, hey success. There's another way to gain a pound on average. Early in the week, you'll run a deficit. Small deficit, you lose some fat, but you barely build any muscle or not at all. Second half of the week. Thursday, Friday, Saturday, etc. Weekend, you generate like enormous surplus. You lost a little bit of fat earlier in the week. Didn't gain much muscle. Later the week, you introduce the huge surplus and you gain a fuck-zillion amount of fat because huge surplus is almost always go mostly to fat. Your muscle, you gain a little bit of muscle towards the end of that week because the surplus after a certain number of extra calories, probably anything north of 500 calories, almost all the rest of the calories just go straight to fat, and only a certain amount your muscle tops out really quick for how much it can accept and utilize and grow. So if you're a little bit of a deficit here and a huge surplus here, yes, the average weight gain is going to be whatever a pound, but a very small fraction of that is muscle because a bunch of the week you weren't in gaining muscle and the other part of the week you're gaining mostly fat. That kind of possibility can really elude you because on the weekly averages you're doing just fine. But it turns out that much of the week because you're not eating enough, you're not taking the opportunity to gain muscle, and the other half of the week you're eating too much and you're getting too much fat. It sucks, it sucks, but the best way to gain muscle is consistently presenting a small average surplus day and day we can weak out. And this like idea that like one day you eat 2,000 calories you've remained in just 3,000, in another day you eat 7,000 and all averages out to be okay, it's really just a recipe for on the first day not gaining a lot of muscle, and on the second day gaining a shit would have disproportion of fat. So try to, if your diet looks like this, try to get it a little bit more like this. Yeah sure, it's okay to eat a little bit more on the weekends. Yeah, it's okay to under eat a little bit in the early and the week, but if you really, really make that extreme you're missing out. Next, eating mostly junk. I mean this is the, what's the meme for this, the dreamer bulk or whatever, not sure sounds like a nightmare bulk to me, but you know, you're overdited and you got really lean and then you're local and I'm just going to eat cookies and drink protein shakes and ice cream sandwiches or whatever else you want to eat. It's cool, but if you eat mostly junk, you can do two things. Even if you set your calories right, but it's tons of junk, mostly junk, your performance is going to suck. One of my best friends and I, we were visiting a friend in California generation ago. And we were already training, I was like 220 drug free and shit and we're like, we're eating a lot of fast food out there. And I just remember eating like the day before I had like three of those KFC famous bowls, the mashed potato bowls, so good. And the next day went, did high rep dead lifts and him and I both did a couple sats and we looked at each other like, are we an altitude or something? It was an Irvine California, but what if I could help to do it? And it's just like, between sats, I was not sick, it was like poisoned by junk food. There is such a thing as too much. So you can't run a high performance machine on junk food, eating mostly healthy foods are going to be an idea. So it's not going to get rage in performances. And that's bad. And then it's also not great for your health. So yes, junk food is cool tea to moderation on a muscle gain phase, but most of your foods should still be healthy. Point number eight, very related, but the opposite, never eating junk. You'll have folks that are like, I'm fucking on a muscle gain phase. I'm serious. I'm fucking hard attack, clean food 24, 7 brother. Hey, respect. If you can survive that grind for a rest of your body building career, amazing. But most people, dare I say almost all people? You need a bit of fun in their life, need a bit of fun foods. And so a real good way to go about that is mostly healthy food. But a few times a week, I do it once or twice a week on a muscle gain phase. You throw on a cheat meal. And it's really awesome. And it cost you almost nothing on the downsides. And it's so great psychologically, it's so fun. That by the time you get to your fat loss phase, you've had more than enough cheating, and you can really grind super clean eating out of fat loss phase. Because if you don't have some cheat meals on your muscle gain phase, when the fuck are you going to have cheat meals? Maintenance, I guess, sure. But it's kind of fun to be able to train hard to spot, and then eat a cheat meal and understand that a lot of it's getting in the muscles to help you gain. Muscle, it's kind of like a, is a really virtuous cycle there. And it feels really great. And clearly, I'm going to be able to do it on fat loss phase. Cheating a lot on active rest or maintenance feels strange, because you're like, you know, I'll have to eat less later, or time they got for this. And there's something about it where if you're ever going to have cheat meals, muscle gain phase at the time to do it. And if you're so psychotic about only ever eating clean, psychologically, you're going to pay the cost of that. In most cases, sooner rather than later. You're going to burn out, you're going to be done with a sport. And it's tricky too, because I've seen some of my contemporaries who came up with the same time as I did. A lot of them finished bodybuilding, and they're just done with it, because they went so hardcore into it from day one. They just burned out. They're, come tired of eating clean. I'm tired of doing at least workouts that I don't want to do. Whereas what I did was I took a more relaxed journey. And every year that I was in bodybuilding, I had a little bit more serious about it. But that means I never burned out because it was, I was always having plenty of fun foods and always training in a way that was effective, but also fun. So don't forget that that's a big thing. And at the end of the day, this whole thing we're doing is a fucking hobby. It's a leisure activity. And if it's not fun, maybe sort of the Ziggreed should as act or something like that. Enjoy some fun foods on a muscle game phase. Enjoy those foods on a bulk. It's going to be something that reinvigorates you psychologically and keeps the process fun. You'll be able to do it for long enough to actually get superjacked. All right. Two more. Mini cutting too often. Unless you're at 15% body fender so as a competitive bodybuilder or 20 to 25 plus percent as a recreational lifter. Add 10% or so if you're female to these numbers. You can easily continue to gain without needing a mini cut and break up your momentum because you'll still gain an unbelievable amount of muscle in not a ton of fat. Yes, if you get ultra fat, it's all bad and maybe you'll even start gaining more fat unless muscle. But up until those points you're good to go. What we do see with people is they get to 11% body fat and it's mini cut time. Brakes up their momentum like crazy. And it's just good to just really kind of sit in that that of food and training and momentum for as long as you can. When you're starting to get too fat, yes, a mini cut every 8 to 12 weeks is totally fine. But if you're mini cutting every 4 to 6 weeks, she was you can just paranoid. And the thing is if you were lean and you like being lean and you got a little thick allusious on your mass phase, that's nothing a 4 to 6 feet mini cut can't fix completely and you're refucking ripped again. Body fat's not something that once you gain a little bit too much of it, that's it it's there forever. No way, not even close. So it's okay to let that momentum keep going until you're Convincingly fat enough to where you need a mini cut and the paranoia of always mini cutting all the time is just a fat phobia and it's irrational and will not give you good long term results not as good as you could have had if you let your mass phases if you really lean into them. Last one last common muscle gain diet mistake is continuing is the option is continuing to bulk once your momentum is all that gone. If you're no longer getting much stronger week to week in the gym, if you're super tired and beat up and fatigue. If every week you notice that you're notably fat or but no more notably muscular. Stop gaining especially if it's been months and months and a lot of this thing so start so real quick. I'm just finished the thought stop gaining doing 8 to 12 week normal fat loss phase. Maintenance phase at the end of clear some fatigue or something or maintenance phase and then 8 to 12 week fat loss phase and then start massing again. Doing a fat loss phase won't fuck you up, it's not going to cost you a ton of muscle or any at all. It's just reset the living fuck out of you and sometimes. That maintenance phase cools off so much training fatigue that it lets you go for months afterwards training super fucking hard. If you can no longer train ultra hard. If you can no longer demonstrate that you're getting lots of muscle when you're starting to gain a lot of fat. If you're no longer getting stronger in the gym, it's too much fatigue. Be it diet fatigue or training fatigue or some combination of both. It's time to chill, it's time to maintain. It's time to cool off, it's time to mini caught or even do a real cut and then it's time to come back up again. A lot of the times people get in trouble with this is they'll set themselves at their I say. My old arbitrary duration goal for massing or weight gain goal they'll say this. I'm going to mass from 160 to 180. By the time they reach 175 the holds it's a giant dumpster fire of. Join's hurt. I'm not getting stronger. I'm just getting fat or fuck this. But they have this 180 in their head and they go I got to get to 180. Don't do it. Don't fucking do it because you will get to 180. That's not that hard. The average American weighs like 330 by now or some shit. You ain't even a real size person yet in the United States. You go to Texas. You're half the size of a real person. Gaining weight is not hard. Gaining muscle is quite difficult. And it has to occur in a high quality manageable fatigue environment. And if that environment is longer with you, it's time to do active restor maintenance or whatever clear the air to let it go again. The other way people get in trouble is setting themselves duration goals. Like a very common question I get for some goddamn reason is Dr. Mike, can I bulk for a year straight? Look, yes. But it's tough because Fatigue will accumulate much faster than the year. You probably just want to do some maintaining or some any cutting at some point during that time. And there are ways to wiggle around it. But why? Why? What is it about a year that you are so attached to? And if the momentum is crushing it for a year, hey, Fox, we go for a year and a half. But if the momentum is clearly gone by month eight, you've got to retune the system. Right? And there has to be a compelling reason of why you are massing for as long as you are. And just setting yourself a goal and going, it's cool in the sense that like you're a person of principle. He is a man of focus of brains at bullet, f**k in John Wickshit. Scott, the video guy remember that shit? Oh no, no. You'll've been dumb at the bull wheel of their able fake Russian accent by non-native speaker. In any case, you're all John Wick out. I get it. You f**king John Wick says he's going to get to 180, he's going to get to 180, hell or I water. That's cool. But you can be that kind of person that's perseverant and really goal oriented and doesn't lie to themselves. But at the same time, the a bit more of a logician and understand that like when the system is no longer in a properly functioning state, it's not about willpower anymore. Nobody's doubting your shit. Bring it back around. It's like if John Wick is shooting people in it's working, great keep shooting. But if like a tank rolls up with 900 heavily armed troops, John Wick might egress to like come back around and go through the sewer tunnels with the homeless, gain or whatever, ridiculous move. I love that shit. I love watching John Wick hide because I don't have to make sense out of anything. It's trying to make sense of the John Wick's of that idea. In any case, even John Wick pulls back when the time comes. And so it's one of these situations where yes, I understand you told yourself I'm going to bulk for a year. I'm going to bulk till I get one until 180. If it fits in a motivational problem, hey, listen, that's between you and God, which is to say John Wick again. But if it's the thing where you're just like pointlessly like trying to bash through this barrier and you don't have to. And there's smarter ways to do the same thing. Go with a smarter way. I guess that really is a big point of today's talk is the smart don't be stupid. Do all the good things, don't do bad things, enjoy your muscle gain. And as usual, if I see you on the street, I have my Butler say hi to you. I'm talking to regular people anymore. Shit. See you next time. You

I predict that folks with lower tier fitness goals lose a few pounds of fat, gain a few pounds of muscle if they can get almost everything that they go to the gym for from a pill. Then they can just do fun physical things like hiking and biking and swimming and hanging out with their families and be 100% as fit as they would like. That's happening! It's going to start happening big time within the next five years. This genetic revolution will allow almost everyone that wants it to have the strength and aesthetics that they like overall with precisely zero training. Hey folks, Dr. Mike Kier for RP Strength and I'm going to tell you something crazy today. Well I do say a lot of crazy stuff. I think fitness in the way that we understand it has something like 10 years left to live. I'm not that smart. I need to put things in my own head and the way that I can understand them and the best person ever to do that before me was Forest Gumps Mom. That's right. Do you guys remember that shit when Forest Little Kid Forest was like, Mom, what's like, Tyson, Maine? And she was like, it's a place you go and you never come back. And he was like, Mom, is that what Daddy went? And his outfitness is going in about 10 years. From what I remember in the movie, my recollection Scott is kind of hazy, but I think she was kind of like, honestly Forest, Mom has been so goddamn tired of your shit for so damn long. Your daddy was an idiot. Clearly, that's how come you're around. Any left is for another woman. But yes, technically it's not unlikely that fitness only has 10 years left. That's how I remember Forest Gump. No wait, hold on a sec. What did I just say? Fitness is only 10 years. Not the conductor, Mike. That's what we're going to call you. Your Forest Gump impression is honestly familiar, okay. Please just cut to the chase. All right, very well. Couple points to make the point. Point number one. How the hell do I get to 10 years of fitness remaining? Nearly every body change that you have occurs because your genes produce more or less signal the production of more or less proteins as a response to exercise training. For example, when you train, myostat and expression goes down. Myomine's muscle statin means stop or block. When a less mouse statin protein is being produced by the signal to being produced by the genes that create the mouse statin protein, the less mouse statin protein, guess what happens to your muscle mass. It's blocked less. It goes up. That is one of the core reasons why you gain muscles from resistance training. As a matter of fact, there are proteins inside of your muscles that detect mechanical tension and probably a few other things like fatigue by products. When the mechanical tension is detected, it doesn't grow muscle. That protein has a signaling cascade of other proteins and molecules that ping from one part of your muscle cell to the other until the last part of that signaling cascade ends something like the proteins that actually produce the machinery of your muscles. It's genes and proteins all the way down, including from effector modulators like mechanical tension itself. You don't need mechanical tension to grow theoretically. You just need the end of the cascade line of molecules to flip into one direction versus the other and then muscle growth results exactly like it would if you presented tension itself. In addition to that, when you tense up your muscles and your tendons get a lot of tension through them that increases the expression of proteins, sometimes collagen, sometimes elastin, sometimes others, that make your tendons bigger and stronger. It's all proteins all the way down. Over the next five years, this is already begun. We will hit a tidal wave, which is technically an outdated term I know at tsunami. It's not caused by the tide. Of drugs that modify the effect of these proteins that are involved in exercise to great extents already, drugs currently in testing like a Zeleprag and Goretta's map, modify protein activity at receptors that modulate exercise responses like my a caundral proliferation, which makes you give you a bigger gas tank, fat burning and muscle growth. When taking these soon to be future mega drugs that do a lot of what exercise does except by you just taking a pill, I predict that folks with lower tier fitness goals will no longer have to go to the gym at all. What do I mean by lower tier fitness goals? Lose a few pounds of fat, gain a few pounds of muscle, be a bit healthier. I mean that's like millions and millions of people in America that currently go to gyms and around the world that currently go to gyms. If they can get almost everything that they go to the gym for from a pill, then they can just do fun physical things like hiking and biking and swimming and hanging out with their families and be 100% as fit as they would like. That's happening. My best guess is it's going to start happening big time within the next five years. Now, through that process of really advanced drugs, folks who want extra extra results will still lift and still do extra cardio for the time being. Now, here's where shit gets really crazy. In more like five to ten years, not within five, genetic engineering as a process regularly applied to humans is very likely to blow up. And by blow up, I mean, not physically, I mean, become radically more adopted in common use, even for things that aren't diseases just upgrades. And that's going to let a lot of folks alter their DNA so that they don't need to exercise to gain almost all of its benefits. That means that just through modifying your genes, your genes work as if you're always exercising a ton. And that means you're getting all those molecular downstream benefits, usually vectored through exercise, now vectored through direct gene modification, which means we're going to have to switch shit on a switch should off. We switch it on, we break the switch off and we leave the cell. And then you just have genetics, literally, like the top 1% of elite genetics for fitness. Scott, you know those people that you're like, hey, how long have you been lifting? They're like a week and you're like, what the fuck? There is no reason, theoretically, why eventually advanced genetic engineering, powered by AI, of course, is not going to allow us to do that. So my contention is this, maybe 10 to 15 years from now, maybe sooner I'll talk about that in a little bit. Pretty much everyone in the modern civilized world will able to access having extreme genetics. For fitness, for example, the ability to reduce milestone activation and production to near zero. If you can do that, and I'm going to say that's too much for most people, that means your muscle growth from zero training at all is as high as it is from better than the best training you can give yourself right now. Think about that. You're just always growing muscle. Your muscle cells number one priority shifts to muscle growth and number two, three, whatever it kind of forgets about. I'm kidding, it still does them, but I'm talking about muscle growth front and center. Pictures you were about to see on your television screen right now are of animals that have had their mouth statin genes completely deactivated. Myos statin knockout animals. They're knockouts honey, look at them. Every single one of these animals that you see on the screen has never trained with weights. The mice that are myos statin knockouts typically hardly even move around because they live in a cage. One of these animals you'll probably see is a mouse statin knockout gray-hound, which looks two things, adorable and sad. That's one thing all at the same time and arguably the same thing. And two, unreal jacked and not even like a gray-hound. How the hell is that thing a gray-hound? Well, it turns out gray-hounds if you've been around them after their career days of chasing rabbits, they're actually dogs that don't do much. They like to cuddle with you, they're big lovers. They will kill rabbits really impressively in your backyard. But other than that, they don't do much. They're not like they're on a gym floor for dogs. They don't do anything and they look like that. Think about it. When you do exercise, it vectors on a molecular cascade that ends up altering how much protein you express and the protein does the rest of the work. Why not just cut right to the chase and have your genes alter protein expression anyway, and then everything downstream of exercise still happens. But with no exercise at all. It is not just hypothetically possible. There's just no good reason it can't be done. Other than the tractability, the problem, figuring which genes to attack, how to design the vectors that get to those genes, and how to make sure that the vectors to get to those genes change them, change your muscle genes, but not genes in your brain that make you have crazy brain hazards. Those are all solvable problems and they're solving them right now. And right now, most of the drugs being developed are have been developed in testing. They weren't even using AI. AI is going to make that process 100 times more potent in every way you can conceive of. 100 times faster to discovery, 100 times the effect magnitude of possible, and 100 times less probability of doing harm in any other subsystem. This genetic revolution will allow almost everyone that wants it to have the strength and aesthetics that they like overall with precisely zero training. Because remember, the only reason you train for growth and fat loss is because that growth and fat loss activates genes or proteins. And genes make proteins. If those genes and proteins are already made and active without having to exercise, exercising can be like redundant. In it can burn more calories, but guys, with a few simple genetic modifications that are already available through research drugs right now, not the modifications, but the drugs do this. You can race your baseline energy output a lot as if you were exercising. So even the extra calorie burning becomes a giant like why? And if you've ever done cardio for 45 minutes at a time while staring at a wall, you might have thought like, man, there's probably better alternate uses of my time if I would have just never have to do cardio again. And the time for never having to do cardio again is coming and it's not far off. So the next question becomes this, will all of fitness go away? And I don't think the answer is here. I think it's a no not quite not upfront, for example. Specialized hypertrophy training for a while is really going to shine because if you want like way bigger arms and delts, but the same chest and back, you can't just crank up the myostat and shit because that makes everything bigger and it doesn't care. Scaladle muscle. It'll also make the muscles of your jaw and face bigger, which means you're going to look more like me, which is a curse I wouldn't damn anyone with even my worst enemies. So if you don't want giant muscle head, you don't want giant rest of your muscle body, but you want your arms and shoulders to be bigger. What you're going to do is take a little bit of those advanced drugs or alter your DNA to be more a less expressive of myostat and grow much more muscle than normal, but not full tilt, you know, mouse that negative dog or gray hound or anything or gray hound or dogs. Mask that negative dog or mast that negative mouse or cow or any of that stuff. You're going to want something subtle, but subtle doesn't give you big arms and shoulders just more impressive arms and shoulders. So what you can do in the future once you get these advanced drugs and genetic techniques is get some of them pushed in, get a really impressive physique overall, and then train on top of that, but just the muscles are mostly the muscles that you want to improve for aesthetics. So I'm talking about having great genetics for chest back, whatever, and they're just kind of really good without you training them and then you nuke the living dog should out of your arms, out of your delts, out of your forms, and then you have enormous arms and everything else looks awesome too. Then you can really start your train, your calves, your outer quads, blah, blah, blah, to start to sculpt your body into something really, really gorgeous, but only through specialization, not having to spend a ton of time just training stuff that doesn't get any smaller or just baseline bigger. Baseline bigger, that shit will take care of no problem. Another thing, weightlifting like the snatch and clean and jerk, strongman sport, every grappling sport, every combat sport that's still technique practice and that requires you to do the sport. So weightlifting for a while is going to have a big question mark of like, do we let these new freaks compete in the Olympics or not? I have no idea how to answer that question. It's going to be a big question in the future. And of course, sports like boxing, sports like climbing, cycling, activities like that will be massive because those are potentially massive because those sports are still fun and their skill sports. Think about it this way. How many climbers train with weights to be better at climbing? Most of their training for is increases in strength and muscle size and the muscle size they only want because it increases strength. What if you had drugs or gene editing techniques that could damn near max out your muscle strength and damn near max out your muscle size for whatever muscles you wanted? Within climbers might still train with weights a little bit, but mostly we just climb because really, almost all climbers just want to climb to begin with. Same for wrestlers, same for boxers, same for cyclists, there's a lot of people that lift weights because they love it. Me, you and most of the people watching this channel maybe for us it's going to be a trip to give up the ghost. For most athletes and most humans out there they only lift because they have to a lot of people in the gym are there because they're like, well if you had a pill for this shit I wouldn't be here and those people will not be here. Let me get into that more a little bit. To that end, general hypertrophy just overall muscle growth and strength focused lifting may be made died down by a huge factor. You know that guy, you know that guy that does half squats for sets of five with 95 and like scrolls on his phone for five minutes between each set. He's a lot of those guys. He's like 45 is got kids in a wife and he knows he needs to lift just to keep his health and his physique decent. Do you think he's coming back to the gym when one shot means he has everything he needs out of the gym? No, he'll never see him again, which is kind of sad because he'll never see him again. He was great. His name was Jim. It's kind of great because now you have the powerack all to yourself and the only people in gyms are really really really hard core ones that want that extra little bit out of it or to focus a ton on one strength feed or one part of their physique or whatever. Because the other thing, some people will still do full on fitness and remain completely genetic editing free. God bless them. That's awesome. Some will do edits for vibes and perhaps to fill out the potential like early gene editing doesn't get because here's the thing there's lots of genes that exercise targets and lots of proteins that are created and so they're going to start to have one or two proteins and genes that hit central regulating factors that treat like 60% of all the stuff you want from exercise than 65 and 70 and 75. That's going to be a few months minimum if AI really gets going or years if we do a kind of more traditional way. And then so you might continue to do exercise because not all of the exercise benefits are right up front got men by these gene vectors and by these protein modulators but more and more over time. So there's going to be place for some stuff for a while but that place is reducing for folks that are not hardcore for sure. What does this mean for you for your future planning? First thing this is not formal investment advice I'm absolutely not qualified for that and I just invest in general shit anyway. I would not sell your house to invest in big box gyms five years from now to 15 years from now. Why? Most of the attendees of big box gyms you know planet fitness is you know LA fitness 24 hour fitness those kinds of gyms. Most of the attendees at those gyms most of the ways gyms make money is from people that only go to the gym to really just get like a giant marine checkmark that says you exercise you burn some fat and you build some muscle and you got some health. When that's available in a pill and later when that's available in a shop that you take once and then you just stay in shape the rest of your life you got a bullet Scott am I going nuts or like half of those people not coming back the next day? For sure they don't want to be there to begin with it's a very different thing you want to be there when you don't and so big box gyms are going to go out of business like crazy maybe before but sure shit during this revolution at some point. That's a thing. Hard core hypertrophy or strength gyms will survive much longer because having this first wave of medications is going to make people even more psychotic at those gyms because they're finally guys imagine this the thing that used to hold you back from being hard core to fitness is you loved it but your genetics weren't that great. Now your genetics are amazing where you're going to be even even the gym the next day. I'm going to look like God himself it's going to be awesome so those hard core facilities are going to hang in much longer probably a safer bet here's another thing if I were a young high school student early college and I was planning on what to go into I would pivot to learning how to manage people psychology to coaching running to coaching cycling to coaching dancing kickboxing grappling surfing etc. People are going to love doing all those things are going to do it more than ever because they're going to be in great shape and these things are fun. Over indexing on personal training exclusively for body recomposition just by itself might time out in about 15 years because 10 to 15 years from now genetic adoption might be depending on how the future plays out either almost complete or really getting going and then imagine if you're ROI though thing you have to offer other people is why don't work with crazy athletes or anything I just just general people trying to get in shape you're in tired demographic basically got deleted out and by deleted out I mean helped so much by these other things this is don't need you anymore. I mean this is something that is happening similar to regular TV versus Netflix prime and all that other stuff. You used to be you got your fun from regular TV and it was limited and like Scott can you imagine someone who in the year 2026 is starting in college and it's like hey kid what do you want to be there like well gee whiz mister I want to be a cable television producer. He's just Scott's laughing because that's what they would do they laugh why hell you want to do that Netflix and YouTube and prime are 90% of the market share now that's how it's going to be with personal training to just get in basic shape it's going to be a solve problem I wouldn't over index on starting your career in something like that I could be wrong about this folks but think about it yourself and come to your own conclusion which by the way is which should be in for every piece of information you get sure should on this channel it's after should I say it's just lies um if you're almost out of high school starting college personal fitness trainer is not a career I'd recommend unless you're really passionate about then go to and get retrained later um I would say it's kind of analogous to be like if the year is 1988 and you're training to be a typewriter repairman it's all computers after that dude typewriters die in the mid 90s it's not where you want to be there are caveats to this so point number six we have caveats number one regulation could stall this timeline by five to 10 years here's how it would happen gene editing is going great one person gets a gene edit somebody's famous brother and la are some shit nasty some kind of allergic reaction or transgenic reaction and they croak senator congressman starts a petition scared parents don't want gene editing to kill their kids etc and all of a sudden we just have like a five year moratorium on any new development that's it that's five years of nothing getting done you're even by the shit you can't even find it on the market entire industry is just like wither on the vine overnight it can happen one percent can happen and get it pushed down by five years it can get pushed out by 10 years I hope to God that one happens in these things are awesome but it very well could the other perspective advancements in artificial super intelligence which I think are damn near for sure other people think maybe maybe not I consider them likely and social adoption I think is an even chance might mean that by as early as 2030 genetic upgrades are already spreading around how so check this out right now there are drugs the pipeline for drug development looks like this the pharmaceutical company has their scientists develop candidate drugs on computers or in wet labs and they're like okay this drug we think it's going to work what they do is they usually do their own phases of animal trials because they don't want to waste the FDA's time and get all the stupid approval for everything the animals didn't die in the effect was demonstrated as like well this thing really does what we want after that they start going to the FDA trials process where it's multiple animal trials situations and then three usually three stages phase one phase two phase three of human trials that whole process tear it tear to be takes five years and realistically takes like 10 that's how drugs are made almost all the drugs that you will get on the market released in let's say 2026 are going to be drugs that were on the drawing board in like 2015 I kid you not pre AI literally just didn't have a eye back then and so what's going to happen is all these drugs are going to the pipeline and they're going real slow when AI starts crapping out these drugs that are small molecule drugs let me tell you another thing a lot of these drugs for muscle growth and stuff even the ones we've talked about about this channel they're called biologics which is the very complex molecules if you shake it like this the whole molecule is destroyed if you put it in the sun for two seconds and it's direct sunlight the whole molecule gets destroyed if the during shipping the thing sees any amount of heat for five minutes the molecule gets destroyed so these biologics you have to have to go to a hospital or an infusion center and get them IV into you once a month otherwise it just don't work and they cost $10,000 per IV infusion so it's like okay those are the new drugs coming out fine AI and actually pre-air ready this is happening but the AI is going to happen 100 times more often for the same effect on target for the same increase in muscle growth you'll have drugs coming out when these drugs are in phase two trials the older ones the biologics the ones you need to infuse small molecule drug drops into animal trials and it is 1000 times cheaper to make completely stable in two years in a cool dry place you can shake the f*** out of it unless you have like some kind of super crazy velocity device centerfuge you're not going to shake the drug out of effect in addition to that it's oral and non-toxic you just take it in a supplement every day that biologic drug might never even make it to phase three because the regeneran pharmaceuticals are ever something like pan for all that shit we're canning this drug altogether small molecule that goes through trials and then everything gets better but hold on a second small molecule drugs are amazing but what about genetic editing that same company as the small molecule trials approach phase two could have gene editing drugs or gene editing vectors that solve the whole problem one shot one kill so they might be like well we'll still release this drug but like two months later we release the gene edits so what might happen is in 2028 we'll get hit with biologics in 2029 we get hit with small molecule drugs which make the biologics totally worthless and then out in 2030 people are starting gene editing already so this whole cascade can happen a lot faster Scott remember how long you don't literally remember neither one of us was live but the vinyl discs the original the records right that was like 20 or 30 years the technology used then you had eight track tapes that was like 10 years you had regular tapes that was sort of 10 years maybe more like five CDs didn't last that long MP3's replaced CDs they didn't last hardly at all and then we went straight streaming Spotify whatever and that's the dominant paradigm every single new paradigm of tech lasted for less long because we were doing one of these exponential shits that same thing as highly likely in this scenario where it could be that we don't see gene editing until 2040 but it could be that as of 2030 drug companies don't even barely work on drugs anymore they just work on gene editing vectors because well why buy your drug after take it every morning after remember to take it blah blah blah why don't you just give me the shot once and make me upgraded so I never have to take the drug that might very well be happening as a matter of fact today if you have now about a million dollars you can already get this massive anabolic upgrade from getting your follow statin genes with if you go to like coaster reekers some shit like that now a lot of people have million dollars Brian Johnson got that treatment mr mr anti aging man he's great and you know I'm not going to coaster he could should know if that's coaster he can do you guys you great but I want my medicine tier one and so a lot of people won't do that but when the gene editing is 10 thousand dollars and it's one shot one kill and it's in you know American or Swedish hospitals and all of a sudden you get it in your mask statin works only half is good how many professional fitness people for 10 thousand do you think will take a drug that multiplies all of their future muscle growth by two Scott how many people spend 10 thousand dollars on a titty job and so many that's it man just multiply that number out and we got it right so here's another thing a big caveat I think a lot of people get like weird vibes from this dystopian housecap or all genetically modified like we're gonna be able to like an arm coming out of your chest I think it's highly likely like with all drugs so far no one will be forcing you to do any of this like with vaccines and stuff you can get other people sick with jackness and exercise drugs I don't even want to problem that you're not jacked or not exercising really is no infection stuff so there's gonna be a natty fitness industry they're gonna be a part of fitness industry which people are unmodified and that's gonna be thing I'm not sure how big it's gonna be in here is why it could be really big of people really reject the DNA stuff it could be really tiny if everyone's like response to genetic upgrades eventually like the respond to cell phones now like how many people do you know legitimately don't have a cell phone like it maybe it might be zero people and you're like well don't you want to stay an adi and they're like but the thing tells me where to go on a map and let's be talk to people like and pay online and I can pay with the phone at a terminal at a CDS why the when I have it and someone's like yeah I got one shot it costs it costs a 500 bucks but like now I just um you grow as much muscles I want look what like ah it's got a killie right not safe like why the hell am I not doing that so we'll see now last thing is this a good thing or a bad thing everything is a mixed back I think this is bad because it looks like commercial gym culture could be really declining fast once the big upgrades hit and that sucks gym cultures of I a lot of people like money out of commercials gym too so I'm gonna have to pivot nothing I think it's bad is because some folks gym folks personal trainers etc will have to retrain to help people with non hypertrophy problems because we'll have solved the hypertrophy problem but I think it's amazing because we those of us who want will no longer have to spend hours or of our weeks training we can do other valuable things and hobbies like you know helping people in need helping the homeless helping unparented children the needing other country veterans the elderly and honestly each other because I think a lot of people and this is research back are dying for more real world social interaction right now we're busy solving so many problems we haven't even gone around to that I think the average person wants something like 10 friends and has something like one to two or one to three there's a big friend deficit that we can all solve if we just met up and had a lot of fun together but we're busy working out and doing all kinds of other shit that doesn't allow for that so you can be unbelievable for most people is the end of the day for very many people not me and you for very many people exercise and getting jacked is a chore we could just just eliminate that shortly unbelievable now I think this is awesome personally because as soon as I get to have the body of my dreams without doing shit about it I'm going to deep dive so deep into Brazilian jutsu training which I do a little bit of now but I've been missing like crazy because after this body building thing if my body's taken care of I'm doing jutsu day night middle of night all that shit it's going to be unbelievable what will you do with your new free time that you'll have when you don't have to go to the gym anymore maybe 10 maybe 15 years it's jerking off isn't it I we all knew it was that I Scott what if they make a pill that I get on what never mind I'm not even going to go down that road guys we will be keeping you up to date and as many of these developments in modern medicine and modern science to get you upgraded to that next level physique on this channel as we can but for now we have the RP diet coach app and the RP diet purger fiat to help you on your way links in the descriptions and I'll see you guys next time you

Afection and orgasm is a thing that can really prepare you for better sleep. It works the best when you have someone to do it with. And good news, Scott, for us, very good news. It works in the direction of good still better than nothing if you're doing it by yourself. What if you're just wishing you had some of the do it with and crying? Tears are cathartic and that's also okay. Cool perfect. I don't know what I'm doing. Back in the game. What do you want? Oh, I'm Kim Rung. Again, video time. The evening wind down routine. And no, it's not just fapping at the bathroom, but that's huge part of it. We'll get to that in a bit. Here's the deal. The evening wind down routine almost doesn't exist because it's like the morning routines much less popular sibling. Scott, you know, like one of those two sisters and one of them is related to the other. And one of them is like rarely cute. But the other one kind of looks like a freak. And then people are like, oh my god, like you're related to Chelsea. She's like, yeah, she's my little sister. And you're like, oh, she's cool. But you're ugly. Are you allowed to tell people out? That's probably rude. That's probably not how middle school. It's exactly how middle school works. It's tough, right? Scott, to be that other sister. It would be hard to be the ugly one. God, what do you tell yourself? Because people refer to you as the ugly one. Yeah. Like, oh, you're the ugly one. Yeah. Then in any case, the wind down routine has huge, huge benefits. And I think it might be as important to not more important than the morning routine for a few reasons. One is that morning routines are just overrated. It's some kind of weird social media obsession. I don't really know why I think it started off as a decent advice. And then I got into who could make the wackiest morning routine that was the longest and most pointless. And that gets the most close just out of people just like looking at it and doing scrolling. And so because of those two things, I think people think, yeah, morning routine is like super important. They're actually not super important. Another thing is you're too busy to do them. Scott, how many morning routines have you seen people just like abandon after two days? Oh my god. All of them, maybe. Like, I'm not going to wake up and go to the front. And so on off that, I got to go to work. My kids are crying. Dog hasn't had food. Real world type of stuff. That's your real morning routine. As you're realizing, there's no way to run. You're trapped in the suburban hellhole and that's your life. Am I talking about myself? Now, crystal feeds the dog. That's nonsense. And good relaxation sets up good sleep. And both of those are incredibly important for all of stress management. Whereas like the morning routine, if you just get out of bed and start doing work stuff, that's 90% of the way done. However, if you screw up your evening routine, it costs you relaxation, which drops of a tea for your whole week. At times, it keeps you sane and effective and smarter and better recovered for training. And then sleep is like, maybe the most important thing you do all day, other than your day of being alive and doing anything at all, sleep is critical to staying more muscular, leaner, way more sane, super productive, super smart, and kind to people. If you have an ad sleep in a while, you can be kind of a dick. Sometimes you're a dick to begin with, so when you haven't had sleep, you're really, really bad. And yes, I am talking about myself. Actually, JK, when I, Scott, did you know that when I under sleep, I turned into like super chill vibes and I love everything? Really? No joke. If I get too much sleep, I'm pissed. That's weird. Yeah, it's totally backwards. In any case, let's talk about how to get your evening routine. Sorted, get the BS out, get the good stuff in, and then at the end, I'll even share my personal wine down routine. Do not replicate it unless you want to become 40 years old, Jewish, balding, hairy everywhere, then wear accounts, and constantly deeming your erectile dysfunction doctor. It still isn't working daily, sometimes several times a day. Couple of suggestions. First is you want to clock out from big brain work. Deep thought kind of stuff, major work tasks, major concerns in your life, about two to three hours before your bedtime. There's like this, Scott, you see all those movies about like Wall Street, and lawyers, and stuff, with a like finish writing their last manuscript, or do their last trade, and they're like, and then they just like fall asleep in their chair, and that's how success happens. You know what I'm talking about? You got to work all the way from Sun up to Sun down. Let me tell you about those people in real life. First of all, half of them have panic disorder, and up like getting institutionalized in the fears. The rest of them were addicted to alcohol and cocaine. The rest of those that aren't, are lying, and they actually do plenty of shit before they go to bed. And then there's like one or two percent freaks that just do that, and then have a panic attack 10 years later when they're billionaires. These are not people you want to copy. No one really does this in the real world, except for few stragglers who just like are better than everyone. Come, you're not going to be like them. No big deal. Maybe you are. You can try it, but the ideal place to start is where science recommends, and then go from there. So yeah, you want to stop doing serious stuff, about two or three hours before you go to sleep. That includes hard cardio and lifting. So basically, you're putting into the end of your day, a two to three hour period, in which you do just really chill vibe stuff. Not just to prepare to go to sleep, the end of that will be that, but most of it's just to actually relax. Like think of the end of the day, just being one long... Like that, instead of like, I'm going to answer emails and go to Slack, whatever the hell that is, whoever invented that crazy programmer, people just bother me with tasks. I don't want to do tasks. I'm done doing tasks. What about easy mode cardio? What if I want to walk my dog? What if I want to just walk in the treadmill, listen to some music or podcasts? That's actually totally cool up until about an hour before bed. So Scott, you know how you like to walk around your neighborhood and check out other neighbors, dogs and see if maybe you want to steal slash about them later? Yeah, of course. Totally fine. Up until an hour before bed. Ah, that's, that's, it's raining in his notebook. So that's totally a thing. So hard training is training which gives you super out of breath, gets you sweaty. That's a two probably more like three hours before you got to cap that stuff. Whereas easier cardio can be done up to an hour before bed. That means again, you want to budget that exhalation window about two or three hours. Every week night, you want to take to yourself to relax. If you want to go in the comments and say, but I'm too busy to do that, listen, you know what I'm saying? Life deals us the cards and we play him, but if you can re-architect your life to some extent to give yourself as the much chill time towards the end of the evening as possible, it's going to be a really good thing. And I have one way in which you can do it. A lot of people, they'll kind of work and rest and work and rest through the day. And there's not a damn thing wrong with that. But if you can manage to stack a bit more of your work earlier in the middle of the day, so that you can free up more time towards the end, you get this natural rhythm towards the day or throughout the entire day where stuff is really hard and then you finish your hard stuff and then you easy stuff and that easy stuff is a nice long block which allows for a deeper total relaxation which is just better. This is a certain amount of relaxation you just can't get for an hour. Even if it's three hours of the day, but it's one hour at a time and it's first with work. Each hour ends the relaxation in your back to work. But if you can stack all three of those hours at the end of your day, you're going to have a deeper and more effective relaxation. In addition to that, because that relaxation period is right before sleep, not only does it good for its own relaxation benefits which are enormous, but it also primes you for sleep whereas if you do the three hours of relaxing in the middle of the day somewhere and the only the last hour is before bedtime, you might not get to sleep as easily, you might toss and turn more, your sleep quality might be worse and everything down the line. So really trying your very best to have chill times at the end of the day is a really good idea, really really good idea. Now let's talk about how to eat in the nighttime routine times. So the thing with food is that there is, I can give you a general recommendation which is true for most people. But when you train and what diet you're on is going to have a big effect. Like if you're training from five to seven PM and you go to bed at like 10 or 11, then when you come home at seven 30, you're going to have probably the biggest meal of your day. If not one of them, super high carb, moderate fat, super high protein because you need to refuel your body and you'll have another meal an hour before bedtime that's very high protein, moderate carbs or moderate fats, low carbs in which that meal is going to look more like the meal you're typically recommended to have earlier, but it's just because you were training later is no other way around. However, if you can try to make that last meal of the evening something like two to three hours before you go to sleep. Try to keep at high and protein as usual the normal amount of protein you have per meal, even a little more can keep your muscles doped up on protein through more of the night than they otherwise would. Maybe like 25% more protein than usual is totally fine, but even if it's just the same amount of protein and 50 grams, 40 grams, 35 grams, eat per meal, no problem at all. You want to go moderate low on the carbs and the fats are for example. If I'm eating a meal that has like 65 grams of protein, I might choose to have it with like 20 or 25 grams of carbs and maybe something like 15 grams of fats. So like a handful of nuts, a whole bunch of lean chicken breasts and maybe like an apple. That's a pretty good late night meal. Obviously the Greek yogurt crowd, yes you guys are great. There's case you're protein tons of different choices. What you don't want is kind of two main things. Maybe three. One is you don't want high calories. Super high calorie meal right before bed, even close to bed keeps your heart rate elevated, your blood pressure elevated and the digestion actually increases your body temperature. That shit all keeps you awake and even if you fall asleep, it's going to reduce sleep quality for the first third of the night. That's not no good. High carbs do much of the same thing and high fats through their buffering of calories also do a similar thing. So high protein is very good, but you want to keep the carbs and fats lower. You might be able to have decently high carbs but very low fats. Pretty high fats but very low carbs are no carbs at all. As long as the overall calorie load of that meal is probably smaller than your average meal by a little bit or at least not bigger. You definitely want to avoid a ton of food before bed. It doesn't eat a lot of food before bed taste really good though and do that's what I'm most hungry. Yeah, like eight nine p.m. Yeah, go for it. Yeah, you're also supposed to fall asleep like earlier at night, like a 10 or 11. That's healthy and shit like that. I hate doing it. I want to fall asleep at two a.m. after a bunch of McDonald's. But this channel exists to tell you what is a good idea to do. It does not always the thing you want to do and then it's up to you to kind of parse the difference. Turns out that if you have a lot of fluids in the hours before bed, you get the old big bladder and you do one of two things. One, you can scrub your sleep a little bit by waking up at night to pee. I would wake up at least two times at night to pee and I go right back to sleep. It doesn't bother me but I'm dreaming halfway through the shit. I don't even aim my dick half the time. I pee. Scott, you ever seem my bathroom IPL over the place. I don't get a shit. I'm disgusting. The other thing you can do which I like to do at least half the time, you guys, Scott, you know how when you wake up and especially when it's cold and dark outside, it's like winter and shit you can hear like rain and snow. Just don't want to get out of bed. Oh, of course yeah. And you had that dream where like you're like in the bathroom and you're peeing and it feels so good but you know it's a dream and in the dream you're like I have to wake up and go pee. Of course I have those all the time. But I gotta get out of bed to do it. But it's warm and comfy. Hey, between us. Don't tell anyone. At least half the time your boy's peeing the bed. Who gives a shit? We have a big bed. My wife sleeps way on the other side to shit. queues me that occasionally smells like urine. Yes. Do I clean up the urine? Guys, how the hell are you supposed to clean up something cake into a mattress? You tell me comment below. Low fluids at night is what I'm trying to say. So what does that mean in practice? That means you don't have to like reach 7pm and be like, not a lot to have any fluids anymore. Just like if you have like a diet soda that you really love to drink, pour yourself a little bit of glass and sip that shit versus being like hell yeah. You're like, uh, I'm just going to drink this diet red pop, which is the best soda ever made ever made. Scott ever made. This is not at the debate. This is just me yelling at you. You're an idiot. You're off the channel. We're looking for you at a girl who's not an insane person. I'm sorry. What did you what did you say about me? I don't even really like it that much. Fuck you. Keep that one in do not end that out. We're a lot of few efforts every now and again. You got diet red, red pop. You want to drink the whole thing. It tastes good. I understand. It's made purely of red chemicals that scientists have yet to identify but it's probably not bad. Super bad for your health. Don't do it because then you're just going to wake up at night to pee. So just have like a little bit of a mindfulness about like, hey, it's getting to last kind of two hours one hour here. I'm just going to sip a little something as long as I'm not actively thirsty. I'm good to go. Then you wake up in the morning. We have a whole morning routine video. I guess is already out probably. And then we tell you, hey, like hydrate when you wake up much better of a deal in that case. All right. So that's the nutrition component and the general component of like how to structure your day. What are you exactly supposed to be doing though? If you're supposed to be relaxing your mind and chilling out, I have a few ideas. One is stuff you want to skip slash limit. So this is the stay away from list. Twitter battles. Scott, let's do a quick Twitter battle here. You and I ready? Hey, you're to the opinion on the following issue. I also don't understand like you don't understand is stupid because you're on team red and I'm blue. Blocked. Oh. Oh, no, hold on. Oh, wait. No, we got to argue. No, no, no, I got to get good going. Comment on my post on my own post. I can't believe at person. I'm not allowed to tag anymore blocked me. What a bitch. That's perfect. My team. Hold on. People get in there and they're like, yeah, but he's cool. No, he's not. You suck block them and they just keep going on all night. Twitter battles are fun if you have no friends, no future, no hope, but in reality they're not. And even if they are fun, they're too much fun to get you go and they get you riled up, you get really pissed about stuff, getting your nervous system primed for fighter flight, not a good idea in the evening. So don't do Twitter battles. Don't do Instagram battles. Reading the news, looking at the news on the television is not a good idea. This is something of the economist Brian Kaplan says a lot better than me, but I'll say it anyway and do a worse job. The news has almost nothing to do with summarizing a logical structure of a world of ants that you should be availed to. It is almost everything to do with just poking on your chords of fear, fear, fear, panic, panic, panic, everything's going to hell. And that tends to do what fighter flight and then it's bad for your sleep. So news is bad idea. Political podcasts usually get people riled up. I mean, Scott, here's a good recommendation. I highly encourage you guys in the last 50 minutes of your day to turn on and yes, it does exist. The C-Span channel on YouTube that's where they have a specific sub channel for congressional hearings. You will be out like a light. There's no anyone's making it through that shit. It's just a bunch of old people ruffling their papers to see what to ask Sam Altman about AI because they don't know what the hell AI is. It's amazing. But political podcasts to get you going, get your riled up, not a good idea. Here's one. Here's a big one you guys. Work emails and quick replies to your cell phone, like work texts or slacks. A person who is a big influence on how I judge myself in my life of my productive or not is a Mr. Nick Shaw. And he happens to be the CEO and co-founder of everything that you see. And front of you, including me, that's right, next technically my dad. If you had a cybernetic upgrade, Scott, you'll appreciate this. When you could just get his phone implanted into his skull and keep it on forever, would instantly be the first volunteer. Yes, never leaves his hand. You can find Nick day or night. I swear to God, he sleeps with his phone. Because he runs the company and it's his company and he's asked to be in the loop. Nick, luckily, genetically sleeps like you would not believe. At 9pm his head hits the pillow or not. He'll just sit up watching TV and just pass the sound. And then at 630 he gets up right as rain. He doesn't have that problem. Most people are not like Nick. You have to have if it's important to you to get good sleep and you're stressed and you need a better evening wind on routine. Everyone in your whole organization, the whole stack that is relevant to you needs to be informed of the fact that after 7pm or 8pm or whatever it is in your life, you are black out, your God, you're in transit, you're in a tunnel underneath the Pacific. You might as well be dead. You don't know that and they care about you and your functioning machine and organization. They don't want to break you. You take your phone. You put on a do not disturb and you resist the temptation. Scott, you're sitting on the couch and I'm wondering what slacks you're doing. Scroll to slack. You don't ever do that. I don't ever do that. JK, I do sometimes do that. I'll get high on marijuana in the weekends which is intentionally, most on plug-man be a coder. Wonder if what's on slack. Don't do that. Don't look at your text. Don't look at slack. Don't look at email. There's this addiction to a quick little hey just a quick thing and if your person who does a pretty decent job at anything it's like five people and anyone hour bothering you for little quick things which for them are little and quick but for you is your entire workday extended into your wind down. You got to cut off from any kind of input channels that you don't want around. Nothing competitive. Nothing adrenaline spiking. So playing video games is super fun but maybe like an hour or two before bed you could even cut that jazz out especially if you yell obscenities and racial slurs at the screen during shooting video games which I've never done before. Scott they're all 12 year olds that are better than me right? There's like no one with a job and a girlfriend that can beat me at like more like I'm definitely known with a call of friends. Yeah for sure. What about those gamer girls that are like quirky and nerdy but it looks like they can have sex with people because they look okay. That's just an AI driven illusion isn't it they're not real people. They're not good at games. I don't think. No yeah there's like oh my god I love gaming yeah. Yeah. Yeah by the way if you're funny you're funny you're out of here. Not a pry all those girls can beat me at video games in any case. What should you do? I got definitely stuff to do and then stuff maybe to try that's maybe it's a big maybe. One is chill convo. Low stakes convo. So like not like hey trying to like like figure out the whole meaning of why the hell we're still in this relationship but more like just chill banter with friends and family totally cool. Face to face or is the number one? Face time is number two video chat. Number three is phone and text is kind of last. Text has this thing where you send a text and you kind of have an anticipatory response and a little bit of a fighter flight and then they respond back and you chill and then it's kind of a little bit more of a wave. Sometimes they're like forget they were talking to you and fall asleep and you're like like checking your phone and stuff it gets you back at a phone checking rhythm you don't want. So ideally you want in real life you don't have anyone talk to real life. I honestly I mean this 100% talk to chat to be to you. It'll be the best friend you've ever had. It is better than you at almost every friend thing and it'll prove it to you by loving you more than anyone's love you. I would know for personal experience. Taking your walk is a getting a bit of a stretch in doing some chill yoga not psychotic hot yoga stuff. Meditating is cool if you're into that sort of thing I am but I do mind post work out so no big deal. Casual reading. You know Scott you probably read like guns and ammo quarterly right? Of course. Yes. I can just see that magazine cover now like how to build your own like AR platform and then on top right hand corner is the left is coming for everything like how to raise a family in the bottom. Anyway I'm done. Habitankering Scott the Habitankering what comes to mind here you're like the guy that has the table size simulation of the batty battle of Gettysburg and you are 100% also a serial killer but you like to tinker with the little figurines and make sure of these perfect. Like pain and stuff. Yeah. Yeah. I'm up in a range. I might see a rod. Yes. And you have figurines that you ordered and they're in a box and someone comes over. They're like why on those on the table like technically he's older from the American Civil War and there would be an aspirinist there because they're a bad bad battle of Gettysburg. How could you? And then so that's why no one comes over and I'll ask you that question. Slow paced chill TV. Cat videos just good vibes. If you want to Jesse James West video some shit and I'll make you laugh a little bit. Nothing to like oh my god. My wife and I have a thing where in the first part of our evenings recently we're watching the Star Wars show and or which is like one hundred percent at the edge of your seat like is everyone in the rebellion gonna die in the next scene or someone not gonna die and are we gonna quote unquote when even though I know that the battle of the Abbot occurs later and we don't win until a while. That's a lot. So afterwards we switched to stupid YouTube where we watch like 90s shows you forgot had Bill Cosby in them and they're weird now. Let's cut that's weird huh. Yeah. Other stuff to try. First, brain dump journaling at the end of your hard thinking work day. Get your notebook out. Get your pencil and paper. Throw them left away because it's 2025. Go to chat GPT and just talk about how your day went. Maybe some of your accomplishments and potentially right in your iPhone or other smartphone your tomorrow's to do list. This puts like a capstone like an end of your day kind of where. Wrigh and done with this and then you can go on to do whatever the hell you want to do. It's really awesome and it's been actually shown in the literature to reduce sleep latency which is measured as like the time you put your head to the pillow until the time where we actually start snoozing. About 10 minutes, 10 whole minutes of reduced sleep latency from not having to think about shit in your life anymore. Scott, that makes sense right? Like you're like I'm done with it. Whereas otherwise if you're not done with it you're like it's like 11 30 or fall asleep like hell am I supposed to be doing tomorrow. Did I finish that thing or a little bit more? It's a really good idea to just end that stuff early so you can start to chill. Another one is doing like a mini 10 minute meditation or some kind of breathing exercise or some kind of yoga and some kind of stretching. This stuff works but it only works if you get into it and you start liking it otherwise it's it's self a little bit stressful. That's a good idea to try. Here's a big one. This is something to try only if you have the ability to do but if you have the ability to do you should really do it. It's the the the dim the cave lighting protocol. Scott are we human now that we do protocols? That's right. Maybe he was just cool. It's going to make jokes that are for really adult the robbers just kind of I've off. How does this work? Something like three hours before you go to bed. Most of not all rooms of your house that have a dimmer switch turn to dim halfway. There's super easy simple explanation for those requires almost no science. Over literally billions of years of evolution but the development of the eye and complex neural networks millions of years of evolution. Every organ is about this planet that doesn't live like in a cave or under the sea has a daytime and nighttime light cycle that it responds to. And so nowadays because we have giant projector lights like the three of them I'm staring at right now in the studio it's weird to your nervous system because it can be 10 o'clock at night almost ready to go to bed and your eyes detection wise are like it is still one PM in the daytime as far as I'm concerned. And it's not crazy bad for anything but it futs us with all of your neural chemistry to tell you like hey but you're not really ready to go to sleep yet man there's like jaguarious and stuff out there you got a chill of god and like get your spear out and go hunting or something like that. So if in the last three hours during that entire little wind down block you dim all the lights to halfway then not only does it set kind of a cachil vibe but also it tells your brain like hey it's evening time and then a few hours later your brain's going to get your nice and tired nice and sleeping you're good to go. This is such a thing in our house that the doctor crystal and also by contract allows Mike to live in her house house um we like when I take my evening shower don't where I'll get to my evening routine a second uh I have that lights halfway dimmed. Scott sometimes I think I'm washing my own junk but I'm washing someone else's all together. It's so dark in here how am I supposed to tell also why the because another guy's junk in my house. I'll take it. Deming the light is a really really good idea. If you can't do it okay you're not going to do it but at least limit how much time you spend in bright rooms and maybe get the TV going and just turn off all the other lights and better them not. Another one is to take a strategic warm shower uh actually pretty hot shower a nice hot shower for about 10 minutes. Scott you know that hot shower feeling when the hot water hits your back and you're like oh yes if we could bottle that we'd be so rich. It's the best. It's the best. I don't know what I had doing heroin feels like it's gotta be related to that feeling right like come on. It's amazing that feeling is awesome for you it actually rises your body temperature, rises, raises your body temperature and then later as you cool down it simulates some of the natural processes of cooling that occur before bedtime anyway ooh and it gives you the yons. When you get a nice hot shower going and then you towel off and getting your PJs or in my case nothing at all because your boy sleeps in the new. Did you want that mental picture in your head? Too bad you got it way way way way hold up. Hold up right Scott. Don't think of me naked. Don't do it. My whole body whatever that mangled shit down there looks like it's all airy everything's hairy that's how you start. As soon as you hit that shower and you get your PJs going or whatever like do a little sleepy and that's a really really good thing super relaxing it's super awesome and also ostensibly any showers to keep clean so all good things you can do two things that kind of make sense sequenced. Can very optional but these are dope. One is a gratitude reflection vibe session which can last literally 30 seconds or go on for hours if you like. In it's where you take stock of shit that's going well. She's your grateful for. And then you got a positive note can tell your brain like hey man everything is good and it really primes it for sleep at a psychological level. Whereas like Scott you don't say it if you think everything in your life is terrible like it kind of you know I'm saying it keeps you up because you're like I do something about this shit right? So that's really nice it's also good for your mental health like 50 other ways I won't get into in this video. The other one I really like this one is priming the next day and this is something you can do a little earlier in the evening but you put out your next day clothes you make sure you're to do list is good your calendar is good so that like when you go to bed you're just totally free and clear because tomorrow has already been prepared for that's a really big deal and here's my favorite one. Apparently according to chat GPTO3 which is smarter than you and me by a long shot. A affection and orgasm is a thing that can really prepare you for better sleep and good news Scott for us very good news it works the best when you have someone to do it with and it works in the direction of good still better than nothing if you're doing it by yourself. What if you're just wishing you had someone to do it with and crying? Tears are cathartic and that's also okay. Cool perfect then I'm good. Also you crying probably turns you on. Back in the game. Now there is some expensive stuff you can do. You can do sauna or hot bath 90 to 120 minutes pre bed. It's nice hot shower does much of the same thing for free. Red light therapy has been shown to potentially put you into a circadian alignment getting ready for bed. It has some skin perks. If you're riding a job so you can get a red light situation going if you don't have a lot of money no big deal. And for much cheaper you can take magnesium, glycinate or an elthinine supplement 30 minutes before bed and that can get you going. It doesn't work for everyone but sometimes it works give it a shot give it a thought. That's relatively cheap. Screen time. That goes into the dimming situation. So with the dimming situation we also want within 60 to 90 minutes flip the nighttime mode on all of your devices. Some of mine are set automatically so that you don't get a whole lot of blue light in your face. That's a really good idea. And if you like to scroll for your relaxation that's really good. But make sure you're scrolling is cat videos and what is it a follow a page called your daily dose of serotonin or something like that. We're just like some amazing pet video that's going to get you to cry. It's like a man that adopts a camel and they fall in love. It's wonderful. Shit like that. That's dope vibes. Not like all like your crypto like fun lost all of its money and it's no hope for living anymore. That's a bad idea. Now to the second to last part of this video, very important. I'm not going to get too deep into this because it's the evening wine non-reaching. Not exactly the how to sleep guide. Just the very basics of sleep hygiene. First you want to have your room very dark as dark as you can get it without being so afraid of the dark that the fear keeps you up at night. Scott, do you still have a nightlight? I do not. All your so brave Scott. Wow. Scott's been doing that every night. I don't front of everyone. I don't have a nightlight. I have five night lights from here to the bathroom. Scott, one of my recurring childhood nightmares is I wake up. I'm not awake. I'm still sleeping. And I walk to the bathroom and I'm kind of little freaked out and I hit the light switch but it doesn't work. That's prime horror movies though. That hits, doesn't it? Yeah. I do have a nightlight in the bathroom though just so I don't mess now. Right. We're pragmatic than fear base. Right. That's what I'm going to tell everyone too. It's pragmatic. I'm not scared of whatever kind of nonsense comes out of the dark which is everything. So dark is really good. Quiet is really good but something oftentimes beats quiet. Actually quiet is incredibly rare in nature. Mostly there's all kinds of ambient night noises and humans are used to falling asleep with that shit. So you can do earplugs but it's also cool to do a white noise app or just throw on YouTube and for like there just type in black screen rain into YouTube and there's like 50 trillion free videos that go for 12 or 24 hour straight and it's just rain sounds in the screen auto blacks and it's super super awesome. If you have the YouTube premium app you can just like turn any video on your phone that has sleep music click it so that your phone goes dark put your phone next to your bad plug it in and you're good to go. If you have distracting noises in your house it's not a good idea. Now here's what it has actually quite surprising to me when I learned it. Very cool is usually best. The way you know is that you're really comfy inside of your blankie and if you're outside of your blankie you're not comfy at all and you're really cold. 67 at the top end for most people degrees and 60 degrees at the bottom end. Scott 60's pretty intense hot. That's when you're a big man. I guess yeah I could easily sleep in 60 my giant Harry ass no problem. And so you want it to be like here's how to test it in another way to test it. If you have to get up and go use the bathroom at night you gotta be like holy shit that's a really good thing. If you're still cold and uncomfortable under your covers it's too cold. If you have to have your covers completely off the sleep and you just do this so that you like key can radiate away from you and you're still sweaty it's way too hot. Very important. Very important. For me this is a huge thing. If it's too hot in a room I might as well just like mapping on a sleep. Scott do you ever do that? We're like if you're only like a you're taking like a flight and it's too hot on the plane you're like, oh it's gonna sleep for two hours but that. Yeah absolutely it's not gonna happen. No big deal. comfy. I mean this is I'm not gonna talk about this much. The comfort you can make your bed the better. The purpose is comfort. Some people Scott you know some people get into like sleeping on the like the floor or a hard surface because like spine or bed if it's the difference. It's your spine. The hell away from me. Optimal relaxation is the entire purpose of sleep. The more comfortable the better. Don't you get at me with that hardwood floor shit. Um and obviously you want the room and the bed around you clean and neat because clutter looks like distractions to your brain and at sometimes gets you thinking like I need to clean the sub so clean, neat, dark, cool, comfy and quiet and or sleep noise and you're set. Now here's the last part. My personal wine down routine. There are unbelievable fitness influencers and lifestyle influencers out there that give you the absolute truth. There are other people that give you BS they don't ever really do themselves. I am squarely somewhere between the two camps just kidding. You're only gonna get the real shit for me ever and that's a corporate promise and a personal promise. So here's my actual wine down routine that I actually use myself. Do not copy me. Do you want to look like this? Exactly. First, pretty much every evening it's myself, my wife and our dog guany in the guany. She's beautiful and perfect in every way. That's a Brianna Terry quote by the way. And we cut it up together and we're on our comfy couch and we watch our large television set in its super fun that's how almost every evening ends in its amazing. Halfway through that evening or towards the beginning we'll get up and go take a walk around our backyard or around the neighborhood all together. 30 minutes, 45 minutes, sometimes 20 minutes. It's cool. Get our final steps in for the day. It's nice and relaxing. No matter what the season is even if it's raining we'll put a rain stuff out. We go. It's really really awesome. Sit down for more TV afterwards. It's really really dope. We have typically in the beginning of that three hour phase. We have our final meal or something like that. And at some point after this sort of situation after the walk, crystal my wife, she'll fall asleep, she falls asleep. Like you turn on a television, she'll fall asleep inevitably. It's just going to happen. That's when I switch away from the stuff we like together to nerd shit. Usually watch like digital combat simulator, dog fight shows like growling side, blinder, and a huge fan of that channel. All kinds of crazy nerd channeling you into is just a frankly embarrassing at this point just kidding. I don't all of it. It's dope. And the nerd stuff, it's fun, but it gets me kind of like you know, into like, oh man, I go sleep. And then I don't go to sleep. Why? Because I go to the bedroom where I do what? I get my VR headset. Then I go to the bathroom and then I do what you think I do the bathroom. She's got shut up. You'll judge me when I'm six feet in the ground. Bear me with my quest to VR headset, please, on me with the videos you know I like, that's how I want to die. And probably we will from a heart attack sooner than later. So yes, I do fat time and then I take a shower for you know, like fapping us disgusting. And a nice hot shower. I love to do that. I take my PM supplements. Usually I shoot a pharmaceutical grade growth hormone. Like I said, I'm just going to keep it real. And I check my to do list to make sure tomorrow is all set. Check my alarms that they're set. The calendar looks good. My clothes for tomorrow morning for training are out. And then I turn on sleep music. And I join my wife and dog on our bed. And we begin to worship Satan using our bodies. Note, note, note those Saturdays only go to sleep. And then voila, that's it. That's a real evening wind down routine from your boy. I don't attempt anything I do. And adult films are for adults only. I've been Dr. Mike. Let me know if anything like this is helpful. If you want to know anything about any other kind of routines. And I'll see you next time.

We're not PGene. We're talking YouTube. Clearly I'm still Dr. Mike. I've had doesn't change unfortunately. And here we are with the man the myth of legend. They air to the throne of the Atlantis fortune. Please talk us through where are we. Why is there so much noise? Why are we going to get my arm chopped off? Yeah, we're going to be going to be alright. When it's more factory at Lentis, this is where we make all of our equipment. There are things made here. We cut the metal, we paint, we assemble. We're going to get you guys around it. And yeah, maybe you get to someone who is interesting thing as well. It's classic manufacturing. We receive metal, we cut, we weld, we paint, we assemble. I think the secret is in the details. Now we make it, the dimensions and everything, that's why it feels so great as well. When we do it, we got like, we're working on a project, and we have a small one, adjustable, jammer arms, or some sports team, because the one we're shooting can have is not adjustable. So it's too restrictive. So this is an attachment that goes on spot racks. That looks really hardcore. Yeah, we're trying stuff. You're putting it for your audience. That could support like 10,000 pounds. Yeah, everything is very overkill. Yeah, yeah, absolutely, but that's a point. These are old jobs, waiting to be welded. These are all the tubes for, this is one mission. This is the second term. This machine, what the job is, is cut the tubes, and also do these slots. Yeah, yeah. So we do the need to measure everything. Very simple together. So this is a record for two machines. We've got the laser there, and the jaw, what happens is the jaw will drip the tube, and will control everything in the board, and the head stays there. And just because all the carbon one is done, just rolls off, writing for a rough and we put it in the right place. Okay. So your French canadian, which means sort of French. Yeah. When the laser is on, do you have a lightest cigarette with the laser? And then you have one of that French. There's one of them. One of them is one of the French in this end actually. You're going to make yourself a homemade machine with all these parts. Yes, that's the idea. This is a polishing tube machine that comes from Portugal. So whenever we have like tube that needs to be polished, I stainless steel. It gives them a nice finish. And the photo coat sticks better with a wood. Yeah, yeah. Not a good idea. Yeah, I wouldn't do it. The pens which one you're putting on, but I need to polish my nails. I think I consider it lantis, like the rolls, the rolls, the rolls, the rolls, the rolls, of a pot of a pot of a liquid. So we're not the mainstream ones. We don't want to be with all of our performance. And you know, it's not the majority you are about performance. Well, if you're somebody who trains super seriously, and you need the machines for us curve, you just feel completely right, that's what it lantis is for. As far as I can tell, what I talked about lantis and everything I use, just so smooth. How is it so smooth? I don't know what the motherfuckers put in there. Magic Quebec sauce, but it all. This is where it rims major cuts. We try everything. We do some adjustments. We're not like producing elsewhere and designing somewhere else. Everything's done here. So yeah, the communication back and forth is very short. So we can adjust everything. Yes, we can just split the gas. So keep your drive stuff right in the factory. Always. All of that's fine. This is the paint shop. It's quite okay if. But it works well. It's very simple. So we use the rack, we'll them around. And we put our layers of metal on the floor. So the racks were not shaking, so that's what it means. And that's what I call down. Now, this they're drying off from being painted. They're, yeah, they're swimming down actually. But they'll probably don't be cold. But we usually give them a few like 15-minute to pull down. But this isn't trying to go for the manufacturing. It cannot fast reduce anything on the line. Every part is different size. Different colors. So you can't up like, you've got to up specific tools for every part. So we have to adapt this way. I also know that they're not a full-for-calf of being a tree. It's a town of New York. Nobody crushes. That's what they're in for. This is the paint shop. I'm going to reach three. This machine cuts everything with everything that is a sheet. We're expecting another machine that will go behind this one that will do all the bending. Automated bending for us. Part of it is done by hand here. And the other part is outsourced, but we want more control on the chair. So these orders are waiting to be shipped out. I will show you a few products that are going to be released within the next two months. That you will be able to try at the gym. So this is the new Pandana Pro version. Oh fuck, why do I have that scuba f*** on one? That's Dana. That's from the Jussible. You have band tags on both sides to decide if you own the strength curve to do it. Kind of wide that one. And the platform is all these machines going to make people jacked all over the world. Beautiful. Thank you so much for the tour. This has been incredible. And now we're going to go see the gym. Yeah. This have lunch and work out perfect. Clearly, I'm still Dr. Mike. This is Raymond. Sounds so see. Yeah. I did that okay. Yeah. He is the owner and founder, the originator, the man all the time. And behind Atlantis, Jim equipment. And we are here at Atlantis, Jim in Montreal, Canada or close enough anyway. Yeah. And we are going to get Jim tour. And you will notice that every single piece but one is Atlantis. Can you guys imagine? So if you ever in the Montreal area traveling passing through, get you a day pass to this gym. First of all, it's an amazing gym. Second of all, it's all Atlantis equipment. It's the best equipment you'll ever use. What do you think? Tour time. We'll make it tour. Let's do it. I'll show you. Let's do it. There are some machines right now. They're not on the market, but soon they're going to be on the market. So it's like prototypes. Prototypes. Yeah. I can say. We try it. Usually we try it at one month, sometimes like this. Two months. To see the wind there also. Aha. And the weight feels. Yes. Because sometimes in the factory, you cannot feel 100% of the time. So when you put it in the gym, you're in the ambience. Also, and you can try it. Feel it. Sometimes. So that's why I like to sometimes tweak it a little bit. Here, the machine for the arm string. This is a cool machine. Yeah. But I tweak a little bit. I don't know if it's going to be good or not. I got to try it. Let's see. I'm not going to put some weights. What a cool yourself. You see? I had invented this machine in my head before. And I wonder if any of the strings for the arm string is pretty good. No, yeah. But you know I try this. Sometimes you know when you do two movements and one machine. It's kind of tricky, but this one why not. So that's why I try it. It's not on the market right now. This machine, I found out that for lower abs. Because people when you do leg raise on this. Yeah, sometimes so shoulders. But here you don't have any pressure on your shoulders. Because you put your feet here. Oh. So it works. Yeah, so cool. Yeah. This is very good for this whole thing. Yeah. The trick is you have to push with your butt. Yes. The back here. And you're going to feel it. What I did lately, that's one person say I don't like it because it can go like this. We put here a latch. So what I like to do with this is to bring my dumbbells very close. And when they fell down like this, just push and you do your movement. Whatever you want to do with this or whatever. And when you finish, you just drop it like this. That's solid for the regular bench press. Same thing. You push. If you're not able to put it back, let's see. Hey. That's awesome. Don't room your floor. Right. Floring. So I started a gym in 1980. Just like this with my brother. And I tried to machine back then. I was not happy with the movements sometimes. I said, so one of my friends told me, I can teach you how to weld and how to work. And I started with a very, very easy machine. It was a far rack. Yeah, a good start. And after that, I don't know machine. After that, the preacher curve for myself. And I was studying and you know people using it. On Saturday night, the gym broke that five. So I was welding directly in the gym. With a small weld machine grinding stuff like that on Saturday night. I started like this. I had fun. Yeah, yeah. And since then after that, that's something to do. I'm going to do that. Make it bigger, bigger. Sure. Yeah. Can I try in French? Yeah. You're not allowed to actually box each other in here. Yeah. I told you, I speak French, baby. You're good. Hey. Thank you so much. Huge honor. You're welcome. Huge privilege. Thank you for your contributions. Whenever you come back, you don't come back. I know that you're not going to have to time to try everything. No. I'm going to have to. Just push today. Yeah. I'll be back for more stuff. I thank you so much for everything. I'm a phenomenal, what's the pleasure. So end of the day here. I'm training on a fine piece of Atlantis equipment in Atlantis gym. Nothing touches my shuffer Atlantis. I really need to see the process and kind of division behind the company. A lot of companies manufacture equipment. And that's cool. Some of whom you've been doing a very good job. But what's happening here is Raymond the founder. There's a bodybuilder first. And then he built his own equipment by hand welding it. And he tried it. And then he started the Atlantis brand in company. I don't think he ever made a single machine. That he didn't want to use for himself. He never just made a machine. And that's it. This is it. Select perfect. All the machines that they make. They make prototype first. Sometimes they put him in this gym for real users to use. Sometimes they keep him just for a Raymond. And then his associates to use. And factory. And when ends up happening is they move the wild. They move the pivots. They move everything they tweak it. They move the handles. They add handles. And that iterative evolutionary process allows them to manufacture machines. That's feel better. And do better. You work better. Then any machine that you would just engineer caught off the line and go. And so in that combination of obsession and passion for bodybuilding that he had. The ability to make his own machines. The ability to take his own feedback and the feedback of others. And actually tell me numerous times, like if you use our machine, you think it could be better just let me know how. And that iterative process over and over that loop. Makes things better and makes some machines. I don't even want to say more user friendly. It just makes them better. Everything. More muscle growth stimulative. Feeling better. Better stimulus deficit ratio. More comfortable. The worse. And I think that's something we can take in. To our own lives. No matter what you do out there. In the real world. You can take your passion for what you have. Create something you think is worthwhile. And then see how that process works. Test it. Get feedback. Test get feedback. Test get feedback. Modify the process or the product. Until it fits into the groove really, really well. And one thing Raymond told me before we parted ways. But he said he doesn't think a single machine and his own gym that he made. Isn't this good as it could be? This is always room for improvement. How do you stop someone like that from being successful? That understands improvement is an iterative process. It is willing to put in the work and has the insight. The answer is you really don't. And so that's why Atlanta makes it down near the best equipment you can buy. Is that process improvement? You can do that yourself in your own way. I tried to do that myself my own way. But usually I just end up falling back on looking in the mirror and just crying. All the time tears. Why am I mean not someone else? But you're not me. So be happy about that. And try to use this kind of evolutionary doctor process to your own benefit. That's how good things are made. Folks, that's what I got. Thanks for tuning in. We'll see you next time.

Most people fail their diets. And the 99% are reasoned by the way, where most people fail their diets is because they get hungry for tasty food. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NSW Pre-Dization. And today's topic is to ask a question and answer it, of course, why are diet cravings so intense? We're gonna take a deep dive, deep dive, real deep dive back to biology class. And I know you slept through bio, which is stared at that one girl in your biology class the whole time. Applied bio, observational, I suppose. You learn nothing. I didn't have any friends. I paid attention. I studied really hard at night, so don't worry, I'll break this down for you. It will cost you Lamborghinis. But I like Lamborghinis and you like to click on abs. Yes? Click on some ads, dammit. And let's get to learning. So here's the thing from biology class. Every component of your body and brain has an evolutionary ancestral history. And some components of your brain and body, but we're not talking about the body now. Some components of your brain have a much more recent evolutionary history than others, some have evolved to the current functions, much more recently, and some have been around a very, very, very long time. And some of them that have evolved more recently are usually not as powerful and don't affect your behaviors nearly as powerfully as the ones that evolved a long time ago, actually affect your behaviors. So, by the hell am I talking about this? The drive to eat food went hungry, or really the hunger drive and the food seeking behavior at results in, is one of the oldest neural drives in the entire animal kingdom for animals that have nervousist. So this is an ancestral drive, the drive to essentially import macro molecules from the environment, which is really what scaled up hunger is, is up there with temperature, seeking, like animals, no, when it's too cold or hot, it gets unlikely that you're gonna leave your cat outside of Las Vegas and 110 degrees, and he's not gonna try to find a cooler place. If he doesn't, your cat is broken. And he's gonna go up to hang out and cat haven't scotty-guyed your cats, go to have them. All dogs do, we know at least that, and that's empirically validated. So another one is acidity, regulating optimal acidity is another huge drive, injury of leggings, reproduction, et cetera, basic, unbelievably high tier, low tier depending on how you think about drives that get you to do what you have to do to survive. They just super deep, they're super integrated into every other part of our nervous system. And this affects your mind, like crazy. What's on your mind is a secretion in some sense of your brain, it's a product. If your brain is like a laptop, a computer system, your mind is like the software that runs on it. And the thing is, is these ancestral drives to begin to seek food when you get hungry, especially tasty food, they affect you in a major, major, major, major way. Now, if you just had these ancestral drives, you would be like, well, much more like your dog, your dog will not execute a well-organized hypertrophy-based program for himself. He will not execute a diet for himself. Will he not gonna resist a whole lot of treats? Unless you're there like doing a whole thing where you start with the treat and then you move away 15 feet and you say, okay, go, and you're a fruit dog, a smart, the eats at then, if your dog is a dog, Gwen, who is a old English bulldog, can't teach anything because she's really stupid, but adorable. In any case, pretty much all dogs won't have the ability to say, you know, I wanna eat this bull of Kibble, but I really have been gaining a bit extra weight. I'm gonna look ahead and imagine a future self that's leaner, sexier for dogs. And I'm gonna eat half this bull of Kibble and then half later today, I'm not gonna eat two hobbles of Kibble today, just one. Your dog doesn't do that. Your dog has an unbelievably rudimentary forward seeing mechanism and barely that at all. What do you have? Your human, so you unique among the animals that you have a well-developed mechanism by which some of these structures have been located in the prefrontal cortex, for example, Rizetini tiny and these structures and these functions allow you to see ahead plan and restrict your cravings or say, you know what, you basically allows you to drake your cravings like that. I know that I'm hungry, but I have a plan in a goal so I won't eat just what I want. But the mechanisms that allow you to do that, that forward planning, forward thinking mechanism in ancestral time of evolution, how long it's been, how deeply integrated it is into the rest of your mind and brain is like a sliver. It's, you know, cheese at cheeratively 10 million years old, maybe a little older than that, depending on how you cut off which primates are impressively forward thinking, which are not. I have yet to see a chimpanzee who is gonna restrict their own food and take on purpose. They can do forward planning like, oh, I'm gonna knock something off a tree, but not much further than that. So your ability to restrict yourself from these unbelievable powerfronts, stressors, zir's is like, you're talking about 10 million versus hundreds of millions of years old. It's not even close. It's not even close, which is a big deal. And that sets up the battle of your primal drives, like the drive-d tasty food versus your intellect, which can tell you, hold on, that's not a part of what I want to do, it's not a great idea. You could say, now hold on a second. We know what we should be eating and we know when to not eat and we know how to diet and lose fat. We know to do that. So it's not, you know, the cravings, yeah, whatever, but like when we know something, it's good, we're there. But that system that allows us to know stuff is super recent and actually it's not just system-based. The system inside your brain that allows for rational predictive plan to thought to occur means a lot of, well, sort of, largely, which model training, basically, to use current parlance, we know a lot about diet and training and how to restrict your eating and all that stuff, not because we're born with it, but because it's culturally acquired. And many people don't even have that. A lot of people don't really know what to eat when to lose fat. Most people intuitively develop an understanding through observation, that if they eat less food, they become less fat and eat more food, they become fat. But even that's not super clear in all individuals. We had a ton of brain evolution to allow us to accept this knowledge and a ton of cultural insight, most of which came really in the last 100 years that allows us to understand diet and nutrition. So you think sometimes that the reason you eat three meals a day is because you've decided like, oh, yeah, like three meals a day. That's a good idea. But the reality is that almost all of us, naturally, without a very well thought out plan, eat because we're hungry. It is by no means clear that most animals, most mammals, know intellectually that they have to have food. In fact, it's probably true that most animals don't know anything intellectually. They are very complex in put-out put systems that don't have an explanatory framework ability in their minds. So they can't actually sit down and think and plan out what the universe around them looks like and move it around and think, okay, I should eat at this time, just 10 this time, right? They don't have that. They don't have a concept of meals. They don't have a concept of food. They just know that when they smell food or seafood or their tummy starts rumbling, they feel like they need to go get some food. And the thing is, we think we're very different from the animals and we are, but we're also super similar. So your reason that you eat food is like 97% you get hungry or you smell tasty stuff. Versus maybe 3% like, oh, intellectually, I know that eating is a good idea. One thing, one easy way to see this is if you take and give people drugs that shut down their hunger drives, they just don't really eat much. And they'll pass out and stuff like that because they'll forget to eat people who are a methamphetamine for example, they don't eat for 36 hour straight. They think, well, wouldn't they have a better trip if they ate a bit of food and had more energy? Yes, but when they don't feel like it, that animistic response that instinctual response, the food is not even on their mind and they might even intellectually think, oh, I should eat, nah, I don't feel like it. That's how powerful these feelings are, right? Hunger and cravings are not this extra thing that's annoying to deal with the diet. Hunger and cravings are the baseline system that's there. It's the old system, it's the powerful system, it's the system that for 99 out of 100 people on this earth right now is the thing telling them what to eat and when and that 1% 3% whatever it is, that's the prefrontal cortex powered so to speak, a bit of a murky concept there, but that's that forward thinking planning ability that humans have in its super new and TBH, it is a revolution in the evolution of life is nothing like it has ever existed before, it is what gives birth to all of technology and that next evolution of how life works on earth, but it's very, very weak in any given human compared to those ancestral drives, right? When we think about it this way, we come to an understanding that I promise we'll get back to exercise science, sports science stuff in a sec. We get to an understanding that there is going to be a clash between the hunger cravings in a stintual part of your mind and the pre-planned I should be eating what the RP diet coach app tells me part of your mind. There's one system telling you, it has a very explicit goal to keep you exactly, whatever weight you're at, roughly, and or to just really eat tasty food until you feel full. That's its goal and anything that violates the goal, you have to expect that it's going to run in to some really, really, really big problems. This idea that we're super logical and super rational like the fucking West that Star Trek ship, not the Borg, although they're guests that are irrational as well, that not cling on Scott, you watch a lot of Star Trek. You don't watch a lot of Star Trek. You had friends growing up. You were a cool person. You know, you had sex with people. Unusual for a Star Trek fan, just kidding folks. Could God the fuck am I blanking on this? Not the clingsons, not the Romulan's, Spock is a fucking Vulcan. Vulcan, God damn it. Stupid make belief nonsense. Anyway, we are not the Vulcan. We have a tiny ability to exert some reason and some logic and some restraint. And in a comfortable, homiostatic environment, which is pretty powerful because there's no other drive really pushing and pulling at it. But if you get really thirsty, you are now in a sense of slave to your thirst drive. You will do crazy fucking shit to get some water. If you're hungry, you will do crazy fucking shit to get some water. How many of you guys have driven like, taking a two hour road trip in the middle of the day because when your girl's hit you up, and she's like, sex, and you're like, yes, drop everything, drive, have sex. What the hell? And like four hours of like, you know, sex takes 30 seconds, roughly four hours of time wasted, and so do what? And not even trying to reproduce. The drives are super, super powerful, right? And we have to expect that the hunger and cravings drive is going to be super powerful. We have to plan for, and actually we have to know that the evidence for how powerful it is is that most people fail their diets. And the people that don't fail their diets that actually get down to the way that they wanted. And the 99% of the reason by the way where most people fail their diets is because they get hungry for tasty food, just like the ancestral part of the brain is telling them to do. Training for muscle growth is never going to be the same. He's not a mystery. All I should you see about access, to resources, food, deserts. That's all been laid in and out. It's been told basically no water. People fail to lose weight in a diet because food tastes too goddamn good when you get hungry. Period. There's a few other cursory reasons in enabling factors there, but that's really just it. And if they succeed at losing weight, most of them regain it within several weeks or months because that drive, it's not logical, is ultra powerful. That's something we have to realize. Because our drive to eat, our hunger and cravings, our so powerful and primal, we have to give it a crap load of respect. And before we engage in the dietary process, we have to contextualize what that respect really means. And prepare so that we give ourselves the best chance. You don't want to do this thing where it's like, hey, let's go take over the Death Star. Sweet, two people and two phaser guns, we should be able to do it. You do know what the Death Star is. There is, there are like, I don't know, several million people that manage and are all combat trained, the thing that's a fucking giant laser, there's a military base. You don't just go in there with a few blasters, unless you look Skywalker and his crew. Scott, the video guy, are we into layup back in the day? She get out Voter down Voter. Up Voter. Even with the buns with the hair. Are we letting that hair down? Like, just let it all out? Oh, we do want it with the hair up. Both work. Once with the hair up. And then when later when she wakes up, again with the hair down. Oh, yeah, job outfit. I actually went, Dr. James Hoffman, from our P went as job at one Halloween and I went with him as slave layup. Good luck finding those pictures online. In any case, you don't come up against an insanely powerful enemy and just like, yeah, this is gonna be easy. You respect the shit out of the enemy and try to give yourself the best chances. It doesn't mean you say, oh, this is, you know, no problem. It's a problem. And there are a few ways which we can prepare for that problem. First, expecting hunger and cravings to be a core predictable feature of dieting versus being shocked by them. If you coach individuals or if you've done this yourself before, you'll get this thing where a lot of people actually do this. They'll go, oh man, like, so I started to diet a couple weeks in like, I could really hungry. Is that normal? Yes, it's fucking normal. That fuck were you thinking, no, I don't mean to yell just kidding. But you guys know what I'm saying? Like, if we understand that this conceptual framework of a super powerful, super ancestral deep drive to eat when you're hungry, when you're losing any weight, eat more food than you need to regain your weight if that's a given in our ability to control it is very small. When the hunger and cravings show up, it's almost like being surprised like, hey, we tried to walk into the Death Star like just park our ship in the front port. And like, people with guns came out, strange. It's like they were expecting us, come on, right? So number one, expect hunger and cravings and expect to be them to be a big deal. So when you get hungry and cravings for the first time, you go, okay, here we go. Here we go. We planned for the Death Star Stormtroopers to start shooting at us when we were in this building, or whatever part of the Death Star, and just the same way we totally planned hunger and cravings and we're gonna be a big deal. Absolutely. Second, we want to try to develop ways in which to diet that minimize and help us control hunger and cravings. Versus, trying to look for a diet method that eliminates hunger and cravings altogether. And you'll see ads for this kind of shit, stupid fucking assholes like liver king, where else fuck? You know what I'm saying? I don't call him by his government name. What's his government name? Brian Johnson or some shit like that? Can you Google that real quick? We've got to be about to be my guy who's on Joe Rogan show that Google stuff. Brian Johnson? Brian Johnson, my fucker, I call you by your government name. Fuck you, lying ass motherfucker. Anyway, guys like that will say shit like, oh, yeah, like you eat fucking whatever liver I can raw eggs. You can just diet and have no cravings. Bullshit. Bullshit, looking for a diet that doesn't give you hunger and cravings, but will lose you a notable amount of fat and weight and let you keep it off will come standard with hunger and cravings. But based on how you execute a specific kind of diet, you can reduce the hunger and craving substantially. The idea that you're gonna make them go away is insane. That's like someone telling you, hey, you know, you can actually get to a place where you can do 36 hours without water and never feel thirsty. Okay. Next, you're gonna tell me I can walk into a supermarket and not get horny. Supermarket? My parole officer said, don't talk about that. It was a big misunderstanding. I thought I was in a strip club. It was a very large strip club. Vegas. Next, point number three, we have to prepare for this battle with hunger and cravings. Right? So what we have to do is try to develop, understand and deploy anti-hunger and anti-craving strategies as much as possible. And at RP, if you just type in anti-hunger, Dr. Mike or something into YouTube, we have like three or four videos on a shit. And one big ass video and how to control hunger while dining control, contextualize, not eliminate. Never make that claim. There's more on that to say with pharmacology, eventually we can eliminate it to the extent that you ever want to. You probably just wanna reduce it. But we have to understand that we're going into a big ass war so to speak. We're gonna need weapons. We're gonna need strategies. It's like, again, I'll just keep the dust star, take over analogy, dust star infiltration analogy. It's like saying, hey, what's the plan with the dust star? How are we getting in there? And like, yeah, we'll just go, you're all in, and we're gonna be reacting. We can shoot with a phaser and a whole thing blows up. Like, don't you wanna do some research on what that shit looks like? Where the defenses have heist? Where it's lightest? That's that how he can sneak in? Just the same way with the diet, you have to come prepared with as many anti-hunger strategies as possible. Number four. Just like in an infiltration mission, if you stay in the danger zone for long enough, you will get the swarm on you. Fucking storm troopers from every single fucking hallway and since the dust star is three dimensional, my fuck, it was like six hallways, shit's coming from up and down everywhere. So you gotta get in and out and you have a certain time zone, certain time frame. Just the same way, if you are dieting to lose fat, you have to understand that the longer you diet and the more extreme the magnitude of the weight loss is during that time, the more profound these cravings will be. If they have a claim some storm trooper goes in, they're like, I think there's people around the halls, they're not with us, they're like, yeah, send a squad, right? But if it's confirmed that they toasted the squad and they're still advancing, you get a battalion set next or some shit. They start locking the floors down. Just the same way, if you lose 10 pounds, your body's like, whoa, oh, oh, hunger cravings get in there, fix that shit. But if hunger craving comes back and be, we're still losing weight. Oh, what the fuck do you wanna play that shit? Double the effort. And then in week 17, if you're diet, you're looking at your fingernails, you're like, these look pretty good to eat, just swallow and consume. Maybe they can eat my own fingers too. Shit gets crazy and you have to know that. So before you plan a 24 week fat loss phase, or before you step on the scale of 300 pounds, I'm like, yeah, I'll just diet one continuous phase, down to 200 pounds, you have to realize, take small goals, break them up, take breaks, do not get overly ambitious, because you have to know that diets have to stop short of a failure point. And here's the other big sub point of this. Every diet for every person has a failed point. Maybe not every. Some monk in India can just willfully diet himself into death. Just food everywhere. He's doing this day after day drinking water, and eventually he sits there and just dies of fucking anoraxia. That is an impossibility for almost everyone, which means at some point you will fucking snap, and you will eat everything, you'll be like, oh, shit, right? You have to understand that that failure point is somewhere for everyone. Don't walk into it. Don't walk into it, stop well, short of it. And then that leads us to the next point. Understanding that once you stop your diet, your hunger and cravings still there to try to pull you back up to your old weight, they're gonna try to get there. It's sort of decent analogy here. You get into the death star and you put your phaser at the main reactor, and boom, it starts to shut down auto-destruct in 30 irreversible auto-destruct. It's like the stormtroopers that ran up to you and running up to you right now after you did that, you know, like, hey fellas, I wanted to reactors gone to whole things gonna blow up. They're not gonna be like, oh, yeah, good job. Like a mid-air game, see, they're gonna be like, mother fucker, and they're still gonna try to kill you. You're still in there. So when your lean is point of a diet, you're not fucking bad place, so know this. Don't have a plan of, well, I'm just gonna get $290 from 2020. And then I'm gonna stop the diet and just live like an old person, bullshit. Because if you live like an old person, what do we learn early on this presentation? I don't mean to be pedantic about that. That normal people do, well, they eat mostly according to a hunger and cravings. Just watch any normal person, what they do. Like when people go to Olive Garden, and try to order off the menu, they're not gonna be watching nutrition, and gonna be gonna be a watch, they're like, what do I eat like right now? Five menu items, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, all the way back up. After a diet, plan for maintenance phase. That's like two thirds as long as the diet was in which you slowly reintroduce more food. And slowly reintroduce junk food or chain meals so that that known, that a powerful hunger and craving system doesn't pull you back up, expect that it will try really, really hard. And that's a huge revelation because for years and years and years, common diet was to monologine or industry, was focused on how to make the best diets that get you from here to here. But now there's a change where we realize this is tough. Maintaining after is very tough also. So no, that the hunger and cravings won't just go away. Like, oh, you won, we're good, just stay 190 forever. That's not gonna happen. And point number six is if you are a coach and many of you who listen to this channel are, or watch the channel, years, I'm waving my pretend hair around. What kind of hair? I'm gonna, do you guys ever dream about having just like flowing locks, just long hair, rich and free? I'm gonna bridge in the financial sense. Maybe I should buy hair therapy. I'll do that right after this video. Next video, I promise I'm gonna have long, flowing rocks, start locks. In any case, many of you guys are coaches. You need to know this stuff and you do. You have to try to get to your clients to understand it. To tell them, hey, look like this fat loss plan to lose 15 pounds, who looks great. Let's get it done. But I want you to know Mr. or Mrs. Client, this can get rough. It can get really rough. Because there are tons of mechanisms in your brain to try to get you to get the fuck off this diet and get onto some pizza. Physically onto a pizza. I'm being enough pizza. Yeah, sounds fun. Slip on a pepperoni. Soon pizza hut. Expect them, sorry, get them to expect that it's gonna be tough, both on the fat loss side and the maintenance side. And then they'll be much better prepared, just like you. So if you wanna learn about anti-hunger mechanisms, how to eat, how to train, how to organize your sleep and your work, et cetera, supplements to take that can make hunger more manageable, making more successful diet. We've got tons of videos, we've got tons of books at RP, we have a whole certification coaching course that really barriers that shit for you. So there's lots of good stuff to get your learn going on. And just respect your hunger and cravings. They have a deep ancestral evolutionary place. They're the thing that keep all the animals and humans alive. If you somehow like magic ones, zap the earth and every animal lost its hunger instinct, all the animals would die within several weeks or months. The fat animals would die in several months. And gee, we as almost all human beings would die as well. Certainly, all unattended children would die. And that's how populist things are. So we need a hunger and cravings, signaling mechanism, but ours is sensitive because we evolve in a time of sporadic starvation. And so when you have tasty food around, your body wants to eat it. And when you lose weight, your body is your brain's ancestral evolutionary mechanism. And then it'll know that, oh, it's the 21st century and fitness is a hobby, we're also rich that being fat as a problem. I don't know any of that shit. So understand the where that side of you is coming from and respect the limited shit out of it, don't pretend you're some willpower generating cyborg, it'll be sweet one day for sure. Use your willpower, use your intelligence, but respect the shit at a hunger cravings because they're the real deal. Anyone who tells you, oh, I got this diet that eliminates them completely. Just powder your hand and slap them right in the face. And before they have a chance to react, even if the reaction is, oh, my word, powder the backside of that shit and go, bam, not hard. Just enough to let them know you've had it with them. And lastly, like comment, as you want, if you want to get them, get them comments, subscribe, hit that subscribe button. People say things on other YouTube channels about a notification bell. Should I be saying that's got to video guy? It's got to video guy, it says, eh, we don't want to bother you with bells going off R.P. Hit the notification bell with your really insist that you want to hear what we have to say. We do put out really regular content, though. So like 12 Eastern time on most days of the week, they'll be in our P video of some sort. And if you want more extra nerd stuff, even nerdyer than this, consider joining our members area. That's like five bucks and it gets you out of geez, like one or two more videos a week. And if you're really super nerd and you want a support community to discuss crap like this and also get like a ton of coaching inside, video analysis, huge forum. We've got the team full-round forum to give that a shot. All that's in the description by the way. So click on stuff, buy things, it pains me to not physically be in a Lamborghini right now and you can help by paying for products that I get the money and then I buy my buttlers by the Lambo and I look at it in my garage of 30,000 total cars and it's nice, it's nice. I'll see you guys next time.

For example, if she's like fine, you want it hard, crazy mouth shit, cycle eyes, and eyes roll the back of her head. You're like holy shit, that's too much. I hate to say, my de isn't trained. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NSW. Today's video topic is a little bit of an intellectual journey to figuring out why we should be trying to train harder just about every week during a normal progression in a mess of cycle. There are some folks that say, look, you know, hit two reps and reserve more or less every week. You're totally fine. Some folks say you got to go hard every single week and every single week is maximum hard and don't worry about ramping it in. I say ramping it is a real good idea and I have both good scientific and logical reasons. And also a completely absurd analogy for you at the very end. So stay tuned. Or just fast forward right now to the very end and have no fucking clue what I'm talking about. Anyway, here we go. How hard should you start your mess of cycle? You put a new program together. It's week one of your program. You just deloted. You could start at zero R. R. Like pretty close to failure or failure for everything, but that's going to come with a huge fatigue cost. Higher probability of injury going from zero to 60 super fast. And the best thing is you don't really need that level of effort to occur because you just deloted and spent a week not training hearts. You're more sensitive to training. In addition to that, you probably move to matrices around introduce some new ones. Got rid of some old ones, changes of ramp ranges so that the novelty alone is going to be really stimulative. So you don't need to go to crazy failure all the time or in this first week. And so under these conditions, something like three reps and reserve is actually, perfect amount of training. Perfect stimulus to get you right in that zone gets you a little pumped, little sore, a little tired and the next week you can go up and up and up. All right. Next question. Why if R R are three training is really good for week one, why is it not good to just do week two and three and four? If it ain't broke, don't fix it. That sort of thing. Well, hold on a second. So why should you scale up? Couple reasons. You want to make sure you're not sandbagging your training. So making your training a little bit challenging over time until you hit an absolute limit into how hard you can push ensures that you're within that zero to three R R band. Because if you start at three R R and you tell yourself you're three R R, you could be here and actually four or five reps in reserve and that ends up not being very effective especially for intermediate and advanced. So you want to make sure you're not sandbagging your training and regularly challenging yourself a little bit more is basically a guarantee that that doesn't happen at least not for long. So what you do is you increase your repetitions per set and or your load a little bit week by week by week and that means you're pushing the pace so that you're not in a situation where I call am I really training harder over time am I really getting better? Well, you literally are so that question is answered. What happens is as you go a little harder each time and as your fatigue accumulates, you end up having to drop how close to failure getting rather increase how close to failure you're getting and your R R starts to drop you start a three reps in reserve then you add five or ten pounds you add a wrap the fatigue is higher next week maybe you know some neurological adaptations your technique is better so it's still three in reserve then the next week is two reps in reserve then one then zero and then you're basically going to failure. It has to happen this way unless you plan on getting stronger forever and never actually reaching your limits that would be sweet but if you tell yourself every week I'm going to put a little bit of load on the bar or add a set here and there eventually you get to zero R R on failure it just has to occur that way but this is really good because we want more challenge as our body's adapt to previous challenge in the previous week it's just not ideal to repeat the same exposure think about getting good at anything like if you have some kind of like French language app and you're like oh yeah listen complete time yeah see that's the only French I know and you're like oh I said a phrase or word and in French I'll just do that again next week and then a few weeks later I'll be able to speak French I gotta hear that's not works you learn some words you learn some phrases you learn some conjugation you do more complexity it's more challenging kind of regularly until eventually you can speak French like me a person who studied in France for years during the war to be a professional chef you guys know all this already I don't have to bore you with my history you want to go a little bit further into the fray with each successive week because that's how you make the best games plain and simple so you can't just keep that first week effort you gotta increase effort over time lastly why is it at least in many cases a good idea in that last week or the last half of the last week before you do load to really just go for broke with good technique blow it out and on the exercises which are not going to kill you like a machine chastras go all the way to failure why could that be at least theoretically a pretty good idea a couple reasons first that last week before right the second to last week was maybe one or zero reps in reserve this next week just with the addition of five more pounds or a rep to every set it's going to be basically failure anyway so it's not like you're doing anything super different you're just finishing what you start first point second point the are theoretical reasons hypothetical reasons that you can get some gains by really pushing hard all the way to your limits, on occasions and it's not the kind of gains that you would get just from doing great training it's a level beyond and is it possible that that's the case yes is it likely I don't know but I wouldn't rule that out and if there's not a huge amount of downsize to really pushing it every now and again at the end of every mesocycle I think it's probably worth at least trying or at least thinking about another reason you want to test your max rep abilities to make your gaining strengths for reps over the last time let's say you worked up to 200 pounds in the squat for reps last mesocycle you know six weeks ago and you got a set of 12 as your top set and your average you know for four sets was 10 reps you're coming back up again with squats as the first exercise and you're at 205 or 210 pounds this time you want to see if you can do better than 12 or at least match 12 so you gain five or 10 pounds of strength you want to really push the pace so that you don't have to be like well I think I got stronger but like last time it was a one RR this time was like twos you tried to do that in your head just that mathematics is on nonsense it's just a whole lot of pretend the only real good way to compare performance to performance is of both of them work push to the limits then you can say that's equated my effort was maximum the whole time if I did better now then back you know six weeks ago clearly I got better and I'm doing something if you didn't get better I'm free to think about there is the puzzle piece of like okay is my nutrition lacking is my sleep lacking is my programming bad are just my genetics the worst ever should I just quit should I take up tennis those are all really good questions you want to ask if you're not improving so this ability to go all out to get a good metric cycle to cycle to see if you're improving that's a pretty compelling thing another one is you are theoretically going from like three reps in reserve through the mathematical all the way to zero reps in reserve are pretty close to failure how do you know that's the case in reality if you never push it like if you finish your last week of training and you're like oh yeah that's a PR and it is you got stronger better than last week but in two months ago you rack the weight that could have been three RR and you've been telling yourself you're training in an average of two RR the whole time that's wrong and you started a week though with three RR you know six weeks ago but it was really six RR because it's just been sandbag want to push on occasion very close to if not too true failure itself just to test yourself you say okay I think because I did 11 reps last week at three hundred pounds in the leg press this week at three ten I should be able to get 12 reps and that's going to be failure if you get to 12 and you do the 12th wrap and you're like as easy I'm going to do three more reps then you know you got a lot better first second you know you've been bullshitting yourself on what your RR was on the other hand if you did 12 reps this time but 11 last time and it took everything you had and your body had to like stay next to the machine to make sure you didn't kill yourself that last rep was like 50 trillion you know extra seconds of super slow contraction you can be pretty sure you're pushing it to failure in that last week and thus if you discount all the weights and reps before the three weeks back you're like oh I really did start at three RR I'm I'm training completely on track that's a really good thing it sets you into line to make sure you're actually trying as hard as number one you think and number two the research suggests is best which you know as anywhere between three and zero reps reserve another compelling reason why not that you should do this but that it's okay is that you have a deal a week after like you kind of have the whole fucking week to recover anyway so it's not like someone could be like hey man don't go to failure today bro you're like it's week five week six ideala this is the Thursday of week five I have one more training day tomorrow why shouldn't I give my all these leg process week you can need it for next week brother you're like neat what dumb motherfucker I'm deloading he's a champions don't deloge I have fucking my face you don't know what you're talking about so you got to deal in next week it's okay to go out no big deal right it's like a few um oh this is terrible analogy if you go to Las Vegas is it okay to get super fucked up the night before you fly back out to let's say Europe well yeah you're in a 12 hour plane ride what could go wrong having a hangover that was a terrible analogy don't do that and if you do that make sure to at least throw up into the person's next to you lap and if they get upset you're like they is they guess whatever happens in Vegas doesn't really stay in Vegas especially if it's your in any case this means that it's maybe a good idea to do your last half week kind of all out and at the very least is your the second half of your last week because let's say you have a workout a leg workout on Tuesday and then Friday of that last week you all out all out all out Tuesday and you're pretty jacked and pretty strong Friday we just not happen the way you plan to sort of do beat up you just fail all your PRs everything goes to hell so maybe that second to last leg day that last week first part you go just as you're all I are you know five or ten pounds heavier in last time same reps whatever's prescribed and then that last workout Friday you really you know listen to this get on the way to the gym turn your turn your baseball hat around before you do your set sunglasses for the radiation at your admitting she liked that really really get a fire up so some compelling reasons there the unifying theme here is that when you start your training mesocycle your program you want to just get the easy games going and get that momentum going right you know just like run through brick wall your first fucking session of of the month that's kind of stupid you're gonna get great results trying not so hard and then you increase difficulty over time via auto regulation that means if your leg presses are really coming up then you can put 20 pounds for some weeks on the on the leg press more than the weeks before if it's try some extensions maybe two and a half or five pounds but a little bit more maybe you're up here and there a little bit more every single week just a bit to keep going up and up and up and up and then that last week or last half of the week you can really just fucking poor all of your childhood demons out and just do what it takes to go all out as long as you're safe and your technique is good just leave it all out there in the gym potentially blood sweat and vomit as well chunks of your hair on the bar kind of technique you're doing there but that's probably okay too and may even be an advantage so the unifying theme is you start a little easy progressively work your way up and end on a really high note and what is that sound like sex that's right that's right so let me make it an algae for you as to how sex is so much more like lifting than we all thought or some of us knew already that lifting was exactly like sex here we go let's see if we can get the ban hammer on YouTube for this one is not right Scott the video guy all right so here's the analogy you're in the club clearly you're a man of taste girl comes up to you at the club you're a dark corner just screw them by yourself she just reaches for your fucking dick and just grabs the shit and looks at you that's kind of cool and all but like a part of you's like damn bitch slow the fuck now hold the shit you're like let's maybe chat for a little bit even okay that's too prude let's make out and do touch you touchy that shit has fun as hell and he gets everything going and you find out if it's the right groove and all that that part's so fun right so damn hold up and I'm saying grab my dick so that fucking hand I got it here what was your name anyway in any case such a thing is too much too soon I know crazy it may seem that is the reality next probably not a thick club though maybe if you have bottle surface you can get away with this year let's say back at your place or her place with her like chains and shit and pictures of guys with targets on their faces and dark you know little little darts on there and some of the darts have fallen off and the fuck is going on so anyway you're there and you're getting the beach the old beach google that if you have to and let's say she's like fucking hitting you up and she's gone like a great pace for a foreplay but like if there's a difference between like hey this is fun and like your boy is never gonna nut at this pace similar idea here to adding load and reps over the weeks is like RIR3 is really cool to begin with just like a nice slow beach or some making out's cool to begin with but if we all want to try to get to the end of this thing which means nothing this is gonna have to be some progression better ideas to kind of ramp it up slowly and for an eye at what the intensity increases are doing to the receiver of said beach so for example if she's like fine you want it hard and like the crazy mouth shit cycle eyes and her eyes roll the back of her head remember Satanist girls are the best you're like holy shit that's too much that's a shit that's just to play this fine line of going a little harder seeing how you're feeling and and going up and escalating so on from there all right same ideas and training there is no avoiding hard training if you want to grow but if you want to grow the most your training needs to be hard and smart RPI per trippy app will make sure you're progressing on track monitoring and adjusting your workout at all times so for all that work you're doing you can be sure you're getting the best results towards the end if you're like basically you start nutting and as soon as you start nutting she removes said penis from said mouth and just looks at you with like dead eyes you're like a dead she's like what's that fun to do make you happy and you're like man why did you stop at the end damn it and stopping at the end is kind of similar to getting to that last week of training and just not fucking going at it you got to finish out of fucking high note right you can't just leave and say oh man we're just gonna you're just gonna mail it in so mailing and you're training is like you know the girl you're hooking up with mailing in the end of the end of blow jobs that's that's that's not good for anyone that's terrible what a rip off I want to refund in any case I got another similarity that still relates to sex that hell's wrong with me we'll get to that very shortly in training even if it's that last week some exercises have a super high stimulus to fatigue ratio let's say you're doing a axe whilst it just heals like money your knees feeling credible your quads are blowing up load additions have been done every single week you went from 300 pounds to 310 323 30 but your RIR isn't reducing like you're getting such crazy neural adaptations is such insane hypertrophy because that exercise is so amazing for you that like it's just about as hard a single time it could start at 3RR and still kind of feels like 3R even though you've put 40 pounds of weight over the course of five weeks out of the fucking shit your pumps are unbelievable you get so sore from this hack squat that you barely heal on time for the next time it's time to train legs the question is if you do blow it out in the last week and just go for broke exactly how do you plan to improve that you're getting ideal training and when the going is good there is a thought that just don't fuck with it just leave it alone just add another 10 pounds that last week just like you did the week before or add a rap to each sat and set to the exercise whatever you do normal additions no need to add 30 pounds and 3 reps just because you can chance of injury there goes up and also even if it doesn't go up what is it that you want more than incredible training that's right on the money don't spoil perfect so if you have an exercise that's going super well and you just add another 10 pounds and do 18 reps because you started at 14 four weeks ago and now you're up 40 pounds and 4 reps you don't have to go I get to 23 and how my tricep and I should have never done that just if it's perfect and you don't need to put the cherry on top just don't do it ride it out right similar in the sex department there as if you're getting the perfect beach you guys don't talk about like but she's doing that shit and you just want to have like a psychic moment because you can barely speak anymore you're like just don't change anything you just keep doing it's actively way mythical weird satinist chick shit that you're doing and I'm gonna be there you don't need to change a thing your boys already think there's the orgasm threshold I'm right here and it's gone it's gonna happen right change nothing because the alternative if she's like she notices your close to nutting and she's like oh sure I'm gonna really fucking go out of your like oh fucking god damn it you're ruined it then you got to you know play chess with each other for an hour so that your natural juice is start flowing again into lateral conversation it's nice maybe go out to eat I'm kidding that night is fucking over call yourself a newber all right that's the analogy what a terrible terrible episode why a few questions let's do a few questions first why not use a female stimulation example doctor Mike why did you use like a female giving a male a little job why not like kind of lingers a few answers first because my kind of lingers advice is extensive and scientific and meticulous and well developed and not free go on my only fans for that shit jakey the real reason is that honestly the patriarchy as a social institution prevents us from centering female pleasure and it's just like not okay to do that it's like not just kidding I have never been with a woman I wouldn't know what to do and I have in theory pretended that I received blood job so that's easier for me to talk about and that's really it question number two what happens after the BJ and then we do this whole stupid sex analogy why not finish it up here let me guide you through this you close your eyes right after you not you're like oh that was the best and then you hear from upstairs your grandma going bailing did you say something down there and then you open your eyes there's just you you're dicken your hand paper towel staying now computer screen again you were never with anyone and maybe you'll never be just like me was that weird yes but I'm here for it all day and if you want more this type of ship subscribe notifications turn them shit's on I guess that's what people do we have membership thing which is much less possibly zero sacks talk and much more scientific nourish it about how to actually get jacked and also if you look at the links in description we have a whole company that sells you stuff that helps you get uh more jacked more lean and cheese dare I say even happier but on the sexual front we got none for you that's all you including I'm your help so I'll see you next time

I tried this drug while I was on 5 milligrams of tersepatide, which is the current most powerful fat loss drug ever made. MK677 done basically cancelled half of that shit. You can kind of expect maybe about 3 to 5 pounds of muscle in the course of roughly 12 weeks of using those. Now here's the thing, I don't sound like a lot, but 3 literal pounds of muscle you keep after 12 weeks. Ah man, that's a big deal. Paphocs Dr. Mike here with RP Strength and the Gaines pill is like a real thing, but it has dire consequences. If you misuse it's scared yet, enough to not click away. Well, let's get into it. So check this out. MK677 sounds like some kind of research chemical developed in the... One of the moons of Saturn far away from crying human eyes, they don't have military clearance, and in fact that's not entirely wrong. Saturn parts off the moons parts off the military clearance sort of off. But it is really actually a research compound. And I tried it a while ago and it shocked me. Scott, it shocked me in a way that I found confusing to my sexuality. Did you know that? Oh, like you kind of found the shock painful, but then you kind of wanted some more. This is me now, I like this. I get it. Yeah. So I was really taken aback by the effects of this magic muscle gain pill. And it actually hit me that it really could be a useful substance for risk tolerant older folks, especially, who have trouble gaining real trouble gaining weight and muscle. And it has some serious potential. So let's dig in and do the whole deep dive, all the science. Let's kick it. So first of all, what is MK677 is an oral research compound. So you don't have to inject it, it just comes in a pill. And it basically has the end effect of telling your own body to release more of its own growth hormone. And growth hormone does all these magical magical things for making you jacked like secreting IGF1 and so on and so on and so. It also helps with recovery, it helps with sleep and helps with a huge part of the spectrum of making you gain. And it was initially created to try to be a drug that pharmaceutical companies would self-tafite age-related muscle loss. But it never passed through the approval trials because it had a few quirks about it that weren't that great. I will absolutely tell you what those quirks are, which is why no supplemented drug advice you ever get on this channel is going to be like, hey, you got to get out there and do this. This is really serious stuff with very serious downsides that if you don't manage properly or too young to do is going to hit you in the face and you're going to have a really bad time. However, it can be useful in some contexts. It is absolutely banned by almost all formal sports authorities. So you can't take it if you are competing in some sort of sport where you get tested for drugs. It doesn't enhance your body composition and that's why it's considered cheating, but it doesn't enhance your body composition. So if you're in your 40s and you're trying to use it to gain and you live in a jurisdiction where it's not illegal, you can make it in form choice. The way you would acquire this is it's a gray market supplement. It's not formally illegal. No one's coming after you, but you don't get it from a pharmacy, a from real doctor, and you don't pick it up from a supplement store. You go on one of these peptide websites and you buy it from a reputable peptide website. And there's because lots of non-repeatable ones, there's a few really good ones. I'll let you guys sort that out. Actually chat, gee, people just tell you which ones are good. And you get to it and it's not itself a substance that does anything. It's like a hormone whisperer. It's like, hey, pay, pay, pay, pay, pay. Ptootary. It's like, what? What? What do you want, man? Can you um, you look secrete a lot more growth hormones, like, if I made of growth hormones, it's like, well, kind of, kind of, you kind of, you kind of, you're job, like, fine, fine. After this paperwork, I'll file it in. And that's really how hormones talk to each other. In the actual body, that's what literally happens. If you're, if it's got a fever, on your pillow at night, you're real quiet, you can hear them speaking. I can hear the horse moaning. Oh, my god. Oh, my god. What is it? Hey, how do you make a hormone? Yeah, pay her. Hey. Hey. Hey. Really, guys. Joke. Got it. Actually, it's not enough to pay her because she might not be informed of the fact that you are a moaning type. So you have to tell her, excuse me, man, when you're faking this orgasm, but you're not going to have with me. Can you please moan? She's like, absolutely, sir. Your services will be rendered exactly as you've required. That's how that works. Speaking of how it works, how does the actual chemical stuff work with MK677? Well, here's where the stuff gets a little tricky. You're not tricky in like a weird way, tricky, and you're getting not just growth hormone. You're getting some other stuff that you have to either manage or benefit from depending on what you're doing. This drug slides into the exact same receptor that responds to the hunger hormone called Grellen. The more Grellen you have, the psychotically hungerier you become. Food focus cravings the whole thing. Rumbly stomach. Your GI tract clears faster everything. Just more. You can eat way more food and you want to eat more food. We're going to talk more about this later because yes, this causes a downstream growth hormone secretion because that receptor fires and methods to the pituitary gland. Perhaps more growth hormone plays and it sure does that. But it also hits that entire hunger cascade so it will absolutely make you starve. It could be a good thing if you're under eating. We'll get more of that in a second. And so that growth hormone spike also helps to create insulin like growth factor. One, IGF one, which is really, really antibiotic and makes it all sorts jacked and heals you and makes you recover. It loads a cramplot of glycogen into your muscles. It fills them with water. It's all this really good stuff. So not only are you going to be getting more jacked if you take this responsibly, but you're also within a few more, which is just within a few days kind of like, If you look at like full and like thick and like just like you guys if you're watching this and just bouncing my packs on the television screen. And so it kind of feels like a gains pill and it is a gains pill. Now this has nothing to do with your testosterone levels. So whatever testosterone we already have is just going to be synergetic synergistic with this process. So because it hits that growth hormone pathway, it doesn't mess with your testosterone, it doesn't do any of your test days, it doesn't shrink your cock. I don't know that to be true as a fact, but I took this for like a week and I observed my cock very, very carefully, hourly I would say. And other than being disappointed in the smallest always and slightly to the left, it just didn't look any different. So the good news is if you already have small genitals, it probably won't affect them within a week. Now let's talk about these hunger boosting effects. This compound, in case of 777, is a near perfect, growing magnetic, which means it acts in your body almost exactly like the hunger hormone, growing wood. And what that typically does is within like an hour of taking it hunger spikes. Now your boy literally just was like, I'm trying this and see if it works. But I had no idea that it acted through the growing pathway. I had no idea it caused hunger. I was just like, you know, I want to see if I don't like, I get a growth hormone secretic hog that I don't have to like have like vials and needles for some shit like that. I just have a pill sometimes. And I took it and like I woke up in the middle of the night to go pee like I always do it. I was like, I'm kind of hungry. What the hell is going on? And then that just got more intense as the week progressed than I ended up talking to chat to you. You know, it's supposed to happen. I was like, oh, God damn it. Because I was like maintaining slash cutting a little bit and I was like, okay, I really screwed myself over. It was all day hunger. So actually the hunger begins in our after you take the pill and then it lasts through the night. If you take it in night, which you shared will get to that later. And then more or less through the entire rest of the day. And if you take a few of these doses, the hunger's just kind of constant. And here is where the big upsides and downsides really start to come in. The cravings you're going to have are deep hunger drive cravings, which means it's not just hunger for physical substance in your body. It's hunger for the kinds of foods that your hunger signaling mechanism is supposed to choose when it detects that you're law on nutrients, which is typically and only the way naturally grow and gets secreded when you're very low on overall body nutrient status, like you're not eating enough, grow and starts to go up. Typically you will experience this at the end of any fat loss phase. You guys know, Scott, you know the end of fat loss phase. You look at someone eating a chili cheese dog and you're like, they must just be having the time of their lives. There's no better thing you could be doing that it to give you that sensation, but with a pill and within an hour. The bad news is that you're going to want to eat lots of comfort food mashed potatoes gravy fried chicken, bad Thai, like stuff that just hit the head of the meat. You're not going to be like, oh, chicken and broccoli. Though chicken and broccoli will look more appealing and you'll be able to swallow a whole ton of it, which is really good. We'll be using that a bit. But careful, very careful if you choose to use this because it's very easy to just be like, oh, my body demands junk food and here I go and then you're just going to get fat and very, very unhealthy because this drug also isn't not a health drug. It is bad for your health. So, um, if you already have a big problem controlling your appetite, even on a muscle gain phase, this is not the drug for you. I tried this drug while I was on five milligrams of trizzepotide, which is the current most powerful fat loss drug ever made that is available through prescription. And five milligrams is a low dose, but it's not a low low dose. And for me, five milligrams, like right now I'm on five milligrams as I'm recording this video, but I'm not on my case, six seven seven and I'm having trouble sticking to my deficit, which means that it's a very difficult for me through the day to even eat enough calories to be an inappropriate deficit instead of like a thousand calorie deficit, which is insane and causes super high fatigue. Mk677 done basically canceled half of that shit more than half. It felt like I was like a big or a big and a half of trizzepotide right away instead of five milligrams. And that was a huge, huge deal and it was not placebo. I can guarantee you that for one good reason. I had no idea this was a side effect that I was supposed to expect literally just didn't know. And I actually felt that first and then I had to look it up and I was like, oh crap. So it really is a thing. And we know it's not placebo because it's been demonstrated in the research and this exact pathway is the growing pathway, which is exactly what you would expect. Now, this ability for this drug to increase your appetite and your antibiotic processes via growth hormone, IGF1, at the same time, is the big unlock. That's why this video is probably titled in thumbnail, something like the Gaines pill. Because folks that under eat on an attempt to gain muscle, number in the millions in the world, it's a real thing. Some people just cannot eat enough to gain weight, especially if they're quite large already, especially if they're quite muscular or if they have the genetics of like an endurance runner and their body just burns for everything and they're not a big eater and it's like, I want to gain 10 pounds and your body's like, I ain't gonna do that. You're gonna gain two pounds and you're gonna stall out. This is a huge deal for folks like this because it simultaneously increases your enablers of it and your hunger. So it switches on the growth mechanisms and helps you provide the nutrients through which to grow. That's a big deal. Now, the really good news about this is that a few days after you stop taking on K677, the appetite things are completely back to normal and that's awesome because you don't want those things affecting any longer than you are really trading hard and really eating appropriately. Let's talk about how much muscle gain you can expect this thing to add. The research studies showed a few pounds of muscle. Most of them were in much older adults like people age 50, 60, 70 who were not training and probably under eating protein substantially. If you are a well-trained lifter and you push protein into quite high and you are training hard, which I'll get to train recommendations with this drug adjust a little bit, then you can kind of expect maybe about three to five pounds of muscle in the course of roughly 12 weeks of using this. Assuming you're doing everything right. Three to five pounds of muscle of which you might keep after you come off of this thing. Three-ish pounds. Now, here's a thing and sound like a lot, but three literal pounds of muscle you keep after 12 weeks of going hard for advanced lifters, especially who are older. That's a big deal. That's a real take home shit and you can potentially with moderate to mild impacts, very controlled impacts on your health, run two of those cycles a year. You don't like an extra four to six pounds a year for a few years. I don't know, maybe all the gains you've made in the last few years. It's a big deal in the real world. Now, you don't get too excited because a few things are going to happen when you start taking this drug. One is you're going to be training hard. So your muscles are going to balloon up from that inflammation from training. Two is that growth hormone when it's higher typically pulls water into your body. You actually treat less water in your urine. It fills your muscles and the subcutaneous space under your skin with water. You're going to gain over 12 weeks. You might gain even if your surplus is really moderate and you're only slated to gain six pounds and 12 weeks, which I think is a really great idea half a pound of tissue per week. You're probably actually gain like 12 pounds on the scale, but then like most of that's going to like half of that's going to float off after a few weeks. And then you'll remain with the six pounds that you gained of which, you know, maybe half of that's going to be muscle, which is like, guys, that's just how games work in the real world. There are absolutely drugs that you can gain 12 pounds of muscle in with 12 weeks. Most of them you end up really jacked in a coffin. This star is not going to kill you. It's highly unlikely. It's not a health elixir. It's not good for your health. But is that terrible terrible terrible for your health? It's just one of these things where in the interim while you're taking it. It's going to look like you're gaining a lot more than you are. You're going to have amazing training. You're going to get substantially stronger. Nothing nuts, but you will see gains. You're going to have pumps that make you like previous pumps you've ever had be like, oh, I've never actually had a pump before apparently, but if that all cools off, you do get to keep some muscle. So that's a really, really big deal. What you don't want to do is set up a surplus, see that you're gaining much faster and be like, oh, shit, I got to take away the surplus. You have to fold feed forward the surplus. You have to know your maintenance calories and you have to go, okay, I'm going to aim for 300 or 250 to 500 calories more than this every day for the next 12 weeks on average. That's what I'm going to do. And I don't care what the scale does because I know it's a bunch of body water under the hood. We have the surplus. We have the protein. We have the training. We have everything you need. We have the drug. So it's going to be work. Let's talk about how to take it, timing and amount. The typical experimental dose has been 25 milligrams taken once per day. They've tried higher doses. There's a huge flatline of the curve and a skyrocketing in the side effects. Over 25 is stupid. Under 25 is possible. You could start at 12.5 to see how your response is, but generally 25 is pretty recommended for most people. When you take this is not immediately clear. However, because it helps you to create more growth hormone usual and the ideal time for growth hormone secretion is typically at night while you sleep. It's the most anabolic then it recovers all your systems at that point. It actually allows you to get into a deeper state of sleep, which is really good for every system in your body. It's probably a good idea to get it in just before you go to bed. Last, you know, your PM supplements and you go to sleep within 30 minutes. If you take it like at 7 PM and you try to go to bed at 10, you may be like, I'm too hungry to go to sleep. I need a bunch of food. It's not a good idea to have lots of food or just during or after you take this drug. Because it really raises your blood sugar to levels that if you didn't have a ton of food or totally fine, if you're healthy, young, active, or ultimately mean. But if you are like just a meal with 100 grams of carbs in it and then you swallow one of these things, do you get any tactically and hyperglycinear, which is absolutely not ideal. Can you take it in the morning and then go work out? Yes, that's possible. My recommendation is taking it night. In that last meal before you take it or whatever, have a moderate amount of fats, quite high proteins. I'll get to that macro guideline in a sec and to very low carbs if not zero carbs, zero to 25 grams of carbs, and then you're Gucci and you're doing everything right. You want to take it consistently, so you're going to take it every single day for whatever 8 to 12 weeks is probably a good time to take it much more than that. You're just asking for more health trouble and not so many more gains. That's the intermittent with it. Consistency beats cycling. So every evening for 12 weeks is a really good thing. And after a few weeks, the hunger is going to be coming up the entire time. It's going to be going to plateau. So after about two to three weeks, you just have the same amount of consistently pretty impressive hunger the entire time. And if night time hunger really is just waking you up, then you want to probably shift the dose to first thing in the morning, ideally having some cardio in the morning after that first dose, keep that blood sugar low, maybe going into your weight training session, and then beginning your full day of eating. And you can always start lower, that's totally fine, and so that'll be good to go. Now, how to eat with it is a huge, huge question. Because remember the food is actually making you jack. The drug just turns on the switch. It's like if you have like a factory that like processes would and cuts would. Yeah, it's the power and the machines that cut the wood, and if you build out way more of them, then you're going to potentially be able to have more process would in the other end of the factory, but wood is what actually gets processed in the factory. And if the lumber isn't coming in the one end, it doesn't matter how many machines you built out or how much electric power you have to those machines. You're going to do anything as far as production if there's a limit on wood. In just the same way, if you're not eating appropriately with this drug, look good luck, but you're literally not feeding the physiology that this drug enhances with enough substrate to actually get the gains going. And if you're going to like take, you know, take the debit card to your health a little bit with this drug, because it real absolutely will do that. You can't might as well do a good job. Scott, does it piss you off when people use drugs and they're kind of yo low their sleep and they're diet and they're training. It's crazy. It's crazy. Just look how it has ticked drugs. I think are you just hanging drugs for like recreationally? Do you feel better on trend? I'm with you. The answer is no, by the way. So how do you eat with them? They're recommended to get a 250 to 500 calorie surplus daily on average. It's not a ton, but it's really really good. However, this pill is likely to drive your hunger wild. And it's not a health elixir. So you want to stay as healthy as possible and not overeat to become a gigantic fat. If it no one loves anymore and arguably never did, you guys ever think about that? Has anyone ever actually really loved you? Scott? Parents don't count. Oh, they don't love me anyways. Oh, that was easy. That got weird. Scott's going to think about that and he's going to get back just the answer. Scott's scrolling through his phone like no person, no person, no person hates me for sure. I hate them. They might love me. We're trying to do the best job we can to stay not super fat during this time and thus even way way on healthier and just not overeat like crazy to be on healthy for no good reason. And we also don't want to have a situation where we're eating really high calorie dense foods, but we're eating them within the constraints of that small surplus. And then we're like super hungry all the time and pissed and miserable stress causes the release of cortisol and those stress hormones. It's not a fun time. Like I was like cutting while I was experimenting to take in this and I stuck to my deficit, but I was like, this is annoying. Like I'd be working at I was on a trip at the time. I was working at my hotel room on like a book project. And I get every half hour hours. I was like, I'm not a time is it. Is it time for me to eat my next meal? I was like, what the hell is I'm not on trip up a tight at all? This is bullshit. You don't want any of that. So you want to do is create that caloric surplus 250 or 500 extra calories per day. And you want to fill that up with almost all healthy filling foods for 12 weeks, which means 1.25 grams of protein per pound of bodyweight per day. Because you really want to make sure protein is out of any factor. Gramper pound is great for almost everyone. But you're a drug-using degenerate now, remember? So you need maybe a little bit more just in case. Some decent research to support the hypothetical that people who are on anabolic enhancers need a little bit more protein. And some of the research you might have seen earlier on this very channel about like actually maybe a lot of people can benefit from overgrabber pound. It's contentious, but I would say like give yourself the advantage here. Also protein is annoying and difficult to eat, which 100% of good idea in this case because you're going to want to know any difficult because you're going to be blasting theory meals like a younger Scott blasted through the singles bars of New York City. The STD free right my man. As far as we know. And you've never been tested so it's kind of one of those throat and girls cats that you're wearing. Shrodingers AIDS. That was not in good taste. 1.25 grams of protein per pound of bodyweight per day. So if you weigh 200 pounds, the MN, you eat 250 grams of protein per day. And probably about 0.4 grams per pound of fat per day. Healthy fats almost is the exclusive source. Olive oil, canola oil, nuts, nutbottars of a cotto of a cotto oil, that kind of stuff, the good stuff. And so if you're about 200 pounds, you're eating 80 grams of fat per day. And the rest can be more fats if you like. But in many cases, it's probably advantageous for huge pumps and tons of energy, Tete healthy carbs, predominantly fruits, veggies, and whole grains. And if you tell me right now to your iPhone that you're watching this on, but Dr. Mike, I can't stuff myself with fruits, veggies, and whole grains and still get a surplus. You will. With this drug, you almost certainly will. If you're having trouble eating on this drug, then like, yeah, like, Cher, more white rice and more like regular pasta, totally fine, but really assume it's going to drive her hunger insane because it will. And then if you're eating super clean food like this, like, it's just going to be a chore to eat it, normally. And then on this drug, it's just going to be a really good time. You're going to have food that's exactly as filling as you need. It's going to be really, really awesome. Now, you don't have to be a saint once or twice a week, a cheap meal is a fine idea. Make sure you get yourself some genius shot or some other excellent protein supplement to get the protein in with your cheat meal. And here's the thing, there is a huge value and just kind of knowing the state of play, a knowing what's going on so you can make the best choices. Like, you know, if you're a person that like, let's say hypothetically, your name is Jared Feather, I have to be pros, random name I picked out, and you really love latinas, but you know, like one in three latinas are real trouble. If you're in like a very diligent phase of your life where you don't want ideas, then you see that fine ass Latina at the gym and she's like, I, Bob, be, I, do me, or come to me. You might be like, mmm, is this the time for the shit? And if you're Jared Feather, if you pro automatically via the Jerry Force, you say yes, it's not something you control. You are in control. So when you're choosing your cheat meals, there's a spectrum of what's called a cheat meal. On one side of the spectrum is you go and just go to the right side of the spectrum. Is you go and just double up on your regular, slightly less than clean food. What do I need, my, that? Let's say you go to Jimmy Jones, you typically get like one of their subs. And you get veggies in it and meets it all the good stuff. Just get two of them ships. There's your cheat meal. Jared, I'm going to go off the rails and eat 15 of them. There's only so many calories to subs have you know what an advance? You've picked up from Jimmy Jones. You've brought it home alone to your apartment where no one will have a bother you, because no one likes you. Just speaking for personal experience. This is painful for me right now. And then you're just like going to eat them and going to have your protein shake at night and go to sleep. No problem. There's another end of the spectrum of cheat meal. Scott, which is the most absurd way to get yourself into real deep shit if you have a hunger problem. Pizza at a restaurant and some of your cookies. You order them to your door. They come in warm. Yeah, it doesn't. Yeah, perfect example. And some of your cookies, bad idea. Well, so if you have like five genius shots with them, you can get enough protein for the calories, but it's like a mondo mondo just crazy amounts of fat. Psychotic amounts of calories. And here's the problem. People always do this. They order the amazing insomnia cookies which I highly recommend. And they do this thing where they're like, well, there's not like an option to get like two. And they're like, super cheap if I order a baker's dozen, which is 13 cookies. And I'll just eat like two today. No. And like later, Ali, maybe more like in five days when they're crusty and broken and dry. And maybe I'll get him to a roommate. Yeah, I'm going to do that shit. On MK677, you are highly likely just to drain all of them within like 20 minutes of them arriving. That is a fucking bad idea. Pizza, I would stay away from for the most cases because yeah, you get yourself two large pizzas. You are going to drown them shit. And then what are you going to do? You're like, oh, I technically gained two pounds of pure body fat yesterday by the calorie measures. Amazing. Mag idea. Yeah, RP die coach app. And it just gives you a giant middle finger. You're like, ask shit. And that's right. But I don't like to see middle fingers pointed at me because I got pride baby. Sand. Hey, Scott, flick me off. We son of a bitch. He really did it. Back there with that middle finger. In any case, what you want to do is, yeah, cheating is fine on this. Once or twice a week, you're not forever. And on the low end folks, stuff that's still relatively healthy. Go to go to your potland and really have a good time. Don't you go to get like pure fat covered pizza burgers. And again, know what you're going to order in advance. Understand that, okay, maybe it's 2000 calorie cheat mail. Cut it at 2000 calories folks. Don't you be getting in them 4000 calorie cheat meal. By the way, the typical large pizza is like 4000 calories. And I know all of them are watching this. Can 100% down one of these if you take this. Sometimes if you don't, so really know that if you just uncork and go wild, you're going to have a bad time. You're going to make up 10 pounds bloated. Way fatter. It's really bad for your health to be cheating that much on a drug that already raises your your blood glucose bad idea. So definitely make sure that that's constrained. Otherwise, stick to the plan and you're probably going to have a really good time. Now, let's talk about the risks and how to stay healthy with this stuff. You have a raising a fasting blood sugar and a lowering of insulin. Sensitivity, which is generally bad news. Get your regular blood work as usual. Keep tabs in it. Make sure everything's totally fine. You can also have water retention on this. It can sometimes come up as ankle swelling. If it's a real big problem, make sure you hit your cardio 8k to 10k daily steps. No matter what. And potentially, like if you're eating lots of salt, just produce your salt a little bit and see how that plays out. If you feel the growth hormone side effects of tingling fingers and joint aches, that might be a signal to pull the dose back to 12.5 milligrams. Take breaks or if you're real tough, just like gut it out. I don't know. A lot of people do that. Now, there early research on this drug, which they abandoned, because it turned out not to be too safe. One of the reasons they abandoned it was because it caused radical hunger in there. It just makes people fat because they overeat and don't train with weights. It did identify a possible risk of heart failure and folks that are predisposed. My big take on my street on this is, do not ever let your blood pressure creep up beyond the normative value of 120. Over 70, 120 over 80, whichever one of those you like. As soon as it's 126, bring it down. I don't give it shit how. Fat loss phase, blood pressure drugs, any combination, more cardio, whatever it is you have to do. Blood pressure is a non-negotiable. Chronic high blood pressure messes up every single part of your body. We have not find out a part of your body. Maybe outside of your bones directly that your chronic high blood pressure doesn't mess up. It catches up with you and it's symptom-free. You can't tell we have it until it's too late in the doctors like that. Turns out your kidneys took the day off in 1997. You've been without kidney since then. Remember, this is an unapproved, unapproved and unregulated drug. If you trust your peptide source, cool, if you don't buy there, if it's been batch tested and the batch tests are public online, which most of these great places have, awesome. If not, just don't do it. And staying in contact with a health professional like your doctor or your coach for bodybuilding is a really, really, really, really swell idea. This is not a yellow drug's folks. This is not a f***ing trend goblin, a sarm team goblin kind of like, oh my, in Mk677 results, and I finally have a girlfriend. Bam, shut up. You little teen. You little, you'll scot. You know what I mean, man? We old men, yet? Yes. Yeah, we are. This is not a hack. This is a very serious substance with a big health downsides. Think of that. Think of that. Now, what can you take it with? Because I know you guys will be asking. So I have some recommendations. If protein intake is an issue, it cannot be an issue. Definitely protein shakes. Check out Genius Shad if you want this any other protein supplements, awesome. Creatin amount of hydrate of five grams per day for the entire 12 weeks, 8 to 12 weeks that you take it, is a great idea. Maximizing all of your stuff. If you are interested in a bonus round, and you really are a sarm goblin, then responsibly as an adult with medical supervision, constant blood work. Like and draw. At 2 1 1,5 or 5 milligrams per day for that 12 weeks. Yeah, I got a lot of you. Look, again, we do not lie to you on this channel. It is going to make a difference. It's going to boost your gains. It will not boost your health. And it will reduce the amount of total time that you are likely to be alive on planet Earth. There is a personal choice. Only adults can make. If you are a gear head and you are ready on the kitchen sink, your usual blocking stack is totally fine. The andren is there. Are going to do the andren thing. This does the growth hormone thing. And if you are already taking growth hormone, you can take this on top of it. If you are really psychotic to get that extra hunger boost. And a lot of people who are really jacked really do take this every now and again, especially towards the end of blocking phases when their body throws up two middle fingers to their hunger response that I can't do this anymore. If you are health concerned, which means every human being that's not totally stupid, you should be taking something like 500 milligrams AM and PM that form it to control your blood sugar, which is also a life extension drug, by the way. It's really, really healthy for you. And I highly recommend 2 1 1 2 1 1 2 5 milligrams per week of terzepotite. It's right, otherwise known as mangero or is that bound depending on how and where you get it. The terzepotite makes you more insulin sensitive and insulin responsive. It cancels out it fights back against that insulin and glucose dynamic, which is really awesome. And in addition to that, it really controls that hunger. The more terzepotite you take, the less hunger you get. So if you take a decent amount of terzepotite, not only does it radically reduce the health negatives of MK677, but it also reduces its hunger signaling potential, which means that you don't need to be ultra concerned with overeating as much. You can relax a little bit more and so with titrating both terzepotite and MK677, you can get to a place where you have just the right amount of hunger. And members, terzepotite is like actually a health elixir. It's good for almost every part of your body. And so not something to just start the same week because you have to be on terzepotite for weeks and weeks and months and months to get stable doses. If you're into that sort of thing, then yeah, keep it in. Don't be like, hey, I'm pulling my terzepotite out for this bulk and adding an MK677. Your hunger is going to go, f--------. And your body fat's going to go, b----. And then maybe you'll be one of these guys that has to explain to girls at the bar or the like, yeah, normally like leaner, you know, but looking like just chasing these size gains. Scott, you know that meme of that guy yelling into that girl's ear at the club and she's just like not even to can't even. One of those? Yes. My favorite. You can be that guy, but you play too much. How to train? This is important. Again, to Scott and I is earlier point, you can be one of those clowns that takes the shit and like is lazy with training or just disorganized. And okay, sweet, you took a drug for 12 weeks and you lost 12 weeks. Amazing. I would choose two to four muscles in your body to specialize on. I would train them probably with about 5 to 10 hard sets per session, around three times per week. That's a lot of training. You will be able to recover in most cases because there's drug is one hell of a recovery drug, especially if you're eating really well on it. And you're going to take the rest of your body's muscles and put them on maintenance, which means training them twice a week, actually with only about two sets per muscle. That turns out, there's going to be enough on maintenance for sure when you're on a muscle gain phase. And every single week that you come in that's not a deal a week, still take deal loads, all the usual stuff. You want to add one rep to every set, work two and a half pounds or so to the bar, and just come in and break PR, break your PR, new PR, new PR just by little high-perchrophy training. Through the RPI-perchrophy app, link in the description. You get to have exposure over time of slightly more difficult training, which is exactly how you should be training to grow muscle. It's not about like, oh man, I feel like it's a holiday baby. Fifty more pounds in the bar. Oh, oh, oh my pick. Don't do that. It'll get you hurt and it's not going to get you great results. Slow and steady gains. Or wrap here and there, a little bit of weight here and there for 12 weeks straight with like a 1D load in the middle there. Holy crap, you are going to be bigger. Be smart, good technique, good programming, all that other stuff. Do not waste good drugs and good health on BS training. I've heard critiques of probati builders before. No one competing today, folks in history from people I trust that said that these some of these guys who never end up doing as well as they could have were using a lot of drugs to make up for the fact that they didn't train hard. Do you want that to be your reputation? Even if it's in your own head, you don't want that. So go hard. In a controlled manner, but consistently hard in this case means yeah, making it, you know, to the gym five days a week six days a week three workouts for the same muscle for several of them a week for five to ten says that's that's hard work work. Not like one hard set of the hacksque out and then you tap your buddies on the ass and go to the showers and well spend several hours in the shower, do whatever does men do how to sexually with each other in the shower. You want to be consistent and diligent and just put in work. There's no replacement for that. Now the last thing I'll say is this, make sure if you're using it, you're using it where it's not illegal. And you're not using it to cheat at sport and you're not using it if you are too young. So if it's not legal in your jurisdiction, don't break the law. If you are in a tested sport, don't use because if you use your cheating and everyone should have zero respect for you until unless you stop cheating and slowly after years claw your respect back. If you are under the age of 25, you don't need to use it because you're making some of the best gains of your life training drug free with zero health risks I might add. You're 25 and especially under your later years, 30s, 40s, etc. This becomes an intelligent thing to potentially consider using with tradeoffs. If again, it is not illegal in your jurisdiction and you're not using it to cheat at sport. And you're staying in contact with a medical professional who deems that you are healthy enough to do this to your body. So should you use the gains pill? If you are not using it, don't use it. If you are not using it, don't use it. I'm Dr. Mike and I'll see you guys more jacked, but also more bloated next time.

Yeah, give me a little more pause right here and whenever you touch it's a soft don't a little set Another He's so athletic Told you he had his bike I did that I could touch on oh Oh Who's doing just got penalized now Care for their ice be broke. Dr. Mike is her tell PhDs and It's not a real PhD. No, I University of Phoenix online. We're just agree with you So what's up? Who are you to talk smack to me? You would be tomato champa and a w w e wrestler We were gonna put him through a crazy psychotic workout, but he's like stop please fam And he pulled out his RPI virtual VIP app which he FRFR uses in real life But we're like your workout. I think you're down with the urban link. I love it how modern and To muscle legitimately just trains with the app all the time and you like it. I guess I love that Yes, we have a little hand in making it. No big deal. We'll sign you stage all this We staged a little bit of this in the back. Oh, yeah, with wrestling to never know what's real wrestling is real. I totally believe that and I also believe that Tomasos about to get a baller chess workout We're gonna do some machines. We're gonna do some freeway So we're gonna look at technique. We're gonna drive it hard. Jared's here. He invented technique And so he's gonna be he's the watchful eye Only looks at two things one your technique and two any brown women come along And so just something I understand in one surpasses like such seeds the other So if you're lifting but a brown woman walks by I'm sorry. I understand yeah, I'll take over the channel I look for you It's a pleasure to have you on the channel. You ready to lift weights and stop you have gibbered javelin a trim a best excited boom Jusseld just simply this it's really quite good He said that he used to do all kinds of stuff in the warm and take a while of ability blah blah And then Jared got him doing just lighter progressively heavier sets all the way into the first exercise And he's like other than every now and again when I'm like really tight from being on the road I don't know that means I'm not in the industry though He said it actually feels super super good to just do that workout because the warm-up with progressively heavier weights Takes care of everything physiological everything anatomical everything psychological and neurological all at the same time For exactly what it is you need to do so if you do an a crap load of other warm-ups High knees shit like that arm rotations that shit is dope and sometimes it works really well And if you need it, but experiment we're taking a little bit out of that stuff out of that program and do a couple more sets Leading into a lighter weights progressive behavior of your actual first exercise give that a shot in training You might find that you actually have better results and you don't do much of really hokey stuff extra sometimes the hokey stuff is okay, but a lot of times is so like oh I was I doing all that stuff when I could have just been doing the exercise All day one more Move it yep, go fit good it oh shit that was fuck boy Big moves come on one more Hit it now go go go go go go go go go go go go So my dad is a Wrestling fan these this high poo does the like you know you don't have to tell me it's big I don't I know we have this big idea In front of 250 people that was a pack house We're gonna have this thing where malones who I'm feuding with he jumps my brother and the crowd Rosemalty the barricade does this big thing to my brother in front of me while his his goons have me like Handcuffs to the ropes type of thing. Yeah, I Bring my brother in a day early who's not a wrestler to rehearse this we don't tell my dad no Not it it's great malot is boom throws my brother over my dad pretty big guy 61 To 60 at this boy probably lifts his crap and he starts swinging and he's red face And he's got the hoge and looked the ball top of his ear the dread he knows the punches one of his security guys Oh no, I'm just a child the real cops ambulance is gonna Hold the crowd like it washed it. I take my big big my brother to the bath I take my brother immediately in my car the backway and just leave scene because in my head I'm like I can't have people know this was script And we're out of here and then later deal with my dad It's a thing and big sister that was arrested. He was questioned and luckily the promoter like was like I knew me well enough. Yeah, yeah, that's what I just is great. Oh Go Ahh Hey Got this all fucking day just go to my cell control, the pause, up, speed, yes, right. Fuck yeah, fuck yeah. Smossed in 1953 sets, then right after he was done, drops out right to 135, then a set of like seven, and then as soon as he finished that, he rested in the morning line of time and then did one extra set. Awesome way to get a crap load of metabolites in there, minimize the load on the bar, maximize the effect of the muscles. That's that magic fellas. Oh man, that was great. Before I remember chasing the pump, yes, for like three hours. Three in and then like, then by the time I caught it, I felt like I was doing a bunch of jump-ups. Yes, you already tired. Yeah, this way I'm like, fuck this is real. First exercise every time I'm like, okay, where they are, I love it. Now we're just fine tuning. And if you guys want results like that, the RP had perrophy abs just to put away. Organic. Okay, organic. Organic. That's why cable fight. Let's go find one. And that's it. I heard you was talking about shit. This is the angle you want. This is on the first, yeah, let's try. How high do you want it up? It's still off somehow. Up one weird, no doubt. Is that right? Am I going nuts? No, that's even power, right? Yeah, which is like a list of me, I wanna just start doing a show. Yeah, that's good. That's good. Is that like right below the 10? What's that? I'm gonna hang it up. Yeah, let's take a look. Oh. So you're gonna go down. Up, down, on there. Down, up there, you go for that mega stretch. Perfect. Sync slowly and low. Tumaso is going to be doing bent over cable fights. The big cue here is you wanna maximize the stretch. So as you pull the handles apart or as you let them get slid apart, you're gonna be lowering your chest and opening it up. Big chest, it's a lower and open, big stretch pause. And then as you come up, you can rise a little bit. And as you go down, you can descend. You wanna open that big chest up for a huge stretch and then a nice little contraction. Well, I said some about 50 reps here. Let's get to it. Yep. Good. Two more. Descend, big chest. Yep. Yep, one more. Descend, slow, open up. Yep. That's it. Slow, oh sorry. You're gonna, you're gonna rock. Next time we'll just open up and then rock. Okay. So that was a little heavy. Little bit, yeah. I'll go down to 30 then. How many injuries have you had? I've had like 10 surgeries. All pretty major. Wrestling's not. Yeah. So I mean, in some of his football before wrestling, some of the wrestling, some probably just in a combination of not stopping between training, wrestling. And like what essentially what happens is you wanna be on a routine. You get an injury, you try to work around that injury. You get that point away like, we'll have to injury. You train through it too much. You know, it gets worse. Yep. But yeah, like doing this method, all my way to drop down, kept my intensity there though. That slow pause, like I said, you guys are like, the pump has been better, my love. But I know you're like, you're not going to have an injury. Training related. That's awesome. Since I started most of the time. I feel like some of the way we train is kind of like your combination of a picture-be training and auto rehab. Yeah. Because the slowest on tricks in the pauses that join awareness and mobility. It's like a lot of people last year, and I like, what do you guys do from a ability? And we're like, have you seen how we train? Like if you can sink your ass hold to the fucking ground in the spot, your bowl bowl. You guys are also in this crazy dynamic sport. And you have to train for hypertrophy to eject and shit. And you're completely pumping up a pretty slow down. Yeah. But like it's cool, because you can use that deep, slow, eccentric, build a lot of muscle. And then the whole entire concentric phase where you're being forceful. And it's just good on both rooms. It's the only sport that I, that I, like maybe amateur wrestling with great classes too, but like you watch football plays basketball play seven and like a little bronze James, he never has to worry about his body fat percentage and his appearance. So he's just supplementing and training just for performance. Yeah. And like we have to perform, but we can't train to play. Yeah. Very, yeah. Nobody cares so much. You can clean and jerk if you don't look apart. Yeah. It's a real, it's a tough one. Yeah. Now you get one, mine. All right, let's do it. Pause. Yeah. One. Open up. Yeah. One more. Yeah. Slow. Chest up. Slow. Rack. Ah. That was brutal. All right, I'm going to go find you an incline. I'll see you guys there. Yep. Thank you. Last chest exercise for the day here is going to be incline. Dumbbell press. You guys are going to notice that tomato does a slow eccentric. Touching the dumbbells just outside of his chest with a full pause every time. And you have to hear Jared rather give a great cue. If you have trouble feeling your chest instead of on the concentrate folding in, which is totally fine. If you're totally good to feel your chest, you have trouble feeling your chest instead of arcing in your shoulders at the top kind of pushing it forward, which a lot of people do naturally because your body naturally thinks of pushing something away from itself. But what you want to do is push yourself away instead and keep your chest up. So not only do you keep your chest up towards the bottom, but you keep your chest up all the way up. It's going to destroy your chest if you have a problem in my muscle connection. That's something to try. Chest up. Chest up. Better. Big chest. Slow pause. Storm. No, this thing don't be tightness. Chest and ceiling. One more. Slow. No. Chest up. Speed. Ah. That's right. Woah, yeah. Big chest. Big chest. Big chest. Fast. And there. Good. Damn. Wait, it's got that last one. Woo. Nice. But you always do that as if another. Yes, that's gotten me to. Yes, I just did my brain when I was an excellent. Excellent. I always even affected another. Who was your WWE crush when you were growing up watching wrestling? So much guy. No, no, no. Come on. My guy because it's a kid. That's what it is. My guy. I don't know whether for me. And what is this? I'm straight. I'm crooked as crap. It was a crap for me. Okay. The first girl that I saw that I was like. Two weeks. Damn. Feeling things I shouldn't. Was sunny. Which I didn't know that was. I'd ask to be like early teenage years. I wouldn't say that. Yeah. Yes. A little bit more of a pause. Yeah. I don't know what to do. I just saw. Don't a little set. No. No. I just cracked it. It's a bit different. It's open. Open. Open. Give me a three second pause at the bottom. All the way down. One. Two. Three. Beautiful. Rack. Oh, it was going to go up. In my mind, I'll be maybe I'll try to get what it's surprising. No. No. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Labs? Just cast. Let's do your calves. Let's do your calves. Fuck. We never do calves. New research has confirmed what we've respected for a while. Which is the stretch is the critical part of hypertrophy training. So what I want you to do when you're doing these is that peak contraction where you hold it, we're going to ditch that all together. You're going to do is you're going to sink down all the way as deep as you can and hold it for three whole seconds at the very bottom. And then you're gonna pulse up to gently get that full range of motion really quick. And then back slow, three second all the way at the bottom. It's gonna be fucking terrible. Three, two more, slow, one, two, three, one more, one, two, three, wrap. Ouch. Oh yeah. Can I pump him suck? That's a pump, that's a key. You hate him hot. I think they look really cool, but it's painful to get them. I know I saw that. Oh yeah. Two, three, that's it. Good stop. Good stop. Noosh. You'll be feeling that tomorrow. Yep. Nothing like going to wrestle three matches now. Oh shit. We're sick. What do you think about the workout? I love it. I love the very much. I've been doing yourself for a while. I started, I talked to you about I started watching all the videos, just putting it in my notes in my phone, because I'm not a program guy, I've never been. But then I got put on that like beta, let's put whatever. So I think I'm on Messo six or so on the app now. What do you think? It's not so I use it legit, but it's not even. I use it everywhere I go. It's great for the road because of the plug-in medic today. I just, oh, I normally do this with Ben Hacks. I'm gonna have some of some student machines. Yes. It's very functional. It's perfect for what I do. And it keeps me in check like your natural instinct wrestling, especially road gems. New equipment, new machine, new scenery. You will ever tell yourself. Yes. Plus you have to wrestle, plus you have to get up flight and a car ride. And it's just like it's a recipe for injury. So this is like, it's a good lifesaver. Can you see the check? That's, you can at least keep the training consistent. You know, more than you go to the gym. You don't want to back use it anymore. Yeah, yeah. Like sometimes, I like, oh, I just want to kind of hit it quick workout. And I start without the app and I want to plug in my numbers. Yeah. Huge pleasure having you on the channel. Yeah, a big fan of you guys. So much, big fan. Likewise. And that's the luck. Feeding up those overgrown monsters. Thanks. Great. Appreciate it.

Slash, slash, slash, slash! Slash! Slash! Slash! Slash! Look at the size of me! Look! Whoa! Folks, what's up? I'm clearly an accumite for our free strength. This is Thor. We're going to train arms. I got a whole lot more to say about that. We're also going to train chest and Thor is enormous. And why is he so big? Why is my ego crackling? I'm going to walk off and try to feel big by myself. Let's go workout. Let's go. So what's the rest of the period? Do you want to do like a bodybuilding rest or strong man rest? Since a training was your training me? Yeah, I'll do whatever you say. You tell me where's your warm-up, how many reps you tell me to go again? Where's your start? We'll start here. Put those down. Let's get the 30s. Let's start with the 30s. And we'll talk you through the technique. It's very, very special technique. Let's go. Why are you out of breath? Why are you out of breath already? That's it. Larry wheels. Show me what your dumbbell press looks like normally. And I'll walk you through the modified technique. Very good. Cool. Okay, stop for a second. Have a slightly bigger arch. Push your chest up more. Very good. And when I want you to do every time, this will be easier with a heavier dumbbells. This is the goal is to get the inside of this dumbbell here to touch right under your front belt every single time with a pause. And so you're not going here. You're going out here. And you're going to take a one-second pause at the bottom and then come all the way up. Give that a shot. All the way up. And then nice and slow. Perfect. Just like that. Very good. As deep as you can, really stretch at the bottom. Yes. Today, everything is about the deep stretch. This is boring. How many are you doing here? Are you serious? More. You don't warm up. Oh, go. A five more. Just five more. God damn it. Sorry. Sorry. You got bored. You're going to make it really bad. The camera on my head. And good enough. Perfect. All right. All right. And then you can just chill for a second. But the next weight we're going to use is going to be 60. Let me do a quick intro. Just relax for a second. Paste around. Maybe stare down max the editor boy. Yeah. He loves that sort of thing. Oh, God. Oh, God. Oh, God. Oh, God. Oh, God. Oh, God. Dombell presses. Who is a really strong, he can do dumbbell press anything he wants. This isn't just to move way around. It's to make sure that chest is doing the predominant amount of the work, getting all the good muscle activation and getting good hypertrophy. We're going to be doing sets of about 15 reps here. Thor has evolved his peck before. So we're not doing anything crazy with low reps. That would be really stupid. We're going to be nice and slow and controlled. And if you want maximum hypertrophy yourself, this is pretty much how you do the dumbbell press. Excellent. Good stuff. Next will be hundreds. Sounds good, my man. How you use the rest of the ingredients? Absolutely. Max followed him in there. Let's see the cock. What? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? Why? All the way to outside of the shoulder. Yes. It's going to feel weird. Good. Slow around the eccentric. How does that feel? Good. What's your best dumbbell press results for reps in your typical style? Well, when I was on my feet, my best ever. How did you get for some reps in claim? Lately, I did 150s for 12. Quite comfortably. As a public stay humble, since you're doing some, you know, I see we're going more outwards. What? I do. I go more down. You definitely feel like strength. Go fast down when you change your training method from strength training to more hypertrophy. Yeah. How many reps here? One rep shy of failure. One rep self failure. Big chest at the bottom, chest at the top, chest at the top, chest at the top. Good. Ah, I thought that. How many reps did you have for life during the team? Probably like a 25. I'm joking. Well, honestly, not many. Not many. One, max. Okay. My good one. Come on. Okay, max, not the more swing. I had a lot more left. Well, I'll have one left. Seven. You're going, must get 10. Big slow. Big slow. There you go. Out. Now we're rolling. That was really good. That was really good. Next time, when you finish the last rep, pretend you're going to do another one and ride these centric down. Then, rack. That extra little bonus. The centric at the end will give you a little bit more growth. Because honestly, though, I didn't want to say this to you. You kind of scary in real life, but I see you're cool. You need to get bigger. So it's falling into a pulse? I mean, like the conversation starts at 500. You won a stronger span, that's cool. You're not going to get thrown. But are you the heaviest man of all time? Does that harm you at night? Yeah, does. That's right. I might miss your life. But I'm not even slow. Two more. Slow. Slow, slow, slow, slow. Slow. Just kidding. I'm not kidding. I'm not kidding. I'm done. I'm alive. I'm alive. Look at the size of me. Whoa. There are the ever like just like randomly during the day, looking at the mirror. Holy shit, I'm big as. Especially less than a while. What am I like? Yeah. What a naked. Less than a while. Who you're hooked with me? Holy shit, man. Yeah. It's nice coming to boosters or how it's more alive, which you live massive all the time. That was the play, right? That was the play. Mine's a cure, dude. I think I have a bigger action. Yeah. If you had bigger raxia, the rest of us would be really serious. Oh, how is this? When I was younger, I'm not joking. Sheer's not. When was younger? I was doing myself in the mirror. Do you 200 kilograms? I think like, damn, I'm more, I'm not joking. Yeah. That's serious, bigger action. I'm not sure how did you get over it. I don't know. Good, quite a question. Just, just, just been big for a while. That was a good question. The most small thing. Let's go around. Reality. It's like, where am I? I was wrong the whole time, right? I am big. Yeah. Good technique here, Thor. We are going to do eight repetitions. And remember that last one. Slow. Wide. Rage. Good. Two more. Good. Good. Two more. Good. Two more. Good. Two more. Good. Two more. Slow. Up. Two more. Two more. Two more. Two more. Two more. Two more. Two more. Two more. Two more. Oh, my thing is acting, but this is real action. That was good actor. You are a fucking good actor, dude. Oh, shit. No, it's not acting. You're real. Proof, look at the shot. I've wiped the sweat off of my hand twice, and I still sweat on there. Yeah, it's the last breath, yeah. Oh, we're here, guys. Oh, we're here, guys. Um, if I was to ask you for like, that's just sounds weird. A bottle of your sweat. Would that be like weird or is that like cool? Cool. We're totally normal. Would you like it before? We're called after work, George. Oh, it's different formulas. We're called. You're called. Nice. We, uh, another brand is like, you become aroused. And then they collect your sweat like, free no, the special nights with your loved one. See, my arms are so, you're pumped. I, I've hard time to stand here. Ugh. It's not funny. Oh, yeah, literally. Oh, my God, my arms. Just take the one scoop is hard for me. Oh, I'm in pain. I'm in agony. Mama. We just get started. Yeah. That's exercise number one. Let me just, two minutes. My arms are up to you. All right, folks. So we have deficit pushups up next. Deficit pushups are awesome. Because they're super safe. There's nothing wobble. You can always just rack with your body weight. And they get amazing, amazing stretch. But here's the thing. Oh, I'm troll that easy, central. As deep as you can looking forward and up is a really good. It expands your chest and let's your chest take more of the load. And we like to do is take a nice one second pause at the bottom. Come up two thirds. Never letting the tension go off the muscle. Sums up them at tablates. It gets the faster twitch motor units active earlier in the set. And it's really just painful and terrible. Push it just fun first, home safe. We're going to do four sets of these. Probably you'll either know how many reps Thorough can do. 10, 15, we'll see. And we'll get after it. So yeah, let's go. Perfect. Good. Wait one whole second at the bottom. Full pause. Good. Again. Full pause. Full pause. Beautiful. Just like that. Keep going. Five more. Slow. Three. Four. Three. Up. Stand up. Up. Up. Help. You're okay. Stop man. The only possible thing for this is the nose of a mop that my wife is cooking. Really nice lungs. So I'm just almost thinking about that lungs. Yes. The scent there. I'm going to have some chicken lacks. I was gonna rise. Ooh, we're going to wait for those. Yo. Yo. What? These assholes made me try fermented sharp. You know it would be really funny. What if you did it a set? Oh, sure. Let's go. How long it was? Two. Do I get the food or something? Let's go. There we go. There we go. Let's go. Let's go. Ooh. Deep. Four more. One. Two. Quality. One more. Thought let's go. No. Beautiful. Two hundred. One whole second there. Yes. Good. Three more. One. Two. Control that eccentric too. Control control control. Good. Oh, there's nothing left. Beautiful. That was awesome. Got shipped. My skills. You. Good food. Do you have juice? Next between size. You have chicken or chicken or steak? I came like empty handed. Damn. I have a self. I have a self for. Four more. One. Two. Look forward. One more. Four lockouts. That's it. So far. I feel destroyed. But the same time happiness. Happiness. Instead of my heart. Like I feel like I have a. I felt. In a long time I slept when I was my son daughter and wife. Now I feel closer to my close-known-over. And I feel. Some sort of intimacy between me and him. So nice feeling. I love you. I love you. Oh. You know, I wasn't running away. Thor still rated a train. So we have Scott Crusher's next. Remember this is chest, triceps and biceps. Scott Crusher's are second to last movement. These are barbell sculptures that are awesome. We're going to have Thor try to touch his chin. He's so gigantic. His arms don't actually bend that far. As a deepest possible elbows in all the way down the control, with full lockouts every time, should be fine. An effort extra extra mean. We'll superset them to close group bench. But I don't know. Feelin' like that. What do you guys think? Um, write it in the comments. We'll take a time machine and we'll modify this on the other end. Slow control in the center. Yeah. Full pause at the bottom every time. No rush. Every rep is its own. Slow control keep those elbows in on the way down. On the way up I don't care. On the way down, elbows in. Falskrip. Three more. elbows. One more. Slow, slow, slow, slow, slow. There he goes. There he goes. It's funny how, uh, it says a light weight, it's just so hard, but you know, yeah. Good job. Yeah, thanks. I didn't do any. Uh, try some pump. Yeah, maybe we'll say some. Like it. Ooh, the feel, the feel like, like, I said, are diamonds. Oh, is that a wee bit? Okay. I need that. Ah, ah. Mmm. It's a shortcut. It's a shortcut by your children. You know, you know, you know, a broom for your own. Approved 100%. Uh, I usually have my intro work out also delivered by children. They know not to come. Uh, uh, we have five sets of this total. Matter of fact, you ready? Let's go. Shift. One second pause. One whole set. One whole second with the bottom every time. I'm not. It's a. Help us in. In, in, in, in, in, in good. Good. Good. Ah, two more. Now, those in. Help us in. Ah. Ah. Slow. Slow. Wait. Ah. Ah. Oh, that was really good. It's been one more second at the bottom. It's will be uncomfortable for where not here for comfort. Good. Again, a couple more ups. Yes. I'll go in. Be. Be. I'll go in. I'll go in. Be. I'll go in. I'll go in. I'll go in. Be. I'll go in. Be. I'll go in. Be. Stop that. Let's go. Ah. One more. I'll buzz in. Slow. Press. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Be. Stop. Ah. I think you baby. Wow. This is the most wholesome thing that's ever happened on this channel. I keep saying we have a family channel. We have a family channel. You know, there's nothing that the. That's just it. We'll head, up. That when you child comes. Come on! That! You got this. That's like Ducati. You got. Guys. One thing that makes this work out super easy for me to program. Super easy to execute and make your ship really awesome as well is the RP high hypertrophy app. I used it every single time I trained. Re ek it today but Thor. You can switch exercise, if you come to a new gym. You come to Thor's power right here in right here in right give back Iceland. You got your Arctic hypertrophy. to figure out with you, take a look at what you have, switch your exercises really quick, it'll get you going, it keeps track of all of your mesocycles, all of your progressions, making sure you get the exact right stimulus, and as I think you only have currently, that does a scientifically based feedback mechanism, so you rate your workouts in an altru's the next workout based on how you felt and how you perform in the workouts before, and continuously do that process totally automatically. Give it a link in the description, give that look and yeah, let's go, let's go, curve forward, and in a good way. Check this out. What you're going to do is you're going to step a couple steps forward so the arms are really far back behind you. Big chest the whole time, you know like a ditch at the front of a ship, the Viking ship, you know what I'm saying, the girl with titties, you know I have the Viking ships and there's like a bitch up front, you're trying to be like her. They chest, let your arms come all the way back, big stretch, and then curl. Yes, two more, curl, one full second at the bottom for that crazy stretch, big chest arms back, yeah, good, and as if you're going to do another one, and rack, 14, keep going. 15, last five, Thor, five, let's go. 16, get to 20, no pause at the top. 17, go technique, 18, we want the pain, we want the pain, a 19, no bullshit Thor, that was still 18, 19, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, get it together, one more good rep, big chest, clean, move it, and then slow, big stretch, one whole second, rack, yeah, I used to swim with my eyes, I was like, they're so close to ground, oh yeah, careful, I need drink, bed shake, sure. Oh, it's good, it's good, it's good. I'm sure you can throw those at the top part, please, can you, can you feed Thor some water? Okay, don't let go, rest to breathe, breathe, breathe, breathe, more, let's go, three more, one, arms only, two, one, last one, three, rest, rest, rest don't go anywhere, don't go anywhere, that's 15, we need 20 total, rest 10 seconds and then finish a couple reps, big chest, only arms Thor, good technique, 18, two more, big chest, 18, one more, come on, let's go, slow, slow, rack, two don't let that chest sag, big chest, it's going to hurt your biceps more, that's what we want, two more reps, 17, one more, one more, one more, 18, slow, slow, chest up, rack, breathe, amazing, last two reps when you are ready, Thor technique must be perfect, big chest, let the biceps have it Thor, one last amazing wrap, yeah, let's go, slow, slow, slow, slow, slow, slow, chest up, chest up, chest up, rack, hold your sits, that's for suck man, thank you so much, my pleasure man, thank you, Thor, make me sexy for the lady sexy, you know that when you do when you do this handshake, you do this thing, you're basically never arm wrestle, you're like top rolling me every time by accident, I'm just like he just pulls me on my head and then you know, I feel something down there as well, I'm tracer, say my man, two hundred baby, you're getting heavier, as we, as we speak, 8,000 roughly, I don't really like, I know them roughly, but you know, if I have slightly more slid last, it's not a big issue and I also sometimes rotate my dice slightly, you know, but for most part, it's pretty much the same, 60, the one, yeah, 63, 63, other biggest biceps in the universe, guys, this was a phenomenal chest and arm bro science workout with Hofkere Ulius Bjrnson Thor, what did you think? I really enjoyed this, thank you so much for destroying me, I feel absolutely destroyed, but at the same time I feel happiness, feel peace within myself and I feel ready to take on the next challenge whenever that is with Dr. Mark, thank you so much again my friends, absolutely honor, you're always welcome to the first part of Jim, you know, gentlemen, or thoughts, stop and yeah, your arm is heavy, did you know that? It feels a little heavy and I'm really close to some other arm that I haven't seen before, guys, I've said too much as usual, Thor's power gym is the place to be in Iceland, if you ever hear bring a jacket, come train, it's awesome, see you next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pyrridsation, and on today's episode of BS, I'd say the whole thing, but YouTube doesn't like me swearing in the beginning of the algorithm for the algorithm rather. High protein diets are bad for your health. Don't eat them. You'll have bad health if you do. A lot of times, this just said really straightforwardly. You may be tell your parents or your parents, friends or your aunt, Susie, well, I'm eating a lot of protein because I want to build muscle, and so I can have more friends. And she will say, well, I think that's bad for you. Isn't high protein bad for you? And it's something that a lot of moms, especially a really concerned, where their teen sons start to pick up the old creatine and protein and weights, and try to get buff and high school. Maybe some kind of old school doctors in their corner from 1955 when he got his medical education, they say, protein, extra protein is bad for you. You don't want to eat it. That's fine, that if this is true. In order to find out if this is true, we have to go to the claims and get a one layer deeper to ask just one question why. Or how? How is excess protein bad for you? How are high protein diets bad for you? A lot of times the answer involves the kidneys and if usually just a one word answer, like kidneys. Yes, the kidneys do exist, go on. You'll almost never hear them go on after, because most people who say protein is bad for health just don't know anything after that. But you know, chat GPT style make up an answer, like, well, the kidneys process protein and you can overwhelm them. Yes, with too much protein, that's like fine claim to stick in the ground and see if it stands up. Another candidate organ is just not that many organs in the body. I don't know that many. So we'll say liver. That's one you hear a lot. Well, what the liver. It's bad for the liver and then you get the identical answer if you ask any further. We'll see the liver. Ross asses. Not sure how. Protein and you can overwhelm the liver with too much protein and then delivers like, what are you doing to me? You're killing me. I'm Jersey livin. So that's the protein that ran me. I'm so young. That's exactly how liver's sound, by the way. Another thing you might hear from the more astute podcast listeners of all stripes is M. Torr and protein activates that longevity may be a problem. They've had actually beyond some tiny little bit of truth. We'll get that in a second. And of course, last one as well. My nurse, my nurse practitioner or my doctor told me. And while you should listen to medical staff getting a second opinion and a bit of skepticism is probably good for almost everyone. So what is the reality? First straight up. If you have healthy kidneys, which you would know by just going to the doctor once a year getting a regular checkup, getting normal blood work that the doctor should order for you to check up. If the doctor's like everything looks good, you can assume your kidneys are totally fine. There is actually no realistic amount of protein that you could eat that is unhealthy. You could make almost your entire diet protein for weeks on end. And you know, they have tried that in the laboratory. And it doesn't strain the kidneys. They're really great at doing their job. And there's two of them. So they're super powerful. Now, if you have kidney disease or dysfunction of any kind. Talk to your doctor about how much protein you should be eating. The good news is they probably already talked to you. And then your special case in this video does not apply to you. Almost everyone 99.9% of people have perfectly normal kidneys and they can eat as much protein as they want. Does that mean you have to eat a ton of protein? No. Does that mean it won't make your efforts and poops make friends and partners and spouses, spice, species. Leave you. Well, yeah, no, no. Leave the shit out of you. You'll be awful. But it's not going to hurt your health. This is confirmed in study after study. It is essentially bedrock foundational medical knowledge at this point. And your doctor, the things otherwise is just out of date. There's just no other way to say that. Your body is super resilient and can be healthy with really different and takes a various back nutrients, including protein. So it's nothing to worry about. What about the liver? That's just make belief nonsense. Somebody just made that up. The way to overwhelm your liver by eating too much protein is not even biochemically obvious to me at all. I don't know. Maybe you guys have some suggestions and the comments. How that could happen? I'll preempt you with saying that the direct study show it doesn't happen. So enjoy hypothesizing to know where. What about longevity? It is probably true that a diet slightly lower and protein than what would make you maximally jacked does increase by some small margin long term lifespan of any individual. The marginal benefits for marginal trade-offs, right? But is that worth it to you? Maybe. You're 60s and 70s and you really want to optimize for longevity. I wouldn't get super jacked. I would be lean and fit and healthy and active. Put eats on the normal amount of protein that a human being supposed to eat. Maybe just a little bit more than that to get a little bit extra jacked. Nothing like a gram per pound. Maybe 0.6 or 0.7 grams per pound per day. And if you want to know about kilos, just take them into a calculator, damn it. I don't want to be too mean to a European friends. Asian friends and African friends. I guess the Americas the only place that you just have Canadian friends, Mexican friends. I digress. Lastly, if we have a counter for all those things, the vast majority of people that hate on protein and say too much protein is bad for you are doing one of two things. One is making something up. Or two is just repeating something somebody else made up. And they're probably not training with weights and they're small. They're just not jacked. What's that? How do you go through your life being not jacked? The answer is perfectly normally, but also go eat your protein. Get jacked and enjoy. And you're paying at some level a tiny longevity cost perhaps. And that's all trade us based on you. Seeing the too much protein is just straight up bad for your health is bullshit. And if you like the opposite of bullshit, consider joining our member section of the channel. Yes, it pays us more money. So then to get to crash test the Lamborghini every week. It's a passion of mine. In addition to that, we have a team full rom forum where you can ask me questions directly. I'll often reply with pictures of my generals, but you're getting value one way or another. That's all in the description below. Like favorite. We put out like five videos a week. So good luck turning on the notification bell if you like to be bothered. If not just scroll through will be in your feed. Hopefully not with pictures of our generals, but maybe see you next time.

A lot of people say that if you train heavy sets of 5 to 10 instead of sets of 10 to 30 repetitions, per set, that you will become more dense. You will get a denser look or feel to your muscles in it. That's probably not true. Spoiler alert. Ah, I sent it to you soon. Common claim that going heavier will give you a denser look to your muscles. Some people see like power lifters look real dense. So I have a few questions for that line of reasoning. First, what does a dense look actually mean? I actually don't know what that means. You could say like, well, it's the look like branch warren has Google if you don't know who that is. And the first image come up, you're going to be like, holy tank. But branch trained with all kinds of repetition ranges and a lot of sets of 20 to 30 reps and burnouts and drop sets and finishers. And you just kept looking more and more tank like. So that's interesting. So maybe there's not a dependable relationship, but relationship to what I don't know what that means. So yes, maybe it means you look like branch warren, maybe means you look like someone else and no one's really been able to just point like now. It's this look right here. I don't know what a dense look means. If you think about the concept of density, it's just a relationship of weight and volume. So how can you even infer that from looking at something like Wolverine without his ad a anti-imscalotone looks exactly the same visually as with the ad a anti-imscalotone and he's like 10 times more dense with it. So how can you tell a muscles more dense? Is it bubbly or is it grainier? I mean, you can actually only see the surface of a muscle. Is it rounder or the muscles bunched together more, but isn't that just more muscle mass? Like are we really so sure that every trainee does that? We know for a fact that research confirms that anywhere between sets of five repetitions per set, going close to failure and sets of 30 to even 40 reps per set, cause roughly the same amount of total hypertrophy. So you could get super enormous looking at other person in Google is Dennis James, Google Dennis James bodybuilder. The first picture you see, if him like one of his most muscular, you're going to be the kind of fuck is that a real person. There's no more room to add muscle on his body. Dennis James didn't necessarily go hard and heavy. He didn't a ton of different rappenters. It's true for most bodybuilders that look the most. Anything you can think is a dense look. Maybe people need the muscles are physically harder to the touch. You can do that's that really look though anymore. That's a feel. If you have a job feeling out bodybuilders, you'll be pleasantly surprised. Oh hey, is there a job like that? Can I put in my application? It's like experience like I have a lot of desire and I think that's more than enough. How do we know that this is true though? Let's say the claim is now a keep it the muscles are physically harder. Do we know this? Good news. I'm a professor of sports science. We don't. So I don't know how people found this out. No, it could be a hypothesis. The people have generated from exclusively clinical setting of training, the actual experiential training and their same look. I've seen this in training. I feel that maybe it's true. I used to be a competitive power lifter. It wasn't very good, don't worry. Back in my drug free days. Those healthy on days, so many moons ago. And I trained mostly for sets of G's, three to eight reps. And then there wasn't any harder or anything like that. Matter of fact, it's significant problems with hardness, especially when it nerves and stuff like that. Not all performers. Folks, don't worry. I got it resolved. I just began to be solvent. So to me, I never observed that relationship. I've trained hundreds of hundreds of people. I've never observed the relationship that there's some kind of density relationship or hardness relationship with heavy training. Maybe there's a mechanistic thing there. Because we know there's some one of you who's going to already have posted this. So you go ahead and delete your comment now. JK, leave it in there for all of us to read it. You will also get in, stay calm. Myofibular versus suckaplasmic hypertrophy. Myofibros are the actual tissue inside the muscle, the organous inside the muscle that how is the contraction machinery acting in myocene and shell like that? Those are myofibros. But then there's other parts of the muscle cell, which all look like muscle on the outside, that have, you know, there's more so it's called suckaplasmic. And it's just like there's some other organous floating around in there. You're nucleus, tectlic, sits in it. There's ribosomes, and vesicles, and stuff. And it's kind of the more poofier, liquidier version. Right? That's at a microscopic scale, though. So it all just looks like muscle at the top end. So are people saying you get more myofibular hypertrophy and less suckaplasmic hypertrophy? That's possible. But we also know for many studies that there is a distinct myofibular and hyper and suckaplasmic hypertrophy. But typically, suckaplasmic hypertrophy occurs first. Like when you first start resistance training, your muscle glycogen, the ability to store goes up much faster initially than the myofibos are constructed and new because they just take longer to construct. But at the end of three or six months of training, doesn't matter what rep range you train in, you roughly have the same ratio of myofibos to suckaplasmic. That anyone who trained in any other rep range has. So it's kind of the temporary thing that if you're first trained very heavy in low volume, you don't get a big sarcoplasmic expansion. But then your myofibos grow over time. If you do train of higher reps, you get a big initial expansion, but then it sort of floats away. And the myofibos underneath grow any way to fill in the space. So if that's the case, then long-term it kind of doesn't fucking matter. So maybe this doesn't add up. And if there is research in the future, which that hasn't been yet, that shows that doing a wide range of rep ranges, all sets of five to ten and ten to twenty and twenty and thirty have bring in their own special kind of growth, one wouldn't you do all three of them in some part of your training periodization. You wouldn't want to miss out. So that really seems to be the case. And you basically, for now the way to research is, you at least want to use every rep range, you get a high stimulus to fatigue ratio. So if sets of twenty, you really light up your biceps, but they're great on your joints, and sets a five or amazing for your back, but sets a twenty just tire your back out. Yeah, do lots of sets of five for your back, and sets a twenty for your biceps. Wherever that stimulus is high, pump, burn, soreness, all that other stuff. And the fatigue is low, you feel okay, you're not super sustainably drained, it doesn't break your joints down or anything like that. That's kind of the right answer. So training on purpose of lots of sets of five to ten to build density, even though the quality of your training sucks, like, hey, how's your chest training going? I don't know, man, just like my shoulder shirt, my elbows hurt, my pecs don't get very sore, very pumped. Apparently, sets a five to ten are supposed to get be denser, something? That is not a dependable thing at all. What is much more dependable is choosing a repetition range for your pecs, let's say, it sets a 12 to 15, really light your pecs up in the best possible way, and it's a weight just light enough that your joints feel good. That's not the wrong answer. You will get bigger muscles because we also know that there's made be no such thing as the muscles get denser, and if they're denser, then maybe no identifying it externally, the look is the look is the look, and then some people just look more tank-like than others, and it probably is nothing to do with the composition of the muscles themselves. So the verdict here, as far as I see it tentatively for now, is trying to think like scientists, is at best this muscle density idea is something we don't care about, it's my favorite liver, versus soccer plasma at hypertrophy, but like who cares, it's all hypertrophy, get me jacked and eventually it fills out to the same thing anyway. And at worst, it's just not a real thing. AK is just total bullshit. I don't even want to bring an Arnold to say bullshit. Just regular this time, guys. All right, go out there, train ultra heavy, get dense, get hurt, and talk about the good old days. See you guys next time.

Go! Go! Go! Go! I'm back! I'm amazing. Amazing. YouTube is up, Dr. Mike here. List. Some tough years behind us from a racial unity perspective. I don't worry, now hold up, don't worry. We're about to heal all that isch with one leg workout. Mr. Tristan Lee, Mr. Johnny Sreeve. They had their beef, we squashed it. No worries. A little bit of beef left over, but that's getting squashed today. And it's getting squashed by a hypertrophy RP run by the RP. I've got a somewhere in my pocket. They built the workout. You guys will see that in a sec. And there's nothing, there's no animosity and cultural misunderstanding. The high repetition, vomit and dozing, give up on life. Like workout can't fix. How are you supposed to be mad at some shit when you can't even walk? I'm just kidding. Bella's, you'll be fine. Everyone's gonna walk just fine. Isn't that right, Johnny? You've done a leg workout with us before? We're not walking. All right. Tristan, you feeling good? I'm doing good. And that'll be the last time you say that, let's run a perfect. All right, guys. First exercise today is going to be the lying leg curl. Now, we are here at Pure Muscle and Fitness Gym in Toronto, well, Burlington, Ontario, but close enough. And they have like a trillion lying leg curls, but there's only one the best lying leg curl. And that's any lying leg curl really, if we get picky, that allows you to descend super, super deep into the stretch while loaded. And this particular life fitness machine is one of the very few in which you are allowed to go extra low. Now, check out this design really quick. Here is the plane on which your legs will be lying and notice that we have a few inches of separation here for depth. So what ends up happening is a lot of leg curls if you leg curl on them. You come up and then it stops right here and you come up and it stops right here. And that's really a problem because the stretch under load is a huge mediator of hypertrophy. It is essentially not allowed to occur. But with this machine, I can barely even tuck into it, tuck in. See if I can get into it. The stretch is super deep all the way down and all the way up. This part from here to here is critical for a growth. It's going to do an unbelievable amount of muscle damage in the best way possible. This is going to stimulate a ton of hypertrophy. And honestly, it's not even that psychologically difficult in a part of the movement because a lot of it is eccentric sort of passive resistance. Thus, and it also registers really low on the EMG. So this is hugely beneficial way, huge stimulus, small fatigue, way to grow the hamstrings. Let's get into it. We're going to be doing three or four sets of leg curls. I'll be for sets of don't tell the guys 20 reps or so. My rep match hamstrings. Where you at? Hi, hi, hi, my hamstrings. Two, and as if you're going to do another slow controlled deep pause unload. Oh shit, JK. We got extra extra. You get testicle. I mean, you say, he was unloaded. That's why I thought you unloaded an rep. What the fuck? One more coming up. You got it. You got it. You got it. Yeah, slow slow. Take a pause at the bottom of the deep deep stretch and wrap. Good shit. Oh. Good shit. Set one. Like the lyrious of that, and am I said, I love it. No, he's taxing somebody. He's just putting on some tellers to get fired up this. Yeah. Two. Three, one, push. Three, one more. One more. Yeah. Yes. Slow. Slow. Yeah. Yeah. The rest. Oh. Almost done. Slow. Dude, fuck you. Ah. Ah. Ah. Now we'll work again. Hey, bro. Push. Come on. There you go. Three. Nice. One more coming up, and then we get a break. Come on. K. Come on. There you go. Get it. Get it. Yes. There you go. Slow. Slow. Fight it. Fight it. Rack. Raspers second. All right. Sineasy. We got three, and then you're all set. Trust me, you're the fucking man. Let's go. Go. Stay strong. Come on. Jai. One nice work. Good one, nice. Good one. Good one. Good one. Gorgeous. Jai. Nice. Amazing. Amazing technique. One last one. That's a big giant. Big giant. Big giant. Come on. Go. Pull it. Pull it. Very. And then slow it. Pull back. Pull back. Fight it. Fight it. Fight it. E-HOSIMA. Hold. Let's go. Rack. Oof. Fuck. Oof. BAAA. Oh my god. Oh my god. BAAA. I went to another dimension in the last year. We lost you here for a second. You teleported in and out for a little bit. That's it, fellas. Let's walk to our next exercise. Cool. Whatever. It's like KGB towards your ship. Listen. You boss. We'll tell us. Oh, secrets. Yes. Oh. I got to say. So Johnny's an ice-beap pro. I expect that's much from him. Your control on the eccentric and the dedication to a full range. Impressive. Because you are young and as tick-talking about the fun. Yep. I expect you to do some trend-trains type of shit. But you're out here doing the real real. That's what's up. It's only because you're here. I'll get the fuck up. Hey, as soon as I leave, you're like, ah, ah. I'm going to do the blue machine. That's it. Blue, one-glut on a time. One-glut on a time. All right. Next up is the leg press. Luckily it's just like one set. Really heavy partial range motion. No way. Wait. It's with it up. Multiple sets. Super deep. I'm sorry in advance. I'm sorry in advance. I'm so glad to be shared with us. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So leg press time. Hamstrings are cooked. Quad time. The thing with most leg presses is that they're built wrong by people who don't know how to build machines as they don't lift weights. The purpose of the leg press is to stress the quadriceps, which means we want not a ton of hip movement, but a ton of knee movement. Which means we want to lean every back pad deep as far deep down as possible. This might not be the most comfortable thing, but you guys will be all right. We insert some kind of device to lift the hips. So that we get way more knee flexion. So what we're trying to do here sit right on top of this thing. Really prop your hips right onto it. We're not going to be going super heavy. So it shouldn't feel too uncomfortable. Unrack. Nice and low on the machine. Toast point it slightly out. And then as you go down, you let your tummy expand out and you bring your knees out essentially to your shoulders. Big chest. Knees out. All the way down for a deep stretch. He'll still on the machine. One second pause at the bottom. Full extension to a lock out if you like. If not, no big deal. And then again all the way down. Every rep the same ever rep slow on the eccentric. If you notice that during the leg press, you are experiencing a lot of pain in the quadriceps. Something that my friend colleague and training partner Jared Feather, Ithmi Pro says, is when you feel the pain in training in the gym. There is a natural human tendency to try to avoid pain to recoil from it. But we have to remember that we're here for the pain because the pain means muscle damage. And then it's metabolitic accumulation and those things are all at least correlative to our causative of hypertrophy. And so when you feel that deep burning, sighing and sane pain in your quad, you have to reframe the pain as this is something I want. This is something that like I'm a moth and I see light. I want more of the pain. And then go towards the pain is and usually the pain is that deeper stretches, longer muscle lengths lower, eccentric control and another rep and another rep and another rep. And when we do my reps here, so as soon as you get tired, lock out and nod. Because like as many reps as you can do, stay locked out, breathe a little bit. I'll let you know when to go again. We'll do a few more reps and we'll peel you out of the machine and send you the fuck home at a box. How's that? Turn it. When you're joining, Mike's cult, that's how he gets you to get involved in his ball and territory devices. Just try it out. Just try it out. I do. I do. Okay. Wait a second. Don't tell the guys, four sets of leg press, my rep sets, probably two my rep breaks inside each one. So even the first set is going to be like they're going to do like 12, rest like four, rest like three, something like that. Every single set like that, that gives us, yeah, G-Wiz something like 12 approaches to failure in four sets of leg press. My god, this is going to hurt. One, and my last one, come it up. Hell yeah. Make this one cow Johnny. Rapp. Look. What the fuck. What a set into the workout. Come on. Dds it. Come on. Fight it. Fight it. You're a control. Yes, you're a control. Let's go. Oh my. Slow, be. Fight it. Fight it. Slow. Salt. Pause. Go. Go. Stay there. I lost somebody to see Tristan's legs and be like, how much you leg press man is like two plates, like, but properly. One more. One more. I'm right here with you Johnny, fucking push. Move. Go. Last breath. One left. Take your time with this one. That's your apple model. In a full one second pause at the bottom. Go. Go. Go. Go. Back. Back. Back. Two. Two. It's amazing. Amazing. I like what I feel, Johnny. What? What? What? What? It's that that took Johnny's shoe to the cross for you to stretch and go Friday. That's right. Blocking my range of motion. Never given the way of anyone's round. Yeah. He's like, oh shit. I'm in an electrosic. No. There everywhere. I can't get a scared. Leg press. You don't always have to do it this way, but this is probably one of the more effective ways. As soon as the movement starts and you unlock your knees, the slow eccentric means that you are taking every part of the repetition and making it as muscle growth promoting as possible. And then you control it all the way down. Open up your hips, open up your knees, open up your chest. Take the maximum range of motion keeping a tight lower back. Pause for one second at the bottom and you will feel searing pain that accumulates in magnitude. As you pause longer, we want that sort of thing. And then on the way up, feel free to be athletic and then repeat the motion. There is a tendency psychologically for all of us to want to get through the reps. Checklists, the reps. Get it done. Let me ask you a question. This could go another way if you feel free to answer in the comments. When you're having amazing sex with somebody that you like, shit somebody that you love. Shit somebody you just met, but what's up girl? Are you trying to get through it? The fuck is wrong with you? Every single stroke is the point. You're there for that shit. If you want to not turn on pro, pour in on 30 seconds later your voice out. I'm out. Napkin, whatever. I don't even wipe anymore. That's not the way to do it. You're there for the shit. It's the quality time that you're there for every touch every stroke, every movement. You're absorbing the shit. She or here, they whatever the fuck absorbing the shit. The leg press is the same way. It's a weird way of having sex with your muscles that hurts them a lot. But the key point is you're there for the pain to take it all in. Let's take it all in. Three. Again. Oh my god, amazing control. Big pause. Go. Go. Rast breathe. Three hit it. One down. Slow. Slow. Two down right away. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slower. Pause for a long time. Up. Up. Go. Go. Rast. Up. Up. God damn. How many sets for her here? A. Four here. Yeah. And then just one more exercise and it's all done. Pause for a long time. Rast. Rast. One more. One more. But a good one. Take a time with this one. The last half. Come on, Johnny. Push. Hit it. Steve. Up. Rast. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. You know what to do? What do you do? I miss the rear rack. Oops. All's welded and as well. I'll start to talk shit with you. You can't watch this. Hey, hey, do some pussy. You'll all bitch to get out. Get out. Trying to fight you. That's a hard set to look like, guys. Hey. All right. Let's go. Here's what we're going to do, gentlemen. Every now and again. We do something a little bit different. It turns out that isometric contractions are not overly productive for hypertrophy in most cases. Which means if we don't move the muscle, we just stress it while it's standing still. There's some hypertrophy. But isometric contractions are very long muscle lengths. They do actually provide a robust muscle growth stimulus. So what we're going to do today is so easy. It's almost difficult for me to explain it because it's going to sound like not a challenge. Here it is. If I was bringing a line you to up at the same time, you are going to go down. Not to where your calves touch your hamstrings. But one inch above that. You are going to maintain that position until I say up. And it's usually going to be a four or five second count. You come up and then it's going to be a slow descent. And when both people have descended, I begin the count. One, two, three, four, up. Just like that. And we'll see who collapses first. The U2 close to each other is a more of a camaraderie. U2 bullshit influence a thing. This is not a competition because all of the reps are for you. The other person falls, it doesn't matter. You're still in the fight. You didn't be anyone. No one got defeated. It's versus for fun on YouTube. Good thumbnail. But this is this is all internal. Connect with your muscles. And make sure that burn is there. Sound good? One, two, three, four, up. Fuh. Fuh. Fuh. One, two, three, four, up. Down, slow. Stop right there. One, two, three, four, up. Down, slow. Stop. One, two, three, four, up. Up, z. Down. Slow. One, two, three, four, up. Down, slow. Control. Stop right there. Do not move. One, two, do not sink down. Three, four, up. Down. Come on. There you go. Slow. Chastop. Stop. One, two, three, four, up. Fuh. Fuh. Fuh. Fuh. Fuh. Fuh. I got nothing else fellas. I'm all on a trip. Let me type that into the RP-Pantin' Hi-Purtsrophy app. You can do it, Johnny. Everyone believes in you there. We go. Fuh. Fuh. Fuh. Fuh. Done. Success. Done. Johnny and Tristan. Annihilated this workout. The take-home for me are this. The technique was right from get-go. The effort was right. And there was more reps to be done. They did it. And they never slack. They never cheated zero excuses. Sure, you have to wipe yourself up off the ground after you set. And listen, after you do, the next set is up. You guys did phenomenal work. Couldn't be happier. The RP-Py-Purtsrophy app for programming something stupid and insane. You want to buy the app that's on sale soon or already, depending on what this video comes out. I guess have fun. Oh, whatever. Yeah. The gentleman, what do you think? Have this feel. Death. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. All right. Awesome. See you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. And have you tried our new hypertrophy app? Shameless plug, it exists. Link in the description. But hold on, that video is a different video. This is about BS. And the idea that ultra high protein is a must, if you're serious about fitness, how did we get here? How do people have this idea? Well, people find out that protein does a few things. If I'm not that it builds and retains muscle, which is true. Then it suppresses hunger pretty well for how many calories it has, which is also true. And the jacked and fit people need a lot of it, which is also true. And then all of a sudden, for some of these folks that find this out, they seemingly think they can't get enough protein. You got regular folks eating as much protein as they can. I said, protein's good, right? Well, can I have a take, you don't train with weights or exercise? You do not need three stakes or whatever. There's all these convenience store gas station snacks that are like, now, packed with protein. You're like, you're like, you're like, I'm packed with fucking pros and cons. You're probably not even protein in there. But it's more of an usual and now it tastes worse. Who is the target demographic for this? It has too many calories from fat to appeal to fit people. They're just appealing to regular people to think protein is some kind of superfood. And it's not. A lot of times, people eat a lot of protein. And in order to keep calorie balance or just their two full, they have to cut down on other nutrients like fats and carbs and those other nutrients help to enhance performance. And potentially, muscle growth at a certain level, higher than protein if you already have enough protein. Tons of bros eat a gram and a half or two grams or two and a half grams per pound per day to try to get jacked. And guys that are on gear look a need of protein, bro and Montgier. Nope, that's also false. I have a whole little idea on that I think. And people will say, look, if I get a bit extra protein, so what? It's a good thing. What's too much of a good thing? You get extra hugs and kisses from a significant other. Who's complaining? Well, here's the reality. Protein has some downsides. One of cost money is generally the most expensive macronutrient. And if you think you have to eat a lot of it, you could be missing a way a lot of money. You could spend on other things. Past roughly 0.8 grams per pound of protein per day, only a small minority of users in a small minority of conditions will actually benefit from more than that. So any more than 28 grams per pound per day, which is to say if you wait 200 pounds, you're relatively lean, and you're eating anything more than 160 grams of protein per day. Most of the time it'll be pointless. Some of the time they'll be a small benefit up until you get to about a gram per pound, any more than that has no benefits almost at all in any case, except for a tiny, tiny fraction like your natural bodybuilder two weeks away from your contest. And then you could go up to about 1.21.25 grams of protein per pound per day, while you're starving and eating almost nothing else. And then any more than that for you will still be better spent as far as calories on carbs or fats. So as soon as you get to about a gram per pound per day, and you want more muscle growth, make sure your training is of high quality, make sure you're eating enough carbohydrates and fats to power performance and support your hormones. And if you need more calories, just turn up the carbs and turn up the fats. You don't have to crank the proteins up anymore. There is no benefit to that and you will not grow any more muscle. Thinking that you need more than a gram per pound per day to grow muscle is the same thing as pouring so much gasoline into your gas tank that it starts to float out and it goes everywhere and someone's like, hey, hey, buddy, click that off. Getting gasoline and other way, you're like, oh, don't worry, bro. I like to really, really, really top it off. Because like, then my car will go even faster. They're like, oh, you're mentally unwell. I'm so sorry. You shouldn't be getting gas yourself. Let me put that away for you and wait hold up. Anyway, I'm done smoking that cigarette. Boom, bam! I wouldn't do that. You guys have everything like, if you were really cool, you would smoke cigarettes next to a gas station. Joe Kamel would do that. Scott is Joe Kamel still allowed to advertise cigarettes to children. Kind of a, kind of, a unlippertine world are we living in? Although I'll say anthropomorphic enormous Kamel with a leather jacket, probably made me less likely this smoke cigarettes than more likely. It has a bit since 1997. 1997 was the year America turned away from freedom. Look, I'm not saying cigarettes smoking is ultra cool. It makes you super attractive. I'm just saying, I'm just going to stop. I'll get canceled the next thing I say. Damn YouTube. Anyway, folks, protein is great. Up until about a gram per pound. Anything north of that, you could be eating other new trance to be a better spending of your money, spending of your time, more food enjoyment, get more diversity of foods and worst best of all. You get better results in the gym and outside the gym. Protein is great. Don't need too much of it. See you next time. All weight weight. Bosh it. Yeah, thank you guys.

Ginnis. Taste like sh**. And apparently, that's the least manly thing I could say because there's a ton of you in the comments. Be like, f**k, bro, you grow. But f**k, Ginnis, in these veins, baby. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. Today's topic is how alcohol consumption affects your muscle mass and your strength gains. Scott, the video guy will very likely throw up our video on alcohol and fat loss right over here. So please, my all means click. That will take care of that. It's a bit of a different discussion. I really wanted to split these two discussions. It won't like one discussion of just alcohol and fitness because there's so much to cover. So we're just going to be talking about how alcohol affects your ability and likelihood of success with trying to get stronger and more jacked. The two most important things in this world if you're keeping track. Here's the deal. Alcohol presents, I think at least four problems for muscle and strength gains. Problem number one is that it interferes with recovery. Alcohol consumption, especially at the high rates, increases the systemic fatigue that you experience. And it prevents the systemic fatigue that you create and you're training from falling off as fast between sessions, between weeks. So instead of you training for a few weeks in your fatigue climbing like this, if you consistently consume higher and higher amounts of alcohol, your fatigue climbs faster. So whereas normally week three of a program you'd be hitting big PRs. If you're drinking much more than usually do, you may not be hitting big PRs. You may just be scraping by, hitting smaller PRs or even tanking and not hitting NAPRs at all. So it's definitely a thing that absolutely happens. Alcohol is the opposite of a recovery modality because an anti-recovery mentality. So if you're like, oh, bad, I really need to heal up. I should eat relax and hydrate properly and have some sleep and oh yeah, I'll drink six beers. No, no, that last part is the opposite of what you want. A psychologically alcohol can really help you unwind, but there's a physical cost there, which is why most serious athletes either don't drink or only drink in specific times or just don't drink much. Or have in Saint Genetics and alcohol, I'm sure there's a few. Next, really big concern with alcohol is it your fears with sleep? This is a huge problem for muscle growth and recovery because sleep is ultra-powerful at making you bigger and stronger. Alcohol reduces sleep quantity and typically sleep duration, especially if you have it well into the night, which is kind of how a lot of people drink alcohol. You drink alcohol in the morning, people say you're a dare-like piece of shit who should get a job, thanks dad. But she drink in a night, people are like, hey, great, you're successful and you're drinking it at the socially appropriate time. Problem is it costs you sleep and sleep is the elixir of strength and hypertrophy recovery. So bad deal there for sure. If especially you consume quite a bit of alcohol, little party night, that consumption of alcohol can reduce the quality of the training session you have the next day, especially if it's in the morning, but really throughout that whole day. So it's a really, really not ideal to consume substantial amounts of alcohol, the day before a bigger workout for you. So that is an acute concern with alcohol consumption. And lastly, if shit wasn't bad enough already, alcohol through a variety of mechanisms, causes a decrease in muscle protein synthesis, which means that it actively contributes to making you less jack than you could have otherwise been without it. That's a bad deal. And it's weird right, because culturally like tough guys who have muscles who look like pop-eyed drink beer, but the realities if they drank less beer, they would look even tougher and more like pop-eyed. That's what you're into. So yeah, rough, it's rough. Alcohol sucks for muscle and strength. They're just fucking blows. However, you still wanna get fucked up, because you know what I'm saying, you're in that time in your life, you love drink or two or five or seven. And that's okay because the following, eight point guide is my way of telling you look, sure, go ahead and drink, but try to integrate a couple of these eight points into your plan, a drinking plan, if there's such a thing. Drinkies when you don't have a plan both of them. Yeah, way hold on, hold on. I'm like fucking drinking on job here. Guess me, Lish, this is a Serbian product. What's that today, brother? Huh? Tastes like misery. It's mineral water. It's not alcohol. This is what you drink the day after. You wallow in your own despair and look upon the record of a once greatly aspired room but never actually great Eastern European facade. Yes, I was born in Moscow, Russia, done that before. In any case, you wanna drink, but you wanna do it in such a way at least have the tools, the knowledge to be able to do in such a way that minimizes the drinking's negative impact on your swollen, strong journey. It's international sign for bench press right here. How do you do it? Couple of tips. These are all marginal tips. You can apply them halfway and get half the benefits. You can apply two or three of them or you can apply all eight. The more you apply them, the less of a deleterious effect alcohol will have on your strengths and your muscle size. The less than you apply them or the more the alcohol has full effects. So it's all on you to make that trade off. No value judgments, drinking, sure shit a lot more fun than lifting weights and being jacked in most cases. I do admit. So number one. Straight lickers, no mixes or use diet mixes. Mixers, scots of mixes and mixers, mixers have been no barren in a generation. So yeah, like don't drink full fucking meaty beer. What's that shit called? Stout, whatever the fuck. Stouts with Southerners call you when you're big. Hey man, what perished out? What's that shit they make in Ireland taste like piss? Is black or whatever? No, no, no, it's just a particular brand. Yes? Guinness tastes like shit. And apparently that's the least manly thing I could say because there's a ton of you in the comments really folks wrote, you broke, broke, get us in these veins, baby. Guinness has a lot of calories. And only a small fraction of that is through alcohol. So try to drink some shit that doesn't have a ton of calories other than when it's private alcohol. So like vodka diet coke. And I know it's literally a girly drink, but it's going to have less of an effect on the rest of your shit because you don't have to have a ton of junk calories, which make you fat and don't contribute to recovery in your least much, you can eat more in Whole Foods and thus have better results for getting jacked zone and so. So not a huge, super important thing for strength and size as much as it is for fat loss, but absolutely something to consider. Next, drink on a slightly more empty stomach. This means you get drunk with less alcohol, thus less calories and less deleterious effects on the rest of your physiology that alcohol imparts, including reducing potential for muscle growth and strength gains. Gotta be really careful with this because if you drink on an empty stomach, your tolerance can be half of what it usually is, and you can really scoot out the other end and have a bad time. So do do be careful, but the purpose for drinking normally is to feel a sensation of drunkenness. And if you can accomplish this with less total drug, then you're kind of winning in this case. So give that some thought as well. Point number three is to have a few drinks as gets the job done. And I have a little chart here that if you're a repeat viewer of the channel, you may be recognized it from my alcohol and fat loss video. But dies like a couple of points scale here. You start drinking at first your feeling it, then you're tipsy, then you're what I call in the mix. This is where all the fun happens. This is the reason people drink is to get into that zone where you're vibing, good buzz going, everyone's friendly, your friends with everyone. You can still make sense with your mouth movements. And then after that, everything really just is no more fun as the alcohol goes up the fun actually peaks and then goes down. So after you're in the mix, you get drunk, which can still be okay. Then you get sloppy, which is annoying for your friends. Then something I call college night, then the college, and I'm talking about. So when people throw up into carpet and then the last one is hospital trip. So the ultimate fatal conceit of the college freshman is thinking that the amount of fun you're going to have is the linear and proportion of how much alcohol you consume. It turns out it's a very distinct, you shape distribution that ends it. You know, what for many people is there are three to six drinks. Three drinks, if you're a girl, six drinks, if you're the typical guy, much north of that 10 12 drinks or whatever is you have a fucking problem. Instead of having the most fun. So give that a thought. There is an illusion, especially when you're drinking, like more will be better. Once you're coasting and you're having a fucking good time, just like drink, like drink, power or something or every 45 minutes of some shit and coast it out. Don't slam a shit because then you're having more than negative effects on your body. And for no more extra fun, look if there was more fun to be had, how fucking you had drink more, but the good news is is that it just doesn't take that much drinking to maximize how much fun you get out of drinking. Next one, this advice is painful for me to give because I don't actually agree with it, although it's true on the technical merit. It's to take it easy. And you know, when I was partying various points in my life, I did this and I still regret it. And in my soul in my heart, I'm a dancer when I get alcohol, grooving or whatever, I don't need alcohol for this, but I dance. And I'm in go and I run around and I do crazy shit. And it's fun and I'm terrible at all those things, but I think I'm having a great time. So I love doing it. But the reality is a shitload of crazy psychotic, rave or dancing does not make for a good recovery or a good leg workout to the next day or even two days later. So if you're really interested in maximizing your athletic journey and strength and size in that world, but you want to drink with friends, you want to go for a bit more of a lounge type of feel. So drink, dance a bit, chill a little bit, but don't go crazy and dance the night away because that absolutely will for tea to share. And again, I go dance the fucking night away. This is the, you know what I'm saying? You're in your 20s and 30s and you sad fuckers and you're 40s that are watching this. Jesus Christ. What do your kids think about this? In any case, you know, have fun. But, but if you have a powerlifting meet coming up in three weeks and you really give a shit about it, which your friends talked you and are coming out, you don't have to do a break dancing exhibition. I'm not sure if you're very good at it or South Korean, same thing by the way. Okay. Number five, eat plenty after alcohol puts you into a catabolic muscle loss state in many cases. And if you eat plenty of food afterwards, I don't know if it does that food taste good, but it shuts down the metabolism, boost the metabolism. Let's you grow some muscle at least save it. If you're drunk enough, I highly recommend Taco Bell. Surprisingly, in what is a crime of the 21st century no doubt, will not let you walk through the drive through. Apparently your drunk ass can get hit by the next person and that's a liability for Taco Bell. I think it's all bullshit. And we're getting our lawyers on this. But Taco Bell tastes great and the sheriff makes you bigger and stronger. Is that true? I don't know. The sheriff's how makes your anus bigger and stronger through resistance training. You'll figure it out. Number six, stop drinking two hours or more before you go to sleep. Training for muscle growth is never going to be the same. Number two, stop drinking two hours or more before you go to sleep. tougher to actually do them to say, because normally you go to sleep when you have your last drink and you look around and the world fades to black and you go to sleep wherever the fuck you were. You know, Hill and State Street, the middle of campus, college town USA, wake up at 9 a.m. someone steps on your face because you're going to class and I should. I'm alive. Typically how it goes, but if you can arrange for it be a little bit more intelligent and have a little bit more foresight, hilarious. The I'm laughing at myself for the foresight thing because one of them predictable effects of alcohol on the thinking process that reduces your foresight. But if you're an experienced drinker, just not totally an idiot like me, you can, you know, when you guys are leaving, here this is an important thing. When you're leaving the party or the club or the bar or the hangout, stop drinking. People will go and hang later together with friends, like a little after party. Don't drink the after party. You're already buzzing, just let that buzz wear off, have some french fries and dip it in cheeseburgers, whatever the fuck people eat after they get out of the bar. A couple hours later, a couple of good things happen. One, you'll be ready to sleep. The alcohol won't be your system as much. You'll get a much higher quality sleep because going to sleep when you have a ton of alcohol on your system is like kind of waste and time. As your body's not sleeping sleeping, nearly to the extent that it would be if you were alcohol free or much more alcohol for you if you gave it to hours. The other thing is you could be getting lucky and then the two hours could buy you like last whiskey dick, which helps if you plan on using it, essentially of course. Point number seven, a big question people ask is, for some reason I've received this question of tongue. I'm in college, I power left or I do have hypertrophy training and when is the best night for me to drink and when is the best night for me not to drink? As I've had people be like, look, I'm in college, I'm trying to join myself, I'm in a frat or whatever and like before they give your frat brothers and blow a job contest, we all get drunk. And when is it a good time to do this and what is the like less good time to do? So I'll straight up clear the air for you. One is do not drink the day before your heaviest heart of sessions of the week. That's fucking obvious. So you can have like heavy squats Monday, don't drink Sunday. Don't drink Sunday anyway. First of all, God's day, second about the fucking wrong with you. Do your homework, God damn it. But another question comes up of, do I want a drink before my rest day or during my rest day? Yes, if you drink on the same night earlier that day you had a hard workout, this drinking does absolutely interfere with some of the adaptations that are coming away from that workout for sure. But it's worse to drink before a workout the night before because it really reduces your stimulus ability. So in my calculations, I'd see that if you're going to pick a time to drink, let's say, one so weak, I would say the last day of training for that week before the rest day is the best time. So let's say you train Monday through Saturday, six days a week. Saturday night is your drinking night because then Sunday you don't have to go to the gym. You don't have to perform. You can puer yourself up off the ground, take 10 ad bills, forever because you have the world's worse hangover. Use Sunday to recover and do a bit of homework and then Monday you feel a way better. You could hit it in the gym super hard. If you train Monday through Friday and you don't train on weekends, then yeah Friday night is a great time to drink. Saturday nights a little better because it really gives you one day of rest and Saturday was the day of rest. But if you want to drink two days a week, Friday Saturday is great. If you want to use my focuses drinks like Thursday, Friday and Saturday and you go ham the entire time, you know, tell your psychiatrist about that later when your life is a fucking mess. I'm half kidding. In any case, yeah, that's the deal. So if you have to slide in at some point drinking before a rest day, ideally also on a rest day. But if you don't have them any rest days, sequentially before a rest day is best. So that you can drink, come home, sleep it off, wake up, have a breakfast, drop a breakfast and be on with your day without any hard training being that day because training hard after a night of drinking, either going to quickly discover is on average quite bullshit. Lastly, drink as few times in the sounds pedantic and kind of parental drink as few times during the week and or month as possible. I don't know if this is wisdom or not, and me just like thinking I'm on a high horse here about to say some stupid shit. There is a lot of fun to be had with drinking and college and all that bullshit and just going out with your friends if you're not a college student, if you're just you know 27 years old and living in Manhattan, like a young Scott the video guy. If you're in a little boy, a few memories, if you are in that sort of demographic, it's important to understand something that most of us have to get quite a bit older to understand. That while it is fun to drink with your friends, really, really, really fun times don't happen as often as times that are kind of mediocre. You don't want to be the person that drinks three nights a week and a quote of the nights is a smash hit. The other nights are just like you with three other people at the bar. You're like Jim, how are the kid just like I'm good and like I'm down with the fucking my here. Right? So I would say a good tip here is pick when you're going to go wild with your friends and do that sparingly like two amazing nights a month is like pretty good time and you know, God did invent weed for a reason. So you can use marijuana to get high with your friends. When you're not drinking and that's a shit load better for your health and interferes with muscle and strength and fat loss way less. So I'm absolutely not advocating for marijuana consumption on YouTube, but it might not be so legal, but give that shit some thought. Don't do anything stupid. Have fun. Take this all pretty easy. And if this is confusing, have a drink and see if it makes any more sense. Comments, questions below, subscribers, what's up? New subscribers. How are you guys? This is channel. It's always this weird. Welcome. And see you guys next time.

This is not a thing where they hit us up and they're like, there's $10,000, just go say nice things. You don't mean we don't do that and we never will do that. Every video you'll ever see us in door machines, we mean everything we say. There's tons of machines I ate. You won't see them on this series. You know, I hate them. You know, Atlantis went and did it. They decided, here we're going to put out an incline press machine. And just like you all know, with the latest model of Lamborghini, I had to have it. So I told my buttlers, hey, hey you, I said the buttler number 19. What would you go out and get me one of these Atlantis incline presses? He said something. I don't really care. Screw it away a couple days later. This shows up mint condition. Let's talk about how awesome it is. Let's talk about how navy and future generations they can improve on some things. In any case, lots of things to say. Let's try saying I'm already. Some absolutely great features of this machine. First of all, the movement is ultra smooth, super important. It doesn't shake, it doesn't rattle. There's no weird angles. It's amazing. Next thing. Two different options for handles. Some people are comfortable this way. Some this way. This accommodates both. We think the hold on a second. One of these is too low and too high. Ah, not so fast. We have a selectorized ability to move the actual seat height if we want. And thus, we can accommodate folks with long torsos, short torsos. Everything in between, making both of these handles, super viable options. You guys will notice we have chalk on these. That's because we actually use them. Last thing I'll say about this, we have a very rare ingredient here, the unloader. You press this up and all of a sudden, you get the weight right into your hand. You do all your reps, this allows a really big deep stretch at the bottom without hitting the bottom. And as soon as you're done, you step off, step into the unloader, take the weight away, squeeze out, and you're perfectly done. Couple of tips to you folks doing hypertrophy training. Crazy as it is, this machine is almost ideal for sets of 5 to 10. Don't let it wig you out, but if you're trying to do high reps on this, for some reason I tend to notice that with not a lot of weight, I get close to failure with reps I thought I could do more often. I'm like, I guess I really have weak. I put a lot more weight on in my reps followed by only a slight margin. I've got an amazing results here. It feels super safe and stable to do sets of 5 to 10 with to really get bigger and stronger with at the same time. If you can do sets of 10 to 20, I will say that once you do sets of 20 to 30, the frictional component of the machine makes so much up of the force that it no longer becomes a very high stimulus of a T ratio movement in my experience. So it's a 5 to 10, especially sets of 10 to 15, or perfect on this machine. It's super kind to your shoulders. It's got basically no axial fatigue, super kind to the elbows. If you're loading up dumbbells for incline dumbbells, you have to pick them up, you have to put them down as a huge pain. Here all you do is you select your exercise, the stack, no loading weights. You press up on that plate, get your position, un-rapped release, do high quality amazing reps, no spotter needed, no chance of injury, none of that crap will be something to go. But no chance of injury from the machine malfunctioning or from you being pinned under it. As soon as you're done, you press on the weight plate again. You get out, you depress, no problem. As far as a high quality machine, I'll tell you guys this. If you're traveling somewhere and you see one of these and it's a push day, use it. Really make some love to this machine. Play with the seat position. Play with which handles you're doing. Play with grip. It makes a big difference on this machine. If you're close grip, or if you're wide grip, it feels ultra different. It could feel both good but hitting slightly different parts in the musculature. It really is a lot of machines and one from this perspective. And if you get a chance to use it, I highly recommend you do my only quality of how to really doctor Mike does the red team analysis thing. Is that I wish it wasn't converging? I wish it was just linear, but I'm weird like that. And that's what I seem to prefer. Most people like the converging element, but it's subtle. It's not over the top. So that would be my only real critique. Another maybe tiny critique is I'd like a little bit more movement in this chair to, you know, adapt to folks with really short torsos in really long torsos. But it's really good as it is now. It could just be that little bit of extra. The foot plate is flawless change. Nothing. I've actually, I have outside of the frame of the shot. I have another chest machine, which is super, super well assembled. It's super great. It feels amazing. It doesn't have foot plates. It was just every time I started into that machine and tried to wiggle it in a mic. Damn it. I wish it was the Atlantis piece. This machine just represents sort of the standard of what I've come to expect with Atlantis equipment. Very reasonable prices for the effect that you get on this machine. The stimulus to fatigue ratio is incredible. And outside of that, he's been an incredibly well-engineered piece. Everything works like it's supposed to. The selectorized stat moves unbelievably fluidly. There's no coercing the machine. There's no working against friction. It's well built by people who care and by people who clearly train with weights. It's a knockout. One of my favorite pressing machines ever. Give it a thought. Folks, we'll be back with more of this series. Trying to figure out which machines are great, which machines are maybe not so great. We're going to talk mostly about machines that I love. Never now, again, we'll sneak in a bit of criticism. So when you go out with the world and you're choosing which machine to use, or you're deciding between gyms and one has a few of these machines and one has a few of these others. Or you're a gym owner or you know someone he has. Or you have to get your own garage gym, your own private gym. Please keep tuning into this series because we've got all sorts of machines to talk about. That are some combination of awesome and really awesome usually. And this is one of these things where if you know more about the stuff, you can make the right purchase. And why am I ranting about this? I've really thought about this. All the machines I have here are select purchase machines. And even though they are, I wish I had had time to train with them for a few months. Because some of them turned out to be not that great. The machines I'm cutting guys here, the real deal. There's we approached Atlantis to do this. They're not like, hey, live for us on TV. Not of that happened. We never going to do that to these are all real world reviews. If I review a machine well, there's a very good chance you'll love it. There is a chance you won't like it. We don't all agree on machines a lot of that's individual. But I'm cutting you guys the real deal. This is a wonderful, beautiful machine. And I could maybe ask it on a date. No, no, I'm married. Now my wife and I can ask now on date together. That's what I'm doing next. I'll see you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization, and today is a video number six in our series of how to construct a proper hypertrophy mesocycle. And the way I do it nowadays, and I do it in no other way, is to use the RP-i-perrophy app, which I help to design. And I think it's awesome, and I think you're really loving. The thing is though, is the app actually releases full release, June 1st, which is coming up, like really soon. If you're seeing this video after June 1st, you click the same link in the description below in order to access the app. So give that a look. We're going to talk about the science and underlying philosophy of the multiple modalities you can use in your training. There's like six to seven of them, if you count my right matches, different than my reps, we'll get to that in a bit. And all of them you could use with the app or without the app, but if you want to do a lot better and faster in training than the app, it was designed exclusively to help you create, manage, execute, and benefit from hypertrophy programs. So here we go. So first up, our straight sets. Straight sets is just a term for normal sets. To set of five to 30 repetitions, you rest a normal amount of time until your cardiovascular stress is low again, you're not breathing super heavy, you feel psychologically, but strong. The synergists, supportive muscles are not going to limit you on your next set, like your lower back and a squat or something like that is lower back is nice and healed. And then also the muscle in question can do at least it are the five repetitions in the next set if you started. So that amount of rest, which is usually like, oh, you don't know a minute to three minutes in most situations. And then you go and do that set with the same amount of load. That's what a straight set is. And so on the hypertrophy app over here, we've got our dildo, mesocycle. We can have right now it says, can't burn bar bench press. We have one set with 135 pounds and we have a certain number of reps. So you do the set and then you enter and how many reps you got. It tells you to press the check in button when you're actually done. But you see, you know what I actually want to add a set so you just go to add set and that's how easy it is. It adds a set and notice it's using the same weight because it assumes straight sets and you do that set and you get let's say seven repetitions and then go to town. We'll check these in later because the check-ins actually surface other features that will have in later videos. All right. That's cool, but hold on a sec. Straight sets are awesome, but there's a set, there's very similar to a straight set that is called a down set. And that's our next modality. So down sets are also just straight sets, but with lower weight. Why would you lower the weight? Well, usually lower the weight something like 10 to 20 percent in order to often stay within the rep range that you want. Because as you fatigue, you may start to drop out of the rep range. And here in the cambered of our bench, we did nine reps and then we did seven. If we keep cranking along, we'll get close to five and under five real soon. And that's just generally not enough volume, not enough repetitions per set to be as hypertrophic. So we want to decrease the weight. We have it at 135 right now. We might want to decrease the weight actually. Well, let me delete this set and show you guys the feature. I'll show you the delete features. Let's see, delete this exercise hopefully that works. Boom. All right. Great. I'm trying to scroll with Scott's video guy has an Apple computer laptop that we're recording on and the little scroll cursor button thingy is backwards Apple. You did it backwards. You exactly my step to be speaking Apple wasn't first. Chuck, Chuck, Chuck, you're a market and your windows is backwards. Cool. Windows got it right. I'm so low shot first. He really did. Didn't he Scott the video guy? It's a bad person. I said you got to remember that. All right. So down sets is just you want to lower the weight and you can lower the weight and arbitrary amount. But generally you want to lower the weight. Stay in the same repetition range or sometimes you've had enough heavy training in an exercise. You actually think you're going to get a better stimulus to fatigue ratio going a little bit lighter. They could do a bunch of sets of 12 in the row and then you're like, you know man, sets of like 18 to 20 will be really good. It'll find me out. Now that I've got the heavy work in I can go a little lighter. So what you do here here's how you use in the app functionality. You go into a little menu that occurs with every single exercise. And you actually say duplicate exercise. And it's going to ask you if you want to repeat until the end of mezzo. You probably do because you don't want to do too much one off stuff. The app can handle all the one off stuff that you can throw it up. But the best way to train is consistency week over week. So yeah, I'm actually doing this every week. And then you hit duplicate exercise. Actressizes is duplicated. All it does is it just slots in another set at a new weight that you want. So what you can do here is say, well actually okay, so we already had 135 pounds. I'm going to go lighter. I went up to 575. My bad. Damn, the Apple thing scrolls real fast. So let's say it's 100. And now you have 100. And boom there it is. So 135 for two sets. We do 100. I say we get, oh, I don't know. I'm just going to use the manual drag. Apple computer go fuck yourself. JK. So boom, we got that checked in and everything's good to go. That's it. That is how downsets work. And if you want to do another downset, you simply go here. And you hit duplicate exercise again. And it brings it up. Awesome. And that function of duplicated exercise, which really means it's the same exercise. But you can pick the weight differently again. Takes us into our third modality, which is drop sets. Drop sets are just like downsets. And every conceivable way, except for the fact that the rest time between the sets isn't normal as it isn't downsets. It is constrained to something like OG about five seconds. Because what you're trying to do is get really close to failure. You cannot do any more repetitions. Or many more repetitions when you get close to failure. So what you do is you reduce the weight, such that you can get another five seconds. And then reduce the weight again with no rest such that you can get another five to turn up. So typically we get 10 to 20 percent drops and weight over something like three to six different sets. And if you're going to do that, the way to keep track of it is really easy. And we can actually do a demo here with the barbell. Let's say we have the barbell. And we want to do a situation where we do drop sets. Now, that's probably not the greatest exercise you drop sets with. You just get really tired. But you know, as another exercise, we would be jamming. So you know what, here we say this. And then we would say. Remove set just to illustrate what it looks like with drop sets. So we'll say we'll start this exercise with 70 pounds. Or even we'll go heavier about that. Oh boy, this is really crazy. 100 pounds. And to our R is the goal. Great. We do is we use the same function, which is going to be a workhorse for you. The duplicate exercise function. You only have to do this once because it will stay around for the rest of your mesocycle. Now we have another set of barbell. With the weight we can choose. We go up here again. We hit duplicate exercise again. It's going to repeat again. Now we have three. We go here again. We do duplicate exercise. Now we have four. So if you do this before we show up to the gym or when you go to the gym, a hundred. And then we say, well, G 100 was fine. I think if we're going to drop to 80, it's probably going to work for me. And then I'm going to drop to. A couple computer 60. And then after that, I'm going to drop to. Well, the bar really. So but we'll pretend this is some kind of cable machine or something. 40. And on all of a sudden. We have a hundred. Set it a hundred. Set at 80. Set at 60 and a set at 40. And as you go through the weeks of the app, the Apple periodized this for you. So it'll give you the same wrap range targets again. Or increase the wraps by one. Or it'll ask you to go to 105 pounds next week. 85, 65, 45, and so on. And you can always add more sets to this or take sets away. Boom. Drop sets solved. So far you can do three things in the app. Straight sets. Down sets. Drop sets. Let's see what else we got. All right. Giant sets. Now to be clear, I'm using the term giant set differently than most people would. Many people have called these marathon sets. But I think giant set also works. Giant sets are not where you do like three or four exercises in a row. That's a superset that period. Okay. You can't call it a giant set if it's multiple different exercises. It's a bunch of different sets. Giant set is when you set a really high rep target. You do a bunch of mini sets there to get to that rep target. So let's say I want to do 50 repetitions total in our example here would just be like the Canberra bar bench press. So I'm going to take this. And I'm going to simplify it by removing a set. And so once that we have here, let's say we set the rep goal as 50. It's currently our toped out. Scrape your throws a suite when you want to simply open that bar that you fixed some kind of one that is going to be distributed toped up. Let's see that one pound which will help integratemen. Um, you can just see we have 50% banking set to write that option. So let's consider terms graphical distance, this is essentially a patch. Okay. Quite a lot of units, these matters are incorrect, the whole setup, the community's set and how wide are you starting out with but you know what's implications want, you pick the Torah rep goal to get the volume that you need. And then what happens is you don't have to focus on matching reps week to week to week. Why is that a bad thing? I thought it was a good thing. It is a good thing. But for some exercises on which you're really struggling with technique, you're really struggling with a mind muscle connection. You find that when you try to use it a week, you're 10 last week, the absets and you do 11 reps this week, I'm just trying to gun for those reps. And I have a real hard time detaching myself from trying super hard and focusing on the mind muscle connection. One is a focus on that. I forget I don't even have a trouble making sure I'm going hard enough to get where I need to go. And I just get so obsessed that I just start pushing hard and I lose all contact with my mind muscle connection. With giant sense, you have 50 total reps to do. And it does not matter how many sets you do them in because nobody's counting and including you. All you count is the reps you get per set. And then you add them and you add them and you add them. So you say, OK, I got 25 reps. I got another five reps that I got another five reps, I'm up to 30. I guess I've got 20 more reps to go until I hit 50. In each one of those many sets, you can stop whenever you want, which means that every single rep you can focus only on the technique in mind muscle connection and not have to worry about thinking of pushing yourself hard. There is a time to push yourself hard, but don't worry, the volume will push you anyway. Once you're really clued in and that exercise, you can always switch to conventional training, straight sets, down sets, drops, that's all that stuff. But giants that's a really great way to just get in a lot of work without a ton of pressure to match performance every time. And how do you do these? So the first thing you want to do is you want to add an exercise note. And you're going to type in, giant, set, 40 reps. You're going to save that. And you're going to pin the note so it appears every single week. It'll also screw up these sets. Don't worry, we'll debug that. Giant set and I spelled it wrong. Isn't that great? I'll just fix that right now. Look how easy this access is. By the way, this works identically on your phone and laptop, which is really nice. Here I'm going to go and say, okay, I've got 40 as the rep goal. And because I know it's a giant set, I just keep going until I hit 40 reps. Next week, it'll come up and say, giant set, 40 reps. Next week you'll go in and you go, hi, I want the progress. So I say it's, oops, that's a little much. I say it's 45 reps. I update. And then I take this and I manually slide it to here. That's my new total rep target. And I do it all by myself. Now, if you absolutely have no interest in counting and adding reps in your head, you can use the duplicate exercise function to just add in another set of gambar borrows. And you have a giant set labeled on all of them. And then you just go and do the mini set and have the weight the same in each one. Or actually, if the weight's the same in each one, I'm an idiot. You can just add sets if you like. So there's two different ways to do this. And you just instead of saying 45, you got the 45 up here. You can do a set of 38. That's it. You're first set. You're really about wild as 32. Then you say, okay, I need another thing of 10. And then whatever, it adds up to 45 at the end. And then you can do it like that. The thing is the auto regulation of the app will try to increase this load for you or increase the rep goal for you. So have to do a little bit of checking to see what your goal is every week and making sure that this all adds up. Super easy to do. And again, this is a huge advantage in training. But if you're really too focused on trying to match the reps, you can just go for the total. And here's the thing. Your reps next week, you can get 26 in the first set because you got so focused on a technique. You don't want to push it ultra hard or the reps got harder because your technique is so much better because good technique makes the reps harder and I'd easier in body going and hypertrophy training. In powerlifting, good technique makes the reps easier. And hypertrophy training is the other way around because you're exposing the muscle and more tension in a less advantageous position. So you've got 26 here, now all these just need to rise up to the rest of them or you just add another set. Who cares? All you need is that 45 tour. So that's pretty straightforward. All right. Next up are myorepsets. Myorepsets. Illustrate another function. Just add a new exercise so it doesn't get confusing. Tryseps. Why not? And we have a load menu here. Oh, this is a dildo press. Isn't that cool? I love it. Well say we want to do a cable over to trysep extension. Why not? And share. We'll do it. Oh, that's a long. And where is that going? I think it was shuddled down to the perfect cable over to trysep extension. And we want to do myorepset or what the hell is a myorepset? Myoreps are when you do a first set of 10 to 2015 to 20 repetitions. You rest three to five and or five to 10 seconds. There's a few different ways to skin the cat. The cat, by the way, hates all the ways because said that before. And then you rest a tiny little bit and then you do another set and another set and potentially another set. Each one of those breaks is the myoreps break and each one of those sets is the myoreps mini set. And what you do is you take multiple approaches close to failure. So it'll look like you get 15 reps. Then you get seven. Then you get four. Then you get three. Then you're done. How many rest breaks you take is arbitrary. It's up to you. The first time you ever do myoreps, I would recommend just one break. So you do 15 reps or something, 17. You rest three to five seconds, shake it out and then do another set of like close to failure. Let's say it's six. Just that alone, you did two sets. But it took you almost the same amount of time as one set. But you had two distinct approaches near failure, which means it's going to be more hypertrophic than one set. But take almost the same amount of time as one set because if you rest to the full amount of time and you did all those reps over again, called lead in reps, you did, you know, 10 reps and then the last four or hard in the second set, those first time reps absolutely do stimulate muscle growth. But by a small margin, not as much as the last five repetitions, which are the money. So myoreps really take advantages, a fact that when you train closer to failure, the results slightly more muscle growth stimulus. So the first set, you get rid of all of your lead in reps, all the sets after, be at one, two, three or every many. Myoreps, that's you want to do all the ones after are real close to failure. And that means they're usually going to be sets of five to 10 often closer to five. And even a little less than five. But that's okay. We usually say, don't train with less than five reps. That's if they're five heavy reps. And if you just do one set at a time and rest, these, you know, you do sets of three. And if they're all the three reps are the ones very close to failure. And it's with a load that is really like your 20 rep max, it's super stimulative. So the way that you would do myoreps is you would, of course, add an actual exercise note and just say myorep, two, well, start with one break, one break. So that means that you do as many reps as you can, rest. It's been the note. And after that, you do another little mini set and then you're done, then you rest in normal lot of time. And potentially you can do another myorep set if you want. That's your, your game. You can do as many of those as you want. Remember, they cash up quick. So my recommendation is this the first time you ever try myoreps, just do one break. And just do two total sets. That means you do like 17 reps, rest three to five seconds, do another five. What you'll have is let's say it's what way do we do in here. 20 reps, you're not that strong on the cable over had tri-suppe extension. And you did 17 reps and then five. So that's 22 total reps. So we just go in and we hit 22 here, but you know it's a myorep one break. So you know that you got 22 reps with one break. So next week, whatever the rep, there weights going to increase the reps. My increase a little bit, you know you still get one rep break to hit this number. So you can have that in mind. And if you want to do another set, just add a set, same applies myorep one break. And let's say there, you got a total number of reps over two sets that was like, oh, you got just like 18 reps. And then that's it. Then you know those are myoreps related, which is why it's six or seven modalities are myorep match sets. Myorep match sets is when you do the first set as a straight set. So let's make sure we label this in our note. I'm just pretending we're going to do this now. Myorep match. And that's all you have to say for myorep match, which is why it's a really cool training and modality in my opinion. I sort of invented it. I guess. But I get federally from Norway, definitely was the one that coined the Myoreps term. And generally, there's all falls under rest pause. It's all rest pause training technically, but this specific ways to do rest pause. So if I say, I use 20 pounds and I get 16 reps on a first straight set. And then I rest a normal amount of time with the fuck of the Myoreps, a whole down set. The Myoreps start after the straight set. The first set and the Myorep match scheme is the straight set. The second set is going to be auto targeted. You're going to put in ahead of time when you're using your app. 16 reps. I hold on a second. How could you guarantee you're going to do 16 reps? You like get tired and only do 14 and then you're like, fuck, I had to change it to 14. No, because if you get tired and stop at 14, you rest for three to five seconds. And then you hit another whatever number of reps takes you to that first reps number. So with 16 and then 16 again, which could be 14 and two or you got lucky and get 16 again. However, many Myorep match sets you do is going to be done with the same weight to the same number of reps every single time. And here's the kicker as you get more tired as you go. The number of Myorep breaks it takes per set to get to that first total number increases. So maybe we'll get to 16. Well, I'm definitely getting 16 and one set in the first set. In the second set, it's going to take me too many sets to get there. 14 and two. In the third set, it might take me three. I might get to 10 and then I get four and then I get two. That is a whole crap load of approaches to failure in just three sets. It's like six approaches to failure in three sets. That's very, very similar. Careful with these Myorep match sets because they can nuke you. If you do my right match, I'm like stiff like a deadlift or something. You may never walk again because it's way too much stimulus too much volume because it's 16, 16, 16 or whatever thing you got the first set. And it's a crap load of approaches to failure. So the relative effort on averages insanely high. Myorep match is an excellent excellent tool for muscles that just seemed to be able to handle a beating and need a ton of volume. For me, those muscles are side delts. Rear delts if I'm ever even training them, they're most of me. Rear delt training comes from back work. Forms, form curls, biceps. Sometimes people's calves can take a huge beating. This way you are taking normal sets quote unquote to get there. But each one has so much a failure approach in it. You get hooked insanely high amount of stimulus. And again, when you start doing these. Start with two unless you really know yourself well and you've done these before. Then when you're doing the hypertrophy app, you can start with however many you know already works. All right, lastly, supersets. There are a few different types of super sets. The hypertrophy app here can do all of them. But there's generally one that's a very, very good for hypertrophy and one that's good for what would have called adult fitness or saving time in the gym. You can do supersets that are adult fitness and those are pretty simple. You generally pick muscles that are agonist antagonist. So we'll just build one now for shifts and giggles. Let me see here. I'm just going to go and scroll up top and add an exercise. And it says, hey, you're adding a lot of exercise recommended max is eight. The apple tell you fun stuff like that. So you don't do too much and just do a bunch of junk for you. But hey, I'm just testing it out at stay calm. So go buy steps. And then I'm going to do cable curls and I will repeat until the end. And I'm going to add that exercise. So that's dope. I'm going to scroll down. So now I have cable over a tricep extensions and cable curls. And I'm doing three sets of each for the superset. The reason I'm doing cable curls is because I want to save time. I'm going to do over a tricep extensions. I'm going to rest basically. Mattered all I'm going to switch to cable curls. And I'm going to hit as many cable corrupts as I can. Then I'm going to rest a normal amount of time, even maybe like 30 seconds to a minute or so, a little less than normal. Because while I'm cable curling, my triceps are actually resting. And so as long as these exercises aren't too fatiguing to the system, if they are, you get a great cardio workout. What you end up getting is you get your whole arm trained by sets and triceps in a very short time. So you do tricep extensions, no rest cable curls, rest 30 seconds, back to tricep extensions set two. Cable curls set two. How do you know that these are supersets? Well, you just use the notes function. The ever ubiquitous notes function. And you say superset with cable curls, update. Okay, so we have that labeled. And then super set, oops, I can't type. Tipping is hard. Super set after try extensions, update. And then now I know when I look next week into this, I go cable tricep over her. Oh, it's super set cable curls right here. And this supersets are tries to make extensions perfect. So as I go through, let's say I get, again, weird example 20 reps. Sorry, wait, 20 pounds for 16 reps. I hit okay here. And then as soon as I go and do 10 pounds, this is embarrassing for six reps. Oh, I was a nasty superset. Then I clicked this green check mark. And then the other stuff could come up. No, no questions for now. And then I know that I've done both of these. This is what I would do in my 30 seconds rest. Then I come back, do another set, check it in, check it in, check it in. And it just doesn't like that. So every single method or modality of training, you can do with the tiniest amount of labeling with the app. Now as we develop the hypertrophy app, which will develop for its entire lifetime, I think, we're probably going to make shortcuts to make this stuff easier. But as you can tell, it's already pretty, god damn easy. And not only this, but because we have the notes function, you can add and delete and exercise as you want. You can add as many sets of different ways as you want and subtract them. You really have carte blush, dual kinds of stuff that I might not even thought of. And we really did design the hypertrophy app to be what we call a universal program builder. For hypertrophy programs, it can build anything you want. It can build as many days as you want to the plan, any modalities that you want, anything at all, and it'll function every single time exactly to spec. Just makes your training life way easier. So folks, get down there, right in the top link in the description, sign up for the training app. It will be here very soon. People already testing it out. The beta release is already occurred. Hopefully this video is recorded a little bit beforehand, but hopefully it's already happened. People hopefully love the app. Hopefully they're addicted to it. Hopefully they've left their families to spend more time with the app. It's not crazy people. Get your priority straight and get two apps. Get two accounts so that I can give more money with land brigadies. You guys know the rest. Next time, next week, next Tuesday, we will come back and have another chat about how to optimize your technique in your hypertrophy plan to make sure your joints are safe over the long-term to promote joint health, changing exercises, and we'll demo the app again. Folks, see that?

You guys for creating that stupid f***ing. It wasn't all. I just want to see my feet grow. Look at my feet. Ready? Real? Hey, ready YouTube. This is why I had these. You might want to give some thought to take an vacation in Orlando, Florida. That's a self-dead. Father, I see pro. Dr. Mike, this is Retail, Renaissance Pyrridsation. Um, because it's got a lot going on here. We got Epcot Center. We got Walt Disney World Resort. I mean, we got Sea World. We got Universal Good Point. Peter Land, Gatorland. If you're real white track, you got the fun spot. And... Trail. Trail Center. For you, I'm just not going to say that. I'm going to use the P-word. And there's Iron Religion Gym, which is a fucking sweet gym. It's in Orlando. It's Olympia Weekend. Jared Nye, I'm going to take you guys through our organic. Blood and guts. No juice. No, no, I take that back. A lot of juice. A lot of juice. Back session. We're going to do back. Then I'm going to do forums. Then you know what? Puck a bulldoze and back some more. I would do it. I'll let you explain. Let's do it. Iron, tear, gritty. Team. Oh, that's fucking legit. It's a rolling back. I can do it. It's a rolling back. Yeah, I'm fucking fucking fucking fucking fucking fucking. My shoulders can't be bothered. Fucking needle pumps, bro. Why do my favorite things? It's very, very hard. I'm overhearing. Also that. Overhearing random out of context conversations and a gym, especially between Drew and Punky. You're just like sprinkled in. Like, Chad Gpt. Talk to me like I'm a fucking trend addict. We should try that. Yeah. Yeah. Fucking 16 weeks out. Yeah, man. I did my quad last week. Yeah, I don't know. Pancakes are good, but I like oats better. I really started turning it up. Yeah, I'm thinking like another week and then I'm going to start to fucking crank it fellas. You're insane. I have plugged me out, bro. I don't know what the fucking dude. I don't know what the fucking dude. You just put your passion on. I don't know what my password is. Cut. Yeah, I'm in like. I'm fucking stereotypical dad fashion. Yeah, fucking price. You don't know your password. Of course Mike is in those past. Yeah. I pinched my nuts. One of my nuts into my hip when I was doing leg curls. All right, yesterday. And now my fucking it feels like I got hit in the nuts. What do you remember? One of my nuts you have won nut. I was conceived from one of your testicles. I came from it. My bro. Boy. Remember when I am one of the testicles? Precisely seven seconds after consumption. After consumption. You took a second in football at states. Right. I threw a never. I got him on. And never again did I first. After that. Damn, you started at 80. Uh, yeah. I'm only 260. You want to stay with. Not since this is the drug free gym. I want to see his always Olympians in here and shit. I want to see Riding Coleman get in here. Like well. All y'all my fucking grand go in the ship. Eight times better get the fuck out of here. Everyone leaves. Good. Now it's my game. It's king Riding. Warm up on the assist to pull up. For real pull ups. You're going to go do those next. Then we're going to come back and hit the assist to pull up again. Because this science. Have you first lighter after this is actually. Matrix assist to pull up. I wish I had this. This is fucking unbelievable. I mean, the um, if easy on the concentrate. Super tough on the eccentric. Exactly what you want. Come on. It's perfect. I don't. I don't. Fuck beautiful. Hey, I used to be in this be universe. Mr. America, I was second place. To see work. To Lee Haney. The best. I was the second best of. That year. To Lee Haney. Let's go. I'm a vice-universe where I was not. I was not. University got seconds. Got it. Yeah. What's that? I'm sitting on business. I'm playing with you. You were a candidate or more. Hey, look. Hey, look. What's up? I like when they get their faces like real close. I was got your eyes all low key. You know what I try to kiss. I'm a slut. You know what? It's sitting on the download door. But you look great. Sixies held on the fucking same hand. I was just a sucker. I was just a sucker. What are those shoes on? Shit. And because the sexiest fuck those dogs. I've been loving. Which I'm sheaker, nair. Fuck you guys. For creating that stupid fucking. It wasn't our, I just wanted to say. You want to see my feet grow. Look at my feet. Ready? Really? Hey, ready YouTube. This is why I had these. All my toes are the same size. My foot's fat. What's going on? What the fuck? Is that a hob of fuck? You and J.J. That's why I wear these. I've won my stupidity in the squat. I can't wear shoes like that because I bust out the size. You're feeding. Dude, I bust out the sides of regular shoes. That's why these are all my fucking feet. Hey, you guys create a fucking chain. They sound nice like I can only wear these. I hate it. You're just a casual, sort of, for your own thing. That's comfy. I've been on fucking losers. And they can't look any fucking weight. And they're what I just want to punch my hands. Get your socks out of here. What are they called? Sport mode. Sport mode. Oh, I don't need to be rude about this, but sorry. You've got to go. It's not Toronto in here. This is Orlando. It's Toronto right? Yeah. I know. What the fuck? If I got to switch to Jordan Peters. Well, like, what do you think you could just walk into any gym in your Them band? It's like a family reunion of New Bitch. Yeah. There will be 160. Tough. He big. He big. He big. He. I'm not like a woman. Ow, that fucking hurts. Tastical pain. You fellas know that shit? You feel it in your lower abs. Every time. You're testicles? Yeah. Sorry about your balls. And I feel like it's hard to say that. Man. As long as you put some cubes on it. Sorry about your balls, you're gonna be some coming there. Yeah. It's gonna be hard to peel open. Everything feels. Not great. Oh, got the four in the morning. Three, thirty. Take a flight to Orlando here for the Olympia weekend. And, uh... Yeah. I don't know. Talkward setting up off the boat, so you'll probably tell you that. And, uh... Sometimes. You don't feel your best. But you gotta do something anyway. So here we are. Fuck. Oh, four sets here. I'm on my overreaching week. So where I didn't train for three days. Oh, Joe. Why not? Travel. The day prior was off. All right, you're gonna go. And I'm gonna make this testicle problem worse. Oh, shit. Okay? See. Oh, god. Oh, I'm used to this. I don't know if that's the right word. Yeah. Why not? Testicleus. Tell me what I want to do. Tell me what I want. Love it. Massive. Yes. All right. Back on the assisted pull-up. And four sets of pull-ups done. A assisted pull-up time. We do another four sets. And then probably some kind of rope. Oh, okay. Roll to go. You know what I feel at first? In my testicles. Fuck. Oh, fuck. Fuck. That was tough. Got me some bump. I don't know whatever they call that thing. Oh, Mike. You don't need testicles. Fuck. Good stuff. Thank you. When the back of your hand looks like in the second, you wait. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, I'm not. Dr. Michael. Why? You've got brains. I'm coming out of your skull. I like that. Typical Instagram comment. Beautiful. Beautiful. You got three here. Four. Huh? Yes, three here. Crane him. Three or four. Four. I ain't glad though. Every year I think everyone else is smaller. You wouldn't see a big one. Yeah. I was telling myself that. It's because I show you still looking at this. Jesus Christ. I was hanging on the rings like this. He just got that on your set. I was going to make you a him. I got a guy with a kill back in the day. Yeah, put that up. I guess. Cat Christmas. Man. I'm like, I was right. I'm so proud. Yeah. You're like. You're like. I'm going to have an alley cast right next to him. I'm going to go like this on my fall for. Yeah. That's too good. That's so fucking good. That was prepared. Actually, the shirt here. Josh Foggle and Angie Vogels gym in Philly, and Gjjitsu. Josh, you would get up and shoot a lot of other people. We're about to roll. It would just do like a cat fight for a minute straight. No fight. Just him and I are watching our back. Good to puppy. Good to puppy. Good to puppy. Good to puppy. Good to puppy. Good to puppy. Good to puppy. How you nuts? Huh? How you nuts? They hurt me, kid. Ever reply chill, man. Have a nish. Tastical pain. Reminds me of when an eight fucking Mr. Olympius. Okay, please make this analogy. It gets old at some point. I feel like it's like eight. That was good. You nailed it. Nothing on the fucking park. You know how I feel. I feel like I'm going to be. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. There we go, Jared. There we go. There we go. I got to do the girls in the gym, do not. Jerry, can you get that guy back over here? All right, folks. We're here with my man, Dan Bull's area. I'm not boy now. That's fucked up. He's like an asshole in his daily life. He's AK-47's. I'm on that real real. Huge pleasure. You like real. I'm off. You like real. Finish? Finish. That's an amazing setup. Isn't that crazy? This amazing setup. I've never had one of those in my life. I'm a fucking bitch. I quit right away King I quit at the thought That the C2 one or I next to where we were was a dual cable one Like a regular I think that'll crush my nuts that would versus bending over That one is bent over You've seen it. Yeah, but then you have to bend over to counter the angle Okay, what happened? What happened? Huh? What happened? Everything hurts My knees my back Yes Yeah, I haven't had a good leg day in like two months. Oh nice. I can't train them difficult year Fighting but getting heavier is fucked all my joints. Yeah All right, folks. I'm an agonizing testicular pain and Inverted rose for the inverted hose it a little bit of A burp back upper bait Take a little bit of a wider grip for variation This is terrible My nuts fucking hurt that nuts you guys know I'm talking about you kicked the nuts first right here in the lower abs It's just like I'm getting kicked in the nuts all the fucking time Sitting hurts lying down thank God does not hurt Walking hurts Lifting really hurts Don't let your testicles slip into your Ingrid old canala I guess oh What do you get when PhD sports scientists collaborate with pro bodybuilders The most effective muscle growth training ever made Get yours now Big bad bitch Big bad bitch right now I competed in Classic physique at 215 and Since my last show This summer I've gone up just two six me in the morning So It is very hard to train right now. I'm like out of breath all the time Can't sleep A lot of only that fun guys stop All this type of treat shit like stop watching this YouTube channel go watch some like coding shit Do something with your life Where's the grips of so good then I'll even let go when you want Oh That's it for back time for Rist curls for the wrist girls Trevor is a humble man But he and actually invented two things Full range of motion training and training hard Like like a little like fucking baby baby. I'm gonna send this him out here But you know about that Jared that's it. I was very good at science You guys like brothers in some shit. Yeah, I'm sorry white trash brotherhood absolutely One of my absolute favorite things Is a totally fake doubt Mild physique she lifts big fake pocket TV just obnoxious if you know their fake fake fucking lips Oh face pull back and shit just cring that attention Beautiful oh hey, what's that Chris? Hello This is my wife crystal blinking twice What do you guys think she's gonna answer when I ask her What's the sexiest thing that drew you ready ready ready? This is how it's My love you He's gonna be wrong be a football player Do you want football rest there states? Okay, what do you tell him what's the sexiest thing about me? You're in tear body hair That's my girl. You're supposed to see his intelligence. It'll make you feel better. Oh Your intelligence is great 10 Liz Dr. Crystal Dr. Mike Jeff out of I feed pro and be a terrible full right We're all here and a mr. Olympia Or Orlando Where did he fucking make him out okay Olympia we're gonna be a Disney World L.A. because there's a Disney World two things one We should never run Scott video guy because he's not a lot of business we're legally and Check out the the fun and It's good workout. Yeah, it's right ready for my nuts pretty for my nuts RP family See you guys next time

Oh, I don't know. Stay there. Don't go anywhere Jordan. Don't reach for that handle. Oh, shit. I've got an odd pump. You can just stand in front of us. No. Make me a small guy. No, no, you shouldn't. Like, a little bit of a bus. I don't think you're going to listen to me a big guy. I only have a guy in the brother. Folks, I'm Dr. Mike. That's Jared Feather, I fee pro. We're in Montreal, Canada. In Atlantis, Jim. I think about corporate structures. Because all corporations, almost all, have a CEO, a chief executive officer. And this is Jocan, San Sucey. Yeah. And he just happens to be the CEO of Atlantis. And it's one of the situations where like, you guys know how like, in all the like spider managed shit, comic movies, the guy in the CEO of the company that has all the defense contract or nanotech bugs. At some point, he's like, ah, box spider man, I'm using my own shit. Ah, well, Jocan had an altercation outside of here just a while ago. They didn't want to talk about it. I was an elevator guy pushed to me, pushed to back. He's got a major. And he's like, enough, enough being mortal. Enough. And then he's like, what does it I do for living? Oh, that's right. I make the world's best exercise equipment to make me jacked and mean. He said, make me mean. How do you say that in French? What do you say? Make me mean in French. Meshon. It was, it just, it's Jared and I were like, we can't not help you. So he hired us as defense contract. Defense contractors, leg day hamstrings, quads, glutes, CEO of Atlantis on his own equipment. And it looks like it's going to be a very easy surgery. Operation to install the nanolaser. It's an awesome thing. It's an amazing thing. Yeah. How do you feel, and good? I just had to do workout just making sure I could get through it. But, uh, we'll get you through it. Yeah. One way or another. It's a good one. Oh, please. All right. You guys ready to see this? Three, two, one. Dropping. That's how we get big. Shop our way to size. Shopping for trend. I guess. I'm really controlling the sensor. And pause for four steps in the bottom. All the way down, slow, slow, slow, slow, right there. Pause. Up. Good. How does that feel? I actually don't use this too often, but this one looks pretty nice. Want to give you the try as well? Oh, I can't. I have my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my. Leg curls. First we get a cool little Anus piece here we're using. It's a single leg, leg curl works really well. You'll notice that when we start doing the sets here. You can see the two. And the second one is a little smaller. Just look at that. Tor's a last couple of reps, isn't it? And I helped Jordan at the very top. So that he can continue to complete the reps and get more reps in for that bottom half of the exercise, which is the most hyper-trophic. Just technically four straps. It's okay to do it now. Again, it's a special workout for fun. Maximum stimulus. The thing in our pee of the reason why we don't do a lot of the stuff is because of tracking. You know, week one, week two, week three, four. How much is your buddy currently on you Who The Fuck Noons? We get after it. When you want to help the person in the part of the range of motion, that they need to help the most in to get through the reps, so you get more reps. And the part of the range of motion has to least hyper-trophics so they can do the most type of trip apart themselves. This is exactly what's happening with that top range. Shit, we're going to do two sets here, about 15 reps each. It's going to get 15 on the first, and we're going to my arm right the rest of you. Get us a note that yet. I don't know if he knows what my arm is up. You sure should about to find out. Well, three more. I'm right here with you. Keep that technique. Nice control. Good, one last one. Slow. Beautiful. Rest a little bit relax. It's hard to finish your range of motion when you get tired. Yes, of course. It's a big applause for the rest of your time. That's why I'm helping you at the very top. No, it's not. You're going to be able to do that. The reason I'm saying keep it hip forward is because you're putting yourself in a more mechanically out of the position to curl the weight up, which is fine. But to produce a lot of hypertrophy, you want yourself in the disadvantage of your position. So when you're pushing your hip back as you're going down, you're just making it easy on yourself. Yeah, yeah. When you keep your hip forward on this, as it coming down, that's kind of like if you push your elbows out on a bicep curl, like this, instead of being you. And in order to get a huge stretch, and as we know that stretch, you need a hypertrophy huge. You want to keep that hip forward. So the lever link is longer, that makes sense. The lever link becomes longer unless you're here, but shorter now. So if you can keep the hip forward and reach out, you're going to wave at a stretch. Control that last bit for slow control. The rest for a second after this, don't go anywhere. The rest breathe. Two more. Last two. Yes. Two. And that's it. Whew. Cool. I think that's the hamstring. How's your toes? Yeah, yeah. Oh yeah. We're just going on everything. Time for the Atlantis Hackswatt. Next up is the Hackswatt. The Atlantis Hackswatt. Next up is the Hackswatt. The Atlantis Hackswatt. Because look no joke. The best Hackswatt I've ever used. It's a smoothest. It's an adjustable plate. The plate itself is super, super fucking high-frient. So there's no way to like slip off. Then anything, just you're like fucking buried in there. The shoulder pads are even comfortable. It's full depth like to the max. Like your quads are stretched through the bone. And gee, we're going to do two sets of like 10 to 20 reps. My arm is a little bit too heavy. 10 to 20 reps. My reps, style. Great, from this your son's seat. Great. Oh we're a whole different fucking play. Great in French Canadian. Mmm, we. How many reps? Ah, yes. We'll see. Do you want a number? Do you want to just go? I won't matter. No matter. I'll just try to move us for as possible. Go, go, go. Go, go, go, go. One more. Get it together. He's out. Slow, slow. Slow, slow. Awesome. Up. Up. One. Rest, breathe. Breathe. Breathe. Hold on, this is slow at the bottom. He's out. He's out. Slow. Slow. There it is. Wait. Up. One. Good. Another one. This such a smooth machine. I can feel it. Go, go, go. Nobody said rest. Slow. Slow. Up. He's tensed out of the bottom. Don't just sit on the right. Again. Down. Right away. Slow. Slow. Slow. Attention. Attention. Up. Go. Go. Go. Go. Don't reach for that handle. Lock your legs up. Lock your legs up. Just wait. Good. One more. Last one. Hit it. Control. Slow. Slow. Slow. Go. Go. Press. Press. Press. Right. Oh. No. No. No. No. No. No. It's fun. Yeah. If she hits the fan and a gentleman is not able to get enough reps to our liking with whatever weight we have on there. Sometimes we just drop it. So we'll go like 225, we'll go to 185, we'll go to 135. Sometimes we even go to there's nothing on the machine. And we'll see if that comes to pass today. Slow. Slow. Slow. Up. Fast. Up. Up. Right. Stay there. Don't go anywhere Jordan. Up. Good. Good. Down. You're good Jordan. Again. Slow. Get your hands out of your fucking pot. There you go. Slow. Up. Yeah. Come on. Good. Again. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Pauze. Up. Fast. Go. Go. Go. Dressed. Don't go anywhere. They talked here. You're doing great. All we want is another eight reps. But it's just the machine. The slowest thing ever. Yes. All the way down. And wait. Up. Go. And one last one down. Down right away. Go on. Slow. Slow. Wait. Don't come up. Wait. Up. Go. Speed. Up. Up. Rack. Yeah. I can't walk now. I can't walk now. Yeah. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Quick. Let the machine go. Learn. Not a regret. And it would work there. Go ahead. twice In the air? Yes. Never. Amen. Backman. Even frontrest. Yeah. It's like a. Really. In the moment. Working on being stood. Because. Yeah. But i felt the pain is not going anywhere. It's accepted. It's there. Like you just have to accept. This is not going to feel any fucking better. No matter what. Because i have to keep doing reps. going to be more of a pump, more metabolites. The pain is literally just going to get worse. So you have to like, keep eating, you see it, and tell yourself that. Exactly. Bulgarian split squats with an Atlantis Bulgarian split squat machine. It's kind of a really sweet machine. You get handles, you guys will see in the set. And you get to put your foot up on an adjustable foot situation. You can load the handles up. I won't be in an external load of fire. This is how to see his towards the very end of his workout here, fairly stand up on his own. You see how many lunches we can get out of him, or whatever one area is. Four. Control, slow. Five. Again, control, slow. Up. Up. Six. Control, slow. Feet remain like all the handles. Like all the handles completely. No more handles. Come up by yourself. Good. Yeah. Hands forward. Up. Up. Up. Get out of here. Y'all motherfuckers probably ask him right now. How come he's doing like a few sets everything? He hasn't trained legs in a while, like four weeks or some shit. And grabbed him my licensees were real thing. And since we're physiologists, when I'm in this dumb shit, so you can train somebody hard, but hard for them. And that means like he's still going to be sourced for a week. He's still going to be barely walking. We're just trying to keep this piss yellow instead of laughs. Slow. Slow. Hands up. One. Let's do three total. One, that's one. All the way down. Two. Hands forward. That's not me. Let's go. Go on. Shh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. It's. There's nothing to do, right? You don't know what to do. Yeah, you just wait. It's just wait. Wait. Oh, man. How long have we let take? I 35 minutes. 40? Oh, yeah. 40. 45 minutes. Yeah, about 45. It doesn't take long. Yeah, doesn't. What do you think? It was. What's tough? Top. What's good with the excellent. Jared, how do you do? Amazing. Yeah. No. Better than like, I say this all the time. I'm like, people like you just train harder than I can be froze. You just literally did it. Yeah, you just keep trying around it. Yeah. OK, and hard of the meat. That's for damn sure. Folks, if you are interested in buying gym equipment, there are tons of companies making great equipment. And Atlantis is absolutely in the conversation at the top tier of just amazing equipment. It's smooth. It's effective. The four scurps are good. I have a few of their pieces. I should have had all their pieces. My boss, the wrong shit to begin with. And it's amazing to watch the CEO, but put his own equipment to the fastest. I think the equipment won. I'm not going to say that, you know. OK. Yeah. The equipment always wins. Why the equipment to beat you up so you can get jacked. In any case, huge pleasure, sir. Thank you so much for having us here to beat you up by your own equipment. Folks, next time.

Drive a part. Come on, he's hard. You got more people. Extra means more gross. Ah! Come on. Let's go, Pete. Drive hard. I'm leaving. Hey folks, Dr. Mike. Here for Renaissance Periodization. I'm sitting down because I've just trained legs. I was on my way out. And Pete over here shows up. And he gets literally in my face. And he's like, you're not leaving the gym until you give me a chest and triset workout with a ton of tips and tricks or like legit. We're going to have to be. And he's a big guy. I mean, I can stand up. So we're going to be. And I was like, Oh, you're going to talk to that shit. You want to chest workout? My man, Dylan's going to come through. And he knows all the tips and tricks. Also, he's the size of approximately two and a half other lifters. I work in a mess. He'd up so much. He's never going to back for that shit ever again. You guys ready? Ready? 1, 2, 3. Team. Our first exercise is the Hamburg Bar bench press. The bad news is you might not have one of these around. The good news is the bar costs like 250 bucks. So you can easily harass your gym owner and your getting one for this lift. We can get the combination of the stability and control of a barbell with the depth and stretch of an actual dumbbell or push up or whatever machine variant that you'd go below your chest. This is the killer. It is probably in my view. One of the most stimulating chest exercises of them all, not for everyone. But for most, he here is going to be doing three or four sets of 10 to 20 reps. You could go heavier five to 10 is great. He's coming off of a little bit of a twinge in his chest about five six weeks ago. This is a list that exposes every fucking week in the senior chest. We don't want to play around and go heavy. He's going to do high reps. You're also going to notice that he is going to pause at the bottom and the old He living shit at that stretch for one second each time. You don't have to do this, but it can be an additive stimulus. Let's get to training. All right. Close to failure. Okay. Okay. Anything else where is zero? Okay. He's a big guy. He can get it off. Okay. Dylan's like, let's go. Okay. Sorry. Just do your best. Okay. Okay. It's an inclusive environment. Well, he's centric. Pause. Good. Month. Monthy. He's broken, broken, broken, broken. Pause. Good. Monthy. You got this. Big chest. That's what he's seeing like a month. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Come on. Good. I got you. I got you. I got you one more. Under control. Under control. Pause. Start. Come on. Push. Push. Push. Ah. Ah. Ah. I'm going to have failure. Whew. That's hard. Good. Man, says with blood in his face and eyes. I'm going to wear my wrist wrapped on the next one. Sure. That was the only thing I always had to get to the bar. I noticed the bar was kind of like you. Yeah. Western best bench. For 74. He has benched for 74. And though he had some injuries right now. And I've known him for a little bit. His pecs are kind of the biggest they've ever been. Yeah. So the muscle mass is there to be 474 strong. 474 times. No joke. You bet 474? Absolutely not. I sure shit. You're going to see how fucking humbling the camera bar bench is, especially that deep camera, especially that one second pause. Drain the life out of your pectoral muscles. And exactly the way that we want them to be drained. If you go on your Google and you type in drained, but you don't type in pecs. You type in other things. Things down here drained. It's a fun search. Do what under parents computer and leave the tabs open. Let's get to training. 10. 8. 8. 8. Yes. A little bit longer pause. 4. 8. 8. 8. 4. 8. 8. 8. 8. That's too pause. The next level feels worse. That's what we want. We want to see. Good. What's the difference? We know what it's actually on the bottom. Is it out of the bottom? Yes. One more. One more. Last one. Big stretch. Up. Go. Go. Go. Oh shit. One more. I'm gonna be. Reach. Reach. Up. My hard. Come on. Go. Go. Go. Go. Lock it. Lock it. So. Little wiggle never hurt anybody. Good stuff, man. Good stuff. One more set and we'll be good here. Yeah, you're the hump. Yeah, for sure. Yeah, the taking the extra time to like let it sink. As you think you're in the bottom. Yes. Yeah, you're getting like really close. You're. I'm sure if you did this enough time. You're like, you'll be, you'll be touching your best. It's a great mobility exercise and creeping your. Automatic. Automatic. So what these guys are saying is at the bottom of the lift. There's a tendency to try to just stay there. Hold it. What you want to do from muscle growth is consider doing this. When you get to the bottom of the lift, be it machines, be it dumbbells, be it. That's what pushups be at can bird bar and at the bottom for one second instead of holding at the bottom. Let your shit sink deeper that painful extra stretch is the bottom is deep definition of stretch under load. And if your body has any chest shape holes, it's going to fuck you in them. Yeah, yeah, that's it's a good idea. I'll see myself. Also from a range of motion, increasing range of motion per specific, the right like if you're limited on range of motion, like say, I mean, in this in the bench for example, in his first couple sets, you know, without the sinking he wasn't coming as deep. He came down, pause, sunk a little lower and now his. Not active range of motion. He's able to come down and put himself in an even more stretched position with the same load. And that probably just means more muscle growth. If you think about it, your muscles are stretching at the very most intense load that they're going to experience. There's just not a much theoretical growth mechanism that's left over after that. Good, good. Let's be slow. That's for the bar. Good. That's for the bar. I think. Good. Good. Fuck. Monty. Peter control. Let's go to the one more. Holy centered. Let's slow chestward the bar. Come on. Good. Push, push, push, push, push, arm. Nice. Nice. Nice. That's for a command. That was fucking work. Dips. Yeah. All right. Yeah. All right. Folks, exercise number two for Pete is going to be targeting the lower part of the chest. We did the camber by branch and target kind of the whole thing. All right. See where this is going. And we are going to do dips. Now, Pete, how much you weigh? Two, five, zero. So you're not going to need any extra weight on this, especially if it is done properly. So with dips, what we want to do, if we're targeting the chest is a couple of things. One is we want to grab a little bit further here. If you grab close, it's more triceps. If you grab further out, it's more chest. Now, be careful not to grab too far out, so that your shoulders are feeling funky. Still, could be a little closer better for the shoulders. When you grab at the bottom, what you want to do is have your chest point out. Not even on it like this, but have your chest out and up super proud and get your elbows to point as high as the sky as possible. You're essentially opening your chest at the bottom and always, always, always in this exercise for you pausing at the very bottom for about one split second. When you come up, all you have to do is get close to lock out or right to it and come back down. Do you have to lock out or rest you can, but even if you come up, come up to about here and start to come back down, you're going to come back down slow, exposing your chest the entire time. That is going to be a really, really rough thing. We'll talk a little bit about what to do with your legs. Want to try this here? Do five dips with your feet still on those things. Oh, oh, on here. Yes, correct. Oh, literally like bend your knees and your hips and just try to do a little bit of that. Yes, heavy eccentric load and then push a lot off with your legs. You can start just doing them, but I recommend warming up at least a few ways. One, if you can do like 30 dips by yourself and you're pretty warm already, just do a set of five free dips, then put weight on or do your set of 30 or whatever after a two or three minute test. Another thing you consider is doing a peat's doing, which is putting your feet on the plates, using your feet to help a little bit on the eccentric and then a lot on the concentrate to get the dips nice and warmed up elbow shoulders, everything. Get that pattern specifically warmed up with the nervous system so that you're doing it really well for yourself. Minimize the chance of injury, maximize the chance of good muscles to your nation. Nothing is if you have an assist to dip machine at your gym and it's the thing that will you push the plate away, it turns into a free dip or you have an assist to dip and a separate free dip, I would encourage you to do that. A assisted dip warm up is a great idea, but what you guys not to do is just to just get in and start doing dips. Some reason people love to do that, free weight exercises, body weight exercises, they won't warm up, they'll go do pull ups, they won't warm up, they will go do push ups, they won't warm up, they'll go do dips, warming up is critical, it's peat waste 250 pounds, would you ever unwrap 250 on the bench and just start going, fuck no, you would warm up, just the same way you warm up the dips, so that's what we're doing. The chest big chest, open, come on, so peat, don't feel like a troll, big chest, big chest, keep it open, drive, good, come on, big chest, big chest, keep it open, good, come on, good, come on, that's it, that's good, big chest, big chest, keep it open, good, good, good stop, he said just about the moment, a good cue to think about when you're doing dips for the chest is instead of going down, try to pretend, try to pretend that there's a button that some of the tons of hot degenerate women with no moral values and I'll just come and slab her all over you and you can only activate the button if you press it with your chest, but it happens to be down in front of you, so what you're doing is dipping and trying with your chest to touch that button down in front, careful your shoulders might not 100% love that, so only go as far as your shoulders can allow, but if you really push your chest forward and really try to touch that button, you're going to get two things, one, a humongous chest stimulus and two tons of absolutely a moral snake-eyed bitches to come grab up on you, which is exactly what you want anyway, don't care how many feet, it just has to be good, big chest, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, come on, the fraction, that's good, back, back, back, shit stuff, good stuff, feeling it, yeah, the stretch more than anything good, that's what we're hearing from, I love a try so sure, sure, sure, sure, sure, it's all going to get fucked up, yeah, like the stimulus going to the text, but back here I'm feeling it like pulling all that shirt, yeah, that extra extra, yeah, stand right here, I'll try to kiss you, god, I'm going to throw off, I'm going to be a great thumbnail, go dad, I'm trying to make out what you're supposed to spaghetti like the little of a shantess, not beef, it's workout, big chest, slow control, one more, I can see those packs working, big chest, big chest, open up, yes, like that, try hard, come on, big chest, big chest, that's it, beautiful, good, stuff, wow, what's past out, I was weird, damn, yeah, yeah, you know you're working, or your blood pressure is really high, you're going to die soon, yeah, 50, 50, all right, awesome stuff, dumbbell press, wow, okay, yeah, yeah, let's go, yeah, I'm going to try, try facta, so first cool thing is at the dragon layer, in Las Vegas, Nevada, we're right now, they have this amazing bench that already inclines for you, who makes it looks like arsenal, arsenal, arsenal, good what, arsenal bench helps you archer back for you and expose your chest, if you're very, very strong, the following advice will not work for you, he is really strong, but this is their exercise, so I feel like this will work, what you want to ideally do is touch the outside, the inside of these dumbbells, sorry, to the outside of your packs and even your shoulders, so the way I don't want you to try to do this, it's totally fine way, but everyone does it this way, is to do this, oh yeah, this is cool, it's totally cool, but I want you guys to try to do what we're going to get to keep the try to do is to open up and go wide, so that you can go out five of your chest and actually touch your front delts, I would normally be able to do this, but this is enough weight for your boy to be able to be flexible like that, best right babe, I want to, I want to, I want to, I see I just know chest up and wide out one second pause, up and in, where your elbows go is almost entirely up to personal preference, if you like of this kind of shit, that's totally cool, if you like to open your elbows out super wide, that's totally cool, some people like it better when we're in other, whatever feels good for your shoulders, you get your packs that big ass stretch, that's probably the right ass, big chest, big chest, big chest, come on up, throw, throw, throw, come on, good keep going, big chest, and the workout higher right over the third, come on, no rest at the top, as soon as you lock, go down, that chest up, that chest up, that's the shoulder, throw, throw, throw, that's good, we do that was fucking sweet, next time as we finish the last one, do a full eccentric, if you're gonna do another one and then rock, it's gonna suck, but it's gonna be good, these using 50 pounds, it's a 474 pound competition bench presser, but we fucked them up so much with a ton of full-round before, and then set number seven and eight here, it's gonna be really, really just 50 pounds is all he needs, right? We're not saying you're trying to lift light, it's not the whole point of this, lift as heavy as you can for the rep range that you have targeted with the best technique you can, but when you adjust for the rep range and when you adjust for the technique, the as heavy as you can becomes not so overly impressive, but it does become an excellent way to stimulate chest hyperphate while minimizing the effect negatively on the joints, it's wonderful, wonderful, wonderful, wonderful, good, try hard, try hard, try hard, oh, it's a little slow, come on, one more good rep let's go, take chest, right apart, control, come on stand in the stretch, control two full seconds, rack, good, I like a sword of trying to go up a little after, you're like, like the partials, yeah, it's right, very sexy, we're dating now, oh wow, okay, keep the elbows tucked at your sides, side as you can, yeah, yeah, so like a drag curl, yes, the drag curl equivalent, absolutely, reverse these are reverse drag curls, I came up with that, not you, and rack, okay, yeah, pull back and then correct, and then pushing, some of it helps me a lot on this is, uh, all kind of been forward a little bit and I'll keep the cable in line, and if I keep the cable in line with my, with my torso, it pretty much will guarantee that I'm keeping elbows up and back, okay, yes, there's nothing, there's nothing at all wrong with doing the push downs like this, but if you want a shitload of stretch under load, you let the elbows come back flush to your side, and essentially in a straight line, it will fuck you up at worst, it's an awesome variation to try at very worst, butterfly effect style, it starts to cascade of unpredictable events that ends the world, but that's unlikely, I think. two more, one small, one small big test, yes, yes, keep the talking, push, got the energy, pull it up, keep it up, slow with different, is there another, we're gonna, we're gonna, oh, okay, okay, go ahead and un-wrapped, rest for a second, clock started at 100 and we're going to 80, was gonna rest five to 10 seconds, get a flag wrap, and then he's gonna go again, folks on the queues, flies just a little longer, put back, those elbows in, come on, come on, big chest, big chest, put on a cape, is there another one, bring it in, bring it in, bring it in, bring it in, good, up and back, up and back, up and back, big chest, bring it in, bring it in, up and back, up and back, up and back, that's it, arms look a big aship, do you ever get like an sushi arm, you feel like mad at it, like it hurts and you get like angry, yeah, I promise you, off man, yeah, you're a strong, close-up guy, he's so fast running the way down, produce some fucking power, yes, and then slow, messed up, speed, yes, messed up, yeah, we're that speed, don't big chest, oh yes, no, no, no, yes, go damn you, there's another slow, oh my, I'm slow, I can't stop, slow, slow, slow, wrap, run, let's stay at 60 for the next two sets, I'll explain in camera why you queue him up, he's finishing up, we're no longer dropping, we went from a hundred to eighty to sixty, we're not going to go to fifty, forty, et cetera, why, because the load is now outside of that, it's less than the history around by long shot, he's still longer, heavy enough to stimulate hypertrophy, even if we got metabolites cranking in there, we'd prefer to do sets of few reps, maybe even sets of five reps, but each set of five reps is heavy enough to be stimulated, so he's just going to do sixty and then sixty again, so it's going to be a hundred he did, eighty he did, sixty he did, now it's two sets of sixty to finish off, hey, he's going to be cooked and then pull a shot, hit it, we close, we can close it, there you go, red hard, as if another, keep it close, keep it close, keep it close, keep it close, keep it closer, there you go, big chest, that's it, don't be fucking hot, there's another, last set, coming up, big chest, there you go, keep it close, keep it close, keep it close, tighter, good, come on, run down hard, big chest, keep it close, one more good rapid, keep it close, keep it closer, come on, run down hard, yes, good, good, as if another, as if another, slow, slow, slow, slow, good, good stuff, all right, on the knees, let's see how many you can do, normal grip, that a little close grip, okay, come on, keep, come on, keep, drive, one more good rapid, let's go, come on, here we go, drive hard, another one, let's go, slow and control, chest up, chest up, drive up hard, one more, keep going, keep going, we're here for everything, keep drive up hard, run more, keep going, we're here to take a walk, drive up hard, come on, keep, hard, go, more, keep, not strut means more growth, come on, let's go, keep, drive hard, that's it, oh he's still in it, by now, hold it, do you feel like you don't currently own your arms, they're just there, it's gone, oh wow, that looks pumped, good stuff, that's really good, all right folks, Dylan, what'd you think? Rachel, honestly, amazing, yeah, he knows how to work, see what do you think? Sorry, Dylan, what was he saying? They really receptive to cues, able to implement things as we, as we said them. Yeah, that's the most site specific, like the most site specific, the pump I've ever gotten for excellence, for excellence, yeah, excellent, and that leads me to my point, the last point is quantity is awesome, quantity is how you periodize, quantity is how you progress, but the baseline before quantity is quality, what you first want to do is establish great technique from that great technique, iteratively, improved over time, your established great mind muscle connection, that mind muscle connection with that technique, allows you to have an incredible stimulus for every single rep, and then you sequence the reps and sequence the sets and sequence the weeks and the months of the years, finally you get gigantic, and then all of a sudden that girl had never taught to you in high school, you're like, yo baby, what up? She's like, oh my god, like it packs like so, yeah, her mouth remains open, for things you can fill in the blanks for a guy's thing, it's so much, follow these two guys on social media, you'll learn a shit load, they're gonna be social media, right in the description, and actually in the video itself, and like subscribe, and comment, buy, and dented, and email Amber, and you need these buy stuff to see you next time.

Let's go Jeff. Whenever you're ready, buddy, whenever you're ready. Jeff, let's go. Give me a second, Mike. The closest thing that happens is failure. Let's go. Let's go. Yo, what up? Clearly I'm Dr. Mike for Renaissance and this is Mr. Jeff Nipperd of Jeff Nipperd. And he was gracious enough to descend from on high in the heavens to bless us with his Elven presence for a psychotic R.P. Leegwreck out top full of myoreps and insanity. And all this done is stopped now. Jeff Nipperd is such an important person. And we need to take such good care from the we have to have a board certified sports medicine doctor doing the workout with us luckily my lovely wife, Dr. Crystal. But you can follow on Instagram as Dr. Crystal is a board certified sports medicine physician. Jeff, if anything bad happens either on top lane or she's to help. That's also going to work. Feeling good? I can't wait. I feel great. I love the intros. And that's the last time we'll be saying I feel great. Let's kick it. I think it should have folded. Oh my god. Let me just pat it. That is real body. What does it look like? Fuck. Okay. I feel like come on. You can do it. No. All right. That'll do. I think that's actually pretty good weight from you. I mean, I did three or four. But I think in the eight to ten range, I'll be pretty crisp. We want 15ish. Oh, 15. Yeah. Oh. With a slow tempo like that. Oh yeah. Oh. Jeff today will be less than coming to the. There will be comfort somewhere today, but it won't be in this gym. Okay. Okay. First exercise is going to be a lying leg curl. We are going to do my rep match something like, oh, 10 to 20 reps sets. Whatever you get on the first set straight. That's the number. Remember that right that down on our RPI. Virtua Fee app afterwards. Trade in. Everyone does their set. Everyone remembers the number. Second set. You have to get exactly the same number of reps again. But you may be too tired to do so. So if you get, let's say 18 reps on the first set. But only 15 on the second. That means you get off the machine. Relax for five to ten seconds. Shake it out. Get in and do another three reps. So every single set matches the first sets repetitions. Brute'sality is here. Awesome. I'm sure I'm the way down athletic on the way up. Good. Couple more. Go. Yes. Slow. That's it. Come on. Have a question for you. How many was that? I didn't count. I just went to zero one hour a year. I thought I'd have had to guess I'd say it was eight, seven or eight. Maybe? Yeah. So I obviously over-estimated my, my loads capacity. There's another softball. I would have failed in terms of I couldn't get it all the way to my butt. Right? But I did a little bit of a, like a little bit of a shrug kind of thing. All right. Pop my hips a little bit to get the weight up. Should I have not done that and just kind of cut it or like yes. Good question. So in the future, correct. Yeah. We count it today. But you also know that no more reps in the tank after that. No. So I would say that you probably could have gotten it anyway. If you hadn't done the shrug, you just fucking tried a little bit. Okay. Okay. But which is why I'm not going to be like, don't just fucking 12 and up 13, man. Yeah. But yes. In the future, generally get it done with this clean up attack Nika's can within a reason. I think I was just thinking like get the weight up, get the weight up. Rather than like, prioritizing the technique first. Yes. I prioritized getting the rep first. Yes. You're saying prioritize the technique first. And then the reps will happen or they won't. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. Let's go Mike. Come on. How many? 15. Full stack in it too. Full stack. No, they say you beat the machine. And you get the full stack. However many sets of takes to get 15. Okay. Okay. Go. Slow. Slow all the way down. Finish. Finish. Yes. Slow. As if another. All the way down. Stay with it. Get out for a sec. How many of that? Five seconds. Relax. Relax. That was 12. Slow. Unwrap. Rest a bit. One more left. Take the same. Take some time with this one, Jeff. Well, one good rap. Go. Yes. Finish. Slow. Slow. Fuck yeah. That's it. That hurt me watching. Let's go. Do I do give me a Canadian? Let's go. Come on. That Jordan Peterson. What are you doing? If you're all leg rolling. You're not. Are you even trying? Are you ready, Crystal? Yeah. Accelerate on the Ascent. Yes. Go. Come on. 11 more. One more. 12. Slow. Unwrap. Rest. Get it. Oh. Oh. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Rest. Let's go. Yes. Slow. Slow. Control. And you're done. Good. That was great. I'm glad I'm not the only one who, like, like, stick around when things get hurt. Because you do that too. I feel better. I. Yeah. Otherwise, I totally see them. I'm not. Yeah. I know. It gets harder from here, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Next exercise is the hack squat. But not just any hack squat. The Atlantis hacks squat. They plugged it right out of the wreckage of Atlantis in the ocean. It is a super lit of machine. It's the smoothest thing you will ever use in the gym. It's unbelievable. That's a great thing from a muscle stimulus perspective. Because it's a great thing. The most dangerous perspective because the eccentric loading can be really, really hard. And on the way up at so smooth, the concentrate loading isn't much harder, which allows us to really, really, really get an unbelievable stimulus because you want a smooth machine that doesn't reduce the eccentric. It doesn't increase the concentrate too much. Much eccentric as possible for the concentrate. The Atlantis is where it's at super far range motion as always. Probably three sets here again. And a 20 maybe 15 to 20 repetitions. We're going to do my reps here. So everyone that is doing this machine today is going to get a two my rep. Pause with every single set of top my rep match. It's just you get in and even the first set. You do as many as you can. Rest at the top. Five seconds or so. Do as many as you can. Rest again. Do as many can. Rack. So it's really three sets. But it's nine approaches to failure. Rotality is among us. Let's get it going. Up. Thank you. Good. One more. Rest brief. One more. One. Up. Go Jeff. Rest brief. One more up in your done. Big moves. Yes. Done. Yeah. Next time we'll go two plates. Two plates. Yes. And then you will learn what hell really looks like. In a good way. Oh, shoot. Let's go. Come on. Let's go. Good speed. Good job. That's a lot of rap. Not bad. Oh, thanks, champ. Incredible. You sure I want to. I'm going to get a lot of reps with you. That's the idea, Jeff. I got 16 reps. Okay. How do you time your breathing? Because I found with the slow negative and the pause. I do get a little bit light headed. Yeah. You just fight through with high reps. You just keep breathing. Just before you get to the bottom. Okay. And then come off. So you're doing a double breath sometimes on rap. Triple. Okay. Okay. So I was trying to do the power lift or Val Salva the whole way. I was starting to lose. You're going to pass off trying that shit. So I'm listening for rest, pause and rap. Yes. And that's it. And I'm going to control the negative. Yes. And I'm going to pause for about a second and the rest. Okay. Quality. Better to make a rap harder than easier. Rest. Three. Begin. One. Two. Down. Slow. Pause. Up. Up. Rest. Breathe. Two more and you're done with the set. Begin. Slow, Jeff. Milk it out. Stimulus. Pause. Big pause. Up. You're done. Yes. Pause. Up. Up. Up. Up. Daly. Rack. Good stuff, Jeff. All right, baby. You're ready? Yeah. Two. Yes. Beautiful. Rest. Three. Last two. Coming up. Go. Control. Up. One down. Go. Slow. Go. Rack. Yep. Beautiful. Good job, guys. Are you feeling Jeff? How do you mean by feeling? I want to give everything on this one. Good. All right. Then we have to get 18 reps. Okay. One. All day, Jeff. Two. Two. One more, Jeff. Go. Go. Slow. Big pause. Up. Up. Up. Up. I got more and more. I know. One at a time. One. Go. Up. Go. Yes. I got more. One. Go. Hmm. Up. Up. Up. I got more. Up. Up. Hit it. Slow. Yes. Control. Good pause here. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Yes. Holy crap. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Phomas, I'm not trying to be dramatic. Down there, honey, honey. I just can't walk right now. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Let your knees flay forward as possible as long as your heels are still on the ground. The range of motion for your quad system is amazing. We are going to take one to two second bottom pauses. It's going to be awful. Pain. Oh, no, it chast up. Yes. 10 rest brief. Breathe. Hit it. Big chest. Knees forward. Archer back. Up. 12. Push through your legs. It's going to be harder but better for you. Chast it. Yes. Up. 13. Up. Up, Jeff. One more. One more. Into the pain, Jeff. Into it. Big moves. A black. 13. By last set of the day here. 10. Ah! Well, Jeff will do 95 also. Don't go easy on me. Trust me, it's not easy. This is going to be really, really hard. But I want you to do 20 reps. I want you to stay there until you get 20. This is going to be off the plate so it's going to be ultra depth. I want you to wait lifting style, open everything up. All right. Notice how this pushes my quad's out. Yep. Quads out, chast up. All right. Push up instead of back. I'll do set of back. If your quads are hurting, you're doing it right. Yeah. I'm doing it right. Full one second pause at the bottom. I'm on those quads that peel apart. Up. Boom. One. Three more. Up. Two. Breathe. Three. Straight up. Come on. Go, go, go, go, go. Chast up. Up. Up. Up. Track. Don't go anywhere. Chill out here for a sec, Jeff. You got 12. We need 20. Jeff, you are capable of this. And the worst thing that happens if you're not is we just peel you out. Nobody's getting hurt. It's a light load. You might throw up a little bit. Let's go, Jeff. Whenever you're ready, buddy. Whenever you're ready. Oh. Jeff, let's go. Just give me a second, mate. However long you need, Jeff. Let's go. You got four. No problem. No problem. No problem. Get into position. Chris, let me right here with you. Breathe the whole time. Deep. Up. One. Yes, beautiful. Breathe, Jeff. You can breathe through the whole part of the movement. Up. Good. No, not in no. Only not in yes. It's going to happen. Up. Up. Up, Jeff stand up. Go. One more. One more in the new break. Yes, the cast. Strong. Good. Breathe. Breathe. Stay here. That's 16. We need 20. We need 20, Jeff. There. You wanted hard. You said don't take it easy on me, mate. I listened. Stand up. One, no problem. Big pause down there. Gather your strength at the bottom. These four, just up. Strong. Yes, another one. Big chest. Big chest. Up. Strong. One last one. One last one to finish up. Come on, Mark. Just up. We're here with you. Breathe. Stand up. Up. Amazing. Amazing, Jeff. Amazing. Yes. All right. Roll out of the way. Crystal's got to go. And we roll. Go ahead, Crystal. She's good, yeah? That's the workout, man. You did fucking amazing, man. Thank you, man. That's fine. You didn't go easy on me. No, Jeff, would you think about the RPI Purchase for workout? Um, honest thoughts? No, please be dishonest. The leg curls were really fun. The hacksquots were fun. The last exercise was... Bruce. Bruce. Yeah. Think of that point. I just... Party described it. It's like a... It's like a string burn in the muscle. Yeah, that's just really uncomfortable. Yes. Unemployable? Yes. But apart from that, it was great. Awesome. Yeah. For you, Massica's out there. Even that part's the great part. Folks, if you're listening to this, whatever Scott Community Guide decides to release if who knows the RPI Purchase App will either be in the Beta U sign-up for it and get it for a cheap period or the Beta period where it's already outpaid Beta so you can go buy it. The link will be in the description. And uh... Listen, it'll hurt you. But in a good way, see you guys next time.

We are here in Atlantis, Yemen, Austria, in Lafalle and Quebec, in Ducananda. And we are going to be working out on some interesting machines. This isn't Ramaz Gym, it's a gym where a lot of new Atlantis stuff is tested. They'll throw a new prototype machine in here and they'll see how it goes. So we're going to use some of those. We'll also have some machines in here that never went into formal production because reasons. They're on a safe or anything like that. I'm thinking. And we're going to try some of those. And we know we're also going to try some machines. They're the truth for the soul. It's it. You're going to know Russians don't have souls. Why? How did I say it in Russian? I don't know. All right. This is slightly angled forward, which puts the biceps in a really good position for that stretch, which is why we like this a crappler. A lot of these machines that are in Atlantis, the pads way that they able pads way back there to create leverage, which is just using a bunch of load for no reason. So this is really, really cool because it's a huge stretch at the bottom and a lot of tension the entire time. This machine basically allows you to do a glue ham raise, a various source or a notic, but a system. And so it's kind of like a Nordic curl glue ham raise combo. It's quite decent. It's really smooth. And what I would recommend you do is really slowly control the eccentric and on the way back up, really try to develop a mind muscle connection, really hamstrings by pulling everything in. And it's quite nice. Really anything that has any sort of vertical component for me, if you don't have a knee pad to support yourself from the resistance of it pulling you back up this way. I don't like it that much. Generally when it gets really hard, you kind of start to come off the pad a little bit. I'm not too much of a fit. This is a really nice resistance profile. It's just that there was a knee pad support or something like that. They'd be way better. Yeah, this is a good machine to do variation. It's a different pulling angle in, mostly ill encounter or high rows, kind of unusual in this regard, especially with cables. I would like to do this at the end of a workout for very high reps. And that way you don't need the counter support and then you're still making some games. This machine is awesome. Couple reasons. One, this lifts up and is above parallel already. So the lever arm gets positioned worse with respect to gravity as it goes up, which means that it's hardest at the bottom here, easiest at the top. Just exactly how you want to do a hyperature between it, because the stretch is that bottom stretch is like crazy. It's a decline press, which is really interesting. And it's very unique. You won't see this almost anywhere else. It's got an unloader plate, which means you can push off with your feet so you can get into the position of the super deep stretch. And if I'm doing decline work, this is tip of a spear. A lot of people like Bulgarians. This is a pretty damn cool machine. You can adjust where this goes. You can grab out further. I probably would use these if I were to do it. So this machine's pretty dope. I like it. You just straight legs with it too. You got the probably stand on something, but definitely a really cool machine. And doubles as a shrug machine. You can do shrugs forward this way. But my recommendation is to turn around and do them the other way. Because then you can get the traps pulling back as well. They don't really do a whole lot forward. So get up here, leverage, big stretch. This is a prototype. So maybe you'll see it at a gym near you very soon. This is kind of interesting. It's like a glue kick back machine. But it's plate loaded, which is very unusual. If you get a good grip in here and put one of your feet on the ground and start like what I did, I asked me how many more sets I had. I'm gonna set you up. You got 10 more sets. It's quite nice. It's quite nice. And everything with Atlantis is so smooth. I don't know how they do it. How do they do it? You're seeing this? It's all kinds of animals. Come with its converging too. It comes in. I like this one year because it's going to freeze your back. You know, people here and go. I like to put a lot of grips to know what a feeling. Here, you have the regular movement like this. Yes. You have like this. You have like that here. Yes, too. Wow. Yeah. On both sides, you know. You can do both sides. On the other side too. That's cool. So you have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Exercise at least. On one machine. That's cool. We're gonna use that for sure. These are high rows. Pretty well leveraged, I say. Because if you can see the point at which the leverage will be most difficult for you, it's really close to that upper stretch just a little bit below it. And then at the very top, the lever arm is so tilted that gravity barely affects it and then it's easy at the crunch. Which matches both the force curve of the back and the ideal force curve or near ideal force curve for hypertrophy which is more of an intense stretch and less intense situation of the contraction. Yes, really easy down here. More of a stretch up here. Oh, this is very well built. Guys, if you're ever in Canada, just go to Montreal. If you're ever in Montreal, just go to the suburb of La Vova. If you're ever in La Vova, get your ass to the Atlantis Gym here in Montreal. If you're ever in the Atlantis Gym in La Vova in Montreal, in Quebec, in Canada, in North America, in the Western Hemisphere on planet Earth in the solar system, then you might as well get on one of these really interesting unique machines and get at it because you won't have an opportunity to use them anywhere and you might get a good stimulus to fatigue ratio and you might just love it. How are you feeling about this? It's great. I really love the gym. A lot of gyms in the United States are getting a ton of this equipment ship there. The club has a bunch of stuff. Elvination, because I live in Vegas, these are gyms in Vegas that we've trained at. You guys have seen on the channel. But in the getting more. So, it's really cool because you walked around the gym and he kind of takes the input and advice from all of his members and he just kind of engineers new stuff. Yeah. It's awesome. It's awesome. Nice. I'm a more realistic note if you're not in the Atlantis Gym itself. Anytime you see a piece of Atlantis equipment, try it. It's right off. Smooth the ship. It's amazing. All right. See you next time. We are here at the Legim Atlantica. No, no. It's probably in salt. We can. Whatever. Hey, what up? Whoa. Hey, fuck it. Billy guy goes to Montreal.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NSUNS periodization. And this week's quick tip, it's really just a personal, a personal attestation of mine. On what is a think a more decent, the last decent way to behave yourself? Oh boy, what are we been talking about? And the tip here is don't brag about non-compliance. What do I mean exactly by that? So the thing is, a lot of people will do this. Well, they'll brag about the results they're getting, either in words or in Instagram posts. And I guess TikTok posts got appeal to you, young ass, TikTokers. And they'll brag about their physique. They'll say they'll post a physique pick. Or they'll be at the gym with you and they'll pull up their abs, flex their biceps in the mirror. And you say something like, or comment something like, hey, that's really great. And then you read the caption, or they tell you in real life, and they say, yeah, man, it's not bad for, and then they give a laundry list of reasons why they're not an even better sheep. Yeah, man, it's not bad for hours asleep every night. It's not bad for barely eating, I don't feel like I'm having a fucking eat, bro. Man, I'm off-subs right now, bro. Amazing. Etcetera. They're not training right. They're not sleeping right. They're not doing any cardio. LOL, this is just off cheeseburgers. And this drives my wife at Dr. Crystal on Instagram, if you want to follow my wife, who that came off weird, but I like it. Yes, yes, we're always looking for a third. Don't take that personally, Scott, the video guy, you're always a shoe in at number one spot. But you go on vacations. And we have an appetite, don't we? This is a personal pet peeve of hers is when people who have taken 17 gallons of clean buterol and 18 gallons of trend do that picture where they have three cheeseburgers at a restaurant and they're sitting in there and they pull up their abs of veins and the ca the captions like LOL. This is like this, just me living my life. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha. Oh, trend. Here's the thing. What is the supposed take home of bragging like that? I know what it is. You might not know what it is when you're doing it, but I know what it is when you're doing it. And it is that you have amazing genetics because what else could explain the fact that you are in such unbelievable quote unquote shape with such minimal or dare I say, dare elected inputs. And here's my big rejoinner to that. So fucking what? You have amazing genetics. Nobody cares about that unless you work at your genetics and make something impressive for your genetics. Because if you're a personal trainer and someone finds out that you just have good genetics and that's why you look like which is a lot of personal trainers, by the way. They realize if they're remotely intelligent and think through this for about three seconds, they go, if my personal trainer looks like they look with basically just genetics as they always essentially intimate to me. And they are doing everything wrong. I hired them because I wanted to look like them. I cannot hire their genetics. I should fire them and go find someone who actually knows how to improve bodies and does it themselves. I want a personal trainer that looks pretty good. But blood and died and worked for that shit. I don't have to figure everything out because they don't have good genetics. Versus a personal trainer or fitness coach or online coach or inspirational person who was just like, that's the sort of what God made him look like it was a little extra drop of trend into their primordial soup and boom, they come out just with cap delts for no reason. If you do have cap delts for no reason and you want to impress somebody put in the consistent work and stop bragging about how little you do because then you can actually become truly great and not just some guy with really cool looking delts at a random 24 hour fitness in Pomona, California. Sorry if that's a human being you know. And then tell them to start trying because there are people with amazing genetics that looked unbelievable for lifting brand and curry, former Mr. Olympia has pictures of himself from his childhood where he's like 14 and is jacked. Never lifted weights all the way beginning like his college football career barely lifted weights basically looks like a natural pro. And you're like, wow, but then what did brand and curry do? He bled for the shit for a generation and then culminated with one of the best physics and history and I truly think that's physical unbelievable. Also if you see him in real life, it doesn't make any sense. Because you're like, oh, like that, he's pretty short actually and then he pulls off his sweatshirt and he's just seeing him in a stringer and you're like, what the hell is that? His waist is like this big and his upper back's like that. I don't understand, he goes to a tailor because he actually gets really, really good looking fitted suits as tailor's part of like the first time he was like, I don't understand. And we can't go off a shirt template because your body does not look like it belongs in a shirt. What is this? Unreal impressive, but he earned that shirt and he wasn't always amazing. He had his ups and downs and bodybuilding. So if you have amazing genetics, imagine talking to Brandon Curry, like you have great genetics, you weigh like 180 and you're kind of stripped up and shed and you've been dereliting your sleeve and your food and he comes up to you in the gym, you're like, oh my god, you're brand and curried. And he's like, he's training, he's like, man, he talks, he's like, dude, you got a good look and you're like, man, and then you hit your usual bullshit. You're like, have you been sleeping, you know, small subs and spare you been training, you know? Do you think Brandon fucking Curry is gonna be impressed by that? If you're gonna be like, oh, you're not saying that's for sale. So I'm like smooth black eye shake because black eyes are the best people in the world that talking to Brandon people and being cool with it. Cause I would just straight up be like, get out of my face and I get arrested again, it's terrible. Brandon Curry will not be impressed because he used to be you, but then he ascended with his blood, sweat, and tears. So if you have great genetics or whatever genetics you have and you find yourself bragging about how awesome you look despite the fact that you haven't been trying hard who are you bragging to? You're insulting yourself. You are insulting yourself because genetics is not an accomplishment, like, by definition, you born with it. What is potentially an accomplishment is you doing something about it? So you bragging about your genetics is like bragging about your parents and herons. Yes, I don't know what to say. My parents did leave me $10 million. And, well, it's just me, it's just how I do things. No, that's how your parents did things. Go invest in something or whatever rich people do. By Alembre Gini for God's sake, that's not investment. But really, it's an investment in yourself into your soul. The end of the day, no matter where you come from, where you start at what you're in next, you have, put in your work to be the best that you can be. Don't bother with little humble bragging bullshit about how I haven't even been training. And this is what this looks like. And here's its thing, it's the thing, ready? Even I do this shit sometimes. I'll post like a leg vein and Instagram, you'll start a prep, mono all this leg vein, God here. Hey, Mike, shut the fuck up. See you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike, your Renaissance Pyrrization. I have three squat tips for you to potentially instantly improve your squat by a mile. How do I learn about these three tips? Well, Jared Feather, I, Phoebe Pro, and myself, were at the Arnold this past year. The Arnold Schwarzenegger Classic, Expo, and Bodybuilding Show. And we had a booth set up for Renaissance Pyrrization where we would have a barbell and a rack and we would critique your technique and a ton of people took us up on this and they were all super awesome. While coaching folks, we were prepared to use 80 trillion cues and corrections that we know from being in this three years and have always degrees and stuff. But we ended up only using like 10 and then maybe 80 or 90 percent of the time, we actually only used three. These cues are so effective and the mistakes that lead to them needing to be used are so common and so easily rectified by these cues. I had to make a video to share this with you guys so that you can try this both in your own training. If you have problems with squat technique and also in training your own clients because I know what ton of you guys train clients and help other people maybe even just your parents or your siblings and try to get them to lift weights and a lot of times your squat may look great. But then you work with someone else and you look at their technique and you're like, I don't even know where to begin with you. You're doing everything wrong. Do I have to really manually from scratch? Mind meld with you and show you how to squat? Quite because these three tips could hack it. So here we go. Shut up. Let's get the three tips going. First, almost everyone who starts squatting has not positioned their toes out enough. That means any stance they take. Generally widening the stance by a little seems to work, but that's not even the important thing. You take their toes and you rotate them out much closer to the 45 degree line than you would. The 90 degree line or zero degree line. 45 degrees is where you want on average and for a lot of people that will feel a little strange because that's not typically how you're running or how you jump, but it sure a shit is how you squat. In addition to point two, because we have a rule in squatting, your knees generally track with your toes. If you have someone point their toes out, that's rule one. Rule one sub two, still rule one, is make sure that their knees come out and generally speaking, that means as they descend lower and lower, their knees come out. Further and further, they're pushing the knees to outside of their body. That aligns the ankles to the knees to the hips and all of a sudden it can allow you to get way greater depth without having to come up on your toes or sink back and round your back. And all of a sudden, you're like, whoa, it's much easier to squat and I can get through the squatting motion way better. So that's tip number one and it's a huge deal. Squatting without it is kind of a non-starter. Tip number two. Especially when coaching someone, not just doing the lift once you've learned it, but in teaching the lift to do it properly, having someone descend slowly and consider a pause at the bottom of the movement is a huge teaching tool. The reason is this. Keeping your knees pushed out is something you have to focus on when you're squatting and trying to change your technique for the better. If you drop down fast, a lot of times you just rebound right off your tendons and come back up and fucking who knows what your knees did. But if you go down slow as you descend, you both get a better feel for where your body isn't space and can correct it on the fly and it gives you time to implement the knees out, so as you're descending, you're thinking, he's out and he's out and he's out and he's out and he's out and because you're descending slowly, you could actually implement the cue instead of being like, you go down and come up. Oh fuck, I forgot to push my knees out. Like I said, just a second ago, as you descend, you can focus on having your weight spread over me, spread evenly on your toes and heels. If you go down really quick, we saw a lot of this happen at the Arnold people drop in and drop out and we're like, I can't even give you any technique, because you're in and out too fast. And they would usually cut the range of motion by a ton because as soon as they feel that springiness, they come back up. If you go down slow and you pause it wherever you think the bottom is, you're in a really good position. Then wherever's coach you can say, okay, that looks good. Come back up, you come back on. They say, okay, down slow knees out, knees out, knees out, knees out and as you get lower and you think you're going to stop, they go, hey, go go deeper, deeper, deeper, you're at the very, what you think is bottom, they're like, okay, pause, hold it as you hold that pause. Your body is awareness mechanisms, proprioception where your body is in space, recalibrate, recalibrate, recalibrate. Your body is a rapidly learning neural network system. Your brain is anyway in your spinal cord and peripheral nerves. So as you are in that position, because you didn't get into an out of it really quick, you can replicate it better. Every second, every micro-secret you spend in the descent and every second you spend at the bottom position, which is the most challenging, is neural learning happening. Your brain is learning, oh, this is where my bot needs to be. This is where my knees need to be. This is where my hips are, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. So if you practice slow, which by the way, in every single technique, they teach you in every other sport, you practice to slow. You're learning a tennis forehand. First, you go slow. Backhand, slow, eventually faster, faster, faster, but if you're practicing good squatting technique and you're just dropping in, slow the fuck down, sit at the bottom. And every time you get lower and lower in the bottom, you sit there for a second or two. It begins as a very uncomfortable alien feeling. After five or six reps, you're like, hey, I'm fine. Then a groove down here. I don't love it down here. Nobody does, but she feels really like it's a place I know. Lastly, tip number three comes in especially at this juncture. Your knees and toes are already in alignment. You're already squatting back and down nice and slowly. At this point, there is a tendency to either come forward on your toes, or if you sit back on your heels to round your back and cave over in your chest, you're not trying to sit down in the squat. I can't tell you, fucking, politically and correct time. It's not so politically and correct. Fuck, I don't wanna say it anyway. Anytime, people send me memes or gifts of babies that are squatting. And they're like, hey, look at how natural of a squatter of this baby is. They're fucking wrong because the baby never has a fucking elevated chest. And they're lower back as in tight. Your baby's rounding. It's fucking back. The shit squat. Oh great, he's got his heels on his toes on the ground. You could do that too if you fucking round your back enough. No, look, I don't think babies should be brought up to a standard of high level squatting. They're just babies. It's adorable when you do anything. You are not a fucking baby. I assume. If you're a baby watch on this channel, hello. And when your pretty natural intelligence is welcomed here, don't kill us all when you ascend to the next level. In any case, if you're not a baby, you can do one better. As you are opening up your knees, toes pointed out, descending slowly, you're gonna get to a point in your squat where it's harder to descend. Everything starts to bind up and your chest is naturally gonna cave in. This is where you use the cue of chest up. If you are attending to do a low bar squat, if you have a, if you are prone to extreme Lordosis, very arched sway back at the bottom. And if you want to produce as much force as possible for a one repetition maximum, do not put your chest up. Do the ribs down, shit, like Chris stuff and says. If you want to do the proper hypertrophy, bodybuilding squat, or even a weightlifting squat, it's the same squat almost. Your chest stays up. So as you point your toes out, knees come out. You go down slow, keep your chest up the entire tightness, especially at the bottom, look forward and or up. And then at some point when you stop, you're gonna be a real close to hitting full depth. Little practice worms like that, slow slow slow, put a little weight on the bar slow slow slow. Maximum depth, knees out, big chest. You're gonna be hitting what is almost the perfect squat. It took Jared and I, an average of two minutes per person to take their squat from, well, a lot of people had great squats and we were just gonna get the fuck out of here. You don't need us for anything, shake your hand, pick your, get out. But a lot of folks, just a few people I guess, had squats that started out like, um, dumpster fire, giant disaster. And no offense when I started squatting as the worst in the world, in just with these three cues over like two minutes, we were able to take most people and have them just really squat very competently. So if you're coaching other people or even if you're coaching yourself, get the toes out, get the knees out, descend slowly, take a pause at the bottom of each position that you think is the lowest. And when the bottom is close, keep your chest up. And I think your squats are gonna improve and if I'm wrong, she, she, wouldn't be the first thousandth time. How was gonna go on a date with that one girl back in eighth grade? Was I correct? No. Share all if you ever wanna call me back. I married bitch. You missed out on this. You boys out here. Mary Dup. You can't handle a shit. I still think about you now and again. It's weird. Just kidding weird. This is getting weird. I'll see you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pairization, and today's BS topic is the idea that weight training is bad for weight loss. You will hear this a relatively often by the female sex. And I quote that sounds something like this. When I like lift weights, I get like a pretty big. How's that for vocal fry? Boom. And here's the thing, there's not a situation where that's not totally raw. It's got a little tiny bit of truth to it, which is much how this BS really starts. When many people start training with weights, their muscles take unmuscle damage and begin the growth and repair process. And that leads to a situation called tonus of the muscles, which is when a bunch of different stuff would mostly water enters the muscle itself. And that intramuscular water expands the muscle and can even jack up your body weight in just a few days of weight training about five pounds more than it normally is. But that makes you look more jacked and shapely and it's no way adding any body fat at all. But it's a very good way to make it look more muscular right away by a very, very small margin. Anyway, you gain beyond that initial five pounds of intramuscular bloat is just because you're in a caloric surplus, which happens to some people automatically when they start resistance training or training with weights because some people in the start training with weights to get extra hungry. They eat more food, they gain weight, much of that weight is muscle, but if they really go to tonus eating food, they can gain even some fat. Then weight training absolutely prevents them from losing weight and can cause weight gain and it's no good. But just about as many other people have no hunger response whatsoever to weight training and that just doesn't happen for them and they don't gain any weight. Now here's the thing, if you're trying to lose weight, it's a good idea to track your calories anyway or track food amounts or whatever. Maybe you use the RP diet coach app from RP or something like that, maybe many other rate apps and then if you have a control of your diet, which you really should if you're trying to lose weight, that part where the weight training makes you hungry unless you overeat them happen because even if the weight training makes you a little bit more hungry, you simply stick to your diet eating mostly healthy foods. The hunger goes away at some point and it's not a big deal. Your muscles continue to grow. Your fat store shrink even more and you turn out to both be able to lose tons of weight while weight training and also get that sleek, sexy, awesome, Wonder Woman type of shape going instead of just looking like a deflated, skinnier bag version of yourself. So that's probably the look you're going for, not the deflated bag one, the Wonder Woman style even if you don't know. So weight training is totally cool to do. Expect a little bit of a five pound bump when you start. When you start your fat loss diet, control those calories lower them over time, get the body weight you want, weight training will just make the body you have more muscular and way less fat you will look a trillion times better. People will come up to you in the street and try to get to know who you are because you look like a goddess ladies and like guys, well you should sure should hope weight training makes you more jack because that's what you want with your body in most cases. So here's the thing Amanda. That's the weight training that's making you heavier. It's the food. So instead of putting down the dumbbells, put down the fork. JK Amanda, if your name's Amanda, tell a respect. Folks, give that some thought, like, subscribe, comment. If you want more nerdy stuff, see us in our members channel for just a little bit of extra fee Lamborghinis that I collect personally or not free unfortunately. If they were, I would never have members site. And also there's the team full rom form where you get expert advice tons of free programming and by free I mean included in the price of the service and I answer all questions personally and as well you get your videos reviewed and your technique improved. See you here, see you there, see you everywhere, in any case. See you later.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. And today we're going to chat about what to prioritize in your training, not what muscle groups, but what more dirty level of theoretical ultra structure. Man, if I had a favorite thing to talk about, this would be in the top 10 for sure. Here's the thing. Some of the stuff in your program that you make for training is going to be super surface level detail stuff that doesn't matter a ton. Other stuff will be much deeper and more fundamental. And it's imperative that you focus on them more important stuff because that's the stuff that keeps on giving. In that even right away, the surface level stuff can be important week to week month to month, but month to month year to year and for your whole career if you get the very basic foundational stuff correct, you're going to be milking the gains out for a long time. If you only have the surface level of concerns addressed and you have fundamental flaws with the basics, you're going to run it around. And the problem's really, really quick. Let's explore what that means. And exactly what we should be focused on most and then what we should be focused on next after that in a little bit less. First, when designing a training program and executing a training program, the number one concern you should have is training quality, which means at least two things in the following order. First, technique. If you know how to do a Bicep curl properly, I can later tell you how many sets and reps to do and you'll get amazing gains. If you don't know how to do a Bicep curl properly, I can tell you sets and reps, but my estimate of how many you need might be off because you're doing the thing wrong. And also it could be that you don't get very good results or the results that you could have got. For example, if I know you have a solid V8 engine in your car and it was built well, I can kind of tell you how to make the rest of your car, so it's a top fuel dragster like Scott the video guy drives. But if you have a situation where your engine was built wrong and malfunctioning and sucks and it's really a four cylinder and it looks like an eight cylinder, I don't know what to tell you about how to build the rest of your car. And even if I tell you all the more or less right stuff, it could be the right stuff for the wrong engine. You tell me it's a V8, but it really performs like a V6. I say, well, you got to have a car that can handle that kind of torque and I give you a heavier weight elements to construct a car from it all of a sudden. The power weight ratio is wrong. You don't need that sturdy of a car because your engine isn't even that fast or that strong run. Technique is the core foundation upon everything else. It is thus the most important. Now, if you have good technique versus bad technique, week to week to week, it doesn't make much difference in growth. You can adjust by doing more reps and more sets with bad technique. You get basically the same growth as you good with a good technique, but with fewer reps and sets, but over time, the fatigue and the muscle growth start to take off and apart from each other and bad technique catches up to you. Technique is everything because it is the first priority. The second priority, still under the emphasis or under the large control of the variable of training quality, which has two of the variables, training quality. Technique, number one within that, number two within that is an ability to have a high relative effort, which means with good technique and only with good technique, you are able to push your muscles very close to failure or to failure given the need to do so. Because if you have a really good technique, but you may land all the sets like I do because you guys know I don't train that hard, you end up not having very good results, even though your technique looks great. You're stopping so short of failure that you're not getting all of the juice squeezed out of your muscles that you could. Technique is first high ability to do relative effort if the ability to train hard in any one given set is second. If you can do those, well, she you're really off to a good start. They are the building blocks of excellent training. If you make the rest of your program and do the rest of your program with technique and the ability to train hard as a base, you're going to do real well for yourself. Next up, number two priority, is what I would call training structure. Here's some examples of what that means. The order of exercises within muscle groups should I do bench presses first or fly first, or example. The order of muscle groups within the session should I do chest first or back first or arms first, etc. The number and placement of the sessions within a given week. Monday if I do chest and triceps, when do I do chest and triceps again? Is it Tuesday, wrong answer? Is it Thursday? Much better. If we have two times a week training, of course. If you get this where to put the things, where to put the exercises properly, where to put the muscle groups properly in a session and within the week, between session, you can have a logical foundation on which to decide how many sets am I doing of everything. But if you figure out how much you're doing first, you may have to screw up your structure to fulfill an amount that doesn't make any sense. For example, you can tell yourself, well, you know, I'm going to do 30 sets of biceps per week. That could end up having a training structure that demands that you train your biceps so frequently that they don't recover or so much per every session, they do recover, but they barely grow because each session does as much damage as it causes growth, the damage recovery, taps all the growth away. Good. You guys are seeing where I'm going at this. First, we have high quality training, tiny building blocks. Every rep we do with good technique, every set we do with a higher relative effort. We take those reps and sets and insert them into logical exercises that are ordered properly within a session. Those exercises are now ordered into muscle groups that are also ordered properly within a session and the sessions are ordered properly within the context of a typical week of training. Notice, so far, I haven't said a damn thing about how many reps to do or how many sets to do. So any advice you hear on the internet of do this many reps or this many sets, pre supposes that the training quality and the training structure was at least thought through to some extent. But it doesn't presuppose that. It's not very well thought out. Lastly, and I do mean lastly, training quantity is a question that we have to answer. How much load, how much weight are we lifting, how many reps are we doing per set with good technique from earlier, with a higher relative effort in a logical weekly structure. We can now answer these questions. How many sets, especially sets per muscle group, per workout and per week. Now that we have a logical structure unto which to lay them out, we can answer these questions really well because the logical structure hymns in some of our answers. Should I do 10 sets of quads today? What are you doing tomorrow? When's your next quad workout? If it's in four days, shit, 10 sets sounds good? If it's in two days, you're not going to be recovered. So I actually cannot answer the question of quantity before you answer to me the question of your training structure. But hold on us. You said 10 sets of quads, but how was your technique and how was your relative? If your technique is spot on your relative effort is high, bro, nobody out there were covering from 10 sets of quads even a half a week. You guys have seen our videos on this channel. If you haven't checked them out, we train real people, real IP pros and all those stuff. You should do like six sets of quads. These motherfuckers barely crawl out of a workout or sore for a week. But if I know you're not training with a high level of quality, yeah, 10 sets is good. Maybe you should even do 15. But really, shouldn't. Really, you should attend to your quality first. Once you know the core of quality is there in the foundation of structures there, how much, how many reps, how much load, how many sets, is just a matter of filling in the blanks to get reasonable starting positions. Then auto regulating based on recovery and so on as an all-letter stuff. If you recovered well on time for your sessions, increase the amount of quantity. If you're having trouble recovering, keep the quantity the same. If you can't recover for sure, reduce the quantity. It's just pretty much that easy with some details in there. Now you can do this process out of order as long as at some point in your calculation of how to do your training plan, you attend to quantity, to structure, and to quality. But as far as priorities go, if you have great quality and structure, those can stay the same and quantity is easy to change. But if you have a certain given quantity that you decided you want to do and a certain given structure in which you want to do it, you may realize, for example, why I'm going to do 10 sets of quads twice a week, quantity, structure. If your quality is high as high as it should be from the start, you may not be able to do that many sets. It's too much because you're too fucking good at training. Each set is so stimulative you will never survive 10 sets twice a week. So now what do you do? If you determine your quantity first and your frequency second backwards as fuck, something like German volume training, alright, better German volume cold. Then you have to end up fucking with your quality. Somebody catches and you don't have freps on the leg press and they're like, bro, what the fuck are you trying to do 10 sets man? I've spoken twice a week. They're okay. They're supposed to fucking fail in the blanks, dummy. If I do it with good technique, I won't be able to do 10 sets. I need bad technique to survive this. You guys see what I'm going with this? Brain explosion. Alright, so you may be thinking. Alright, okay, boomer. If you tell me on the internet, I will laugh with you, not mistake. If you tell me in real life, I'm going to do jigsaw to you until you hurt badly. And then I'm going to say, what was that you said? You zumer little tick-tocker fuck. I'm kidding, I'm getting ahead of myself. How does this help me get laid? Is what you probably want to know. Though I can't get you laid because I've never been laid myself, I can absolutely try to give you some more decent examples of how this would work in the real world. If you ask as many people do in the comments section here in the YouTube videos or an Instagram or wherever you go, whoever you ask, how many sets of biceps should I be doing? Or you tell me, have done 10 sets of biceps work out. I don't see my gut growing. How many sets should I be doing? It is a question I actually cannot answer with due diligence until and unless I see your technique. And until and unless I see your relative, what am I close friends, Dr. James Hoffman, who was a sports scientist at Renaissance Parasization, he coaches a bunch of people and he has like the James squintie that he gives. Anytime people give incredible volume claims and say, oh well, like this is not working for me, I recover really easily and it's just not enough. So I do 30 sets of back per week. James gives the squint. Why? Because then he requests a video. He's got clients that people who eventually were as clients when they first started with him, this is how much I'm typically doing. He looks at those numbers and he's like, ah, interesting. Bullshit. Give me a video of you doing your set of squats. It inevitably people are going halfway down and stopping with six reps in reserve on every set. And then he has to go back to them and say, I'm not going to tell you how many sets to do until you fix your shit. And then what does that mean? He teaches them how to squat all the way down. He teaches them how to push themselves on every set. And on the sudden four sets of squats later, they thrown up blood and they're like, oh, shit. I didn't need 30 sets. Did I exactly? You don't want to be the person that asks the impossible question. The question that cannot be answered because you didn't attend to the very critical underpinning of what that answer would look like. If you want to know quantity, I got to know the quality. Very shitting algebra nonetheless makes sense. You say, hey, like how many burritos should I be eating per day? Ah, how big are the burritos? Are they a little tequila things you buy at the store? If I can 100, are they full stuff double stuff super burritos too? Big difference. Next example. If you ask about how many reps you should do on quad movements, for example, all you'll get out of me and anyone else competent is up. Some are routine five and 30 reps. And if you want to know more, we have to know your training structure. What exercises are you doing? How are you spacing out the exercises? Where in the session are they occurring? Would be kind of stupid to do sets of five to ten in the squat in most cases after like an hour of upper body work. You just two week to make use of that rep range, but you can drive metabolites so then it's so maybe not the squat. See, maybe it's leg press so your lower back can be out of the equation and then it's sets of 15 to 25. That makes sense only in context. After know the structure first, before you can give you an amount. But positive example, if I know I've seen you, I've trade with you or there are team full-romb forums that we have link in the description. And I've seen your chest work and your fucking technique is amazing. Your ultimate effort is off the fucking charts. And it was actually a gentleman I'll just call it out with him. In the team for Rumpform, his name is ETHIZI TALYIN, B.F. Francesco Lugente. I assume he does this every time he speaks. Go racism. Cultureism in any case. He has like God level technique and psychotic relative effort. If he asks me how heavy to go on chest movements and I know his structure is amazing because he's super fucking smart makes incredible training plans. It's so easy for me to be like start here and go up because I don't have to assume like well, I'm not a second. I don't have to think about what is his technique look like. How hard is he training? I know both of those so I can give him a low-while estimate of like start with two exercises and every chest. Sorry, two sets and every chest exercise and we do two exercises of chest every session as I know that you're doing two chest sessions a week. He wouldn't even answer well why so little. He knows for him is like, oh, that's actually plenty because every time he does flies, he rips apart the fucking earth trying to do flies. That good of technique and that high of her. So that's the real deal. The end of the day, do not let some features of your program like volume, fix the inadequacies of others like your techniques sucks so you have to do more volume and eventually get too fatigued and increase your problem in a vingery because you're putting a band-aid on a problem that requires a really fine tune robotic surgery and then voila once your technique is great, once you're training hard, once your structure is logical, the answer of how much should I train is really much simpler and has a known answer, or at least a known pathway to explore what that answer is. But if you're structure is a question mark or blows dick, if you're training technique and training effort is a question mark or they both blow dick, then there is no right answer that somebody can give you because the core of your program is rotten. Trying to have some features, fix the inadequacies of others in a system is like dating the same shitty people over and over again and expecting for them not to freak out at you and slam the car door in their Camero and drive away, leaving you with wilted flowers and you're pretty sundress in the middle of cold dark evening, street in mid-1980s, urban America. How's that for a fucking scene? Folks, thanks for tuning in. Questions and comments below, like share subscribe and consider a member's area as well as team full-rong. See you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. And today's quick tip is how to arrange your intro workout nutrition. Woo, very cool. Let's get into it. So first, if your workouts last less than about an hour, you probably don't need any intro workout nutrition. Outside of just being hydrated when you start to workout and staying hydrated all the way through like if you get thirsty before a leg press, you just go have a drink of water at the fountain. You are totally good to go. It's just a matter of fact that the amount of time processing the nutrients that you're taking in intra is going to be right occurring at the very tail end last several minutes and after your workout. And it's not going to help intra at all. You can't have an intra shake for short workouts, but there's just no scientifically reliable benefit I can describe to you of that occurrence. Especially if after the workout you go and you have a post workout meal within 30 minutes to an hour, you're fucking good. Now, in workouts that last one to two hours, now I won't cover up two hour plus workouts, that's whole other day. Other thing, if you want a video that covers all that stuff, get over to the YouTube channel, a lack of heat endurance, or I'm a fellow RP coworker and super PhD in Sport Physiology, Sport Forum is Alex Dr. Alex Harrison. He runs that him and Michelle Hal. Just Michelle Hal was a PhD yet. Yeah, she has a master's degree for sure. She maybe has a PhD already in any case. Super sharp folks, they'll take care of your advanced nutrition needs, if you're on the endurance side and have two, three, four hour long rides and all that stuff. Definitely go check them out. For one to two hour long workouts, sometimes your own saying like training legs can take fucking an hour and 55 minutes. Absolutely. Here are some recommendations you could choose to use and I'll loop back at the end of what the could part is about. First, you want to sip on the shake that you make or shake plural because it might be enough to lose volume to separate into two containers. During your whole workout, after every exercise had a couple of steps you'd get thirsty takes some steps. And you basically should aim to finish the shake kind of like right to where you finish the workout. If it's a bit much, you can finish like half the shake or two thirds of the shake and then crush the last half or one third as soon as the workout is over. What goes in the shake? Obviously water. I like to make mine with vodka as the base. Don't try that at home. Way protein because it is probably the most quick digesting and anabolic and anti-canabolic protein they've ever made. You'll see the carbohydrates, gatorade, powerade. You could buy them in powders or the actual drinks. Daxedros, the targo, shut the shit like that. Next, if targo, I take that back. I think it's actually a slow digesting carbohydrates or just dextros and gatorades and stuff like that. And a pinch of salt. The salt actually speeds up the rehydration process. It takes all those nutrients, including most importantly water. And it shels them across the intestinal barrier faster, which is really good. Now ratios in that shake will talk about total amounts in a second, but basically for every one gram of protein, you add in roughly two to four grams of additional high glycine and carbohydrate. More carbs for longer workouts and higher volume workouts. So if you have a workout that takes two hours, but it's a lot of resting and just some power lifts, then you can do even a one to one ratio of protein and carbs and maybe one to two. If you have a workout that's two hours of like your fucking moving the whole time, sweating fucking bullets, then one to four, even is a totally fine ratio for protein and carbohydrate. And this is really important. For every 80 grams, I can there's other ways to say this, fuck it, I'll say it another way. For every eight grams of the carbs plus protein that you have, you count those in grams, that you put in the shake, you need to use 100 milliliters of water. So for every 80 grams of protein plus carbs, which is more realistic measurement, you have 1,000 milliliters of water. The reason for this is that a 8% solution seems to be the solution roughly that gets quickest from your digestive tract, into your bloodstream to actually give you those nutrients in an optimally rehydrate you as well. So you give that some thought. You're gonna say when you make this, you're gonna be like, that's a lot of fluid, but remember, you don't go to the drinking fountain anymore. You just have the shake, when these little guys right here, a little milk jug type dish, and the shake is the only thing you go to. That's it, which is kind of sweet because then you get adequately hydrated and adequately re-supplied with nutrients at the same time. Awesome. A mount wise, how much do you put in the shake? Well, generally you take your daily protein and take, and you divide it by about six to eight. That's the amount of protein that goes in that shake, and the carbs are, as you saw, from the other slide, layered on top of that. They have a multiple. So if you know the protein, the multiple tells you the carbs are ready. So for example, if you have a 200 gram daily protein and take, cause you wait 200 pounds or something like that, then a typical shake of yours can have something like 25 grams of weight protein in it, and have 50 to 100 grams of carbohydrates. And will be something like, she was like a leader and a half of fluid. That's a lot, that's fucking serious. It's not the end of the world, they're not gonna like, you know, piss your palms halfway through the workout, but it absolutely will go a long way towards rehydrating it. So point number three, this shake should provide you with all of your nutrition and hydration needs for the entire workout. But, and a couple of pointers. First, it won't make really any difference in performance for the first hour, because you're running on stored fuel already. It'll make a small but meaningful difference in the second hour and the way it does this, is it usually makes you, allows you to finish much stronger than usual. Like you guys know, you do your whole back workout and you get to buy a substance, you're like, ah, I don't wanna be here. If you have an intro shake that whole time and sip on it, you get to buy a substance and you're like, ah, okay, oh, weird, this is going on better than usual. It's not that late in the day, but it's definitely something you can notice. Under the hood, that shake will reduce muscle breakdown, theoretically at least, metabolism, and set you up for an abilism. After the workout, you finish your shake. You go home when you have your post workout meal and you've completely seamlessly sealed off the pre-intra and post workout window to be as anabolic and anti-cantabolic as possible. Voila, you did the thing. Now here's the thing, lastly. Do you not wanna do this and think it's superfluous? Bro, I usually don't do the shit. I've been doing it more recently, not I have to gain mass now, I've got a mass phase. And if I just don't eat during my workout, it's two hours spent not eating and I've eaten so much after and the rest of the time that I wanna throw up. So I'm doing this now just to get it more calories. It absolutely works. It's just a little bit of extra, a just a bit of an extra boost, like a percent or something to your overall games, over your fucking career. If you want the boost and you like having the shake, go for it. If you don't and you think inter-workout nutrition is absolutely sensationalized to be more important than it really is, you're correct. Now, do you like this video? Well, hold on a sec, there's more. Like subscribe to all that stuff. Two other offers for you. We have a members section, we pay like five bucks a month, and you get at least one extra super in-depth educational and or training video per week, real nerd level stuff. If you wanna learn learn for real for real, more more, is there an echo? Then you can subscribe to that. And if you're the extra super high level nerd, it wants to do things like talk to other people in a private forum, ask for feedback on your physique and feedback on what you should be doing next. Be offered a crap load of, I was gonna say, free, included programming and diet advice and get to ask myself, Jared Feather, and a bunch of other highly qualified people questions, they're answered live in the group once a week. Team full-round forum, that's where you wanna be, link in the description, give it some thought, give any questions about the offerings, shoot them below, we'll try to answer the comments. Lastly, maybe not today, but sometime this week, get out of the world, get into the sun, take off all of your clothes and just be. My favorite place to this is the local Walmart parking lot. I'll see you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here from NSUPSP, I'm here with five rules of failure training. Not training to be a failure, which if I had to write a book on or make a video about, what do I know a lot about that? Thanks for nothing, dad. But training to muscular failure in the gym and here are the rules. There are five of them. Certainly there are way more, somewhere. But if you're curious about more in-depth intellectual content, our member section has really nerdy videos in it. And our team full-rom subscription, which is like 30 bucks a month, has you can ask me any question you want, and I answer a via video service, sort of guaranteed. And there's tons of other members in the form, and they're all super smart, most of them are smarter than me. It's kind of unfortunate, and I call the smart ones. If you want that stuff, give the links in the description to go and sign up. But here we go. Anyway, the video, as long as the ads here will ever get. Maybe a little longer. Well one, is that failure training is generally not for beginners. But I want to go to failure. Mom, hold on, son, let me explain. Beginners tend to break down another technique as the equals to failure. That exposes them to a high-lir likelihood of injury. Not a big concern, because they're too weak to really hurt themselves. It does teach them the technique wrong, and then you have to unlearn the bad technique later. Evidence, typical Jim Bro, bench press technique. You know what I do? You suck. What the hell are you doing? Third day here, and here's what my bench looks like, and then later it's the third year. And the bench looks the same, because they never learn the technique properly, because they're always just grinding a failure all the time. So don't do that. And the good news is that you're not missing out on any gains, because beginners grow so quickly and get strong so quickly, they don't even need to get remotely close to failure. Three reps away from failure or four ups away is as close to the other thing to get for their optimum results with no technique trade-offs. That's really good. Rule number two is you do not generally do pretty much any failure training in strength training. For hypertrophy from muscle size, yes, occasionally, once a month or so going to failure is probably pretty good and has to use some strength training. Almost nobody goes to failure, because you're literally planning to misleift. And strength training weights are so heavy and a little bit more dangerous. Failing with a lift is a bad news for either you or your spotters or some combination of you drop the barn yourself and your spotters. Three people die. It's terrible. It's on the news. If you want to be in the news for something like that, you've got to be in news for some Florida man shit. Man bites alligator. The greater suits Supreme Court hearing tomorrow. Number three rule number three. As you go closer to failure, your number one goal, number one goal should be preserving your excellent technique. You're doing the curl with the biceps, not the whole body. Rule two, or sorry, priority one makes it in and up. This is rule three. Number one, that's technique as you get close to failure. Part of your number two, goal is hard as you can. Notice, priority one is good technique. Never, ever push harder than your technique allows. And if with the perfect technique, the weights back going up any movement will stick, you hit failure. And if you could, she may get a little bit, could you get another rep? Yes. And other people in the gym may kind of does a rep, but remember, God looks down on all of her reps. And if you do a rep like that, he'll actually look down on it. She like appears out in a word. Oh God. He drops your feet. He's like, yeah, here me, the fuck was that. And you're like, it was a curl. He's like, zap, motherfucker of lightning, bitch. All the way down to hell, motherfucker. And then hell, Satan's like, like, my rep hack squats. He's like, no, in any case, technique is first and then push. Big, big rule. Rule number four is account for the fatigue, training to failure beats you up way more, physically, and mentally. So if you want a program to design and what you go to failure often, because it's fine, it's fine. I agree. Then make sure instead of doing like six sets of squats per workout, like you normally would, if you were a couple of upshired failure, drop it down like four squats, that's a workout. You make sure you don't get way too overreached too much fatigue too soon. And then you can survive to lift another week, another week, and that's how progress occurs. No one week ever makes a break to shit. Four, six weeks at a time, that is where games come from. Lastly, rule number five, make sure you're still counting stuff so that you progress occurs. And if it doesn't, you de-load, take an easy week of rest, come back, and ease back into the training. A lot of people who go all the way to failure all the time, there's no even count reps anymore. I've seen this a whole bunch, which is cool. It's a great, very effective set. But then how do you know next week, if you've gotten weaker or stronger, you go to your dark place, you go to failure. Still don't count reps. Sometimes people wouldn't even care about the load. You'll do drop sets, whether it was put the pin, and I don't know, is that a 50 or 40 there's smudge on there who knows. How do you tell weeks later, months later, as you've gotten bigger and stronger? Because if you have some element of your program that's off your diet is off, your supplementation is off, your sleeping poorly, go to failure all the time. You may not even be able to tell, am I progressing? Because you never count reps. You know how much weight you're lifting, but it could be like you're putting more weight on all the time, but your reps are declining subtly, and you can't even tell. You might have been maintaining for six months and you just didn't even know it. So even if you go to failure, just put your fucking camera up there. I phone press record, count back the reps later, at least count one top set for all of your sessions for the whole week or the whole month, and then you can be like, oh, wow, I actually am gaining more reps over time. And if you're not, take a deal load, wash out, repeat, and if you really aren't gaining anymore, stop training for failure all the time, train like a smarter person. Start at three reps in a reserve or so at the beginning of a mess of cycle. All the way, take one week to do all the failure training, want to write before you do. In any case, folks, like, comment, subscribe. We have a member section, team full ROM, and no matter what anyone tells you, you have a certain beauty to you. That's right you. Nobody could ever take away. Don't you ever forget that. We'll see you next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike Israel here for Renaissance Pairization. I have a question for you. Should you train your abs? Oh, wait, go ahead. Do you have your answer yet? Oh, well, let's see if you're right. Here we go. Should you be training your abs? What a strange question. But I promise it's a real question. It's a decades-old controversy. What gets you abs? And by abs, I mean, visible abs that moment when you pull your t-shirt off at the beach and that girl you've always liked, but never really said much to you. She's like, I really care and she'll cancel you later. And she's like, oh my God, you're abs. Scott. Scott's a bit of a guy. What do you like? You're in this fantasy now, enjoy. We all want this eventuality for ourselves. So how the fuck do we get abs? Well, is it diet? A lot of people say it is. Is it cardio? Does it cardio help to get abs? All the runners have abs? Is it supplements? For sure, all abs are made by Trann and Var and what are the reddit supplements do we know? Cland. Yes, there's just thread andvar and cland bro. I don't know why, but every time I read ignorant, reddit comments about steroids from people of Cleaver and every use them, I give them an Eastern European accent. And I don't know, I'm also Eastern Europeans. So I guess I can't possibly really offend anyone in that sort of way. But I find Eastern Europeans to be generally awesome people, but every now and again, just really Kurt, look up that word, really brutal. But just say stuff. And it sounds mean. And I'm just being honest, but it comes off all wrong. So in any case, is it training? Should be, right? I mean, train every other muscle. How do you get abs? You train your abs. Everyone knows that or do they. Now, if we say it's training, we can ask the next question of how does the training actually impact your abs? For example, does the training make them bigger and make them pop out more? Does the training make them more defined? Like, can you do a bunch of crunches and get more strations and separations in your abs? Maybe. Does it reduce the size of your midsection? A lot of people are like, oh man, I got a big old belly. I need to train abs. I wonder how that would work. You could be asking yourself quite rightly. And if you're going to train abs, in order to get any of those above things, how would you do it? Because there's a lot of different type of abs training. And well, probably if we're interested in any philosophy, not all of it can be equally effective. And we should be prepared for the eventuality that some of it could be very ineffective all together. Lots to unpack here. Let's get started. So first of all, how to get abs? Let's answer that first. First of all, you already won everyone, literally everyone has abs already. The thing is, they're just covered by a small to medium to extreme in a large layer of body fat. That's the real problem. So if you reduce the fat that covers your abs, you will have abs, which means that the ultimate way to get abs in the by far most straightforward is to impose a calorie deficit that results from a combination of decreasing your dietary intake and potentially increasing your physical activity. That's abs. That's how come marathon runners have abs. Most of them don't train abs at all. They're not even sure why the fuck they have abs. But they do a crazy amount of physical activity and they can't possibly eat enough food to make up for it. So they stay at 6% body fat around and they all have six packs. They're not doing planks or other bullshit they're not in the gym training. They're abs. They're sure how not taking steroids to make their abs bigger. They have abs because they're so lean and fat it's so fundamentally getting abs can requires zero abs training in almost every case. However, sometimes once you remove most of the fat from your midsection and your abs become visible, you realize that your abs are as smooth. They're just tiny tiny little abs and that means that the muscles themselves are necessarily tiny but they're just not very thick. So you could have this like more feminine looking midsection where someone's like, yeah, I guess you have the abs but they don't really pop. They're not gnarly. And that's a thing but it's totally fixable with ab growth training. So at this point we realize it's not a body fat issue. We're very lean. We can see low veins and we can see our abs but they don't pop out as much. That is fixable with hypertrophy training for your ab musculature which we'll talk about later. How to do exactly. All right. Now, so that's how to get abs. Primarily through L, or creating a calorie deficit and getting lean. Training only modifies higher abs look. Everyone has them already. Here's what ab training will not do for you. Get the myths slaying sword out, myth dragons flying up, cutting their heads off. You ever think like when a night kills a dragon, the dragon has maybe like a family back home and a pop a dragon you killed mama dragon and she's flying around and you're a night and everyone, you know, the princess gives you a blow job. Whatever else happens after you kill a dragon and you're sent all comfortable and pretty in the castle. And I did a good thing. And then you know, it's getting pretty late and pop a dragon back at the house. It's like gee, Janice, the mama dragon's been gone for a long time. He starts to worry. The kids are like, hop, hop, hop, where is my mind? They have their 1930s. Well, hat on and one of them has a peg leg, peg leg dragon. You're sitting in the castle post blow job from the queen and a princess at the same time. That's right. That's an adult video. It's fucked up. I don't think about that ship. In any case, here's what ab training will not do for you. Will not. It will not spot reduce your fat. Right now, hold on. Just connect it to all of the humans on earth and say, Cerebro, but people always ask me why the hell is your head look like that. No, it's not growth hormone abuse. Actually, don't abuse hormone. I take it intelligently and I had a big head before I ever took it. But it is actually because I have a cerebral for backspin installed in my skull, and clearly it's bigger than it made my head look funny. So I can actually connect with all people at the same time right now. I'm find out what all of you're doing. Hey, hey, Jim, stop jacking off. I see you doing that shit. All right. Back to everyone else. Right now, thousands of people as I connect to the ultraverse are doing millions of fucking crunches to try to burn the fat off of their abs. It doesn't work. The research on what's called spot reduction is does local activity. Of the muscle does that activity burn the fat close to that muscle shows us two things. One, it's very difficult to measure at that final level of precision. So we're not really sure. But that already tells us how little of that is going on that we can barely measure the shit. Some of the studies do show that there is a spot reduction effect. But it is so fucking teeny you would have to do kind of an infinity number of crunches in order to get your abs to show if you just didn't reduce your overall level of body fat. And because you're overall level of body fat matters so much more, you can make it so much easier on yourself and just not do the fucking crunches at all and just do a calorie deficit. So if you're looking for spot reduction, if you're looking to get abs by just doing a million crunches, you are doing something that is some combination of or some the truth of it is either just doesn't do anything at all to burn the local fat or it does so little you'll never fucking notice. That sucks. Just don't do that. So if people say oh man I got to burn the fat off my abs. How do I do it? What's your answer to tell them in the break room of work you go? Just lose fat all over, lose 10 pounds and you'll see your abs better. Do I go about the abs and cells? Go fat will come off. Mostly of where you put the fat on. And if you have a lot of Android obesity you put a lot of fat on your abs and upper body. When you do a calorie deficit that's where it's going to come off of. It's amazing how that works. Second thing training will not change the shape or symmetry of your abs. Some of us we get abs myself included or slightly misaligned. In my case, insanely misaligned. You say fuck how good how do I get them to line against I have a lacool model six pack. That ship is fucking sailed for you. And unless we have an intense genomic medicine in the next 10 to 50 years or insane reconstructive surgery your abs are just going to look like they look except leaner or not leaner bigger or not bigger. Lastly, this is a really big one tied into the first one of spot reduction. Training your abs does not make your waist any smaller. And as a matter of fact, if you make your abs really muscular, it makes your waist bigger. A lot of power lifters have big waist because they're putting a shit load of strain on their abs. And a lot of figure girls, for example, who come from gymnastics backgrounds have been doing tons of ab and oblique training that they had to for gymnastics and a lot of gymnastics means require that anyway. When they reduce their gymnastics move involvement or stop training their oblique entirely, their waist actually shrink because the muscles on the side of your waist got smaller. There's no amount of training to those muscles to make them bigger. That can make them smaller. Thus, if you want a smaller, shape, or tiny, or little waist training your abs has didly dick to do with that. It might piss you training abs. No, training away. Just understand where you're getting. And I'll tell you this. This is kind of a mini tragedy. First world tragedy. Right now, again, connecting to the altruvers, seeing what everyone's thinking and feeling. Jim, really. You're jacking off again. Back to everyone else. Folks, tons of people right now are training their abs for either spot reducing fat or for making their waist smaller. And sometimes even to change the shape and symmetry of their abs all the same time. And those three things just don't fucking work. So stop doing them because you're probably not into doing shet the desert work or works really poorly. So just imposing a calorie deficit and not training abs as much or hardly at all is probably a much better way to go for almost everyone. It's just just the reality of the matter. Now, if we do want to train abs, what will ab training actually do for us? First thing is if you train your abs for endurance, like with planks and a bunch of other stuff, it will make your abs more endurance. You will have better ab endurance. Why? I don't know why you would want more ab endurance. Maybe you cramped during sex or some shit like that. But anytime people are doing planks and stuff like that in the gym, they're just working on isometric ab endurance. Most people do planks in the gym because they just nominally understand that that trains their abs somehow. They probably think it spot reduces fat. And it's something the personal trainer group fitness instructor told them to do. And they suffer through it and they get a little indoor fin high and they feel like they've accomplished something. That's as deep as that thinking ever goes. People do not get ripped abs from doing fucking planks. Planks are cool for their own, shit and for getting in general isometric ab endurance but not much other than that. Second thing, training your abs especially in a hypertrophic way which we'll talk about last thing just a bit can make your abs physically bigger. That means they pop out more at higher body fats and really cool when they pop through clothes. So if you're into the following look, you could train your abs for a long time to get them bigger. When you put on your under armor, right, some shit like that in the gym or in a locker room or whatever the fucking wear that shit out in the street. Maybe not. You guys know that NFL like running back look where they have the under armor on the combine and they're just relaxed that you can see their abs popping through their fucking clothes. That looks sweet. And then exactly what everyone's into. I don't know how many girls are like, oh my god, as the abs are popping out. Maybe some like it. Maybe some don't. But at the end of the day, if you want that look, yeah, training your abs for growth will get you that look. Cool look. It's not the same as like a men's physique competitor where in a shirt or under armor, you wouldn't be able to tell that they have abs when they take them off or like, holy fuck in their waist is really tiny. It's different because remember NFL folks, they don't have super tiny waist. They have big popping abs. It's a trade off which one you want more, right? So that's definitely a thing that you can get from ab training. And lastly, you can make your abs a lot stronger. If your abs are a limiting factor in your strength in some way, like for Brazilian Gigietsu or M&A or something like sitting up from guard, if you had stronger abs, you could do it faster and more more forcefully than training an abs for strength is totally thing that works. But remember having strong abs is not the same thing as having a rip midsection. Currently, I don't have a rip midsection. It's fine to have abs in some mains and if it's not exactly the most rip thing. But it's a big fucking midsection. And it's strongest fuck, but nobody shaken my hand for that shit. Like if I had more of a physique competitor waste or people would pay attention to my abs. But I don't and there's nothing I can do through training to get there. That's all diet and at some point also fucking genetics. So lastly, if you're going to train her abs, how do you do it properly? What does it think? If you want bigger, more exotic abs, did you train them normally like to train any other muscle group? And this must be one of the biggest myths and misconceptions in the fitness industry. If people when they train abs, they do like crunches where your whole jerk can't even do his my arms or do big. This is hard to do. Literally, my steps hitting forums pretty sweet, right? The fucking hand behind your ears crunches, you do like three sets of 50. Can you imagine doing that in front of like Brad Schoenfeld, top pepper trivaries, so it shouldn't be like, hey, three sets of 50 good for growth. He'd be like, not really. It's okay. Is it good for fat burning? He's like, uh huh, okay. Why am I doing this? You should have thought about that before he started doing the shit. But what I just described is like 90% of the ab training that occurs in the entire world. Most people do their ab training unresisted. If you wanted the biggest pecks of all time, would you just do push-ups? That's nonsense. But people who want their abs developed highly, they just do bodyweight ab stuff. That's fucking stupid. How do you train abs? What does that mean to train normally? Normally means like any other muscle group. So for example, you choose exercises that are high stimulus and a low level of fatigue. They don't bother a hips or your spine. You can get a good full range of motion out of them and really burns. They'll really find a living fuck out of your abs. He gets them sore all that other stuff. So first, second, you know, full range of motion for sets of five to 30 reps per set. Standard loading rate, which means that after a while, you won't be able to use your body anymore so you have to load it. Which means you do reps and reserve. Three reps and reserve. Then two reps and reserve. They're one then zero, then d-load. Standard basal cycle progression. Don't go to failure every time. Like, everyone seems to think it's important with abs and you do load and rep progressions. So get on a really good full range of motion. Ab machine and start sets of 10 to 20. Ad sets as you recover better, add load and add reps over time and your abs will grow. It's like every other muscle. Again, a lot of people say, oh, I train my abs every day or every time I train. Why do you train your biceps or quads every time you train that fucking stupid? You train a muscle hard. You rest for a while and you train it again. You can logically set up a program that trains them every day. Then might not be the answer. On average, generally, we recommend that you train every muscle between two and four times per week. So abs fall into two and four times per week. That means they're going to have a minimum effect of volume, a maximum recovery volume, all that stuff. It's just seen as every other muscle group. The problem is almost nobody trains their abs the same as every other muscle group. Because abs training is just full of so much myth and bullshinery and dhmasri that it's hard to get to the actually logically to what it is that we're trying to do. And for trying to elicit hypertrophy, like, wouldn't we do that the same way we do with every other muscle? If you want a real good guidance on what that other means, that stuff means there's an ab hypertrophy guide, just type that in or type in central hub hypertrophy guide abs, RP, injury, or google machine. And then voila, there's a whole article about how to train abs, peer, disation, progression, exercises, rep ranges, all that stuff. Just like every other muscle with its own quarks. Fundamentally, it's just growth training. It's something you're already fair familiar with doing. So when someone asks you how do you train abs, think about how you train your side delts or your biceps or your calves and that's damn near the same shit, just the exercises you're different. Number two, if you want stronger abs, drum roll. It's got the video that I can you do a drum roll sound from me here. Train them for sets of three to six repetitions with heavy loading. But if that strength training, your abs are flucking muscle. You train them for strength, they can train them in the opposite strength. Well, Jesus isn't six, three to six reps, like really low for the abs. Uh huh. Did you say you want a strength, right? You didn't say you wanted to arbitrarily do sets of 10 to 20. Train them for strength, they're trained for strength. That's just how it works. Now all of a sudden you might not be interested in training after strength, that looks really painful. But it's just, it's what we're talking about. Third, sport endurance. If you want your abs to be more endurance for sport, I would say try sport specific stuff first. Okay. So exercises that mimic your sport at least to some extent, I'll probably really good for sport endurance stuff. So for example, if you're training your abs for endurance and Brazilian jujitsu, you can do some planks and stuff like that. But what you can also do is you say, okay, where is my ab and endurance really giving up? Well, when I'm sort of crouched and sitting in guard, my shoulders and not laying back, because I don't just want to get past, I'm up with my hands like this. You're basically sitting on your butt, your feet are either on the ground, your feet are up. You're only sitting on your butt, your shoulders are off the ground. You have to sit in this curl that posture. And at some point after two minutes, you're trying to prevent guard passes. You're like, I can't do this. My abs are tired. Well, guess what? In your ab training, if you want to train for endurance, after all the rolling and training has been done for the day or some other day of the week, take like some kind of weight or put on a weight vest or take a like some kind of dumbbell, put it right here, curl up and sit there for as long as you can for a typical roll amount and then increase the weight on the with a dumbbell or increase the amount of time you can sit in that crunch position, even pretend to move a little bit every now and again and your ab insurance will come up in a sports specific way in that position that you want to yes, training in a different positions like plates, etc., will raise your general ab endurance, but you probably want a little bit more specific ab endurance because that actually replicates which you're doing in the sport. You don't want to replicate it exactly, but something more like that. Right? And then, lastly, if you want to get your abs crisp, if you want to get them to show, if you want random women to come up to you in the street and be like excuse me, sir, I don't even need to bother you. I know with your friends right now and you're probably under doing important things, but can I just take the time to your sport chocolate on your abs and lick them off like a fucking pathetic animal that I am because when I see a man's abs like that, I get weak in the knees and I have to lick. If you want that sort of thing to happen to you daily, then calorie deficit, oh and calorie deficit, calorie deficit, calorie deficit, sign me out and see you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pairdization. And today's video is about reasons you may not want to copy a pro bodybuilder or the Jack guy your gym can be a stand in because there could be some interesting confounding factors that won't get you exactly as Jack as that person doing whatever it is they're doing. So here's kind of the situation. You see a pro on Instagram on video in your gym in your bedroom. Oh, hello sir. Man. Or just somebody really jacked that you're like, wow, I love to look like that. Doing something. Let's say in this instance, just as an example, it's their turning their palms in on cable flies at the top. Palms in. Okay. You are tempted to conclude as I am tempted to conclude that that's how he got that big. And I'm going to do that shit and get big just like him. And then someone's like, Hey, why do you put your palms in like that? cable flies where you put in it up. You're like man, look, and I saw a pro doing it and he was huge. I don't damn. And then your buddies doing it never wants to do it. Okay. That may actually be the case. The pro may be onto something really interesting and voila, you're doing it. And then you're onto some good stuff. Maybe. But consider a few things here. There. First, the only thing proven by the observation of this pro doing this technique in a special way is that someone can do this thing and have success at the same time. Right. It's unlikely that you'll see a pro doing heroin and math at the same time and lying under an LA overpass for three days on end. And be like, Wow, that guy's jacked away. He's passed out on this overpass. I'm trying to start doing math and heroin pass out and overpass. It's clear that's going your packs. Nobody's doing that. But we know that people who do this with their cable flies are also jacked. We don't know for sure that that's causing the jackness. Right. Why don't we know that that's causing jackness? And obviously for those of you who know some formal statistics and probabilistic reasoning, you know, a psychological fallacy to conclude that because this thing correlates. It's also a cause. But we can give you more counter examples just to fill the brain with good easy ways to understand all out. This could have totally nothing to do it because when you see your prone real life and you watch them do the weird exercise and you watch the packstations going to shit's out to here. It's tough to not be like, man, fuck that. That is nothing to do with it. You just want to be like, why am I not doing that? I should be copying everything this man is doing even if I get some stuff wrong. Hold on a second. First, it could be something less optimal. But the pro is doing it to manage injury. I have done lifting that looks a little weird on occasion. I no longer are trauma track for bench pressing much even though you should be doing that. You know, weird old pecking your ease that means if I flare my shoulders out more, they get less irritated. I'm literally doing it in a suboptim wave because I've been hurt before. You know, the pro might be like, man, I get a much better pack contraction. If my keep my palms down and not put him in like this, but like my shit is just too fucked up. Man, I have three surgeries here five here. And if I do this, it takes the tension off. I get as good of a workout, but it is what it is. Remember, you never talk this person. You just saw him do it. The supplies to all social media, TikTok and Instagram, fucks, why? Swipe, fuck. And every other platform, you don't, there's no rationale when you look at the caption. It's exponsored by Dildo Labs and you're like, that does take something. So that's it. Like, you're just going off of what you see, you they could be hurt and doing something purposefully less optimal to just not hurt the area anymore. It's not growing more muscle. It's growing less. Next thing, it could work well for that person's anthropometry. The way they're body just designed, but not work well for you. You could try it and be like, I don't know. Feels like shit. Maybe they have longer arms, maybe they have shorter arms, maybe they have wider packs, maybe their packs in certain ways years don't. And that that exercise variation works really well for them. But for you, it is neutral or backwards where it actually works worse for you. And there's tons and tons of ways in which this happens. But remember, you're not that pro. And that means that you may not be able to just get a direct transfer like that. Third thing is it could just be one of the many ways to get the same results. Right. That specific technique may make no overall notable difference in muscle size. So even if you talk to the pro for relatively intelligent, really, do why do you do up like this with a shit? He could be like, yeah, it's just something I use every now and again for variation. And they're like, this is what makes you big, right? And they're like, no, no, I don't know. I think doing it this way or that way or this way is going to make you a equivalently big. If you're tired of doing it this way that way, you might want to do something new. I don't think this is the way the thing that gets you big. Actually, I have one of my buddies. He used to troll people who said like into the way you get a big bench press as rear delts. And the best way to train rear delts is like do band pull parts. He'd be like, oh, I got you. How much do I have to band pull apart to bench 600 pounds? And they're like, well, there's no answer to that question. He's like, that's right. Because that is a very wrong way to look at Benching. There's no amount of rear delts is going to get you push to center pound. They actually just need big, chestural tries up. So the thing you think may be the thing, like, oh, he doesn't this way. That's why he's jacked. Like, no, it's just another way of moving up and down. Like a pro could have a white stance on a hack squat or a narrow stance. Heres feet could be pointed out or forward. And you'd be like, huh, that's what it is. That's how you get big quads. You actually talk to them or you talk to a sport scientist. And they're like, it's just up and down of the quads and the are stance matters almost not at all. As you remember, the direct literature as limited as it is shows that leg press stance width basically makes no difference for how much quad hypertrophy or stimulus you get in the short term. Probably hits your adctors more if you go wider. But really, if you get the same knee bend, the quads kind of do the same work. So you don't want to like invest your time and doing this quirky bullshit. If it just gives you the same results, at the very least, you want to be kind of aware and intellectual level that like, this isn't the thing that's going to get you all trajectory. Because it would suck. You be looking like, oh, just fucking thing. I'm going to do this for a couple of weeks. I mean, just fucking shredded jack and finally asked that. That one girl has love forever. And a couple weeks later, like, I look the same. What the fuck is going on? Well, you should have known that maybe it could just make you the same. No real difference there. Another thing is it could be worse for results. So point number four or D here is this could be suboptimal. It could fuck your joints more. It could cause less mass activation. It could allow for less intense peak contraction and maybe if he keeps his palms up the whole time, less stretch. And the only reason that he's jacked in a pro when he's doing it is this because he's getting big in spite of it. These are fucking monster within the same genetics and the same amount of drug use for 15 year straight. My fuck, you're going to be big bro. And none of the time you list this, that shit. That doesn't matter because maybe some of that's worse and you still do it. Like, does this happen? Yes, go Instagram, Amy Pro's training videos and they're going to be doing some dumb shit every now and again. And that, you know, like you're like, I, okay, I don't know much about training, but I know that's half of the range of motion. That's at the top end way too much weight. Maybe I need to think back instead of down. How's this even training as quads? Well, if you have unreal genetics anytime you bend your knees at all, your legs grow, then you're fucking Gucci and you know, you don't want to be learning that from somebody. So it could actually be making you worse. But in a world where he altered and stopped doing this and started doing this, he could have bigger packs himself. And then you're like, Oh, shit. Why I fucked it? I follow that guy. I remember there was a distinct thing where who, which little bridge was it? I think Eric Lillabridge, one of the best power lifters of all time. He was squatting only high bar, high bar position and power lifting. And he was squatting damn near the world record high bar. And he was like, that's how I do it. And then say much about it. And then a bunch of nuthuggers were like, Oh, man, fuck, low bar, low bar, stupid, look at Eric. He's fucking squatting high bar. He doesn't need you fucking idiots. Low bar doesn't. It's just stupid IPF rules bullshit. You can get just a strong high bar, look at him. And then over some period of time, he moved the bar down slowly, but surely actually this very, very well. And then he started squatting low bar. And after a few months, he started repeatedly breaking his own world record of the spot. That's like all the people that were like, see, it worked for him or like, Oh, oh, it doesn't work for him. This other thing worked for him. And now I feel so stupid for promoting it to myself as far as I'm concerned. So that can definitely be the thing. You lots of problems here. Lastly, it could be entirely absurd reasons that the pro was doing that. And if they simply told you, you'd be like, Oh, my God, I feel so stupid. Here's one. You see the pro doing this and you come up to him. You know, like, why are you doing this? And he's like, Yo, real talk. The lighting in this gym makes my fucking interpacks look so sweet. And you see his cross-strations, I just love it. That was doing it like this. But I couple sets like this. I love that fucking look pro. And you're like, Oh, hey, purely vanity is like, Ah, huh? Yeah, that's why I run the gym have fun. You know, I know that all these grips don't matter. So I do the one that makes my packs look cooler. And you're like, fuck, that was the reason that your chest was banging. I'm like, no, can you? And then you feel so stupid for doing it. So I'll save you all the stupidity. You don't have to feel so stupid. Just don't copy people and just leave it there. Learn how shit actually works. Stay tuned to our channel. Hit that subscribe button. Follow some other many, many sharp people in the fitness industry. Learn the principles. Learn how training works. Listen to your own body. In over time, you can take insights from people and inputs from pros. A lot of times they know their shit. And you can filter for, ah, this is probably stupid. I don't know. I'll try it, but I won't have super high hopes or ooh, that that's definitely a great idea. I can't believe I haven't thought of that. I'm gonna take that shit and integrate. Right, but you need to know stuff. You can't just copy people. It's not good enough. The ultimate example of this. See, if we can get demonetized on this shit. Yes, Johnny Sins, adult film star, can do a standing 69, right? Where the girl thing here in her shit's down there. And he's standing up and boom. But if you ever actually try that shit, no commentist if I have tried that shit before, you will realize that it is uncomfortable for everyone. Your quads start to burn and cramp. And no one actually likes doing a standing 69. And you think about it, you're like, oh yeah. He's a porn star. He's doing this for the camera. Because my fuckers get bored and jacking their shit, to just regular shit. And reality actually pleasurable sex. Or you and your partner, or in my case, for me and old Betsy here, use my girl, easy Sally, don't get jealous, right? Actual sex should be comfortable like sitting, reclining, lying down. And to be completely honest, even that's too much work. Sex is hard, box sucks. Don't have it, read religious scripture and be a good person. And I'll see you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Adassance periodization. I have a question for you. Why does Keto seem to work so well for Ray-Loss? In fact, it does. And I can think of a few reasons, and I can think of a few ways to make Keto better for yourself that if you're into it for Ray-Loss, you can get even better results with fewer downsides, fewer inconvenience. So why does Keto work so well? There are four good reasons. One is that if you switch to Keto, which means cutting out almost or pretty much all carbs, your junk food options become very reduced. And the way that most people get batter and stay batter is eat a lot of junk. Let's go through a quick list of junk. Pizza, ice cream, cookies, cakes, candies, cheeseburgers, pastas, Chinese food, soda, meat I go on, potato chips, which one of those food or food groups or food types did not have a ton of carbs in it? All of them have a ton of carbs in there. So if you say I'm Keto, when you're a regular person, most people who do Keto are just regular folks not super in lifting or anything like that, they look around the food they're allowed to eat and it turns out that none of it's very junky. And junk food isn't somehow toxic or kills you in some weird way. Some of it is some preservatives, which aren't ideal for your health, but it's a really small thing. The real kicker with junk food is it's so delicious and so packed with calories, you're going to end up eating a lot of it, and that's going to confer so many calories you're going to gain weight. You're going to eat more calories than you actually burn. But when you switch to Keto, I mean, what you eat in calories with, or what you cheat on? Chicken breast and olive oil and nuts and fatty meats and something like how much of that can you eat until you're like, man, I'm full. Because junk food is almost entirely off limits for Keto. That is one of the number one reasons why people who do Keto often get a lot of weight loss because they're able to exercise junk food, essentially completely from their diet are almost completely for months on end because it's caused number one of weight gain and failure to lose weight when it leaves, you just lose weight like crazy. Number two, some people not all get an appetite lowering effect for reducing the carbohydrates and switching to a mostly protein in that diet that's not dependably true for most people, but some people have a really awesome response. Where after a few days of eating very few carbs, they actually just not that hungry. Combine that lack of hunger with the fact that Keto doesn't exactly offer the tasty as junk food choices and you're just eating less food and eating less food is absolutely the number one key ingredient to almost every fat loss diet that's ever success. So if you are one of these people, you can have great success with Keto and almost everyone that has great success with Keto and don't worry they'll be in the comment section telling us about how great Keto isn't that hard. Those are the people who have the genetics that take their appetite and reduce it when they switch to Keto. Some people it just makes them extra fucking hungry. They'll never see them spousing Keto because they failed every time they try it. So if that isn't effect for you, my recommendation is give it a week or two. In the first week you could be kind of recovering from your carb withdrawal and you just want more but after a week or two you might get a very lower appetite sensation and that's really awesome. Use that to keep your calories low and constrain, eat Keto and you'll lose a bunch of weight. If after a few weeks you're still raven us, uh maybe it's not free. Next, Keto can be really straightforward because it could strains your choices. You end up having just dependable choices throughout the day that you can lean into and eat and that regularity that consistency prescribes a similar amount of calories over each day and if you're at a deficit which you probably are on Keto because it's really hard to eat enough calories when you take out carbs entirely, you end up being successful. So you might have a Keto bar or two, you eat for breakfast, you might have some eggs and chicken, you eat for lunch, you might have some lean steak and some veggies and some mushrooms and something you eat for dinner and that's kind of like what you stick to. You're not apt to go and try to find all kinds of tasty crazy foods of pasta this and macaroni that because that's all off limits and because Keto can be really simple to stick to and if you want a snack, you know, you eat some nuts or something like that because Keto is so straightforward and the food choices are so limited, you can make a Keto plant for yourself that's actually really just not complicated and because of stock complicated you can hear to it better because you adhere to it better, you get the results for the entire time that you're doing it. Lastly, point number four, there is a sense in which Keto works well to lose weight which is really fat. But Keto also has this magical effect of getting right into a diet because it lowers your body water tremendously. Keto hydrates plus the salt intake that is occurring anytime you eat junk food, those two things together bring in tons of water with them, carbs and salt and when you start doing keto, you lose your intramuscular carbohydrate stores, they get severely reduced, severely substantially, it's not a bad thing and your salt intake generally also falls considerably. What ends up happening is you lose five, 10, sometimes 15 pounds in the first week or two, mostly off of body water reducing. That obviously is going to come back when you start eating carbs and salt and regular food again, but that initial huge loss of weight can act as a mega inspiration and potentiator for you mentally to keep going because if you start a diet, you lose like a pound in the first week and then you gain half pound on the second, you could be like that fuck this, I'm out. But if you start a diet and after eight days you've lost nine pounds, you're like, bro, what? I'm in and then the next eight weeks you might not lose nine pounds every week, you'll probably lose more like one or two, but because you start it off big and then you kept going, kept going, kept going, kept going, then initial inspiration just leaves you all the way through, then you get the mini gains on the way and it's just more than enough. So it's a cool situation, it's not a bad thing, you just have to understand that it's not all fat at first, don't expect it to continue to lose five pounds every week or something like that. Now, if you want the optimum results for muscle growth, for muscle retention, for your best lean physique, for energy, for athletic performance, doing a more balanced diet that has enough carbs to do what you need to do with your body at the highest level, a diet like the RP diet coach app can prescribe to you, you will get better results than with keto. But if you respond well to keto, if you get that appetite suppression effect, if you actually can do keto in a way that's sustainable, which means you have good food choices around that you can make around keto, you can do keto and it works absolutely great. It's not ideal by a small few percentage points, but as long as you're not trying to compete in bodybuilding or something or be the best athlete, you can be or have the rip-most chiseled physique, keto is a great option if it works for you. But if it does it work for you, remember it's not magical. If you try to cut the carbs and it never works, you get crazy hungry, you get crazy low energy, there's no appetite suppression on the ever and the food choice restrictions are really limiting and you hate your life, stop trying keto, at least for a bit. Try something like the RP diet coach app, try something to just regular eating good, high quality healthy food, low-recalorie calorie, increased your activity, and you're going to get amazing results because keto isn't for everyone, but for the people it works at works great. What do you get when PhD sports scientists collaborate with pro bodybuilders? The most effective muscle growth training app ever made. Get yours now. One last thing you're going to try keto, there are two stumbling blocks in keto, one is the people who don't do the diet properly or who it's not for and they fail at the very beginning first two weeks. The next stumbling block in the last one with keto is when people exit out the other end. Unless you're saying to yourself you're never going to eat pizza and pasta and rice and cookies ever again, in which in that case, like good job you're joined to cult and they don't let you have any fun because only God is fun now and God's just a nickname for the leader. Oddly has a lot of female companions that are under age, typical cultured. My man. No wait wait, that's bad. If you're not an occult, you probably plan on after you keto diet returning back to a more normal. It may be lower carb. It may be more healthy, but some normal food. The problem is is if you have a slice of pizza after a keto diet, the carbs taste so good you end up having tons of slices. You get bloated, you get a headache, you gain 10 pounds, you're pissed and you're like what the fuck? Then you go back to keto but then you're hungry again and you're like, oh this transition phase and am I really just going to live the rest of my life in keto? It's a bad deal. The way to exit keto is strategic. Here's how you would do it. First, when you do keto, make sure you have plenty of lean proteins, plenty of healthy fats and I recommend always, or almost always in every meal, a good serving of green veggies. They don't have a lot of calories, they have barely an carbohydrate at all. The fiber and the micro nutrients are awesome. If you don't have those in the year you should, but if you don't, layer them in first for a week or two. After the end of your keto diet, when you lost as much weight as you think you could lose for that period and it's really getting annoying and tiring and hard. The next few weeks, layer fruits in just fresh fruit. They have very few carbs. The carbs are almost always in the same reload glycine mix so they don't crazy spike your blood sugar. You're not going to get this insane lack of energy and leth energy that you get to have when carbs re-enter the system. You're going to be buzzing everything's going to be feeling great. If that feels good for a week or two or three, try to re-introduce small amounts of grains. Some whole grain pasta, some brown rice, some keen wasmship like that, some beans. Once you've got veggies in there and you've got fruit in there in most meals of the day and some grains, man you're not keto anymore, you're eating plenty of carbohydrates, raise the amounts of those as you see fit to fit your lifestyle choices, your preferences, and make sure your body weight is stable and all of a sudden you're successfully out here off-wrapped from keto and everything's going just fine and now you're eating carbs but they're healthy carbs. That right there should form the core of your diet from there out out and then if you want to eat some BS on the weekend some pizza some chips great but now because you're used to carbs it's not going to cause you to gain a ton of pounds just a few pounds and then after half a few days of the next week when you're eating clean again it goes back to normal and everything's great and then if you ever want to try keto again to lose some more weight well you take out the grains you take out the fruits you leave in the veggies you start keto a few weeks later you feel amazing again keto low appetite you do that for another eight to ten weeks you get all your results and then you ease back out with veggies fruits whole grains and then normal foods and that ease out period and total can be a week and it can be four weeks long only continue to add in carbs as the carbs you have in make you feel good and energetic and calm and at peace in her digestion feels good don't just like add in veggies one day next day add in fruits next day add in whole grains the day after I have all pizza that's too fast ease in take your time and you can ease into keto and ease out of keto and then keto works really well and if it works for you it's super recommended it's super healthy it's super awesome and I encourage you best results folks thank you so much for tuning in see you next time

I drink a bit here and there in college to overcome social anxiety, which I think a lot of people in college have. It messed me up like crazy. I would start to have a hangover during the drinking. And what I get from drinking at this point is mostly blurred vision and extra stupidity. I want to have fun, but I really just kind of have blind. You can drink. But you have to know that it's going to cost you potential muscle growth. And so for me, drinking is done in almost all cases. But what about for you? Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. And I want to tell you about why I quit alcohol for good. Now, here's the thing. I am going to be yucking some yum here. And I don't like doing that. I hate morally proselytizing people. If you want life advice and morality discussions, I have a whole different channel just called Mike Israttel, that has literally like almost everything is about life advice and morality stuff. So give that a look. This is not the channel for that. So before we dive into drinking and why I don't really drink anymore, I just want to make super clear that if you're drinking in your staying safe, God bless you. In moderation, drinking is not a huge deal. It can be super fun. So just in rock-on. But let me tell you why I personally really just don't drink anymore. Here's my story with drinking. Scott is going to be tough. I thought I was ready, but here we go. I can still remember the cold crisp of the biting air that night and the eye to a 78-free weight. He was the off-rounder. She was my everything, my world, and I held her now lifeless body in my arms. God trod! I screamed out into the ether in pure agony, but she was no longer. Just 18 shots of Jack Daniels Scott in one hour. Usually had me feeling mighty fine and didn't appear my driving, but on the way back home that night from our date, I'll go all finally caught up. You guys I swirved into a passing semi-truck in it, ripped the entire passenger side of the car out. Ending girl true life and my drinking. For good. Psych! Hey, do you guys think anyone actually bought that shit? Who's named Gertrude any more nowadays? Scott, how can you pull off as a girl the name Gertrude? You just have to be mega hot, right? Oh, really Scott, you would turn down an ultra hot Gertrude? Sorry, Gerti. It's not in 1942 anymore. In any case, maybe that was a little too much. Here's the real story of why I gave up alcohol and it's significantly more lame. So I thought I'd give you guys a little bit of a fun little aside here. I drink a bit here and there in college every few months I would decide to drink with my friends to overcome social anxiety, which I think a lot of people in college have. But as I got older and I got more experience talking to people and especially coaching and especially teaching and then eventually on the seminar travel circuit and definitely on a social media, YouTube and Instagram and stuff like that, public speaking is a thing that you do it enough. You just lose your social anxiety almost all together. So legitimately, I just don't get social anxiety anymore. And at the same time during that process of my social anxiety reducing massively, my drinking, I would do less and less. And when you do something less and less, you tend to suck at it more. A lot of people, Scott, I'm sure you've heard this before. People are like, man, I'm just too old. I can't handle alcohol like I used to and for me, I have a hypothesis. Almost every single time it is not a factor of age, it's just your out of practice. Because when you're in college, you are a f***ing alcoholic. And so you handle your drinks really well. The 55 year old guy at the Russian Party Scott, he's been drinking his whole life. He handled alcohol better than you would ever believe. And he's really old. But how is that possible? Because he does it a lot. You feel me? What's your opinion on that? It's not like an age thing. It's a guy. I'm just not young anymore. Like, I don't know when I was young, I had alcohol like shit. And I was still very young, but a few years later when I drank very little, I handled up even worse. Let me tell you what my alcohol experience was like more recently. When I was drinking, what I did is it messed me up like crazy. I would start to have a hangover during the drinking. I get dry mouth and headaches like while I'm out parting, which is like, what is in this supposed to happen later? And what I get from drinking at this point is mostly blurred vision and extra stupidity. Scott, did you know that those are like the first two things to go for me? Like, especially the blurred vision? Like, my vision just blur is like after two drinks. And I'm like, I feel sober, but I can't walk around anymore. I want to have fun, but I really just kind of half blind. And so I do, I used to vibe without alcohol hard, but then especially once I started taking some agglotite and then turs appetite, my hangovers in the three times that I drank on those drugs ever would last like two and a half days because the shit slows down your gastric mortality and they alcohol, poisons living out of you for longer. I was like, nah bro, we're done. And so for me drinking is done in almost all cases, but what about for you? Let's talk about the downsides of drinking to your fitness journey. You can drink, but you have to know that it's going to cost you potential muscle growth. And that's a very important phrasing. I'm going to do a Joe Biden Peterson Scott. Well, you know, I'm very particular about my words because it's important. How you say, think, is that mean, what are you? Think, it's going to happen. I don't know. It wasn't the greatest impression. In most cases, drinking will not make you lose muscle. You'll see people who drink in college and they're the same bros that look like they have tons of muscle in the gym and you're like somebody lied to me. They'll, however, drinking will let you gain less muscle. And remember, you train, getting hard and you eat right and you get plenty of sleep. You're doing so much work to gain as much muscle as you can. When you're drinking, you'll gain less. This happens, both indirectly by reducing recover and impairing sleep quality. That's really bad. And directly by reducing both testosterone and anabolic cellular pathway activity directly from the interference of alcohol. Don't worry, it gets worse because drinking has massive downsides to the fat loss process as well. Drinking makes fat gain easier and fat loss harder. It adds calories that prevent fat from being burned because alcohol cuts in line into the fat utilization process ahead of fats. So let's say you ate 50 grams of fat in a meal. And typically, it would get burned off over the course of several hours to keep your body functioning. Then you drink alcohol as well. The alcohol cuts in line for that fat and just starts getting burned off for energy. And then hours later, you've burned off all the alcohol, but the 50 grams of fat is not just sitting around for no reason. It's going to be stored away as body fat. And that's one of the main ways in which alcohol makes you fatter or prevents you from losing fat. It also messes with sleep quality and quantity, which really hurts fat loss like crazy and study after study. And to make a bonus round feature, it makes the chances that you'll crave high calorie, junk food, excessively, way higher. Scott, what's it like to follow a diet when you're super drunk? I mean, impossible, really. You imagine you drink a ton with your buddies and you get home and you heat up like a broccoli and chicken meal and like you just want to talk about like, and like the, the, what you don't realize is the drinks themselves even out of so day. Yeah, it's like almost impossible to die at the drink. Yes. You have like three drinks for like, oh, that was half of my calories for the day. Yes. Yes. Terrible. Now, it does help drinking does help with socializing. Right? Right? Padme and Anakin meme. Maybe? Let's find out. So don't get me wrong. A good buzz can make you float around the party like a sauce nut butterfly 100%. But alcohol has some downsides to socialization. It can occasionally make you say some audacious shit and misread social interactions. You can see this at every bar in America. It radically degrades your intelligence while you're drunk, which in more intellectual discussions, and darling fancy cocktail parties. Oh, what do you think about Elon Musk's push to increase compute hardware? Quite audacious in this investment period. Yes, and you're like, I want to throw up. It isn't exactly thin. So it brings in the interaction down a notch. It can also make a lot of folks kind of rude and a bit more confrontational. Scott, remember that one almost bar fight you got into? Not on your own accord. Someone's trying to start shit with you. I do. Right, too. Some people just shouldn't be drinking, I guess. Now, that person for sure. That person for sure. Basically, Scott and his buddies are standing around the bar. And this guy just randomly started to talk to them and just start to talk and shit. And just trying to get at it. And I was not there. That's for the best. Because you know me, man. I see red and you just don't want to give me that. I'll be threatened to throw us out the second story window that we were standing here. Yeah, wow. Wow. Yeah, I would say all kinds of shit like really. The mechanics of that explain them to me. You're going to pick me up. Scott was he enormous and super jacked and an MMA fighter. Yeah, they never really are, huh? So if you're drunk, other drunk people seem like what they're saying is so funny and cool. But if you're sober or just not as drunk, man, oh, drunk people can come off really dumb and not funny. Scott, when's the last time you've been stoned sober around really drunk people? It's awful. It's awful, right? You're like, whoa, this is the worst. And they're like having the time of their life, but you're like, you guys are saying like three words a minute, this is terrible. So yes, drinking can be fun, but you have to ask yourself, is it your best vibe in the answer, maybe yes? The answer, maybe no. So why I quit drinking for good is that for me, the lack of any more social upside really and the major muscle and fat dynamic downsides keep me from drinking outside of special and usually really regrettable occasions. And every time I drink, I'm like, this is a mistake I shouldn't have done. I can vibe drug free, I can vibe on weed, I can vibe on trumes, I can vibe on acid baby, I've actually never tried acid before, but you get it, not alcohol. Here's the thing, if you don't drink, it's overrated, don't bother. If you do drink, just know the trade-offs, try to drink a bit less and get more out of being buzzed versus drunk AF. When you're drinking, in the process of drinking, you already buzzed, it's so easy to fall into the trap of thinking that the more you drink, the more fun you'll have, but usually fun tops out at a moderate buzz of about three to five drinks for many people, two to three drinks for girls. And after that, you're just having a worse time, but probably not aware of it. Scott, is that kind of your shit when you go out with friends and drink like three to five drink situation, when's the last time you had like seven drinks in a night? I can't remember. Right. It's like, what about in college? When's the last time you didn't have seven drinks exactly? Yeah. Two to three times a week. Yeah. Shoot for the buzz, not for being sloppy, because sloppy could be fun on your head, but your friends are probably sick and tired of you. Give it some thought, if you're drinking, love and respect, be safe, definitely don't drive or operate, have a machinery, if you're not drinking, amazing. You're doing your body, your mind, and your muscles, an awesome Alrighty, that's been my sermon. See you guys next time, but drunk. Peace.

But a lot of times, man, I'll give you that ego shit where women are not as in a mystical straight up and certainly not in that way as expressed in the gym and then just oftentimes can just be better coached. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. And today's topic is male versus female training differences. How does training work differently? Specifically for size and strength between males and females. Now, I've never met female in real life. Joss bread a lot of books about them. So this is all theoretical. But we will see what we can do. And I think we have a total of 11 differences that I could come up with. Certainly there are a few others. I think these are the main ones. And the design of this talk is sort of to give you some perspective on, again, in the real world, how do differences actually reflect different programming requirements, different abilities and different recommendations for females versus males. So almost the ideal target audience for this. There's like you, Mr. Hubby who writes your wife's training program and she comes back through to the gym. If you know this video back to front after it's done, you could just do a lot better of a job programming for your wife. Does she inevitably starts to push even your boundaries and all of a sudden you don't know who's the man anymore. And you're like, hey, Karen, can you watch the dishes tonight? She's like, no, Frank, you're going to watch the dishes. And you're like, yes, man. And then sorry, but don't watch videos like this. You won't make your wife too jack and too strong to control. Anyway, wives, girlfriends, all jokes, let's get to it. So number one difference, these are not ranked or we're important, certainly think just a list. Intensely handling, which means that females can usually do more reps with any given percentage of the one-rette max. So if you throw 80% of one RM on the bar for 100 males versus 100 females, females and tell them to crank out a few more of a need two to four reps with that 80% of one RM, then the males would, which is kind of interesting, these that if you go on percentage programs for males and females, you know, programs that I got, do 82.5% or 3 by 3. For females, this often leaves them further away from failure than with the males, making the program more relatively intense, relatively effortful for males, and could throw some things off. It's just something to consider. And interestingly enough, females take less of a beating set to set from high intensities. So for example, you take the average 100 average males, 100 average females that are in the jam training regularly. And if you get the males in and do, you know, six sets of four, six sets of five in the squat, gee, by the end, the males are going to be doing very little weight. They're going to be really, really beat up, just all over. It's when it, when it's terrible, terrible amount of fatigue imposed. But females will be able to kind of keep doing sets of five and maybe drop to four by the last one, often with the same weight, they can just handle that fatigue way better. So that's definitely something to keep in mind. If you're designing programs with the intent to push both males and females as far as possible, one thing that you could keep in mind the rest of this video should have said this first is if you have a female training partner in your self-mail or vice versa, these are all things to keep in mind. So you can change the programs a little bit of the margin still do a lot of the same training, but understand how to adjust to make sure the training is good for everyone. You don't want someone being overtrained, someone being under trained. You want to make a little tiny adjustments to make the best for both. Next, rest times. Female, typically, recover much faster between sets. So if you're programming for someone and you're doing something that's like, oh, yeah, three minutes rest, like a lot of women will rest 45 seconds, be completely recovered on all four factors. The muscle itself can do more than five reps the cardio is no longer limiting. They're not even out of breath anymore. They feel strongly feel ready to go. Center just draw good. So technically, by our four factor, rest time checklist, they're already good to go 45 seconds in and they spend another couple of minutes just kind of like, looking around and then they say, should I'm red at like, hey, you know, like my program is like boring after rest a lot. I can't relate whether you're thinking you need the rest just be patient and it's cool, comment to make toolman and red it to help her psychologically get through training, but another thing you could say is hey, like, you know, maybe as soon as you're ready to go, you can just go and thus you don't have to be in the gym for a minute. So that's really cool. The big part of that whole thing is that female on red it. That's never happened. Come on now. Scott, the video guy, do females go on red it? Scott has biologically a female as well. All right. So another thing is if you train with a woman on the rest time staying in your training partner, you might have a situation where she every now and again goes two sets for your one. Like my wife and I we train on occasion together. Like we go on vacations. We'll just go kind of like set for set and a lot of times she's like, are you ready? I'm like, she's like, I'll just do another set and then rest and then you can go and I'm like, yes, please, for love got. So that's another handy thing to try out. Next up per session volumes females can do volumes within a single session. A single workout that would crush most men, right? That doesn't mean per muscle group. Typically anywhere between 10 to 12, 10 to 15 sets per muscle group per sessions, probably the best for females as well. You don't want to go over that. That's high end for both males and females. But the total session volume, the total number of exercises and muscle groups, the female, can train in the gym and not leak into junk volume, is actually much higher than that of a males and certainly my experience and the literature can confirm this as well. So what ends up happening is if you're writing a workout for a female and you're like, here's three exercises and you got to do this advanced muscle group split coming to the gym six times a week and she doesn't three exercises, each with eight sets or whatever and she's like, so can you just stay here and do more and you're like, a way sister, you need rest like, no false just does not need rest. On the other hand, if you take a female program and apply to a male, about the 40th working set later, you're going to be vomiting blood in the bathroom and can't see anymore. And your girlfriends, like, hey, you set up, we got 10 more fucking exercises to do now, yeah, this is crazy. So just remember that females can handle more. They can just keep being productive in the gym for, I don't know, typical males, some somewhere between 20 and 25 sets per session for a pretty strong person is like, that's it. That's all you can do. 20 and 25 working sets per session. This is even mad at the muscle group, much after that point. It's all downhill after that. You should probably do another session, whereas if you're female at 30 to 35, or even more sets can totally be done by female in many cases and they're not even overly fatigued at the end and they're still having productive sets. So definitely something to keep in mind them. Number four difference is in weekly frequencies, typically females can recover faster and more completely in less time. And thus are able to productively have a higher training frequency than males. It's not a night or day difference. It's a little bit subtle, but nonetheless, I would say a good rule of thumb to use is to assume one more frequency per muscle group for females than males as a good place to start the program and then auto-regulate from there. See how things respond. So for example, if a good bench press program is two times a week benching for a male, a female bench press program could probably start at three times a week benching and the female would recover very well and not spend a lot of downtime like, okay, completely recovered. I'm totally ready to go. It's Tuesday, but I don't venture again until Thursday or Friday, like I'm just doing tomorrow and then doing it again Friday. So it's one of these things where if you're training females, that'll make sure to interest first their sessions such that the frequency is maybe one more time per muscle group than a male counterpart would have and then it tends to make the program work a little bit better for females. Number five difference is in accumulation length. I would say there's about a week difference on average that I've seen sometimes even two. So if after four weeks of progressively harder training, the average male needs a dealod, call it four to eight. After five to ten weeks, the average female needs a dealod. So if you have a female training partner, it's week five and week six is dealod. You could be like, damn, girl, can't wait for that dealod. She's like, I could just keep training. You're like, hell, women can just fucking keep going and gee, whiz, there's a sex joke in there somewhere. I've never really had the sex in real life. Let's go to the video guy. Is having sex for longer, good? No, it's a race. It is a race. Is that what you have all those trophies in your room? My, my man. It's, you know, it's about getting there quick in any case. So if you're programming for females, or as I like to call them sisters in steel versus brothers in the higher, of course, standard moment. Nature just know that you can tack on an extra week or two to your assumed periodization of paradigm for them for the mess of cycle. And they're probably going to be good to go. And it's not just probably good to go. It's better than that because yeah, they could do load pretty often with their male counterparts, but then they're like, um, not so much wasting week with a quick of crammed in more productive training before taking a break. Right? It's like if you're like a really productive employee at your job and you're just like working crazy on this project, it's Friday morning and you're looking like, oh my god, I'm going to finish just by the weekend. It's going to be great. And your boss comes in and he's like, all right, all right, check. Let's go to lunch. I'm taking everyone to early lunch and then you guys get the day off and you're like, what? I was going to finish the work. I was like, ah, we'll get it next Monday. It's all right. Yeah, you got people that really talented productive. You just leave them and fuck alone in office and make great things. That's how Mr. Nick Shaw CEO of RP keeps me in an office and says, one day, I'll see the sun. He promises me that the sun is very bright. It's like a star, but bigger he says, I don't know. I just go to work. In any case, same idea with females, we were to have de-load every fourth week like a standard all-powerful programs, for example, if they're like totally good to go for four or five or six weeks before an eating a de-load. So make sure to keep that mind. Next is axial and systemic fatigue costs are lower for females, all right. On average, do variety of different factors by the way. Well, really beginning into factors here, much is another discussion. But this is the in-practice differences that you'll see in real life. So things like squats overhead presses, dead lifts, fat rotors, females can do a lot of those, more than males, more sets per week than males, and not have to pay this insanely burdensome axial and systemic fatigue costs that just being beat to shit. It doesn't only suit many squats and ventures and dead's in cleans. You can do an a program as a male until your body just collapses on you. You can't get out of bed. For females, they can do a lot of hard core shit and stimulate up. This is totally fine. I'm doing great. And the great thing about these exercises is females is we get to in a bit a little bit more resistant to hypertrophy. They don't gain as much muscle as males do. But luckily, they can use much more raw stimulus magnitude, high movements, like barbell rows, like pull ups, like squats, like overhead presses, et cetera. Intimitably males would have to incorporate more isolation moves after some compounds, more machine and seated moves, less raw stimulus magnitude, so I have to do a few more sets and focus on my muscle connection a bit. I don't want to say cheap their way to gains, but an navigate around this insane fatigue caused by this very effective, but very effective, very teagantricizes for females. The justice effective relatively speaking, but less fatiguing. So you'll see a lot of programs that you could design and are designed well for females, which you would read it. You're like, that's no way anybody can actually do this. It says 10 sets of squats, five by four sets of stiff leg and deadlift, five by four sets of overhead press. I would just be dead at this point. You see a woman do it. You're like, I guess, I guess there she goes. And after every 45 seconds rush, she's like, I feel great. Let's do it again. All right, very good. 45 seconds are resting. If you're great to do it again, sounds like it's got the video guy. Tam on folks, look it up in the dictionary. If you can read, good God. All right. So if you're programming for females and a female has weak point of hamstrings, glutes or shoulders or whatever, feel free to scoot in a bit more of those rostimulus insane compound heavy barbell movements because you might need them to help her grow, but also because she can handle it. And with males, don't try that shit. You're going to kill somebody. All right. Next up is relative efforts. So so far, all these have kind of been like, but if female advantages so to speak, like you just do more, they're just kind of better. This advantage coming up, number seven, you're relative effort. Females on average, you're not pushed themselves psychologically as hard on any given set as males do. I just won't go as close to their actual technical failure point and misconstruo their failure point as much earlier than it actually is not a ton earlier, but notably enough different for males where it's relatively obvious if you've been in a gym a few times. And this can be remediated in many women not all to a large extent, sometimes a total extent where they're caught right up to the males or even go beyond, but sometimes at least a bit of the way through, this can be remediated through coaching and through self work. The coaching part is they have another female coach, let's pretend, with them that's been around the block that's trained fucking hard and it can be like, hey, Stacy, how many reps and reserves at last set? Stacy's like, two, be like, well, shit, how many reps do you 12? Yeah, start another set. Stacy gets the 12 looks over and the female coach is like, two more, she's like, do more, shut up. She does it, she's like, oh my god, I could do it. She just two more after that. Oh my god, it was four hour the whole time. Well now you learn, now next time when you doubt yourself that it's almost close to failure, do a couple more reps. If you're female listening to this, I'm likely we do have one and a half females as our audience, then push yourself a little further maybe. Unless you got it all that'll end up here and then you don't need that shit. Speaking of dialing, and then I said, self work, inner self work, that's, you know, you can be coached to do a lot of things. Someone else present there can push you and you can sort of let them be kind of like a hero vessel for their information and executive decision making, but after they're gone and you're training by yourself, you're like, yeah, when no one pushes me, I just do back to what I normally do. So you can meditate on this a little bit, especially in the gym as a female and tell yourself, you know, I know that I'm capable of more. And I know that maybe genetically because I'm female, I'm not advantage to just fall into being a psycho and doing more. So I'm going to try to push myself a little bit out of my comfort zone each time, try to see, you know, how how rare find the air is up there in failure world, failure world. It's going to be an amusement park, which your entire life is videoed in front of you and to realize how much of a fucking failure you are. Fuck you, Dad. In any case, if you do some thinking about this as a female, you can realize I may be able to push harder and you can discover you can and it's super fucking empowering. So that's just on there to consider. It doesn't need to be admitted to be addressed. So if you happen to be a modern day feminist, sweet and you're a calcentrant in any accusation of gender-based differences and you're like, no way, women work just as hard. Do you have a gambit for you? Do are typically males or females more compassionate? Are typically males or females better with children, especially young children? Who makes a better kindergarten teacher on average, a male or a male? It can simply be a start to get ridiculous as obvious there are gender differences. And they're totally cool. We're just doing that different. There's no better words. It's just different. Some people say, well, women can be just as tough as men. It's toughness, like, the best thing in the world is like Albert Einstein known for his toughness, like this ridiculous. Just tons of other great things you can be. Toughness, just the stupid male version of seeing the world. So if you're cool with understanding that some people are different, even forget gender for a second. Some people just don't push as hard as others. You boy right here, I fake all my shit. Everybody knows I don't go to failure. I think that's all nine R. R. You're some self-work. I go to seminar. I feel like I'm not family in all as well. So it's just something to think about for yourself and push yourself as hard as you can and understand that if you're female, you may be encountering some kind of guardrails that you can break through potentially. In any case, some of this, if you fix it, can really adjust all the other factors we talked about earlier. So for example, one of the reasons that females typically are able to do set after set after set of high intensity work, better than males, is because their relative effort isn't as high. So actually, there are saving a lot on the tank that they might need to be consciously aware of. So if you get a female and slowly over, if you get a female, might of course on how to get female. If you are the position of coaching a female and over the six months or so, you work collaborative with her and she ends up becoming like a fucking demon woman, Wonder Woman type shit and really knowing how to push yourself, her ability to crank out set after set after set heavy might decline. Who is a shit? Do we break her? No, you turned her, we're efforts more effective per set, which means her total volumes can come down, the use of higher SM movements can come down and her training can just a little bit start to look a little bit more male-like simply because the reason all half of those female adjustments are made is because that relative effort is lower. So if the relative effort comes up, a lot of the other female training stuff will come up as well. Some stuff probably won't change much, accumulation to de-load paradigms don't change much because after a few days off, doesn't really matter how hard females work to just heal faster than men, so there's some stuff that doesn't change, but on average it makes the training a little bit more similar between the two genders or sexes. I've never had anyone co-generally described to me the difference you know, it's too, but more I say the more I'll get canceled by either alt-right-and-cells or SQW and saying people. Hello YouTube. Number eight, technique and trainability, back to female advantage, so to speak. Generally speaking, females have better technique to begin with. You can show off female how to do a technique, because okay, and she just does the thing right the first time and with men, you show them how to do it, and they're like, oh, sweet, and instantly they're, I was going to say AI, but they're natural intelligence processors, I had it. How do I change this movement while learning it to something stupid or more egotistical? Like, I bet I can do this and not have to work as hard, but also hurt my back. So a lot of times women are just more trainable, they're more coachable, they take coaching cues better a lot of the time. You know, Jared, not in the channel of trained lots of female, very high level athletes, and we can't try to hip-tilt like this, Mark, okay, got it, and they try to fix it right away, whereas from men to a give, but like the way I've learned it's shut up, bro, on the fucker you don't know shit, you can barely read, do what we say, just kidding, I'm a stay everybody, but a lot of times men will give you that ego shit where women are not as egotistical straight up, and certainly not in that way as expressing the gym, and they just oftentimes can just be better coached. What do you get when PhD sports scientists collaborate with pro bodybuilders? The most effective muscle growth training app ever made. Get yours now. Another thing is a women naturally and with, especially with coaching, can learn to prioritize their technique more than the I need more reps and more weight on the bar and all costs kind of shit with a men tend to do. So if you coach a female and somehow, you know, you go go to Mars, for example, for six months, you leave her with some programs. You know, sorry, there's no video on Mars, zoom doesn't go that far, and you come back and you watch her training technique and you'll be like, damn Betsy, apparently left in 1950s. That's really good. It's almost exactly what we talked about and some of it even looks better. You leave gym Bob alone with that shit. You're going to be partial reping everything, Eve Bowing. It's going to be like, he turned into Kiriako's grizzly when you were fucking gone. If you don't know who that is, Google, not at work, not at work. At work, people might misunderstand. It's not pornography. Well, it really kind of is just Google it. Not at work. Let me know what you think. Comment below. Kiriako's grizzly is going to be a Scott is going to be a video about male for three or two changes and 90% of the comments are Kiriako's grizzly references. Do you know who that is? Google, what are you doing? Let me know when you're done, Google. The S. Very large, very muscular, very fat and very hairy. He's like the father I never had. In any case, females who go off, plan less often, they're just better to coach in many ways. So this is like a really good thing. It's a cool thing. As far as how to work with people, I guess the advice here is opposite. If you're typically used to working with females as a coach and you start working with some males, you could be like, wow, what the fuck is this guy doing? He's debating me on shit. He's doing everything wrong. He's super interested in just PR and with fucktack meat. So you might have to realign and be a bit more patient with males. That has certainly been my experience. All right. Next difference, this one is more fundamental. And nonetheless, something you're consider. Initial size difference. Females are significantly smaller, especially in the upper body, even lower body as well. Even relative to their body weight, to males. They tend to have more body fat, less muscle. So they start out with less muscle. And the rate of gains, initially that they make, is typically about the same as males. But remember, it's a rate of gains based on percentage. So if you started a hundred pounds of muscle and you gain, you know, half a percent a week for the first, whatever number of weeks. And if you start at a hundred fifty pounds of muscle and you gain half a percent, you're actually gaining less if you start out smaller and more if you start out bigger. You're saying like to bridge get richer, you know, hashtag, orxism. That's definitely a joke. So there have been studies that have shown that at least for some time, females at least make the same relative gain. Now what you're about to hear, I have to caveat is a personal hypothesis of mine. But nonetheless, I think it might carry some weight. I do believe that the available evidence on where people end up at the end of their careers. And we have shit load of data on that because there's like a trillion, you know, power lift, or spotty load of all kinds of stuff. I think at some point, pass the beginner stage, females, rate of gains do reduce. And they actually gain slower than males. Otherwise, you know, there's lots of males that started out between a hundred and hundred and twenty pounds and a forty pounds when they started lifting. I'm one of them actually. And then they end up just getting to be 200 pounds plus, lean and fucking enormous. But for females, you almost never see that. Like a very jacked, I'd be pro bodybuilder female, weighs like 160, 170. This is the most jacked females in the world. And, you know, something else actually start out pretty fucking jacked too. So I'm inclined to believe in either this will be embarrassing later. And when I'm wrong, or the evidence will bear me out. Fellas, several years later, when people actually do the research in this directly, I think the female rate of gains flows down. And I hear how to take this. Ladies, don't compare yourself to the males. Like, oh, man, Roddy, my my my thick husband in this Roddy, not Roddy Coleman. Like, Roddy just eats whatever and he just fucking gave muscle on a hate him on a hate. It's a abs. I love him. But I love his abs too. But I hate it. You know what I mean? I can be so easy for him. It's just going to be easier for guys to get jacked. Now, if you want to close the gap a little bit, just take the same testosterone exogenously that guys produce endogenously, which will turn you into a guy in every possible respect, including clitoral enlargement. You will be getting there, hair on your face and all that ship. Oh fuck that. So yeah, you're going to have a tougher time gaining or another better way to see it. Probably is like your gains will be a little slower, which is totally cool because you know what I'm saying. Namaste again in your own ring. And comparing yourself as a female to other males is about as pointless as comparing yourself as any human to any other human being. You just got to do the best to put your half. So that's all safe for that. Number 11 is related. I guess I said both of the number 10 and 11 at the same time. So rate of gains, females have probably lower. And for a variety of reasons, mostly because I think rate of gains caps off towards the end, females cannot get as big or as strong as males, even if they start from the same place on average, put them the same amount of work. Let me tell you exactly what I mean. If you find 100 males that weigh 100 pounds on average to begin with, and 100 females that weigh 100 pounds on average to begin with, and you have them in this world where they think it's the real world, but it's not just one giant sports science experiments. I'm not secretly building a machine to do this by the way. I will deny all accusations. Five or ten years later, the males will just get bigger and stronger in the females. I mean, one is that there's different genetics. And like your genes do fucking matter. I know it's crazy. And also like males have more testosterone. Do you think steroids were, of course, like well, men are kind of on steroids all the time compared to females. So it's not rocket science. And again, the thing is, as a female, you know, just understand that like shit is going to be a little bit less exciting for you on the muscle gain front. But females can still get super fucking jacked and really, really fucking strong, especially in the lower body, but they up her body too. And so really, if you're a female, one of our one and a half females that watches this channel, if you're training and you're fucking growing and you're making games, just do that. And you're going to end up being like, shitting on like 70% of the guys at the gym. And I mean, that's fucking sweet. If you want to just shoot out 100% of the guys at the gym, roll bot limbs. You didn't think I was going to say that. Why would you have biological limbs, roll bot limbs are better? And mark my words, as soon as robotic limbs are commercially available in a objectively superior to conventional limbs, goodbye arms and legs. What would it, when it's easy decision to make? In any case, few more insights and to wrap it up. First of all, all of this is meant in good faith. Gender differences are real and they're not good about. They just are. And then we take what we have, we just try to do our best with it. So I'm not trying to say like, oh, females are worse than males or males than, or worse than females. Like, being a statistical sucks. And this is the sense that it makes you make some bad decision. Sometimes as a male, being more statistical than a female. But also, ego is what pushes people forward to do crazy shifts on of which is really impressive and really great accomplishment. Everything's kind of a year in a young. So that's kind of how I mean that. Another thing is all of what I said, when I say females are better than or males are worse than or whatever, it's all statistical averages. It's two distributions are normally distributed by bell curves. And they sit like this next to each other, right? So some of that shit overlap, some doesn't. So if you have a comment in the comments, which we're always welcome and also hello to our new subscribers, if we've got any. Think we got any new subscribers today? Got the video guy? Well, we'll half the subscriber. One guy subscribed many on subscribed. But that's it. We got to look. We got to look. If you want to comment and say something like, well, I know this girl that's strong in all the guys like sweet. You can stats 101. There's going to be, you know, for every guy that thinks he's strong, there's Becca Swanson, Google Becca Swanson. We are all mortals in her wake. But, you know, there's also Brian Shaw. So like, yeah, it's all averages. So if there are exceptions, that's totally normal. Exceptions are expected. But averages are important because they allow you to have more realistic expectations of the world. And lastly, because females have a tougher time gaining muscle, et cetera, a bit of a curse slower, it's just unlikely that if you're female, you're going to become a mass monster by accident. You know what I'm saying? If you were to about being a mass monster as a lady, you might want to take a few fewer trips to McDonald's night. That's how that mass really gets going. JK, it's all love. A yo girl. If you have some McDonald's picking up a shake and come back to my crib, I'm married. We could have a, what's that call Scott's video guy with another person comes in? Manage it. Twa. Yo, Scott, are you French? We. No, I said you, not we. In any case, all right, folks, get out there, go mango. You young kids and you're fun that you'll have all the genders mixed together. And I'll lastly, last thing, go to France. Get you a ticket to Paris one way because you'll figure it out. Climb the I filth tower, so to speak. Maybe the a spoke in the I filth tower. I'll never forget that. Thing that happened to me. I agreed to everything. That's how I remember that. See you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike Isrtle here for Renaissance periodization G. That's a whole lot of words to say, myoreps are a training modality that works really well for hypertrophy, and we are going to talk about what it is, when it's a good idea to use and when it's a terrible idea to use and don't you dare use it then. You guys remember that one time when Gandalf was like, Lord of the Rings one, I think, he showed up to Showa's name's house. It's got video guy, you know this? No, not Sauron's house by the fucker, are you serious? Bilbo Baggins house. I think. And no, yeah, Frodo was coming by later, but like Bilbo was like, nah man, I feel like I'm going to take the ring and what's his name? The Magician guy was like, hell no. But basically he was like, Rubbo Baggins or whatever. She got like sort of dark and light at the same time. Yeah, right? Mushrooms are a hell of a drug. And in any case, myoreps. So how do you do myoreps? You choose generally speaking a way to you can do close to failure for between 10 and 20 reps in one set. And then you do your first working set, stopping it whatever, reps shy failure, you have for that week three, four, two, one, whatever week it is. And then as soon as you stop, you rest just long enough to let the burn dissipate. So if you're doing curls, myoreps, as long as the burn is out, as soon as the burn is out, go again. Do as many reps as you can until whatever shy of failure. Say it's you know, two RIR week, stop a two RIR. Say you got six reps, rest again, go again. You can stop doing these myoreps sets, either when you've had enough, you know, that volume is, it's enough of a stimulus, mega pump, your super tired, stop, or last case scenario, you stop when the reps drop below sets a five. So if you like rest and then you do a curl set and it's three reps, it's not stimulator enough. You're probably too fatigued, time to take a break, switch exercises, so on and so forth. All right, these work super well. Technically, yes, they are a subcategory of rest pause. But remember, rest pause is something that describes cluster sets, cluster shots, for example, it's like somebody in Olympic weightlifting will do a snatch for three reps, and then weight like 60 seconds and then do another three reps and weight 60 seconds and do another three reps, like you know, a three by three cluster or something. That is also technically rest pause, but rest pause in the area of hypertrophy, basically looks a lot like myoreps. That's why we use very effectively the gentleman invented the term. That's why we use myoreps because it's just most accurate term to use. Now, myoreps have amazing upsides, some of which include an amazing stimulus, especially to muscles that are resistant to stimuli in straight sets. Some muscles respond, they need a lot of volume, they need lots of approaches to failure in a given session, and if you just do it with straight sets, it takes you fucking forever and most of the reps are so far away from failure. This is not junk volume, it's just not the fastest, most efficient weight of a cheater goal. But some muscles are really fast to recover and really just need a lot. For example, for arms for many people, biceps, delts, traps, calves, you can myoreps living shit out of those muscles, anything short of myoreps might not be an awesome stimulus. Myoreps really check that fucking box. It is also with myoreps easy to sum up a ton of work that just seems daunting. If someone says, hey, you got to approach failure eight times through biceps, three, like fuck. But if you can do a whole bunch of that failure approaching, it will relatively fast matter. It's always fun. It's always exciting. You're always training really close to failure. After the first set, it can make something super insane, be like, oh, it's reasonable. We can actually get this done. And then lastly, it saves a crap load of time. So if you're super time constraints, myoreps are really, really good place to look. Now, there are downsides. There are distinct downsides. So when the upsides make sense, use them in training. When the downsides don't use them. So here's the first downside. We have to, when we're doing let's say myoreps curls. And we're saying, okay, soon as the burn is out of the biceps, we go again, we are assuming that all of the other three check boxes of our when how long to rest sort of algorithm are already checked, which say cardio is not a limiting factor. If you're no longer burning in your biceps, but you're breathing like that. And the next set, even if it's six reps or whatever, it's not going to be ultra productive because your cardio is probably holding it back. Or the exercise is so nervous system and so psychologically taxing, like deadlift, you just feel super weak after you've regained your, you know, your no longer have a ton of metabolites in your muscles. You just feel super destroyed that next set is going to be basically hardly anything. And if there's a synergist muscle, like if your forearms are cramping to shit, it doesn't matter what you're going to do for biceps attacks because your forearms are going to be limiting factor. So myoreps are only for exercises, which once the approximate burn of the exercise goes away of the target muscle, all of the other factors are already checked for you. And notice the examples of the four arms, the hell runs out of breath training their forearms. It's a good joke here about what you do in your own Saturday night. That's right. Saturday night, you're on your own. I know you. Biceps, like most people don't run out of air training their biceps. If you do, you need to do more cardio and eat less so you become leaner. Dells, traps, caps, notice quads are not in here. Can you do myorums for quads? Yes, but you're going to have to be much less ambitious. You need to like a set of 15 and then a set of three and then a set of two and then fuck off. Yeah, violates our five reps or so, but we just can't recover enough for that sort of thing. So myorups look a little bit different. They're limited. Myorups and squats. Well, that even looked like actual regular squats. Okay. You just set a 15 and then 10 seconds later, your quads and have any electric acid. You get under the bar. You walk it out. You do one grinder single and you throw up blood comes splurting out of your eyes and die. Some exercises, the cardio is such a limiting factor. They're so fatigued and your psychology won't feel strong after them. And there's so many synergists that need to calm down before you hit it again. Myorups are just no good for them. It's like you post a video like myorabbed ed lifts. Everyone's going to have a laugh as you die slowly on camera. But for small and muscle groups, once you can isolate a bit more, once they don't have a huge stomach demand. Mostly local one, myorups are almost ideal. And lastly, yes, you can use myorups a ton, but remember, because there's so many approaches to failure potentially, like a myorabbed set can easily have six approaches to muscular failure or close within just one myorabbed set. And you say, oh, that's not a big deal. It can be really fatigued. As long as you understand that, you can program it intelligently. But if I see you program like, okay, like, lap hold downs, myoreps, rose, myoreps, operate rose, myoreps. It's the whole program is myoreps. You may find that that burns you out and exhaust you before you can put in as much high quality work as you want. So as long as you don't use myorups and exercises, which the systemic limiters are way, way too prominent. A lot of compound multi-joint exercises, big muscle groups, deadlift squats, presses, things like that. As long as you're using them there and as long as if you use them, you don't overuse them so that they beat the shit out of you, myorups are amazing. I highly recommend them. We have other videos that talk about it and give us some examples. In the meantime, go try and out and hey, tell a friend about them. Here's my sort of job for you today. Homework, you could call it. I thought I graduated school. Here's the deal. Go through your phone book and your phone. Find a friend you haven't talked to in years. Maybe a conversation that would even be awkward. Tax them, better yet, call them. Tell them about myorups and hey, tell them doctor Mike's.

Well, I can explain to you why they trained like that, but that's not a good thing for them to do. They haven't thought it through. They're just doing it wrong. It's flat out. MUSIC Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NSW, let me ask you a question, why does it seem like pro-athletes suck at weight training? And what the hell can we get out of understanding why they seem to suck at weight training? Not the hell am I talking about? Specifically, how is it that I'm alleging they suck? Well, if you watched this channel, we've critiqued a few pro-athletes videos of them training, you know, LeBron and shit like that. And remember pro-athletes did a not weight training sport, you know? And sometimes they're training like really, really sucks. How does it suck? Well, first, a lot of crap exercise selection, a bunch of unstable BS that's not really overloading into stink muscle tons of boasts of all shit that doesn't work all that well. Then they'll have really crap technique, even though they exercise sucks, their technique sucks, really partial ranges of motion, not in the partial ranges that accentuate results, but in the ones that are just easier to do, inconsistent ranges of motion, jerkier, key kind of stuff. And maybe worst of all, an offensive of all, crap relative effort, because even if someone is weird exercises, and even though they range of motion sucks, well, that's a lot of I agree the pro is embody building, but at least those guys go hard, right? They fucking try. A lot of pro athletes, you look at their weight training, like motherfucker was that 15 reps in reserve, but the hell was going on here? Now, to be clear, not all pro athletes weight training like shit, huge fractions. I'd say vast majority of pro athletes actually trained very intelligently and very, very hard, but at least some of these terrible videos keep popping up. So what's the deal? Why isn't this happening? Let's dig in. First, I have to share with you five hypotheses as to why pro athletes train like shit, that I don't think are very likely to be true, or at least very contributory to the overall equation of why some pro athletes train very poorly with weights. Then I'll share some hypotheses that I think are more likely. So first to the unlikely ones, because a lot of times when we post these athlete critiques in the YouTube and post the videos in the comments, we get a lot of people understandably trying to make sense of the shit. And they'll throw out some hypotheses as to why they think pro athletes train like shit. Some of these, I've sort of scraped from your comments. And I love reading the comments in this kind of instance, because it's really interesting to see what people can come up with anywhere between an intelligent approach, an educated guess, to a really obvious rationalization. And some of these are spot on. We'll talk about those in a bit. Some of them, I think, are less spot on. And no offense to anyone, we just sometimes, we guess, I could be wrong about all this. Here we go. Number one, unlikely hypothesis to why these athletes don't train all that well. People will say things that could just a front for the gram. If they lose for the gram, behind closed doors, they train like fucking machines and sports scientists and East Germans or whatever. The thing is, I've been with professional athletes behind closed doors, and not just as the stripper that pops out of the cake at their various celebrations, though I have many times popped out of the cake, mostly in the nude, or in some kind of seductive or I'm tandra that then strip us disgusting. I'm grossing myself out. Imagine a knee as a stripper, maybe almost throb. Nobody ever hires me for that capacity. But for real, I've been around pro athletes. I've helped train pro athletes for a very long time. I've been a lot of places where there are pro athletes training, and I'm helping them train, or I'm just spectating, and you're actually not allowed to take out your cell phone and record them, because well, gee, they have a celebrity status to upkeep, and it would just be insane if everyone was doing that all the time. And I gotta tell you, I wish this was true. I've known some of the athletes that train like shit and behind closed doors, they train like shit. And on the gram, they train like shit. It doesn't matter, in fact, it's often the case that it's even worse than you think. For the gram, they'll do some bullshit on a boast to ball with the trainer. When the fucking cameras are not on, they'll skip sessions and just won't wait train. They're waiting training you're seeing, as maybe the first way training of the done in two months. What the fuck? Don't you do this all the time? Well, no, they're playing basketball all the time. Sometimes they hit the gym after they get a break from games that last longer than a week, and then they put it on the gram, and then I say, and then you know, hashtag hard work, gatorades my sponsor, and everyone's off to the races. The reality is I wish they were training harder in the back rooms. Usually, they don't train as hard as what you see on the video cameras, which is really fucked up, but also kind of to be expected. Number two, people will say look. They already so elite, they don't need to train hard to improve, dope, but they also have to stay on top of their game against the also very best. And many of them are up and coming, very younger, they're hungrier, and they lift hard. If you want all of the best weapons to defeat your opponents, you're not gonna just jettison of fucking really awesome one-by-quake training, willingly, if you're really logical about the show. So you can say, well, they'll already really good, why would they try to get better, because as any astute observer of sports in general understands, every year or two, the game levels up. Everyone on average gets better, and so like, like, Will Chamberlain was arguably the greatest of all time in basketball, but you put them on a court today, he's just a superstar. What does that mean just a superstar? Just one of maybe five or six guys in the league today that puts up similar numbers. How the fuck did that happen? Everybody got better over time. So by the way, Will Chamberlain absolutely loved weight training, and did it all the time. It was one of the reasons he was successful, not the major, the major, he's genetically maybe the most elite specimen of human ever born, but it's definitely as part of his equation, hilariously enough, and back then nobody in basketball really weighed trained, and so not only was he genetically gifted, but he also trained with weights. And all of a sudden he was just like, he just did whatever the fucking wanted. But nowadays, many basketball players train hard with weights, and you can't get away with the shit anymore. So it really is, if you look at it logically, then the best interest of athletes that are already really good to continue to try to get every advantage, including proper weight training. Proper weight training, proper strength and power training can improve performance for all, no matter your level. And it especially is this amazing effect of lengthening a career for a ready-a-top pro. So this reason, if this is the reason, that might be the reason athletes say to themselves and their heads are doing it, but it's not a logically thought-out reason, that's like, yeah, yeah, no, don't worry, this is why they do it. Like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, they might think that's why they do it, but that's not a really good reason. Number three, maybe they're trying to reduce injury risks, so their training will look more like rehab than strength training, because they're trying to bulletproof themselves from injury, they're not just trying to get strong. Well, here's the thing, you rehab to get better after you're hurt. You don't actually rehab to prevent injury. There's no such thing. Prehab is not a thing. It's just not. People say it's a thing, but it's not. You don't go to school anywhere to study prehab, that's nonsense. Prehab is some bullshit personal trainers and PT's made up to give themselves more of a job. Prehab is fucking full range of motion, compound lifts, in the fucking basics, like squats, benches, dead lifts, cleans, push presses, et cetera. That's what that shit is. You strength training to prevent injury, to prevent injury, just reduce the risk of injury. So they might be trying to do this, but it's not working, that's not how it works. Number four, another interesting, hypothesis is they actually are training ideally in us muscle nerds that think everyone needs to be a bodybuilder, just haven't caught on because the science is behind. These guys are ahead of the pack. Man, do I wish this was the case? I could train so much easier myself than get amazing results. It's just that everything we've seen and have to believe, including taking really good athletes and then getting them to train with way hard and seeing the same elevations in their performance, leads me to believe as a member of the scientific community that that's just fucking bullshit. I love it when science gets shit wrong, and when people in the field get shit right, yes, I'm a scientist, but also politically, I'm basically a libertarian, so I have an inherent mistrust of formal institutions and top-down expertise. I love it when some organic shit comes together, and people who really do the thing know the thing the best. But in this case, I just think one of those things, man, it's just got it wrong. And lastly, hypothesis that I think is almost nowhere is people be like, they just take steroids, man, but it's confusing because power lifters, strong men, weight lifters and bodybuilders, they take steroids too, but they go hard as fuck in the gym. Why don't they just take the steroids, they can spare themselves all this annoying gym time, and also lifting plus steroids works much better than steroids do alone, so if athletes were really intent on taking steroids, which a lot of pro athletes do, not all, but a bunch, then if they really would have had take steroids for muscle and strength and fatality and energy, like you can't all that shit from weight training too, and if you weight trained plus-tox steroids, totally fuck, you're a goddamn machine and people really have trouble stopping you. So if they're taken steroids to performance enhanced, and their lens is, I'll do whatever it takes to enhance my performance, nor fuckers would also be training really hard if they really thought the shit through. So what I'm trying to say is, for all these five things that are unlikely hypotheses, even some of the pro athletes themselves might think this is why I'm doing this, and it might be why they're doing this, but their logic doesn't make sense, so we expect it, you should be like, no, no, no, I can explain to you why they trained like that, like, oh, I can explain to you why they trained like that, but that's not a good thing for them to do. They haven't thought it through, they're just doing it wrong, flat out, no. What are the more likely hypotheses to explain at least why they're doing it, and maybe give some justification, but maybe not justification, maybe just an explanation, because there may be no justifying things that are wrong, like not training hard with weights or properly with weights. First, question, who chooses their coach and who chooses their program for weight training? Who chooses LeBron's weight training coach? Who chooses the program that they're running? LeBron does. Nine times out of ten, it's the pro athlete that makes the choice. They just don't know much about strength and conditioning. I'm fairly intelligent. If I go to buy a computer, I don't know dick about computers. And if I buy a computer, and you go, someone sees me at this fucking laptop here right now, I don't know if the fucking is Lenovo or some shit like that. And if there's videos of me, because somehow I'm famous, and people are like, oh my God, Dr. Mike uses this computer must be good, and other people are making YouTube videos, making fun of the kind of computer I use. Those people will be like, oh my God, Mike's such a clown, it would be really irrational for you to go in there comments and be like, oh, I think he knows what he's doing, because he's like a fucking trillionaire, and he has his own deriscible and a fleet of butlers. All those things are true, mind you. Except for the fact that he know what I'm doing with regards to computers, I don't know if I'm cool what I'm doing. This is a laptop that costs like $300 from shit because it works for the two things I needed to do, display power points slides and pick up the internet. That's it. So I could be so fucking wrong, just because I'm a person of some relevance in this industry, doesn't mean that in the computing industry, I know anything. And believe it or not, the athletes who are really good at their sports and they're damn good at their sports. And they don't know a lot about their sports, but weight training isn't their sports. So sometimes they make big fucking mistakes and they train like something and some persons like, that's wrong, but who in their life is gonna say that to them, they get the choice and everyone's like, LeBron, what you're doing? Don't. When other people choose that are better trained and incentivize them position to figure out how to train, you usually get better training. Here's an example. Pro athletes for agency on their own, a lot of times they do wacky shit. What about division one athletes in the United States? A lot of them get the best fucking training or really really good training. Why? Because the person that hired the strength of ignition in coach is the athletic director. And they don't have any one athlete interest in particular. They don't even lift themselves. They want to pick a strength ignition coach that is qualified based on some objective ideas. They want to school. They interned under somebody really effective and they seemingly know what they're doing. That filtering process is usually better than a pro athletes filtering process of like, who's that one guy lived with in college? And he was great and he'd like to lift a weights. He'll be my trainer. A lot of times guys legit that's how it happens with pros. Top pros is just their boy. They've known him forever. Whereas some guy they met at a cocktail party and he talked to a big game. He was really worthy and they're like, oh, you're the fucking man, let's fucking do this. And that's it. And then that guy makes a thousand dollars an hour, putting both who balls together and a fucking hopscotch pattern on the ground. So they athlete can play like, don't touch the lava. Which is legit with some pro athletes do for what they call weight training. Do you want strength coaches? Or usually fucking great. Why? Because the people picking them are athletic directors and sport coaches were even a committee with all those people together and there's people out there that know things. Know things to hire the right person. Number two. One of the number one reasons why athletes actually skimped out on weight training or do basically like, push the fight bullshit is because of fatigue conservation. Lifting makes you tired. It makes you sore and it makes you stiff for sport practice. And if you don't know modern periodization had say quite well, lifting at odd times of the week in regards to practice with no periodizing of practice, which almost nobody does, makes your practice go worse. And if practice is going worse, at my actual sport, the fuck am I gonna fuck this? Lifting bullshit are you nuts? And if I say, you know, like I suspect lifting's making me tired and sore and I stop lifting for a few weeks or I switch to just easy, boes who ball bullshit and five pound dumbbells, my short term fatigue falls, my practices that week and the week after are the best they've ever been. But less than am I gonna learn. Most athletes don't have the scientific education to take the long viewing realized, well, the lifting makes me a little bit tougher to get good practices for a few months. But then it elevates my game so much that when before important games I go easy on the lifting, I'm like, God over here, dunking on my fuckers left and right. Most, there's no reason for them to suspect that. They don't take a second third order of view of periodization. They didn't go into fucking PhD program in sports science like somebody did, am I right? Me, folks, it's all about me. I'm the fucking man. Me, he's got to video guy. Am I the fucking man or what? He's paid very well. Very well paid to say that. In any case, athletes just, they don't might not know that. Kind of shit. And so if they notice a one-to-one relationship of them lifting more and things sucking more when they lift less or easier, they suck less in the acute term that's absolutely correct. But notice that's flawed logic, but understandable logic. It's like, should you go to college to make more money? On the one hand, absolutely. Because statistically, people who go to college make way more money over their life spans than people that don't. But on the other hand, it's like, wait a minute, I'm gonna pay $80,000 or four years. Lucky if it's just that much. To make money isn't that losing money? Well, yeah. And that's a good point. So if you wanna not lose money for the next four years, definitely don't go to college. But you can see how there's no later. I'm not even, I'm mostly against college to begin with. I'm not saying colleges objectively a good idea, but if you're like a chemical engineer in training, yeah, you gotta go to college. And you gotta eat shit for a while. And then it makes itself up on the back end. Just the same way, wait training, during sometimes of the season, sometimes that during practice season, means that you won't be as fresh during practices. You would like to be. But then later when you pull back on the wait training a little bit and you do more practice or more just pull back on the wait training, you do regular practice, you end up being just superior. And so your level as a basketball player goes up, even though in a short term delay fashion, it wasn't as great as it could have been. Most athletes don't think about that, just because most people don't think about shit like that. There's probably 10 trillion things in my life where I'm not using some kind of delayed, mechanistic, periodized model. I'm just doing shit that I like. So I'm taking edibles on the weekends. And someone's like, you know that if you pre-load with XYZ, other CBN edibles, I'm like, my fuck would you go, if we can PhD in weedology get out of my face, hippie, I'm just trying to get high. I'm probably making the wrong decision, but at least you understand why I am. So acute things, one to one relationships, weight training makes you slower in the short term, and the long term faster. But if it makes you slower and more tired and more sore, a lot of athletes are like fuck that. And when they lift easy, pussy bullshed exercises, they don't get any benefit from it, but they get to check mark the green box of I trained with weights. People say that's good, and also my practice is going well. I think that's probably 90% of how that should happens. Number three, injury fears. Big weights can hurt the athlete. That's just true. And athletes accurately sense this, especially if you use shit technique and progressions that are irrational, like 45 pounds out of the bar every week, which a lot of athletes also do, and they have an experience sometimes of getting hurt from the gym, because they were so fucking bad at doing the gym, that in their own understandable ecological local space, they go, you know what, weight training gets me hurt, fuck that. I mean, they're doing easy, light bullshit that I know can't injure me or I'm not doing shit at all. The thing is, there's a dark side to that, is that proper training and proper progression actually reduces injury risk itself, and is a huge net positive to sport performance, most people don't know this. Not only does proper weight training reduce the injury risk of weight training, it reduces your injury risk in sport practice and sport play. In addition to that proper weight training has such an infinitesimally small risk of injury in the gym compared to sport practice and training, which have huge risks in almost every sport compared to weight training, it's really just not seeing this through the right lens. But again, if you're not properly trained, the weight training you do in the gym might be bad for you. Like you see some athletes like dive bomb, dentures and dive bomb squats, and you're like, who the fuck let you do that? Well, that's their understanding of a weight training is, and then they're right to say, it's fucking really injurious and maybe I shouldn't do it. To put it into more extreme way, athletes will think this through and say, like, you want me to go in the weight training weight in the weight room and go hardest, fuck, right? They're okay, right? I don't get paid to be in their mother fucker. I'm not shooting away at $10 million for your contract because I got hurt, pulled my quad in a fucking weight room with no one watching. Even if it was being Instagram, now it's extra embarrassing, fuck that. Your boy's gonna take it easy in the weight room because I get paid to play out the fucking basketball court. And it's like, you're respect. That makes sense as far as it goes, it doesn't go far enough to explain everything, but if athletes knew the everything part of this, they would all be training with modern periodization. And that brings me to my last point. There's this big dichotomy. It seems to be this kind of source spot. And it's like, look, Dr. Mike, where the fuck you got your doctorate. If you're so brain-eans shit and if all pro athletes are fucking wrong, you're right, I'm never saying that by the way, think most of them are doing a great job, but a few odd ducks are doing wacky shit. If these odd ducks happen to be fucking LeBron and fucking Tom Hardy and people that are better at their sport than I will ever be at anything else in my life, maybe I have it wrong. Maybe I'm incorrect. And that may fucking be true, however. So basically, when I say eventually, everyone will do modern periodization. You're like, shut that fuck up dude. These people left you behind. You should be doing what they're doing. Facts, I love it. However, the trend of shitty weight training or no weight training at all is actually in decline. We just see the sporadic shit, for example, I'll give this to you and you can, I can worm all this all you want on YouTube and Wikipedia. We see a lot of violence on TV, on a news media, on your Instagram feed, crazy fucking wars and all this rebels and all this kind of shit, warm on, growing, war worth three. Did you guys know that violence, per capita in human society, has been roughly in decline with EBS and flows here and there are two world wars? It's been roughly in decline for as long as much data as we have. The anthropological record is crystal clear, violence is just always in decline, un-average. And right now, we are absolutely in the most peaceful time in human history. You be like, what the fuck are you crazy? Nope, that's looking up Google, Stephen Pinker, decline of violence if you want to look on it. But otherwise, just like get the research and it's just like this not something that intelligent people who don't have a political axe to grind even debate anymore. Violence is absolutely in decline, not with EBS and flows, of course, but it's in decline. Does that mean you don't see videos of the shit or fucking crazy Instagram reels or people doing insane violence should of course not? Because we have access to six billion other people's telephones and everything is being recorded now. So you can always find examples of violence, even if it happens once at every thousand instances and it used to happen once at every 10. The thousand instances times six billion people recording, that's a lot of violence you're gonna see. Just the same way, there's tons of clown show bullshit that athletes do in the gym, even though more and more athletes are doing proper shit. But proper shit doesn't really get the Instagram clicks as much. And a lot of the athletes are trained properly. They're doing it in D1 settings where you're actually not even allowed to record athletes on a phone. And there's rules about how they can record each other and post various videos. And if you do catch them D1 training clips a lot of times, you're like, oh, so there's people doing cleans and squats and push presses. That's nice, that's good, it is. No one's really talking about them. So there's the situation in which we think that will athletes train wrong according to your doctor, my quote, I think is athletes are training more and more correctly all the time every five years. And every five years, the fraction of athletes training stupidly are not training with weights at all, falls and falls and falls. But even though we do, we do see it, that's where the illusion can come from. That trend is in decline. This is something I say all the time, because it's true NFL linemen, linemen in the national football league in the United States used to weigh about 225 pounds on average in the 1960s because it was kind of received wisdom that weight training made you slow. Weight training makes you faster. Oh and bigger and less likely to hurt and more likely to hurt others. Weight training is the drop that colors the soup of professional football in a completely different hue. It's the greatest, the weight training is the greatest thing to happen American football after helmets and pads. All right, it's the shit. What, how do we know this now? Everybody in football trains with weights. And basketball, they're still coming up a little bit. Some guys do, some guys don't. Some guys train like little pussy, some guys train like fucking animals. In the American football, almost all the guys go hard all the fucking time, because now we know that, but we didn't always. And imagine you go take a time machine back to the 60s. We talked to a pro football coach. You think that you guys in the weight room? And you're about right room. And I see, I just give a 1920s accent fuck. And we don't want our guys slow. Say, hey, it's not a game of speed, son. And you look quite faster yourself. You should put on a few pads and run a couple laps with us. You're like, right? They just didn't know, but now they know. So athletes are learning all the time. Things are getting better all the time. So it seems like shit sucks, but actually there's less than less sucky shit. It just stands up on your news feed. She's subscribed to this channel and we make fun of those people. So what we see in the clown show videos is a trend that's in decline. What do you get when PhD sports scientists collaborate with pro body builders? The most effective muscle growth training I've ever made. Get yours now. Lastly, what can you take away from this discussion? First, monkey C monkey do has serious limitations as a practical, intelligent philosophy for making yourself better at things. So before you copy pro athletes in everything they do, just think for a little bit. Because a lot of comments from people that probably don't follow the channel or subscribe to it, but they're there to hate. Because we're hating. So it's all due respect. Hey, the way, but a lot of guys are like, Tom Brady does it. It's gotta be right. He's the fucking goat. Yes, he is the greatest of all time, absolutely no contention. But the same in everything he does as ideal. I mean, in the 1930s, I guess, was the greatest baseball player of all time at the time. And he literally had hot dogs and beer before during an after-games. Is that proper sport nutrition? Fuck, no. But if we had YouTube back then, and somebody made a critique of, well, fucking the guy who invented the Krebs cycle or discovered the shit is like, makes a YouTube video about babe Ruth fucking sucking and not his nutrition. And some fucking asshole from the 1930s, but he's like, nah, same, he's the goat. And he'll count for Ticke him, because you're a little bit, you know what I'm gonna say, but there doesn't make babe Ruth right. You can't just copy people and be like, yeah, yeah, it's the beer and the hot dogs that make him good. It's not, it's God's greatest gift to a baseball bat that makes him good. And maybe he was really hardworking and maybe he was really sharp and maybe he was really athletic, but shit, shit isn't the fucking hot dogs and beer. So Tom Brady's an unbelievable football player, but it's not the boasts who balls on the vegan food that's making him good, fellas. It might even make him less good than he could be. You gotta think a little bit more critically than this person is the best, everything they're doing is correct. Bullshit, because somebody's gonna be better than them in five years, to they do better than 100% correct, how the fuck does it even make sense? Next, number two. Not everyone gets the message of the best science at the same time. You do, cause you watch the channel, ha ha, but you know, people kind of expect athletes to automatically absorb messaging like, well, let's LeBron, of course, he should know best weight training practices, like really? Why should he know them? Where he's got people around him, but we already covered that. Just as boys as some of my fuckers that are good at talking the talk. LeBron's not a sports scientist, a fuck's he's boasts all about shit. Do you guys ever hear his political views? Jesus Christ, she always held his no politics. Huh, Scott, did I just step in a whole big pile of shit? Probably. But in any case, you know, when it's a little bit outside of his expert area, look, basketball, I want to know what LeBron has to say, but at the same time, even there, he's not 100% right about the shit. Like, if I'm talking to LeBron about how to play basketball, and I'm talking to, Scott, wash, my fucker name that coach the bulls and then coach the lakers, Phil Jackson. If Phil Jackson contradicts LeBron, I kind of want to know both of them have to say, because the avant-garde of modern coaching might be somewhere between them and maybe even closer to Phil Jackson. And so we can't just assume that everyone knows all the modern shit just because they're at that elite level. There's guys at the elite level of almost every institution of every field that don't know some many things that could be better for them. For example, I'm like a pretty decent master's level national bodybuilder, like I've taken sector before, but master's at the USA is, oh, it's quite good. And I'm Dr. Mike, I should know things, right? But like my knowledge of pharmacology, especially ancillary drugs to cancel out some of the side effects of the PDs I'm taking is actually dog shit. And literally I record this after just two weeks ago, I consulted with a gentleman named Jake Benson and you should Jake, B63, I don't forget his Instagram. In any case, Jake Benson just Google and we're looking up on Instagram. He's the fucking man. He told me to take a few compounds that are totally super legal to just ancillary and they help unfuck some of the things that PDs fuck up. And I literally feel 10 times better as of two weeks ago. But I was all smart and PhD-like before this, you would think, well, if Dr. Mike doesn't take this bullshit, that means it doesn't work. No, I'm just a fucking ignorant amist. But I know a lot of things. So if me know a lot of things, these me ignorant a bunch of other shit, if you look at a pro-athlete, you know, like, well, he's got to know the best science motherfucker. It's probably better bet the other way. He doesn't know shit except this, for this. You understand, get in the head. Well, by the way, let's just do this now. Scott, I'm doing this now. Jeff Nippert, hear me. I hear you fancy yourself a basketball player. You versus me on the fucking court. I'm, I'm a half that shit. Cause I'm hungry Jeff, I'm ready to eat. You always to call me back on the McDonald's, all American team that I was on as a junior league alternate. Pac-Man, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm eating these motherfuckers left and right, eat the ball, eat the fucking net, eat up all your shots. Crossovers. Shit. Scott, what do you think? How are my chances? I mean, no, no chances. They exist and that's all I need. Baby Jeff, you've been warned and is a matter of fact-chown. So, but you get into Jeff's comments and tell them about this. I could just text him. What fun would that be? Usually I save that for dick pics. In any case, lastly, and this is a big one. Fucking with a dynamic equilibrium as a trip. What do I mean by that? When LeBron is putting up LeBron numbers, consistently, month to month here to here. You don't want to be the motherfucker that he's saying, LeBron, you should try weight training in a organized, a productive fashion. He's okay, I'll give you a chance. You train me. You make one miscalculation or the fact that he's like 39 years old at this point, or some share like that. He hurts his knee in the gym. You've been making gains for months and he hurts his knee and that ends his career. You just ended LeBron's career. Do you want that kind of responsibility? I suspect that you don't. If you say, well, you know, Dr. Mike, you should be training all these priorities. It's, whoa, easy. That's a very thin, a key thing. Every pro athlete is their own dynamic equilibrium. There's 500 variables in there. And I don't know any of them. And I have to insert a new, very, very disruptive variable of weight training. That is a process. It is a very much easing in and discovery and all these other crazy things. So you don't simply wipe the slate clean with their stupid bullshit that they're doing and go, now you do this. No, no, no, no, that's tough. And a lot of people don't even want to do that. So with LeBron is looking around for a somewhat like trained me properly. A lot of people who could do it, the bastard like, I don't want to dunk my reputation by getting this motherfucker. Fuck that. It's not worth it. So true professionals have a reverence for understanding complex systems or a trip. And maybe we don't want to get in there. Just fuck everything up at the same time. However, over time, especially with younger athletes just starting out, in other words, future professionals, converting current pros, especially after injury, some pros will get hurt. And they're out for a year anyway. And they'd be like, okay, time to wait, train properly. Can't play basketball. How do I wait, train? They get a somebody who's really intelligent. They give them a year to work, they're training in, get them used to it. Nobody's getting hurt, healing their injuries, and then they come back 2.0 and then they're the shit. And then they start prophylatizing for proper scientific training because they're doing it changed my fucking life. So younger athletes, improves that want to take the plunge especially after injury, scientific training is absolutely catching on. And it's a fucking awesome thing. You want to learn more about scientific training? Stick around, watch more videos on this channel. Also the monetization helps pay my boutlers. And they do many things for me, which I'm just honestly too well, if you do myself at this point. It's an insult for me to have to wash my own dishes. Butlers do the thing with the dish washing where I get clean dishes. And I'll see you guys for more videos like this. And more react videos, I guess, will we'll do some light-hearted laughing at the clown show that is training for all sorts of things, celebrities and sports? See you guys then.

If you get to two minutes and 30 seconds or she's like Like yes, you're trying to go do another set like no, it's not about the You are not ready your cardio's not ready. What are you doing? Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Curization, I think tracking your rest time is might be a bad idea on the net balance in the most cases Uh-oh But what that's crazy We need to keep track of our rest times between sets, but then we know all the things in the numbers You will notice if you are using the RPI Pertrifi app that As of the following in this video at least we do not have a rest timer in the app There is also no plan to install one In earlier hypothesized versions of the app we had a rest timer As something we were going to make and we ended up stearing away from it and I want to tell you why and whether or not use the app Why it might not be the best idea for you in most cases to track your rest times between sets But first let's talk about what the benefits could be and might be of tracking a rest times between sets. I can think of at least two things First Tracking a rest times between sets can keep you on task because sometimes if you don't track your rest times You have a tendency to screw on your phone Flirt with the girls, flirt with the guys, flirt with grandma, flirt with grandpa, get yourself an orgy Typical gym stuff and 5 7 or 8 minutes later you still have a done your set if you had a rest timer every two minutes every three it would be like hey Idiot go back to work. So in that sense it can be very helpful It also can help in a related way of letting you know roughly how long you need to rest because of last week You know you led press and you rested in sort of two or three minutes between sets This week if you're now getting to three minutes and 30 seconds on your timer you're like all right Time to get back to work so it can really ground you in that sense and that's a good thing In addition to that It can let you use a variation a training modality where you intentionally constrain yourself to certain amount of rest It's totally fine to curls and then put the dumbbells down and rest until you're ready to go Or it's totally fine to say okay, I'm gonna take 15 seconds or 30 seconds between every set of curls for the next six sets and that way it build up a lot of metabolites It's kind of like my a repition of certain sense. I'm just constraining myself to rest times If for nothing else in variation it's fun to do something different and also you know it can drive along But metabolites as long as I get a total number of reps it's really high It's gonna yield pretty much the same growth that as resting long group You left to do more sets but because you're only resting 30 seconds between sets and the reps in each set are Lower number you end up doing the same amount of work even It can allow you to constrain the time so if you're time crunched and you're on a lunch break and you know Okay, I got to get at least sets done and I got to rest only 45 seconds between sets It's gonna be a great thing for you so in those respects Rest time tracking Watching the clock can be really good So I said the beginning of this video I said I don't think it's a good idea on the net balance Which means I have more reasons coming up right now of why I think and when I think and how I think Tracking the rest times leads you maybe a stray of what you should be doing instead first There is no need for the data You want to track your rest times Let's say it's not just to give yourself a certain rest time as a different modality or because you're in a right and those senses Rest time tracking is great, but that's not almost tracking is it's like the rest time is a specific amount of time and as soon as that time It's you go again Tracking means like you figure out how long that you're resting and you sort of write it down or the out-app keeps track it for you and you're okay This is how long you're resting What you really want to know during your rest break is is it time to go again? And how much time that takes has nothing to do with if you're ready to go again If you're ready to go again and have another another productive set is based on the Four factor formula the four factor rest time model we have like three other videos on YouTube about it But I'll sum up what they say and if you're curious type in four factor rest is we're tell Hit search on YouTube and you'll find a few videos about it Here's what the four factor rest model says You are ready to do your next hard set of an exercise if four things are true One you're not breathing heavy anymore your cardio will not be the limiting factor on the next set Two your neural strength how you feel how strong you are you capable you ready for another heavy set Feels good because like right after a set of curls you grip feels weak everything feels uh After a few minutes you're like you know what yeah, I'm ready to crush your shen out again all right check number two Your synergist muscles are ready so if you're doing a set of curls you put it down and your biceps are healed after a minute They feel totally fine But your forearms are still shaky and really tired and really crampy I am all right. I'll rest longer because I'm not targeting forums but forums are synergistic and I don't want forums to be the limiting factor Another good analogy here are good example rather Is if your lower back is still fried after a set of squats you don't squat for your lower back You squat for your quatt so if the situation is such that After two minutes of rest after squats your quads are good to go But your lower back is still fried you got to wait longer because as a synergist you don't want it to take the disproportion amount of being the limiting factor you don't want it a situation where you stop that next set because your lower back is really fried Even though your quatt could have done more work because then as far as quatt stimulus They didn't get close to failure actually just your lower back did that's why you're acting So they didn't get a good stimulus so if synergists have to be healed and lastly Most of the time We're doing sets of at least five repetitions and lengths because five reps have enough stimulus enough of volume Five total repetitions is enough of a muscle growth signal that we counted as like a real hard working set If you're doing sets of two and three that's good for strength But if you're resting so little that you're doing sets of two and three each time Dude you're gonna be doing like a hundred sets to get to your total rep goal rest longer have higher quality sets of at least five repetitions or Put even better rest long enough that you get into the target rep range for what you want to do So if you're doing lat pull downs and you're saying you're doing them for sets of ten to 15 reps If you did 12 on your last set you go 30 seconds of rest you can do like six that's out of the rep range Your target in the mind muscle connection will be all off Nothing is gonna be great your technique might be off because it's just way too much of a rush if you rest for two or three minutes You might be able to get a set of ten or a set of eleven that takes you into that ten to 15 range again in all as well. So just to recap You are ready to do your next set When your cardio is good When you're not breathing heavy anymore when you feel strong again when your synergists are cooled off and they won't be the limiting factor and when the target muscle itself Can do either at least five repetitions on the next set or as many repetitions as gets you into that target rep range and chose This is when you know you're ready to go again and I was a little straight and just a little bit The time it takes doesn't matter because you know when you know when you know a quick analogy just to drive this point home Do you ever time How long on a road trip that you've been driving so that you know when to get gas? No, why? Cuz you have a fucking fuel gauge for that you know to get gas when it drops below a quarter tank or whatever There's a gauge for that you don't need another time someone say how long will be driving before do we need gas yet You're like what do you mean look at the fuel gauge and say yes or no? This is a thing you could be driving for two hours, but it's like mostly downhill and you're like that actually We've been driving two hours, but we're like at more than half a tank or you could be driving two hours But you're like crossing you know from Utah and to Colorado and out of road trip and like All right, you're down to an eighth of a tank and you should have pulled over fucking light years ago And now you're gonna be stranded in the middle of fucking Utah and you know being in Utah at all is terrible But stranded in Utah even worse. I'm kidding you talk Ian's Mormon We're good. It's all jokes. So in any case, it's like if you have the four factor rest time formula to tell you when to go again And when it's not checked off all the four boxes It doesn't matter what the time says don't go and when you have checked off four boxes Doesn't matter what the time is it's probably time to go You get what I'm saying here. It's data that you don't need collecting rest times No, what you lost nobody found there's no reason to have Next, you say okay, okay, okay, okay I still like to see how long this takes. I still like to collect my data. I have two problems with that My first question to you is why In sport science Really in all engineering style endeavors You never want data that you don't use because collecting data Processing data and storing data are all bandwidth eating And you want as much bandwidth for doing important shit that actually works and actually makes a difference in your project or your goal Your endeavor and you want to minimize clutter Data stream clutter is what you're gonna get if you collect rest times it means you have to tell an app or a stopwatch like it I feel like here's the thing you're done with a leg press you finished your rack. You're oh god And I click my shit and I put it down okay, okay the rest time's gone I'm gonna look at it every time again. What am I looking at it for? I don't fucking know You should be looking at your breathing and your strength and your synergists and your Mut target muscle there's nothing you're gonna see on that clock that's gonna tell you anything You don't have to check back with anyway for how you're actual body's feeling and then Before you go on on your next set you need to be getting your mind right cranking up that gangstrap and your headphones But instead you're like oh, I'm gonna put the rest time and put that away and then I go why? It's clutter the data stream is clutter the data collection is clutter the act of actually collecting the data by clicking the fucking button is clutter You need to focus on the task at hand And you need to forget and try to eliminate all of the extra noise When you are collecting data for data sake you are not being a nerd you're not being a scientist You're not hashtag pop med warrior you're just doing something fucking stupid and it makes you look smart because you're mr Rest time maybe like oh, I got to be real smart Except if other smart people in there who know how to train or look at you they're gonna be like what's the clock for You'll come to honor him arrest times, you know, you're like no, I don't know can you explain to me what advantage like well, you know I'm trying to keep things Try to keep things organized why Why not seriously why and you will not have a good response to that very likely because it may be no good response to them Next big problem. Why is there no good response point number three attends to one of the concerns You need a different rest time Between different types of sets So the idea that you say to yourself look I'm gonna rest two minutes between sets and that's my rest time Rear keeps me on track This is already a problem remember the four factor rest time formula tells you when you're actually ready And what that formula ends up sonnating to is different based on all kinds of different conditions for example Set one to set two rest break There's a bit of a shock there Very high reps in the first set Maybe you need three minutes to check all the boxes of the four factor rest times that you're ready to go again Set two versus set three you might be in the groove set two you did do as many reps and your your blood flow and everything's great Maybe you need last rest Maybe it was three minutes For set one to set two and then you're ready to go maybe it was two minutes and 30 seconds for Satu to set three so you're resting in extra 30 seconds for nothing Because you assume the same rest times every time Which you shouldn't have done that between different sets you guys will notice this As you do a set if you're doing the RR math of reps and reserve your first set will be like 15 Your second will be like 10 then it'll be like eight and seven and six and six or something like that There are not a rest you need Between a set of six and a set of six is usually way lower than a set of 15 and a set of 10 For obvious reasons you're not Exerting as much cardiovascular demand so you're breathing never gets as heavy So that you don't have to wait for your breathing and come now Your 9 it's that set of six is not as fatigious at a 15 so your neural drive is gonna be back sooner Your muscle is not gonna be fatigued the synergist aren't as fatigued So a lot of times you need more rest for the higher reps and less rest for the lower reps if the weight is the same and you're just getting more tired Or you have an interesting different response to fatigued and you actually need more rest between each set who knows? You never can tell unless you try and if you've got a rest timer and you're like I got it There's two minutes between each set you are needlessly decreasing the quality of some of the sets Because you're not resting long enough and you are needlessly Increasing the time over the workout because you're resting too long for some of them is just a great way to get a lot of wrong answers Next different exercises for the same muscle group can demand a lot of different rest Resting between sets of rows three minutes made the un-average on average There's point number one there the the set's still very For pull downs maybe a minute and 30 you're ready to go because pull downs you don't have to brace yourself You don't have to fight gravity you just it's just a vertical only there's not as much muscle being stimulated So even if you say okay for back stuff I typically rest three minutes it's like okay Typically though isn't a formula typically means you still some sets not resting enough some sets resting too long What about different muscle groups? Oh my god, this is totally nuts when people say like I rest two minutes between sets I've like one of the rest time videos There's a comment that came up early. It was like don't watch this video too long and boring just rest two minutes between sets I sort of got choked that got in that I'm kidding But like that is a moronic buck and statement because if you train quads properly and it takes you two minutes to rest between sets of quads Does it take you two minutes between sets of biceps are your biceps Estesistendically fatiguing and draining as your quads of so you have the biggest buck and arms in the world and the smallest most pathetic legs You like Harry Potter legs and Rick Piano's arms is shit like that In almost every case quad and glute and back training is gonna fry you You're gonna need way more rest than between sets of calves or sets of biceps That's a forum sets of triceps even sets of doubts There are huge differences between sets between types of exercises And even between muscle groups and so the question I have for you is how many different rest times are you gonna keep track of And there is an intelligent response to this you say well, I'm gonna keep track of everything week to week to week because it is is an auto saw self-solving problem at You know set one to set two I have a rest time that I write down Or I have an app the tracks of for me set two to set three have one and it's you know Compares biceps to biceps quads to quads set one to set two set one to set two in the next week all right fine. We got that salt totally Here's where problem number four comes in if Let's say last week You took two minutes and 35 seconds After one set of leg press to be ready for your next set you're using the for-fact rest model You're just timing you're so okay. I'm ready to go up 235 okay my app has noted that does this mean this week Set one of leg press you need two minutes and 35 seconds again Why do you have that number to stare at because inevitably if you say will look? I don't actually want to stare at that number on the second week. It's like the fuck are you collecting the data for So you clearly if you want an app to do this sounds like I'm being very defensive right Clearly if you want an app to do this you're gonna want the data like in the next week like last week after set one of leg press I rest two minutes 35 sec What is your bringing in a do inevitably will this time? I need rest two minutes and three guys But hold on a second What if that violates the for-fact arrest formula what if after two minutes and 15 seconds your fucking good to go? Do you still wait another 20 seconds sure it's not a big deal but if you're gonna wait another 26 Here's the real kick if you're gonna use the for-fact Rust formula anyway What the fuck do you even bother collecting the fucking data? Let me tell you guys about the RP high-perchography app with over 28 preset programs already in the app You could choose to make your own you could modify an existing program or you could just run the Programs exactly as they were written by a personal this app programs everything for you Exercise is weights sets reps frequency the whole thing after every single workout and every single week The app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input we have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again Guessing right now you're pretty interested in the app download the RP high-perchography app today If you get to two minutes and 30 seconds or she like Okay, I guess it's time to go do another set like no it's not mother fucker You are not ready your cardio's not ready. What are you doing and you're good? It's two minutes and 30 seconds It's so what that's just a fucking number you wrote down last week was last week This is this week you are using more weight this time things are different Maybe you're mass gaining your cardio's not as good maybe you're cutting your glycogen is not as high your morpheteed who knows? In the end the four factor rest formula is the right answer anyway It is the ecologically best answer I think I made this analogy on another time. I was the given an interview about this and so I was really very hurt about this It's uh, I think yeah, so sound our RP podcast with mr. Nick Shaw There are all kinds of activities that if you time them and you try to compare your times week to week to week It's gonna be nonsense. Guy go garbage in garbage out If you time how long it takes for you to make love to your significant other and then the next time you make love you're like all right And 37 minutes hit it. I'm sorry. What is that? 32 minutes you guys both knutted like crazy and everyone Smoking a cigarette and bad you're like I really should continue for another five minutes. She's like you're right You just have like dry like You haven't found she's like no okay times a time diligence is diligence or you're at like 36 minutes and 57 seconds in his like the most passionate shit of your life and you're like you we could do this for fucking hours and then 37 heads you know like and we're done Shelly was your name you've been great here's the door What what Who cares who gives a shit love making I'm trying to be politically correct here It's a code for anal Love making takes as much time as it's gonna take Because there was a definitive star point in a definitive very unequivocal end point and both y'all not a They've been accomplished and it's gonna take a different amount of time based on about a trillion different things Or based on nothing at all it's just gonna be the situation as a situation and you know everything You need to know about whether you're well on your way to hit and whether you're done Internally you do not need a clock for this Training is much the same way you know that when you're done breathing heavy when you're feeling nice and strong again When you can do the synergists are not limiting factor when your muscles ready to go for at least another five reps or it's time to rep range You're fucking good if you're not good yet you need a rest longer for best results If you're good you don't need to rest any more time you can arbitrarily but why it ends up being arbitrary so at the end of the day if you really think it through yes, there are some compelling reasons To get some rest times going if not just to ground yourself or build up the habit of taking the right amount of time And as a beginner you might benefit from some rest time tracking and your coach as a girl's two minutes between every set You'll start to learn after a few weeks like well, I don't need two minutes after biceps I need more than two minutes after quads but coach does this two minutes That just builds kind of good habits if you don't float around and waste time or rush into the next set clients do both things Once you are like a late beginner mid beginner even for sure an intermediate advance rest time tracking not always It's always nuanced always shades of gray, but it's usually just data for data sake and there's no good reason to collect the data or use the data and Because it's data it occupies your cognitive stream to some extent and your work stream if you're click on the timer on and off It's actually not negative because you're collecting data you do not need Anyway, let me know if that makes sense Let me know if you guys have any really compelling reasons because I'd love to hear from you About why maybe we could track rest times and ways in which they're good that I didn't talk about or let me know from your experience a few of some thoughts about like well actually yeah, I used to track rest times and I realized it was just like a road to nowhere It was fucking pointless Let me know what you guys think see you guys in the comments RP Hyperature V app link below and of course I remember's area where nerd stuff like this is just a daily occurrence See you guys there peace you

It was pretty much media changes within like literally five days of implementing. Those two pictures were pretty different while. Pretty wild. What were these media at five day changes? I assume it was trending. I'm going to do a low carb since I was 13. My mom got into it for weight loss purposes and my brothers tagged along their plane rugby and wrestling as well, which are obviously two sports that would also benefit from the average. They're out the years. I just slowly got more and more strict with it and then eventually progress to counter war just as simplicity say. It's easiest to not have to cook my spare goods. You can vegetables. The devils. The devils foods. So you're 20 years old now and you've lifted weights for I guess seven years at this point? Yeah, six to seven years. You were eating roughly how much protein in fat per day. I was having probably two twenty five to two forty fat protein under one. Wow. The first quarter of twenty twenty one was when I kind of hit a plateau. I was also extremely, extremely lean at that point. I started to get some twinches. I was getting a little bit stringy and just flat and depleted. I was after almost two years essentially of carnivore. So it wasn't lean. I was like, I just felt off. I didn't feel on 100%. Did you feel that a part of you being lean was distinctly for the gram so to speak? A lot of people have asked me that. I don't think so to be honest because a lot of people on social media would tell me. You don't need to be this late. You'd look better with 10 to 12 percent body fat or whatever it is. I was training a lot twice a day, six, seven times a week. I wouldn't take a lot of rest days and I'd be just trying to push loads. Have you had you have you all the time? And there was no sort of progression with the rest of my training. So I wasn't setting up a month as a cycle to actually have an accumulation phase. It was just, let me see if I can pee out this week and that's fine. By the end of that, it became a guessing game of whether or not I was going to get hurt. Did you do load effort during this time? No. I did my first deal on like three years. But like just the past few weeks. So I was at a breaking point in a sense where I was just willing to try whatever at that point. What's a lot of trust took have someone coached. Because I knew your guys background, I was pretty much ready to hand it over and I was pretty confident. What Jared was doing. And then because it was pretty much media changes within like what are we five days of implementing in the game? What's two pictures of putting them while pretty wild? So I was pretty confident after that point. What were these media at five day changes? I assume it was trend below. But I just learned from TikTok comments. Oh yeah. Immediately I was just more full. So I wasn't as stringing and I noticed my joints weren't as terrible. Jared wanted to slowly reintroduce carbs. It's just right since we've the title. Okay. And I found my digestion's like perfect with those. So I've just continued to increase and implement those. On top of that we added in pre post and intra. Carlin and intershake. And basically the the gatorade was fine with you a lot of time. Just not with some people. So we just got used to everything. You went from roughly less than 10 grams of carbs a day. Yep. Whatever isn't the glycogen of the data animal. And then to 275. I dropped four pounds. I'm your calorie equated. Caloriequated. Caloriequated. The changing calories, but you added carbs removed fats and proteins. Yes. And you lost weight. Yeah. That's great. He was like you're probably going to go up like 10 pounds. You could see a 10 pound jump with like a gin solors all that different stuff. And I'm like, Jared, I lost four. So it was cool to see the changes. And then I just continue filling out more and more and more. So it was essentially just getting leaner and more full. And now we're just continuing to increase those. But every two weeks we added in 10 grams of carbs per meal. About 50 per day. 50 per day added. OK. Tristan was so overreached. Maybe even overtrained with insufficient recovery. I'm too much training, no pair of decision. And carbohydrates specifically. And enough calories also have this huge parasympathetic response to your nervous system, where they make you they put you into recovery mode. Which is if you're overreached and you don't have those carbs in your kind of permanent mini fighter flight mode ultra high stress mode. And that ultra high stress mode is something that tends to in many people store a lot of body water. But it's not the fun kind of body water. It's under the skin body water. It's not in your muscles, which is why you look stringy. So something Jared and I had been through a bunch. But when he got to you, we didn't know that that was your state. Because there's a lot of people who do carnivore there at equilibrium. They're quite fine. You intro carbs. And a lot of times carbs bring so much body water that they blow up. Right. But for you, you were so overreached. So fighter flight, basically. You ended up carbs had this super calming effect. And the wash water effect. And I'm saying, because in the first five days, you lost like five pounds. Right. So that's probably our best hypothesis to what happened. Training now with carbs. My training feels good. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Yes. I've noticed the biggest difference in my palms being way better. My strength is going up. I'm able to control and race a lot better and have you movements in compound movements I've found. So it's just been progressively getting better and better. I do notice I'm getting more sore. So that was like one of the first things that are one of the main things that a lot of carnivore influencers are advocates, creatures. I don't get sore. I'm always alert. And it's like these two things that are supposedly seem good. Right. And it's on necessarily a negative thing. I was just speaking. So we're in the belly of the muscle. Yes. In a way that recovers for your next work. Sure. Yes. Very interesting. We've tended to notice that people who either hypercoloractide for the first time add in calories. They're joint start to feel great, but their muscles get really sore during training. But then so it's kind of like, if you're carnivore, you get a little sore and then you get a little not sore between workouts. When you're using carbs, you get really sore and then you're really quickly healed. And the next time you hit it again, it seems to line up with sports signs of stimulus recovery adaptation repeat. Go. Slow. Let me tell you guys about the RP high-perrophy app. With over 28 preset programs already in the app, you can choose to make your own. You can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs exactly as they were written by eight personal. This app programs everything for you. Exercises weights, sets, reps, frequency, the whole thing. After every single workout on every single week, the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now, you're pretty interested in the app, download the RP high-perrophy app today. Where is your journey taking you next? It's just going to be continuing to pass. I'm honestly just following the plan. Keep increasing food. Hopefully, just keep trying to get the weight of actually moving. He's clearly excessively lean still and I'm trying to get it moving pretty quick here. I would like to see about 10 pounds on in the block. It can be multiple mess or cycles of massing. Let me put it in the next basically four months. It's totally cool to be carnivore. But you might want to try some carbohydrates. You're telling us about that and maybe tell us how the average person could transition to a higher carb diet. If you were just going to wake up your gin pop, you're like carnivores, you're really kicking my ass. You're going to eat like a muffin, go to work, sit around, eat some more carbs and your implementing carbohydrates that way. It might lead you into some issues where you're getting tight, really tired around those meals. I think what Tristan did was actually very intelligent because he went from already having gone to eating some fruits and veggies around his training, which would be the least likely time that you would experience the slathering. So if you're somebody who is training like three times a week, maybe start on those days where you're putting in some carbohydrates like Tristan did, you're putting in like 100 grams carbs around the training session. I ease them into that kind of coming from carnivore to carbohydrate based diet. When you switch from using mostly ketones to mostly glucose, that pair of sympathetic anti-fighter flight response because remember, you have a mild, fight-of-flight response all the time on low carb, that's what's keeping you sharp. If that animal survival instinctive technically mini-starvation, but just hang in there. Tristan, it's awesome to have you on the team, hashtag TeamRP, third, you are technically now my adopted grandson and I couldn't be more proud. See you guys next time.

Intrating partners goes, you know what would be fun is if we deduct a push up super set with Bob-O-Bla and you go, oh my god, that's great. Double the ideas, double the fun, always a good thing. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pyridization, and today's video is about training partners. Yes, that's right. Are they important? Are they just evil twins that keep us from achieving the real goals we could? If somebody was to make the Smith machine slip just a little bit one way. What am I talking about? Training partners are great and they can help you. And this video is the first in a little tiny miniseries. We'll shoot the other videos over at some point. Is to how a training partner can help you, how to use a training partner in the best possible way, how to have a really good arrangement, and also how to have maybe in a suboptimal arrangement that you don't want. And you can do less of that more of the former and have a really really good time. So, if you haven't had a training partner before, but you've considered it. And maybe there are some options for you. You may think, well hold on a second, what are the advantages of having a training partner? Like, I lift the weights by myself still, yes and the answer to that is yes. So what are the advantages? Training partner can help you do a few really really awesome things. And this is one of the reasons why a lot of times in the deepest parts of contest prep for example, myself and Jared Feather, IFP Pro, will live in the same place for a while. In the same room, even, we share a blanket. Yes, all the jokes, please. We've seen them all before, but shoot them into the comments. We like to train together. For many of these reasons, and you may have a reason to train with training partner, but it includes these other reasons. Check this out. How training partner can help. First, what is called schedule-ling motivation. If you're looking at your schedule next week, and you're like, I'm traveling here, extra work at the office here, Valentine's Day, actually, is Valentine's Day tomorrow as of this recording. The thought? Who the food you talking about? Oh, shit, my wife. Don't you worry about when I'm going to get my wife? What are you going to get you? What are you going to get your girlfriend? Do you took her nice and telling me, but that wasn't a Valentine's Day. You think she's just supposed to run all the way through? Yes. Someone's like, hey, honey, what's your boyfriend getting you for Valentine's Day? She's like nothing, but he got me something a few days ago. Basically we're great with a girl friends. Don't care, noted. In any case, Valentine's Day, whatever. You got a week schedule coming up. If you train alone, it's easy for you to be like, you know, I'm going to skip next week of training, or I'm just going to train two times. You have a training partner though, and they may be more open to training, and they may be able to provide you with some motivation to be like, hey, look, look, look. I know you're busy, but let's get in the gym at least three times, I'll be there for, and I'd love to have you for at least three of those sessions. You don't get a damn it, you know what? All right, fine. And that's great because that training partner pulls you into the direction of more training. A few months later, when he's got a busy week and you don't, you can pull him back and the average amount of adherence to the training plan can go up. Next is, of course, the obvious, really the number one perceived reason that training partners are a good thing is intro work out motivation. And that's the person, clap it and get in your face and get an after it, get you pumped up for sets, graduate you after, and all that other good stuff. So, yes, absolutely that is a factor. Another factor that many people don't talk about, hilariously, and ironically, as I know about the state, is good conversation. If you have a training partner in the gym who you can chat with in its fun, and interesting, she is, it's going to hang out with you friend every day for an hour. That's awesome. And this is incredibly awesome for the perspective of adherence for the long-term plan. If to you going to the gym means going to the gym alone, and you're lonely, you don't talk to anyone and there's other people there, and you're like, eh, and you kind of keep to yourself, ah, man, you might not want to be there much or as much, and you might fall off the wagon or just go less. But if you're going there with your friend, your buddy, your partner, your pal, and you're having a really great conversation all the time, would you listen, oh, you might go to a train to avoid other parts of life. That's how consistent you'll be. Your wife's like, when are we doing movie nights, it's been yearned, you asshole, and you're like, oh, yeah, moving, yeah, share, well, you know, I got a training session coming up with my friend. So, that nice fight, I'll see you never, low, and you just get out the door. Strains that you speak like this, and you have a weird accent. But nonetheless, it's really good to have a good time during training, between sets because it can very least keep you coming back. Another one is program troubleshooting. You may not kind of have figured out why you should put squats here, or leg presses here, or why that combo doesn't work. But when you're making a training plan, usually a training partner is involved, and if even under not, you can ask him like, hey, dude, what did I think I should do with leg presses today, is that you should do them after a stifle get out, because you don't need your back anymore, because you'll just be in a leg press and your back is on a seat. Oh, fuck, brilliant. Thank you so much. So program troubleshooting is something a training partner can do really well, because it only do the no general theory of training in many cases, but they also know how your body works, and how your body is particular to your needs, and how everything gels there, and they've trained with you maybe for weeks, maybe for months, maybe longer, and they really know how you respond so they can give the most apt program advice. Jared and I, when we train, he always gives great programming feedback, and hopefully vice versa. Another one is idea generation. You may be like, man, you know, like I'm putting together a chest day, kind of feel like we used all these exercises already. And training partner goes, you know what we'll be fond of if we do deficit, push up, super set with blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and you go, oh my god, that's great. Double the ideas, double the fun, always a good thing. Another thing is you get to learn by experimenting. Everything's kind of an A, B split test. If you're training partner does one thing, and you do another, you basically go, you know, I don't know if you're going to do these curls or these curls. Your training partner does one, you do the other, a mesocycle later, you come back, and you're like, what do you think? And he's like, eh, and you're like, I thought my shit was great. He tries your shit the next month, or you try his, what do you think? Yeah, you're right, you're dumbbell curls sucks, and he's like, dude, the cable curls you had to on their great. So now you have two people that say this exercise is amazing, two people that say this exercise sucks. Maybe you learned a lot for the both of you, and look, if you don't agree, then you can say, hey, it's all individual difference. So lots of stuff to figure out to make sense of, and you can do all kinds of little experiments there with your training partner, and you can learn a lot more. And of course, last but not least, and this is one that applies more if your training partner is also friends with you. But even if they're not such close friends with you, it was promoting adherence outside of the gym. You know, if you're on your diet game, you're going to have a discussion about diet within training partner. And so it could look just like this. The show up Monday morning, you're both show up to the gym. You start training your legs, and your partner goes, so, how's the diet? Right? Because you told him last week you were in a fat loss diet. The fact that you know, he's going to ask you is already good motivation for you to not do stupid shit on the weekends. Because then you're going to have to stare at training partner in the face and say, oh, man, you know, I guess the just potato chips all weekend long. Because at the worst he's going to be like, oh, and I hear you, man, that's fun, no big deal. But then you've like perceptively lost value as a human agent, a rational, willpower, you know, holding agent. And it could just sucks. Most of us want to perceive that we're competent. Most of us want to perceive and be perceived as somebody who sticks to a plan when they laid out. So even on the bare minimum of him just asking you stuff in the gym just about how life is going, you're going to want to make sure that you're diet, you're recovery, etc. Makes a ton of sense. If you come in from the gym and you're like, yeah, man, legs are going to be tough today. I just did stupid shit all weekend and do you get any recovery. You're training partner is going to be like, thinking at least to himself or to herself. Like, not in the gym trying to crush my goals. It's nice to have a training partner who is also in the gym to crush their goals. And if you guys have ever been in a situation with the other training partner, two different degrees of seriousness, the tend to kind of find like, like water finding its level, at least to some extent. And oftentimes that means the degree of seriousness moves up when one of the training partners isn't willing to move down. A lot of times if you train with someone, you know, I'm I'm trying to train pretty diligently, but when I'm training for just with Jared, Jared, father, I've been pro. If I'm training with him and he's training for a pro show, there's one speed on, you know, and that was really good for me because I can be very serious in the gym. But if Jared was like some fuck off asshole who was like, ah, I'm going to do a set and I'll feel like it. Then it's kind of like, it is a little tougher for me to push my pace. So basically it's one of these things where you end up if somebody serious in the gym, it ends up sort of exuding seriousness to the other facets of life and everyone's fitness gets really, really good. And as a matter of fact, people will tell you that. I've actually talked to numerous people on random occasions about muscle stuff. And I hear a lot of the same stories and one of the stories I hear is, you know, what people find out of a bodybuilder or whatever they'll say, oh, you know, I used to train with and they insert a pro's name back in the day. And a lot of times I say that, I wasn't the best shape of my life when I trained with that guy. It was because the guy knew a whole lot of secrets to something. It was like, it was a pro. And we go in, we go hard and we go consistent. And if you can train with someone at a higher level, a training partner that pulls you up and you pull them up. Hey, that's awesome. It's going to be great for the rest of your life as well. Second thing. Okay, so first, how can a training partner help? Second is what makes a good training partner. And you can commentantly what makes a bad training partner. That stuff we will cover next time. So, but I suppose the opposite of this is the very least. First, what makes a good training partner is there on time. Non-negotiable. I've been a training partner that's been like five to ten minutes late. Not a fun feeling. Not what I want to feel again. So, nowadays, I make sure I'm on time every time. And if you have a training partner that's five to ten minutes late, it's like some combination of funny jokes, slash noosens. If you have a training partner that's half an hour, 45 minutes late, or they just don't show up, that's not really your training partner. Any sense of the word. So, on time training partner critical. Deligent. Okay, they don't miss workouts willingly. They don't miss reps really, really. They don't get their technique off. Like, one of the weirdest things you can have with a training partner is you go both understand what a technique is. And then they're doing lap pull downs. And at the end of their really good technique lap pull downs, that's like, crooked jerking and they get like three more reps. Like, it's always weird for me to broach that. They're like, the fuck just happened bro, they just forget all the fucking sports science knowledge. And we're trying to learn together. Fuck are you doing? That is an example of low diligence. Like, somebody who could stick to a plan and a program. I mean, she was, you know, like, that's what you're doing with a training partner. Just stick into a plan. So if they're low on diligence, the whole thing is kind of up up up to no good. Third, there is a nuance here, but it's leaves drama at home. Leaves drama at home doesn't mean that between sets of leg curls, it's something wrong with your training partner be like, well, Cynthia says she wants to start seeing other people. But if I wear a mask and I'm on her only fans that I can be in the room at the same time. You know, like, fuck, bro, or great. I don't know what is the monetization on the Holy Fans on trying to be taking this. You can give yourself a little sniff, a little piece of little slice. Whereas it's just, you're just in like a fucking gimp mask. That's cool. But if instead of spotting you on leg press to make sure you don't die, or watching for your technique, or even just chatting with you between sets, if they're on their phone, like Cynthia, if you ever text me back, I will hire the mafia send dot dot dot to have you fucking killed send dot dot dot dot black heart black heart black heart send. Where are the train, bro? Either train or chill between set. And if we're bringing that get a energy and drama on a ton of leg, really spastic shit. It's okay every now and again, but generally speaking, like, same applies to all sports. You can actually treat this all as teammates and basketball or football. Somebody bring in drama on the court. Weird. Drama on the bench, whatever. Next, training partner has to bring the right intensity, which just means a sufficiently high level of intensity to get going, but also nothing psychotic. Like if your training partner starts warming up for the squat and he's yelling at every rap, you gotta be like, bro, bro, bro, people know me in this gym. Also, if they don't, they soon will as the guy who works out with yelling in the same asshole guy, you shot the fuck up. Like there's levels to the shit. So you have to have an intensity that's like, go hard when the time is right, chill when the time is right. Next, gives you what I like to call goal deluxe level of encouragement. You don't want a training partner that you warm it up for set. He's like, come on, buddy, you got this. Of course, if I can got this warm, chill the fuck out, right? Or every single set, he says the same shit. It's kind of annoying. But you also don't want to have a training partner where you just hit your all time best PR and bench. You rack, you like, fuck gas and training partners like, okay, it's my set next. Great to spot me. You're like, okay, Jesus Christ. Or are you like grinding out a leg press that? You're training partners like, you finally get it. He's like, good job. You did it. And I said, you are fucking robot. It's got to be some living human in there, but not so living and so live that too much of that like, guy that came to talk to your high school was a motivational speaker shit. And that's like excessive. So somewhere with it, especially when you like, where you guys can gel in most people who have a decent amount of social intelligence, if there is a thing to perceive cues and get on the same level with that stuff. Next, big one, a training partner has to give you honest feedback. If you're doing terrible technique, if you're not getting the reps, but you say you are, you're a good training partner shouldn't be like, good job, bro. And then it's his next set. I like all you when it's not all you. I don't want that shit. I want honest feedback. Now luckily, my training partner is often Jared Feather, ice-be pro. He's a mean man. Jared's a mean person. And well, okay, honestly, he's one of the nicest people in the world. But to his friends, he's really mean. I don't know. He has a rationalization for it. If I fuck up a tiny bit, I get the inevitable, the doom thing, the scherth quakes, the mountains crumble, the seas boil, and a hero come on, Mike. And I know that stupid Missouri accent, I did something wrong. My toes came up, my heels came up, I wiggled the bar this way, that way. Jared keeps me honest. Because honesty doesn't mean being a dick, and he's not a dick. Honesty means being like, dude, that was a great set. And then when it wasn't, it would be like, I got rough towards the end. Even gental honest, do like that, to be like, we're spec, they got rough, I'm gonna clean it up. Next time, you have a good set. That's what it's all about. Next is, your training partner shouldn't compete directly with you. When Jared and I are training together, I count the number of reps that he does, so I can say things like, two more, and I usually get it wrong anyway, because I'm barely counting. I'm not count the number of reps he does to be like, I'm gonna do two more than him. First of all, if he's like contest prep, yeah, I'm stronger. If he's on the mass phase, I'm not on prep, he's stronger. Who the fuck has time to compare that kind of shit? There is individual differences in how fatigued you are, in each exercise, we're all just trying to hit our own reps and reserve to our own specific strength on that exercise. So if a training partner is ruthlessly competitive, like if you have a guy that always has to get one more rep than you, that's an insane person, not a training partner. So competitive is great, but like, directly with you competitive is nuts. Compete more on how good your technique is, and honestly, between training partners, I wouldn't even compete. I would be on the same team, like do you compete with guys on the same basketball team, like in practice, kind of if that's the drill, do you do it in the actual game? Because remember, training partners, they're training is their competition, right? You being in that gym floor of a 24 hour fitness, and you know, West Oaks, LA, Subber, or whatever, that is your fucking game time. Is your training partner 40s a week, or fucking like the lakeers in the pistons? Right? Sorry, so then now, you're wrong. You're like, who was going to use Kobe and Shaq, and I realize they hated each other? Oh, King A. Jordan and Pippin, I'll go back on some old school shift, actually people who are not competing against each other, but they're collaborating. So they come direct competition, even in direct competition is kind of weird. They're all there, on part of the same team. Next, you want a training partner that is honest about their own preparedness, which you don't want is week five of the mesocycle. You guys are both trashed. You shouldn't be deluding, and you got this weird, again, competitive bro complex. Where he's like, how you feeling bro? And you're like, can't barely open your mouth. You're so fatigued. Good man, if you're good, fuck great. And he's like, get me two bro. Let me do. I know how to, let's warm up, yeah, great. And you do another shitty workout, where both of you suck, because nobody can just admit that they have a high fatigue. You don't want a training partner that drags you down, because he's a straight fucking bitch. But like, you've got to have some wiggle room of honesty. Honesty about preparedness, honesty about everything, because at the end you want the truth, so you can make the best decision possible. When training partners lie to each other, it's kind of fucking weird. Whatever the reason it. This one, next one, is related. Somebody that doesn't bitch aimlessly. Only some perspective that aimless bitching, bitching with aim is like, hey, this is a problem, let's solve it. Solving, great, no more bitching. Aimless bitching is some, a bitching can be fun. If it's comedic and humorous, hilarious. One of our training partners, a very good friend, someone who's appeared on this channel a bunch for training, a world record power, a left-er of Breonna Terry. She says, I'll do every set, I'll do a wrap, I'll try hard, but I absolutely reserve the right to bitch to which I answered. Garam Jewish, you don't think we invented that shit? Fuck up outta here, right? But it's totally valid, bitching is hilarious, and can be awesome. But breathe bitching is fake bitching, it's joke bitching. It's athlete bitching. For real bitching, man, fuck this exercise, I don't want to do this shit. And you're like, okay, sure they're like, oh man, I'm good, I'm good, I'm good, I'm good, I'm good. You're like, bro, like, stay calm. A lot of people are just complain about a lot of stuff, and complaining is just toxic, real for real complaining. Joe complaining is hilarious. So, if you got a training partner, they're just fucking complaining all the time, oh man, you know, you kind of picked a wrong training partner, maybe, where it leads at least worth a discussion. Next one is someone you can chat between sets with, and this isn't mandatory. None of these are mandatory mandatory, or someone from a highly recommended. You can have like a silent relationship, like, when Batman and Robin drive back to the back came after a day of fighting crime, I don't know if they're like, so, go to that gala tomorrow as Bruce Wayne. Batman's like, yeah, all right. You're fucking in with my nose there, he's like, yeah, all right. All right, my man. Anyone looking out for? Yeah, this one ditched into your, oh, sweet, my man. Hell yeah, fucks, Cindy, let's get it. I don't know if that happens. Anything just kind of sit there, right? And that's totally cool if you want to be Batman, Robin about the shit between sets and all saying anything, but it's just much more fun if you can bullshit between sets. If you can have like a friendship as well as a training partner thing, all the motivational stuff, the consistency, the adherence, all that just gets way, way, way better. Next, a training partner should I do? If a training partner should I do, this is not a must. Be close to your weight and height, and honestly, your strength. Why? Because if my training partner puts one plate on the leg press, and I put seven on the leg press, where five put seven and they put 12, that's a lot of work for both of us. If my training partner is six foot eight, and I am five foot three and a half, which is my real height. I love starting rumors on the internet, Scott, the video guy. Guys, but for real, my real height is five, two and a quarter. But honestly, it's five, six, but I'm a serious note. I'm actually five, nine. Yeah, who? I'm going to be the men's of that, Gerard R. Training for muscle growth is never going to be the same. My training partner, Gerard, feather, everyone knows fact is my biological child. He came out of my penis. Is that, that's how children work? No, sorry. I'm getting ahead of myself. It's ideally the thing for you to be roughly the same size strength, etc. So you can work on the same machines. Okay. So if I'm five, three and the training partner six, eight, what fucking squat height are we racking out into it out of it? Are you fucking getting me? Like, okay, I'm not doing pull-ups here on your fucking squat bar. I don't want my training partner to have to do a full, wrong, good morning to stand up with my squat. So at the end of the day, it's not a must, but somebody roughly similar size is similar strength as a super important as long as they're not like outlandishly stronger. Like if I'm mentioned a plate and you're benching to, shit, no problem. If I'm mentioned a plate, you're benching three, no problem. Two plates on, two plates off, no big deal. But again, if I'm hexquiting one plate and you're hexquiting eight plates fucking Christ, who's going to put seven plates in the bar, he shim it between each set. That's nonsense. And you reach another problem. If somebody's really, really strong, if someone's really, really not strong, and all I need to use is a term weak, all times kind of native. You know, the person who's not a strong, they need like 30 seconds break between sets. The person who's really strong means three or four minutes. And then it's like, does that person do two sets for the one? They're going on an ice-dough to do? It's better to have things similar, not mandatory, but better. And lastly, has similar goals. And this one's pretty important because if one of the training partners is training for powerlifting, the other for bodybuilding, what is trying to work on this chest, the other one is trying to work on his arms. It's tough because then you have to go separate ways for a bunch of different exercises. And then you just kind of go into the gym to train and, you know, you're not training for the same thing anymore. Like, my wife and I are similar enough height for the height thing to be okay. Different enough strength for that to get annoying sometimes. But a lot of the things like we train for considerably different goals within context, like what we're specializing in part of our ties against et cetera. So when people are like, oh, like, do you and your wife train together? I'm like, well, we're in the gym at the same time. I stare at her, ask a lot, but is it true for me to say that I train with her? Like, sometimes we go on vacation and we just do like a general program for sure. It's fun to have my little bro training partner. My favorite thing is to say all kinds of bro jokes with her, I treat her like a man. And then later we go into the locker room. We discover she's not a man. And then happiness, confusion, tears, more happiness, confusion tears, and then we leave the locker room. That's just in locker room, all that stuff, by the way. So any case, similar goals is really, really helpful. Now, the last thing for this episode today is what doesn't matter in that is experience level. You can actually have great training, someone who's advanced with someone who's a beginner, there's going to be a lot of learning. But that beginner is going to come up real quick to be able to help that advanced person out, spotting and loading, looking for basic technique stuff. Even if you have a beginner and training, a lot of times what you do is you put yourself into this position with the way you describe technique to them. After a few weeks they become a technique zealot. And then they just innocently tell you you're doing shit wrong. And you're like, wow, fuck, he's calling me out. He's totally right. For example, as an advanced person, when you have a beginner with you, teach him how to bet row, like, all right, like do this, do that. Make sure you're black, back, never moves, nobody English, they're okay, got it. And the first thing is suck at it, and a couple weeks later, they're doing it pretty good. And then they're spotting you and, you know, it's all good advice first. And they're like, hey, on that last set, you're back starting to get a little wobbly. And the instant inclination I usually have is the fuck. I birthed you into this world of training. How dare you? I'll birth you back. But the reality is you got to be like, oh, where it up? Yeah, to listen, if I can't convince a beginner, I have a good technique. I'm really fucking up. So a lot of times that works really, really, really well. So you doesn't have to be that you have to same experience level. But all these other things are highly preferred. Next time, when we come back with another one of these videos, hopefully we'll link this one to that one. So you can be caught up. We are going to talk about training partner negatives and how to get the most out of your training partner, including hacking into the bank accounts and just just a small enough money to where they never see it, leave the account, but big enough that you can buy extra burritos and fuck over your friends on the slide. Not friends, training partners, big difference. See you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike is retell here for Renaissance periodization. Is the overhead press bad for dealt growth? Who? Who? How could he? What a controversial way to start the day. Well, before we begin to scientifically deconstruct the overhead press, I have to say a few things. I love the overhead press. I'm in love with the overhead press. One of the people I look to most in this world for everything guidance is the journalist's of Iskis, multi-time-all-strongest man, probably one of the best of the best overhead pressers of all time. I trained overhead press for years and years and years. I was genetically gifted at it and some number of years ago when I peaked in my overhead pressing, mostly because I just stopped training afterwards. I got very, very good at it. And Scott the video guy will hopefully pop up the video here that shows me overhead pressing 275 pounds at a body weight of just over 240 standing full range of motion for eight reps. She was that's very good. I'll pat myself on the back if I could reach it. But overhead press is awesome. It is a spirit exercise. And instead of amazing exercise for just making you non-sense strong and really strong in the real world, you show me a guy who can overhead press, you know, 225 for a set of 10 standing. And I'm just like, man, I don't want to fuck that guy. That's a real world strong ass human being. However, it's a very different question than what it does for dealt size. So let's take a look. Just from a real first level analysis, dealt training via the overhead press has a couple of features. First, it trains due to angle of push. The front delts significantly more than any other exercise. And better than any other exercise. So if you want unreal front delth hypertrophy, the overhead barbell press is a very good place to start. Now, when people say delts, they don't usually just mean front delts. They mean side delts and rear delts. And the side delts get trained somewhat, generally overhead press, but other exercises like G, even upright rows and all kinds of laterals, even front raises, engage your side delts more than overhead presses. A, even unross stimulus magnitude, the amount of shear stimulus for get about fatigue, usually is better for side delts in like 10 other exercises that overhead press. If you consider the overhead press overall dealt growth, yeah, you write about front delts, maybe not so right about side delts. On the stimulus to fatigue ratio, because especially standing barbell presses create so much spinal loading and so much requisite for stability. The fatigue is really high. And the stimulus to fatigue ratio of almost any other dealt exercises usually better than overhead barbell press. Not great. Now, third point is the worst. People say, I need big delts. I'm going to do overhead press. It basically doesn't train the rear delts at all. So saying, hey, I've got delts. I'm going to train delts. Here's a delt exercise overhead press. We didn't think of overhead press for delt hypertrophy. You know, it's not the best way to phrase that question, because for overall dead hypertrophy, the overhead press is just not that great. It trains the front delts very well, but everything else, ma'am. So just to frame that. Last two slides. We're going to go through a question and answer system of reasons that you could train the overhead press and reasons that you probably shouldn't. So can you still use the overhead press? Lots of your probably panicking right now and going, oh my god, Dr. Mike, but I loved overhead press. Can I still use it? Well, here's the thing. If you want to grow your triceps and front delts, yes, the overhead press is a very good thing to use. If you get a very good side delt pump disruption, so on, etc. From overhead presses, then yes, they're a great exercise even for side delts. If you get a good stimulus to fatigue ratio, so not only the stimulus, good, but the fatigue is a minimal for other presses for all those things. Number one and two, then yes, again, the answer is that it's good to train overhead press. However, standing presses, which is generally what people say when our meme when they say overhead press, because of the axial fatigue, the spinal loading, they are so often highly fatiguing that the stimulus to fatigue ratio is usually not great. What we can fix that. So point number four, yes, you can train the overhead press, especially if you modify the overhead press for a higher stimulus to fatigue ratio for your shoulders. How do you do that first? Do them seated versus standing? I'm not a big fan of seated barbell overhead presses. There's something manly that's removed from the exercise, specifically the standing upright. But as far as stimulus to fatigue ratio, you get much less compressive force traveling through your legs, much less rockers or first ability. If you're seated, you get the same or higher because you're stable, standing with us for the delts seated, but you get less fatigue. So it's usually a better approach. And it's one of the things that is nothing in my heart makes me happy to say that, but that's just the way it is. Next point is keep the load close to your face. If you push the barbell out this way, it's more front-nose triceps, less side-dults, because the side-dults don't work this way. The side-dults keep the bar close to your face, pushing up and back, as soon as you clear your head, push back and out, make sure you're seated in a position that which you don't fall backwards like that. And then you will hit your side-dults better. Your traps better. It's not just all front-dults. That's very good. And the last thing is given that you're already overhead pressing, giving it you're doing an attack in the ec which stimulates the side-dults more. My recommendation is to do a bunch of side-dult work before you even overhead press and maybe do it last, maybe even superset it. For example, you do a bunch of seated laterals with dumbbells. Side-dults are fried as fuck, put down the dumbbells. Take the bar out and do overhead presses. Your side-dults are so close to local muscular failure, they will instantly be the limiting factor and this overhead press you're doing as the second exercise of a superset is now we very good stimulus to fatigue ratio exercise for those side-dults. Or if you do it fresh, it's mostly front-dome. Give that some thought. If you want to overhead press and you may still be able to do it, if you love it, if you do it properly in the ways described. Now, what about reasons you shouldn't be doing it overhead press in your program? First, if you don't need a lot of front-doubt focus, if your front-dults honest assessment or big, your side-dalt need more work, read-alt need way more work, your arms, your chest, etc. Your front-dults are just big for your physique. It's gratifying to do overhead pressing because you're probably really good at it because you have big ass front-dults, but you probably also don't need it. So for a physique perspective, don't, who overhead presses if your front-dults don't need a lot of work. I have an overhead press in a really long time because my front-dults are just fine and I have other places to put my efforts to make my muscles bigger where they're actually needed. If you want lots of side-doubt growth, but you feel a ton of front-doubt activation, so-nister, fruption, etc., and a ton of front-doubt and tricep in your overhead pressing, then as an honest assessment of someone says, hey, your overhead pressing, you're trying to get big-dults, you're like, yes, do you feel it in your delts? You're like, front-dults and triceps are like, right, don't you want side-doubt growth? You're like, yes, but you're right, that this exercise clearly doesn't stimulate those a lot. If that's the case for you, if you feel a lot of front-dults, triceps, now a lot of side-dults and overhead press, it's not your number one exercise that's not even your number five exercise, right? So maybe you can put it away until and unless you want to use it. And lastly, and this is a big one. If you get a really bad stimulus to fatigue ratio on them, I wouldn't recommend using them, especially if the modifications from the last side to increase your SFR just didn't work all that well. A lot of times we stick to exercises because we like to do them because we're strong at them because we like the progression or because we consider them core exercises that define our manliness and shit like I can't not squat bench, deadlift overhead press and do pull-ups, fuck that. I got to be a man and do that shit. Yeah, sure if that means a lot to you, hey, listen to it. But if you want just pure hypertrophy and pure strength in the most efficient ways possible, you're going to have to get us in some of that attachment to manliness and all those lifts and lifts you love and lifts you're good at. Like I was incredible at overhead pressing. I loved doing it. The problem was I would do it and it would take me 30 minutes to do the whole exercise with all the warming up and the huge fatigue and the huge long rest times between sets. Just thinking, you know, for 30 minutes of effort and a crap load of fatigue, the lower back stuff would interfere with my squatting, interfere with my good mornings, the central drive. I would get quad cramps pressing the top of the rep because my whole body was contracting. I just thought she was, you know, for all this fatigue, the stimulus just really isn't worth it. And it was painful to have to get rid of them, but now I've gotten rid of them and, you know, I only think about them sometimes. Sundays, when the, you know, it's cloudy outside of the rainy, I'm curled up with a book. And sometimes I think I wonder what overhead presses are doing right now. Maybe they're at a really loud club with their hot date and maybe they're sort of like scrolling through their phone and hey, you're going to update, hey, you guys. And they're, you're pretending to scroll through Instagram, but they're really thinking about me. Just maybe. Hey, overhead presses, if you're out there, no pressure. Just, hey, see you guys next time. Hey, folks, want exercises and styles of doing them that really maximize your side dealt size. Check this video out and you'll have side dealt so big that, well, gee, what is there? Just be real big.

The reps and reserve are giant question mark. Sometimes it's total failure sometimes it's like 10 reps and reserve and it's a set today I'm working on feel bro a lot of times they say they do five sets, but they'll do three and just off that shouldn't happen to all the Hey folks doctor Mike here for Renaissance periodization today's video is gonna tell you Suggest to you rather in the spirit of scientific inclusivity that you should probably train more than the pro body builders You follow that is do more sets per workout Potentially and almost certainly do a higher frequency of training a given muscle if your favorite pro trains Chest one so we can you might be able to get away with training it twice and getting better results for your own body But this is curious what a curious stance I'm taking typically you might have heard that the pros Train a ton and you don't want to train as much as they do because Because hashtag there on drugs and they can recover there is absolutely something to that But there is more Because you guys come here to get that smart smart shit begin smart smart shit now first of all The reasons why you should consider training more than your favorite pro bodybuilder I'm on average if your favorite pros doing 20 sets of workout and maybe no ever do that fiber type your favorite pros Probably are more fast twitch fiber dominant which means Faster fibers usually have smaller volume requirements They get so stimulated from so little volume and they're often so big and strong per fiber That they just really don't need much volume to grow and if they try to do more They would start to get fatigued and grow less a Lot of the pros that you follow the reason they could have gotten so big among other factors Don't you worry we'll get to those is that they're gifted and having a higher proportion of faster twitch fibers And those folks cannot recover from any more training often than they're doing and what they're doing is just not that big So in many people the hamstrings tend to be a little bit more fast twitch than other muscles How many of you can do 10 sets of hamstrings of good technique and remotely recover for a week later? Almost no one no imagine having fast super fast twitch chest and side delts and biceps and triceps It's kind of like a whole hamstring body Yeah, I'm getting like gotta go to a an art GPT art AI generator and be like the body as a hamstring and turn somebody try that Let me know how it goes But in any case it just turns out you just don't need much most of us are not like to pros We have a broader range of fibers all everyone has a broad range of fibers, but we're more evenly split faster twitch and slower Twitch some of us are more slow twitch than fast twitch and we can benefit from even more volume Precisely the people that are not pros are more likely to be a little bit more on the slower twitch end Then the group of people that are gifted and or pros So watch out for that because what is good enough for a pro because they're gifted and fast twitch muscle fibers may not be enough for you Next Pros are big they're strong and when you get really strong Your ability to damage and stimulate muscle growth is just really not this not that hard Like using myself in an example even though I'm not a pro I did I had a hacksquat PR earlier at the dragons layer where I might be the only person that's not a pro there at that gym and I did a six plates on the hacks. What the arsenal hack for a set of ten was a really big PR and I like I only did Four sets of hacks and then like a drop set of body weight stuff like what's our cooked for four days? Why four sets of you fucking survive? Sift total for the workout one of them being bodyweight bullshit. How's that possible? Well fuck man you put six weights six plates on the bar you take it through four range motion for a couple sets of like around ten reps There's just so much fucking damage because it's fucking plates and I'm not even a pro I'm not that strong you got guys using the 160 pound dumbbells doing good technique for sets of ten A fun inclined dumbbell press you just don't need that many of those to stimulate so much growth That you can't scale pros to the rest of you the same thing happens in power All the very strong power lifters big strong guys in the 275 to 42 weight class, etc You look at their volumes are like he doesn't do that many sets You'll go do a set with 800 for five and like oh, yeah, okay just kidding that would probably kill me It indeed would so there's another adjuster to take how much pros do understand you're not as strong as they are You may need more sets to stimulate more growth next Bigger muscles can not only generate more force to damage themselves and stimulate themselves more, but they also take more time to heal if You know back in the day Marcus rule who is one of my favorite pros of all time just on a sheer audacity of this was he Google him if you You want he used to do one chest workout a week but his chest was so fucking big that it's bigger than most people's glutes Oh, just categorically and strong if he hits his chest It's just gonna take a long time for his chest to recover So either as to truncate his volume and time to do a twice a week or do what looks like a normal volume once a week That's all they can do Look at big ramen shoulders Bro, that's a lot of muscle if that muscle gets stimulated and fatigued It's just just come back the next day and do shoulders again It's gonna take time to heal and thus either the frequency has to be lower or the per session volume has to be lower You don't have that problem. You have shoulders that are much smaller than big-rimeists Sorry, I'm taking a guess here as to who our viewer is. I'm right about almost every one of the world You can certainly train shoulders more often because the muscle is smaller It doesn't take as long to heal to recover back to baseline or more and then when you can hit it again Now, so he asks you should train more than the pros, but not too much more for at least two reasons first Pros take drugs and Drugs help you recover Better and faster in an asshorter time frame But I'm gonna tell you the real real that real shit because other people speculate Maddie speculate they assume Your boy's not Maddie. I don't have to speculate or so we should I'm around a ton of top athletes that are not natural neither am I Drugs absolutely make a difference in recovery But not that much of a difference. It's a big deal If you can recover from seven sets on average that's your MRV for a muscle group without drugs Taking a whole bunch of drugs layering up to what is it the top end of Reasonable not I'm gonna die next year kind of dose you might be able to heal from 10 or 11 sets or something like that In the same time frame it's not 14. It's Shit not 21. There's no drug to get on where you triple your volume. It just doesn't happen It's occasionally an happen very unlikely It's a very uncorrecteristic so if you're looking at pros and you're like yeah, but drugs like Definitely if they were not on drugs they could recover from less however I put this to you Drugs do a couple of things in the acute term in the short term when you take them for a few weeks few months They boost your recovery like crazy, but watch this Take them for a while and the drugs increase your strength and the increase your size and those two things feed back in to Reduce your volume requirements even though your recovery has come up Your volume requirements have come down because you're now bigger and stronger So in the end the drugs F if a pros been taking them for a few years They kind of level out and then the net balance the pros not doing any more sets than he was four years ago before he started drugs Same number of sets at first it was more than he had to crank it back down because he got so big and strong I can't do 12 sets of quads anymore. This is fucking crazy because big strong quads can't Take 12 sets of damage. They don't need it and they don't have to have it. They can't recover from So there's limits there Yes the drugs help, but not as much as the strength and fiber type and the muscle size push them into that other realm of not leading as much volume Next effort okay Pros on paper train a lot I'll say this in other way that's more actors Pros say they train more than they actually train on average not everyone of course But you'll see what the training looks like and it's like all 15 sets for back And then you go and train with that pro where you have them on your YouTube channel and train them or you see them at the gym every fog and Monday do their workout The reps and reserve are giant question mark sometimes it's total failure or sometimes it's like 10 reps and reserve That's a set today. I'm working on feel bro a lot of times they say they do five sets, but they'll do three and just fuck off That should happens all the fucking time and Jared Feather was on this channel a while back and he kind of is even more in tune with what the pros do he is a pro And he's like bro almost all these people just fucking will say how much they train and it's like it's like half of that or two thirds of that So when I'm telling you to train more than the pros and you see that the pros train with 10 sets per muscle Let's say they really train with like six or seven So you will still train more than the pros, but maybe if you just copy the pros you're actually doing the right amount of volume So that brings that figure down a little bit gives it some more context So yes, you should be training more than the pros a lot more than what they actually train and maybe a little bit more or close to what they say They train especially on per set Per session volume how many sets of how many hard sets of chest for example They do in on a Monday Now here's your path here's how to take all this and do better with first You probably in general want to stick at most times between Five sets per session and 12 sets per session per muscle group most people will find their best results somewhere within there If the pros do 20 fuck them if the pros do three fucking next your per week or per muscle frequency Should be at least one time higher than the pros if the pros train their chest twice you could probably train your chest three times If they train legs once you could probably train legs twice it is usually the frequency is the pros Can't handle the most because when they get so big and strong their workouts beat their joints up a little more. I could have added that in as another reason Lots of other Secondary reasons a lot of times they don't train with great technique So with ends up happening is they're like hey like I train shoulders once a week and you're like why not twice? Like man my shoulder was can't handle it like okay, you're fucking getting it in on a train But also yes, that's a good point. So if I see my favorite pro with big shoulders trains shoulders once a week I know that maybe in part it's because of all these other reasons we talked about and because it just can't recover because it's shoulder joints are fucked up But I don't lateral raise the 80s. I sure shouldn't do it with terrible technique Which is probably why I'm not using the 80s in part using the 15s or whatever And then you can train shoulders at least twice a week so give that some thought and When you start whatever training you have whether or not it was inspired by a pro or inspired by a pro and modified according to this video You know add some frequency Potentially increase the volume over time You want the most important feature of that isn't where you start it's how you auto regulate for more You go if you're training seems like it's too much you're just getting tired or not progressing well you're sore all the time you never heal Train less and you will grow Let me tell you guys about the RP high-perchography app with over 28 preset programs already in the app You could choose to make your own you can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs Exactly as they were written by a personal this app programs everything for you exercises weights sets reps Frequency the whole thing after every single workout on every single week The app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input we have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again Guessing right now you're pretty interested in the app download the RP high-perchography app today On the other hand if the training is pretty easy you think you could do more and still recover train more Increase by little decrease by little find that place for a few weeks of a mesocycle where you're getting sore You're getting tired you're recovering just on time and you're still progressing That is your formula for success no matter what the pros do Folks give that some thought if you want to upgrade your nerd level shit Just talk about all these braiding concepts and even more depth consider the members area It's five bucks a month extra videos every week and a whole bunch on their bonus stuff and if you really want to ask myself Personal questions like excuse me Mike is it true that you at one point had the third largest penis in the entire Develop world I wasn't gonna tell you because I should as a members area. They answer yes, but there's some new on-stand story Team full-romb answer your questions all the time every week through video chat and We have tons of questions you can post all the time myself. I'll get to them other members Jared feather will get to them And there's this whole community and you can have your videos check for technique and we'll improve it over time tons of programming tons of It's not if it's all included in one price give that a look at the description and I'll see you guys next time

Back in the day, I sometimes found that machines were awesome, but I sometimes found depending on the machines that like, there's something missing. I just wasn't getting your crazy pump, but wasn't getting crazy sore. Dips, deficit push-ups, have never done me a ball. You may have a PhD in exercise science and an enormous chest, but pack definitely has both. It's Dr. Pack to you and I. He's gonna tell you why your chest may not be growing and he's gonna hook you with awesome tips to get your chest enormous, no, stop it, let's go. The first thing I see many people do wrong is training volume. Look, low volume protocols work fine, but if your chest isn't growing, hitting it with more training volume is the way to go. The card literature has still to find the limit to how much volume you can do for muscle growth and doing more will likely benefit your chest. Bonus, a very recent meta regression showed that even up to 11 fractional sets per muscle growth per session will still keep you growing. So if chest is one of these lagging body parts for you, hitting it with 20 or even 30 sets per week, is a good educated bet. When it comes to your session training volume, you don't want to do everything in one session. So when I say 20 to 30 sets, ideally split those into two to three sessions, so you can get high quality sets very close to failure. Just going in the gym and half-hassing your way through sets and sets and sets is not the way to go. Here's the thing guys. Every human has a certain volume they're gonna respond better to than another volume. The changes for everyone over time, but still some people respond better to lower volume, moderate volume, some better to higher volume. The people that respond better to lower volume are usually the guys that have the best genetics. They have a higher proportion of fast-roged muscle fibers. They're very strong. They have a psychological and neurophysiological ability to push really hard. They're the ones probably with big chest already. So if you follow people on social media, they have huge chests. You're gonna learn that a lot of them do maybe 10 sets per week for chest. And you're gonna be like, that's how I do it. But if you have not so great genitalic slow with which muscle fibers muscles a little smaller, your ability to nearly contract your muscles is in this great, you're actually the person who solution is going to have to be different. And we've actually done studies before showing that people who don't respond as well for traditional volumes usually respond better to higher volumes and not lower volumes. So is it possible that for you, you've been overdoing volume, less volume, move better? Yes, but that probability is lower at face value than the probability of doing a little bit more and a little bit more and a little bit more. And then a little bit more is what's gonna get you the giant chest that'll make her notice. That's right, that one bitch to sit in the corner, I'll always take a note, but you know she's thinking about you. And you know her skin would fit so well on your body. Or him. M, him too. Or they. Or that. Listen, I love comb-bone exercises, like the test-press. And specifically this machine, I try to, yes, the amazing machine excellence stretch. This is turning into an ad for a hoist machine, sponsored me, hey, although comb-bone exercises, like a chest press, bench press, dumbbell bench press, whatever. Are great because you're gonna hit your front bell, you're gonna get your triceps in as well. And you're gonna obviously blast your chest. When it comes to bringing up your chest as a lagging body part, you wanna keep roughly 50 to 60% of your exercises as isolation exercises. Meaning things like dumbbell flies, cable flies, machine flies, pecthing. Any exercise that pretty much isolates the chest. So you can make sure that your chest is getting as much stimulus as possible because we don't really know how much work your triceps and your front builds are doing in any given exercise, especially when people have different non-throkeometric characteristics. Maybe build slightly differently. You may be feeling your triceps more and chest press, sure. Your chest is getting work, but to bring it up hammer down the isolation work, include plenty of isolation work where you can focus just on your chest. Comb-bone exercises, still there, still part of the program, but they shouldn't be the only thing you do. When you're choosing presses to do, when you wanna bias them more to your chest, typically wider variations are a really good option. And it's not so much that they hate your chest a lot more. It's just that they're not limited by the triceps as much. So a lot of flying movements is an awesome direct way to hate your chest. When you do your pressing movements, at least try to find a ham spacing, you can really feel a lot for your chest, maybe not as much for your triceps, that when you're doing presses, they're still quite chest biased, and then you get kind of the best of both worlds. Also, the reason why machines are an amazing tool for many of you out there to build your chest or any muscle for that fact, is because they allow you to trade very close or too failure without needing a spot. The traditional barbell bench for us and other exercises that will require somebody to be there with you, to lift the weight and potentially to assist you or help you out if you fail. Amazing, classic, all good, thumbs up, but if you're training alone, opting for a chest press machine, where you can literally grind a couple of reps at the end and potentially fail safely, is a good educated bed when it comes to maximizing and really bringing out your chest. We're starting close to failure, it's very important. And if you're unable to do that, because you don't have a spot on any given day, or you don't feel safe, then you may be leaving some gains on the table. Tip number three, don't be afraid to lift heavy. When it comes to building muscle, we know that training close or too failure is important. It's very important if you want to maximize needs. And specifically, when it comes to people's ability to predict how close to failure they are, because you may not want to take every set of failure, things get a bit iffy after 12 reps. So predictions after 12 reps are not that great. And that's based on meta-analysis we published a few years ago. So sets of five to 12 reps, even lower five to eight reps, although not traditionally associated with hypertrophy training, should likely be there, especially in some of those chest presses and machine exercises that you can fail on them safely. Don't be afraid to do a heavy set of five on the traditional chest exercise. No, it's not going to primarily target strength, or make your part, let your or anything like that. It will be as hypertrophic as a set of 12 or 15. And in some cases, especially for training alone without a partner there to push you, or at least, G check your effort, you will substantially increase your probability of knowing that you're truly close to failure, unless you're the one freak that takes everything to failure and have escaped the matrix and you're better than everybody else. So when you're training, have your foot chest, this is a couple of cool things you can do to make sure that you stay safe, but it stays super effective. One is controlled the center. I don't mean taking hour to lower, but don't just dump the shit on your chest, it's a good way to get hurt. Another one is potentially tried pausing at the bottom, even it's just for a split second. The highest forces you see in the lift typically in the reversal, and if you can minimize those forces, the muscle still gets a ton of force and everything is still good to go. And for me personally, I don't love to train heavy. I used to back when I was a powerlifter, it was amazing. I've liked more recently to train light, but for me, some muscle groups just love the heavy heavy. And my chest sets of 10 sets of eight, it loves sets of 16, sets of 20, it's kind of like, I'm just getting tired and not a lot's happening. So if you try a bunch of different rappenages for chest, don't leave out sets of five to 10, controlled with compounds, all that good stuff, but if it works, oh, good, my wrong, beautiful, it's gonna have the biggest, compact stuff, look at that guy. Hey, you know what I used to call him? I got a big pack, that's right, I'm nicknamed for people of stupid. Hey, you call him, I'm stupid, hey, whoa, they got a good shout out that in Plotkin. I'm favorite at home in research, right? Ha ha ha ha, listen, I shield for the hoist machine there that I've tried once, and because I want to squander ship, and I shield for machines heavily, because they allow you to fail safe, easy to load, no, not much warm-up needed, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. But if your chest is lagging, and in general, if you wanna train your chest and you wanna big chest, bodyweight exercises, like dips and deficit pushups, are absolutely goded for you for your bus and skibiteries ballerina cup of china. Ha ha ha, it's an amazing stretch, barely any warm-up required, super easy to progress, even if you're an advanced lifter. And in general, easy exercises that you can sprinkle on top of other sessions to get more volume in. Even on a leg day, let's say you finish at leg day, you can easily bang out two to three sets of dips or deficit pushups with barely any mental effort required. So get on there, especially if you're a bit heavy or a beginner, you might only be able to do like five to 10 reps per set, super time efficient, and extremely effective. They take all the boxes, and they're somewhat slept on. I, in my opinion, don't be slept with, no weight that was my motto in high school and I succeeded. Don't get slept on, I'm not sure what that means, but I'm sure it's getting stepped on. Yeah, starting our new spin-off service with Mike, Harry Dudes stepping on a use. I'm sorry, I love now. You love that. Listen, back in the day, I worked my way through a bunch of different modalities for chest, and I sometimes found that machines were awesome. But I sometimes found, depending on the machines, like, so something missing, I just wasn't getting a crazy pump, but wasn't getting crazy sore. Dips, deficit pushups have never done me wrong. Your dad is a dip or deficit pushup. He goes out for a container of milk. He comes back to take care of you. It doesn't leave with some other woman that has some other family in Illinois that you don't know about and find out. When you're 21, and he's your dad, and you still try to love him, but Jesus Christ really got a whole other family. Deficit pushups and dips, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, I'm still yapping about body weight exercise. Also, amazing exercises when you're traveling or when you're low in equipment. When you're out of town, easy peasy dips, pushups, you can bang them out anywhere, amazing, I don't know. Yeah, whatever. You can cut that out, it's called, I find it physical, whatever. Don't travel, dedicate yourself to your chest, come on, be serious. Where are you going next week? You get nowhere if you're going to travel, but you better be going to the gym. See you there. So we're going to be happy with the good stuff. That's great. It's an important tip. When it comes to maximizing hypertrophy, based on the current literature, a good educated bet is to emphasize the length and position on most exercises. Look, I'm not saying that if you don't, you're not going to make gates or anything like that. But if you're watching this video and you're desperate to get a chest of world peace, a chest that would end the tariffs and any wars that are ongoing at the moment, then choose exercises that place a lot of tension in the stretch and do your best to pause stuff in the stretch. The pause is not going to take away from your gates and it will likely allow you to be a bit more efficient with the weights that you use. It will make the exercise harder and it will give you more space to progress. Focus on that stretch. War-scaze scenario, nothing about happens. Best-case scenario, more pex, more checks, more sex, more dex. Buy our new deck cleaning system with Dr. Mike for sailors and maritime companies, bull carriers, yachts, and many other types of ships. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have a dirty deck, we can clean it with our hands. It's part of the other scheme as well, the step on use. So we'll come and speed you seven, and then we can give you the yawd. And if you have a yawd or a bow, you're pretty rich. Hey, listen, we are chit. You can support us. Shut up and buy our services. Now link in the description. Well, gee, with Mr. Pack, I don't talk all of your devices. And you see the problem is, they didn't work. Oh, snap, did you buy any chance also eat plenty of protein? And maybe at least maintenance calories or in a slight calorie surplus and make sure that you're sleeping like seven to nine hours per night? I didn't do any of those things. Oh my God, but these are the most basic things you need to do. Did follow the plan right on your phone and get the gains. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. Did you train for at least six months before USS progress? I assess progress every day looking in the mirror my chest while not eating in any kind of surplus. And I never slept. Did you know why didn't sleep? Because I was in the mirror, assessing my chest progress. Did I do it wrong? I look, covered person who watches these videos and wants to make gains. You must remember that the basics come first. You must be eating well, eating a lot of protein maybe in a very, very, very conservative surplus sleeping in. It takes time to grow a lot of muscle, can't expect massive chest in two months. I have a question. Yes, please. You said sleeping. Who with? With your mom, your. Oh, that's new done. Except if your mom has passed the worst spec and by sleeping, I mean, sleeping in the same vicinity and then having sex. With the corpse with the whole body. That aside, Missy guys, are we literally putting the corpse on the side? It's an effort. Hold up. Joe Gacy, that shit, below the house. My dog, I watch serial killer stuff. But look, if you're a natural individual out there and you want to grow, it will take time. Give it time, follow those tips and you're going to be fine. But don't expect a massive chest in two weeks, just because you're pausing the stretch and did a bit more volume. Do the basics, cover your basics, do your due diligence outside the gym, follow these tips and I would be extremely surprised. 60 day money back guarantee if your chest doesn't grow significantly from what it was before. Cool. Let's say you're a drug user and you're not natural. How does this whole process work? I'm going to tell you right now, easy steps to get you the biggest chest that you can get. Really study in school. I mean study. Pass all the exams, go to university, get a ton of degrees, get a great job, a whole career, make a ton of money, get a house with a pool, drain the pool, put needles on the bottom of the pool, drain facing up all loaded with just tons of trend, who cares what you're shooting, debol, even though it's an oral, put it in the fields anyway, put it in the needles, needles face up, get on the board, the bouncing, diving board, blank, blank, and then just right into the needles and you're going to be jacked. It's a bit of a long game. But to work with. For people that may not have the pool, let's cover that as well. Needles throw them on the ground and just run, run back and forth four times. After that, you should be covered. I'd be able to get the pool of Ocas if you're not you're a brokeie and what you should be watching. The RP channel, if you don't have seven Bugatti's and they'll stop watching TV if you don't have money, get money first, mother, look her. Comedy Central aside to summarize. Now that's the Andre Tating group. Comedy aside to summarize for a bigger chest, if your chest is lagging, do more training volume. Up to 20 to 30 sets per week for your chest. Good stuff. Do compound exercises that you can fail on safely, like a machine chest wrist, but also include plenty of isolation exercise for your chest. For those exercises, make sure that you're emphasizing the stretch, pausing in the stretch, and also selecting exercises that load the chest and the stretch. Good educated bet. Don't be afraid to go heavy in the 5 to 12 rep range for a lot of your stuff to make sure that you are training very close to failure, obviously training zero to reps in reserve. And what else was there? Buy our new deck cleaning system with Dr. Mike for sailors and maritime companies. And also make sure and this goes for any tip that you will ever hear. Make sure that you're eating roughly 2.3 grams of protein per kilo of body weight if you want to absolutely leave no stone unturned. Eat at least maintenance calories or even better in a very slight surplus around 5 or 10% above your maintenance calories. Do your best to sleep at a regular time, same time, sleep 7 to 9 hours and give it time. Or buy our apps, my adab, RP Hyperchop, and it will do everything for you. Yes, shameless plug. You see how it's not gonna enter you keep that in their scald RP Hyperchopy channel, best channel. Dr. Mike, not the person that I started actually keeping that grease. Yeah baby. Six explosions added them max. Ah, it would more work for you, more money for you. Yeah, a commission 10% yeah, RP chip. Detroit baby. Yeah, fuck in Detroit.

If you tell people that they're cutting sugar or any other change by the way, then in one or two weeks they can expect to lose at least 13 pounds. You are categorically setting them up for failure. F***ing insanity. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for the RP Strength YouTube channel. I have a PhD in Sport Physiology. I have taught exercise, behavior, I have taught nutrition at all levels. I have taught personal training program design and personal training nutrition enhancement at the Division I University level for a long time. So I'm a little teeny teeny tiny bit of a junior league pretend expert. And that puts me leagues ahead of Dr. Berg, who is a doctor of some sort, no doubt, but likes to say things that have a little bit of a grain of truth and a lot of bit of total BS. So one of his videos has 15 million views, I think, of the health benefits of cutting sugar from your diet. That video is mostly bullshit. I've tried to become more kind and courteous. It's really good. And really trying to understand different perspectives. I'm not just trying to dog on people and be sarcastic all the time. But at the same time, my patience for what I like to call bordering on or over the border of quack doctors has worn very, very thin. So I'm going to clap back and we're going to go through a very, very popular video. It's a very short video of what has it got the nine things they're going to change about you within two weeks of cutting out your sugar. So one would actually happen if you completely gave up sugar for two weeks. The first thing you would notice is the shape of your face would change. It would go from being more roundish or puffy to a inner face. Will your face actually de-bloked from two weeks of reducing your sugar? The answer is if you don't replace that sugar with fat calories, protein calories, or just other carbohydrates, which aren't sugar, like those found in rice pasta bread, so on and so forth, the answer is a teeny bit your face is likely to de-blote because high-calorie and high-carb diets can cause a little bit of low-key inflammation and you lose a little bit of water if you cut calories really hard. So yes, that's absolutely a thing. But that doesn't mean you're losing hardly any fat. You're losing very tiny amount of fat. And dropping is 75 to 150 grams of added sugar is a 300-600 calorie daily deficit over two weeks that really is just two pounds potentially of tissue most of that being fat. And so two pounds from your whole body and if you weigh 200 pounds, now you weigh 198. It's not like anyone's going to be like, oh my god, your face is so much leaner. You might be de-bloded a little bit, but that is a short term. And if you cut your sugar, but you increase your fat consumption, or you increase your carb consumption from grains, then you actually will get possibly no de-bloting at all. So this is one of these things that if you promise people, hey, you're going to de-blote. And after two weeks, the vast majority of people that have cut out sugar and not are in a calorie deficit, or even if they are in calorie deficit, they're going to be highly underwhelmed. So don't go looking around and think, oh man, this is a big deal. In many cases, your face will de-blote a lot if you spend a month and months with healthy foods, high physical activity, and a sustained calorie deficit. That definitely works. Two weeks in, it's going to be a whole lot of disappointment in most people's case. All right, let's go to the eye stuff. You'll see better. The kidneys will improve. The kidney is another organ that gets hammered with too much sugar. Good God. Scott, this is off to a fucking start. So improves your eyes slash brain slash arteries slash kidneys. I guess we'll do the brain thing at the same time. Let's get through the brain. We have an exact visual replica of the human brain. It really does light up like that in the real world. The nerves and the brain. When you decrease sugar out of your diet, your nerves start healing up. Memory is better. Your focus is better. And your concentration is much better. So fewer spikes of glucose, post ingestion of high doses of sugar. Definitely reduce your triglycerides and your oxidative stress. For sure. And a longer term, lower consumption of sugar sweetened beverages like sodas and juices. Definitely is going to decrease cardiovascular disease risk and actually give you all those benefits he talked about. However, retinal vessels, arterial plaque, kidney, nephron function and all of the brain stuff, especially the brain stuff, remodel over months and years where you lose lots of body fat and body weight through controlling your calories and not like two weeks. It's just not going to measure out into weeks. You will not see better in two weeks. That is ludicrous. It's a ludicrous proposition. One out of a hundred people will see better in two weeks just by pure chance. And everyone else is like, they at works. Improvements in blood pressure control. Sleep exercise. Micronutrient intake actually eating a healthy diet. Are the big ones here. Sugar is a legobrick. But you don't even have to cut sugar if you cut calories from extra fats. And that coloric deficit will lead to the identical benefits as cutting sugar. So when he says you cut sugar, you got all these benefits. Not only is that not true in two weeks. You don't even have to cut sugar for this to be true and it can only be true over the long term. So it's a great lifelong play to cut calories from excess sugar and excess fat. But the two week payoff is so microscopic you will never even notice. Why am I harping on this? And I will say this about another eight times or so. If you set people up with expectations for what it's like to cut sugar for two weeks. And 99 out of 100 of them meet zero of the expectations. You're going to get people to get really disappointed and to highly, likely, more high-lake than not. Just stop trying to improve their diets because gay. I've tried dieting, Dr. Berg's sugar thing. I didn't feel anything so I stopped. It's all BS. Well, it's not all BS. Some really good stuff in here. But the promises can outweigh something like check this out. If you're a person, if you're like Scott to video guy and you are like a nine out of ten just total sex machine like you can please the ladies. You can easily create disappointment. If you go home with a girl from the club concentrally everyone's using protection. And you're like I'm the greatest person to ever have sex with anyone. Sure enough, you're almost certainly going to disappoint. You don't have to make these crazy bombastic allegations just do a good job. In and out a few times, you smoke a cigarette. You've got to be a coffee and never talk to that person again. That simple. Two weeks does almost nothing for almost everything and it's just not a good idea to tell people things that are not true. I've been next to you going to notice that you're going to get up a lot last during the night to pee. Okay. Why is that? Because water follows sugar. If you take in a diet higher of sugar than normal, but you don't consume extra fluids, that sugar goes into your muscle and liver glycogen stores and builds them up. And actually pulls water out of your bloodstream where your kidneys access to pee it out eventually and into your muscles. So if you want to pee less at night, just for one night, don't do this all the time because it'll make you fat. Eat a lot more carbohydrate. You'll get really thirsty. Just go to sleep. You'll pee hardly anything at all that night. You'll wake up nice and dry. Bodybuilders do this before bodybuilding shows all the time. So it's actually backwards to say that the sugar is causing the pee. The number when it is going to happen is again, if you're chugging soda before you go to bed or just fluids and if you have like legit really something wrong with your excretory system and maybe and probably if you have very uncontrolled diabetes, if you have very uncontrolled diabetes, you need to be getting out every medication and got for that shit and you need to be losing probably dozens of tons of pounds of weight and trying to gain dozens of pounds of muscle with serious, serious intervention. Dr. Berg videos are not going to cut it. And two weeks is not going to do fucking dick for you. And all we did is cut the sugar out and they slept to the entire night. Who's we, mother fucker? You got a very research lab. You're not publishing data from somewhere. I'm just getting snarky but seriously folks. Jesus Christ. Your inflammation, pain, and stiffness is going to also improve. You guys see this sign of scream. More energy. How the hell do you get more energy from cutting calories? I'll tell you how. You're eating calories in such an access that you get this yo yo effect of high sugar and then nothing and then high sugar and nothing. You're just eating candy every few times a day. If you cut that out, it will give you more sustained energy. But if you're already eating either lots of food throughout the day or you're eating a very good controlled calorie diet, you can eat all the sugar that you want and not have any kind of energy change. And as a matter of fact, when you cut sugar and you cut calories, you can predictably get a little bit less energy. It feels a little bit serene kind of calming but it sure a shit is not more energy. And as a matter of fact, if you do lots of fruit toasts from a specially natural sources, like fruits, the fruit toast is an incredibly slow digesting carbohydrate, which allows you to actually experience very sustained energy throughout the day. So a lot of people are like, well, I'm cutting out my fruit because Dr. Berg says sugar is bad and they'll get less energy and it'll be even less sustained bad news. Cravings between meals definitely can reduce if you reduce your sugar, but if you reduce your calories too, the loop goes backwards and the cravings are back just the same, arguably more intense. What really controls cravings much better is having sugars that take longer to adjust, like sugars from fruits, having whole grains and increasing your proteins. If your idea of a meal is a bag of skittles, yeah, your cravings won't hurt that much if you stop eating skittles and replace them with a high protein snack, like a protein bar, or something like that. But other than that, your cravings are not going to go away when you reduce sugar because if you've actually successfully reduced your calories, you get nothing out of it. Next, stiffness, pain and inflammation. If you lose lots of weight, potentially through cutting sugar, but you can cut zero sugar and lose all the weight just by dragging your overall fat consumption and controlling your carbohydrates, you can even leave all the sugars in your diet, most different fruits, and even some candy, and you can cut how much grain you're taking in. That's not sugar. Those are starches. And you can have the same identical effect on improved arterial health, improved pain, and improved inflammation. If you cut your sugar for two weeks, precisely almost none of this will happen because it's losing lots of weight and staying leaner for months and months and months that makes measurable impacts in this. It's the idea that if you cut sugar for two weeks that your arteries are notably healthier, is pure, wacky nonsense. Now let's get to the major claim here. And you'll lose at least 13 pounds in the first one with two weeks. Scott, when I was prepping for this video, I tried to figure out a nice way to say these things. How did that go? I failed. And I will fail again in front of all of you. At least 13 pounds in one to two weeks from cutting out sugar from your diet. Mangio, he didn't say if you could replace it with grains or fats, which most people will do anyway, as soon as they get hungry and realize they can't have sugar, but they look at the oatmeal thing. And it's like, oh, it's got basically no sugar in it. I'm good. Is fucking insanity. Why? Because 13 pounds of weight, even if we allow for five or even seven pounds of body water from cutting sugar is so outside of realism, because if you have seven pounds of body water, and after one or two weeks, maybe maybe if you really broke your calories off, you lost three or four pounds of body fat, which is a lot. I mean, that's really, really optimistic you guys. We're talking about 10 or 11 pounds of weight lost in two weeks. Their language specifically that was used in one to two weeks at least 13 pounds. Scott, if he said at most 13 pounds, you'd be like, that is a way sensible. At least, just totally insane. And why am I so pissed about this? This is not some kind of like, uh, just like, actuarial error. Yeah, it's just got the wrong. He carried the one or whatever. He carried the, he carried the decimal point too far one this way or that way. If you tell people that you're cutting sugar or any other change, by the way, that in one or two weeks, they can expect to lose at least 13 pounds. You are categorically setting them up for failure. Not failure in the real world, because they still cut out sugar, and maybe got a little bit tiny bit healthier, and are on their way to get even healthier still. Cool. But if you expect that success at least, at least, fuck. Looks like 13 pounds of lost weight. And you lose an ungodly, unboleivable rock star 10 pounds on the first two weeks, most of it through body water, a little bit, but a significant amount through body fat, you're going to consider yourself a failure. And you're going to do one good thing and one bad thing. The good thing is you'll probably stop Dr. Bird's fucking dumbass insanity, because you're going to be laying it in work. Like he said, it would. At least, remember, the bad thing is that you are very likely to have a very serious deprecation of your internal confidence to succeed against the will of your body. Fundamentally, the unhealthiness metabolic syndrome and obesity epidemic in the United States and much of the world today has a huge pin in it of people feeling disempowered about even trying to help themselves. They tried these wacky stupid diets, these quirks from these fake doctors on the internet, and they didn't work. So they're like, I, you know, I'm big bone. It just didn't work for me. And for some people that's true, but for most people, it's not. So what we want to do is give people really good advice. Very realistic, minimalist expectations and encourage them to have a confidence developed about their ability to eat better and see results. If someone tells you, hey, you clean up your diet and a few weeks later, your pie field, but better and a few months later, your pie field, a lot better, look better in your doctor, say your blood works better. Actually, it's going to happen. They're going to work through that and be like, dude, I got this man and then there I'm that journey to health. And they might actually succeed in really changing their bodies for the better. If you tell them, hey, minimum 13 pounds, they're going to suck at it because everyone will, they're going to fail at it and they're going to be like, I'm in it didn't work. And enough trying fitness things and health things that don't work gets most people to abandon the endeavor. Look around, go to Walmart, go to the mall, go to anywhere where there's humans in America. How many people do we want giving up on fitness? How many people already gave up on fitness? This kind of shit is not helping the process. Period. Where am I Scott? Parks, congruent to that in cholesterol. Well, you won't believe what fat doesn't have to convert to when you eat it already, fat. And if you eat cholesterol, it doesn't have to convert once again. So the target is carbs converting, but where is the video and giving up fat for two weeks? Nobody talks about that because it's also a bad idea. You want to give up junk food for two weeks and maintain a healthy diet and you're going to want to go more than two weeks. This whole two weeks nonsense is the biggest problem with this. Do this for two weeks? Why? What's going to happen? Almost nothing. You need a long term sustainable habit building, not two week. Fuckin quirks that do basically nothing. God, what else is same? Mostly fat in your liver. Scott, what's that person thinking? Oh, darn, these were my good genes. It's came from carbohydrates. Most of the fat that stored in your liver came from carbohydrates is what I like to call scientifically make belief. This is a statement that was just made up. It has no basis in reality. The extra fat around your liver and in your internal organs came from poor sleep, high stress and like generations of dog shit eating and gaining way too much fat and not being physically active enough. That's what did it. What kind of food leads you to store fat in your liver? Every kind of food you eat in a caloric excess. Targeting sugar by itself is just make belief nonsense. You guys, it's just nonsense. And I'm not talking weight. I take everything back. Scott, there's a blonde woman eating salad and she's ecstatic about it. I'm on the bottom now. We're not even second blonde woman. It's the second blonde woman so happy. Do you like I think I kind of want to like, copyright with her and I believe this man. I'm on her team. If she supports Dr. Berg, I'm cutting out sugar for two years. Salad, cargo, high traits. I'm talking about the Oh, yes, that technical term, salad, carbohydrates. All that school for nothing, Mike. Good job, buddy. Rains, the breads. Scott, you see the goal post shifting here? Who talk about cutting sugar? And now we're talking about grains and breads, which are mostly starches, which are not sugars, by definition. So like, just just help me understand what the fuck we're even talking about here. Scott, am I swearing too much? No, we believe it now. Believe it. We are more believing. Get the bleeper out. You're believing, bleeper. All right. We got some, okay, lose weight. That was BS. You'll lose a little bit of weight. You have to keep that sustained. Number eight popped up at us. Better skin. Yes, if you're overeating, very processed sugar. Sometimes through IGF1 effects, you get more pimples. But if you continue to eat a more or less junk food diet, you're going to hardly notice anything for your skin whatsoever. And again, this is one of things most people will not notice any effect on the skin from cutting out sugar in two weeks. And if you tell them they will, it can really get them in the door. One of these things that this does really well. There's really gets people who have thinking maybe I should cut out sugar. It'd be like, oh my God, Scott, can you imagine being a regular person watching one of these? You're like, this is amazing. I'm going to do it now. And just a gigantic disappointment, because most of the shit will not happen to you, file it under better skin. Dwarps and of all these nutrients, including amino acids, to build proteins. So if you had an atrophy before, that looks like salite. Your legs are your butt. Scott, are we keeping track of how much whole lansense he just said in one sentence? It's it becomes hard because just so much put together. Atrophy doesn't look like salilite. Atrophy is when your muscles are small. Satellite is because you have a combination of access fat and loose skin. What the hell is going on here? Also, increasing your carbohydrates via the insulin pathway helps to bring more amino acids into your muscles and build a more muscle protein, having more sugar builds more muscle than less sugar. Period end of conversation. If you want to tell people that by cutting calories, over the long term, they're going to experience better insulin sensitivity, less insulin resistance, and thus a higher ability to build muscle in the future. But after two weeks of cutting sugar, measurably, you experience zero changes in insulin resistance. For that to happen, you have to do this for weeks and months and your body fat stores have to come down. If you ideally are training with weights and eating a higher protein diet and your muscle comes up during that same time, you're going to be good to go. But if you want the biggest muscles that you can have, you eat a diet that can be quite high and sugar, higher is better for a little while, grow a bunch of muscle, a little bit of fat, switch to a diet that lowers the calories, and then on the back end, you lose the fat, keep the muscle, keep training, keep the high protein diet, and then you switch to another gain cycle. It's the gain cycles that add most of the muscle, and sugar is better for gains than not sugar. Carbohydrates are atabolic. That's why body builders eat 800 grams of them, shit a day and shoot insulin on top of that to get the carbs to do more of that stuff we want. So pretty much everything he said in the sentence is just two dogs having gentle relations behind a dumpster level of dumb. I didn't mean to shit on dogs. They deserve to have their dumpster time, you guys. All the sudden that starts improving, you get more muscle. Scott's that looks like muscle you. I mean, it looks like I want to get to know whoever that person is. I don't give a shit what gender they are. So girl, same, that's skin. Also, there's not a goddamn thing wrong with salio. Yeah, I said it. And you get a better body shape. Oh, why the grains of truth in this are that if you're eating a diet that is too many calories and the reason it's too many calories, one of the big reasons is that you're consuming a lot of access sugar mostly through junk food, only through junk food, kicks and cookies, and ice creams, juices and full sugar sodas. If you cut that down and get the calories to a deficit to start losing weight over weeks and weeks and weeks and weeks and months and months and years, you are going to see tons of health improvements. It will transform you. If you expect that shit to happen in two weeks and you don't even account for the calories like they didn't in this video, you can expect to be insanely disappointed with Dr. Berg's advice. And if you want to be more disappointed with lots more of advice, you can tune into his YouTube channel where he says lots of other usually insane wrong things. We're all trying our best. My suspicion is the Dr. Berg is trying his best to get as many people into his funnel to saw you supplement or whatever the fuck he sells. Listen, we all got something to sell. The RP Hyperchrophy app comes with dozens of pre-made programs from two days of training per week all the way up to six days of training with specialized programs included for shoulders, arms, chest, back, legs, abs, and glutes. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. Giving people illusory false hope is a bad idea. There's nothing wrong with sugar. If most of your sugar comes especially from fruits, it's actually really healthy. If your sugar even if it comes largely from artificial sources, is within the context of a high protein, otherwise high nutrient, lots of veggies and lean meats and stuff. Calorie-controlled diet, you will see functionally zero negatives. Sugar is not the enemy. Access consumption that leads to very high chronic body weight is if you can take medications like tersepotide, if you can control your diet, if you can do a regular exercise protocol and put on muscle and get your physical activity up to 10,000 steps a day and keep it there, that is what's going to make a big difference. Cutting out sugar for two weeks and ing on-doship. Anyway, thanks for tuning in. Sorry for all the yelling. Click on another video after this, maybe hopefully one pops up over here and try to get some positivity in your life. You know, I feel dirty. I'll see you guys next time. I'm going to go shower in pure sugar.

up rest brief one by one two sets of one let's go move it me I'm Dr. Mike what you already know that and y'all my bakers has been DMing he left and right leave in comments get will tennis and on the channel will so great he's my hero his hair is perfect you guys could have great GAY energy together well good yes succeeded yeah oh my god let's hey listen thank you it's better than I could have ever imagined it is there's just one problem we're gonna hurt each other today maybe emotionally definitely physically it's like day wartime fellas let's do it lying led curl you guys will see I put two pads down the reason for this is that this the free motion like curl machine is a fine machine there is a way to enhance you extend this and what ends up happening is your hamstrings at the very bottom get stretched way more because your hips are elevated thus the relative angle of this is deeper and we know from a good amount of scientific research at this point and a lot of personal experience that if you really stretch a muscle under load the hyper trophic response is just way better but it also fuck you up wait what well kind of rep range the first set is a straight set of 19 reps after warm ups the second set is however many mini my reps that's to get 19 course to get to 19 again great getting to 19 my pro-lops her says that's a very poor phrasing I should stop using give him my criminal past you have 20 the fuck dude if I'm known for anything on the internet where we know from one to failure meant I know for quitting early it turns out I'm not a man I'm a bitch and that began to hurt me and I see that's actually an exception why not she's disappointed in you we like like 25 30 even maybe what is 40 why don't you stop I don't know how I'm like I'm a MTV like prank asking could you yeah what two more fuck yeah touch that but yes two more you got this yep and one last one the technique only milk this one out as if you're going to do another slow control gentle that's it now that's trying someone has to do it fuck I do have an explanation for why I train high train the app programs me to hit mini PRs if I just get the mini PRs I know I'm not losing my song I'll be gaining a bit and that's all I need could I train myself and get a few more apps totally another thing is this is week two of my four-week program I don't go close to failure until week four okay so and the last thing is is that I've experimented many times in the past age actually used to train everything to failure every works at two concentric failure when I started going shy of failure I just got better results don't ever fucking come in my general and something like that come on five to ten seconds right yeah three more let's go come on all the way out touch the butt come on let's go touch the butt there it is slow slow rack best got three more take your time take your time I really over it's eat that first now another totally fine two my reps is totally great hey yep slow and one last one boom slow as if you're gonna do another one milk it milk you gentle touch perfect well how old how old are you I'm 29 29 a good age for you it's like a wine yeah perfect enough enough seeing the world to be a little jaded but still some hope in their eyes of that age once they cross the 30s they're like yeah oh fuck me we're to walk yeah oh man this isn't be hell this one you're doing you're doing just great fuck you're like a fridge ram though thank you yeah that's a big compliment it's like like not me like you're just like fucking built my stock will said I look like a refrigerator but like in the best way possible here's the acting coming into play nine one more there it is slow okay why do you think I got these shirts it says leg don't you notice there's like weird space thing right here something like we sweat it's supposed to spell legendary how you supposed to sweat we being a judge I don't think I am legendary we're gonna get wet and think the spell is gonna spell the rest of the world get wet well don't you worry about that okay slow control and that's it relax and that's rest long enough to get about four or five you're okay that gorgeous hair Jesus Christ you can touch it if you want the hair we're just the rest of the yep one more left to make it high quality yes slow control control and you're done yeah brilliant excellent you know dad yeah yeah yeah yeah really assure me that just give you a hug I'm always weird about like the degree of touch like me too threw me off completely like if I'm around females bitch I am touching you for not oh you're always not going away again I'm gonna stress ball man just come oh my god quite an hamstrings feel quite awful extra happy about good yeah if you're like somewhat stimulated maybe you warmed up next we are going to do leg press this but what I like to do is warm up with bodyweight squats because then we don't have to put the little plates on the leg press we could just cook pretty decent up so let's come over here and we'll go in front of the mirror together we'll just do buddy squats gotta ask real quick what's this what's going on here oh yes well these are just wooden blocks that elevate myself and my wife she's a short queen I'm a short king okay and so this allows us to use the otherwise excellently designed Atlantis linear leg press to get a super deep stretch of the pot that's really cute yeah so we will take whatever stance is similar to our leg press stance maybe the little bit wider and then hands go up or like this and then you squat super slow and all the way now I got something fucked up I'm gonna need to sound like plates I have no ankle mobility oh you're one of those yeah we have a solution for yeah well this is it this is my typical ready oh and a quick disaster now our business see yep slow and controlled pause at the bottom and come up and do a sum total of about 15 of these and then that gets our quads nice and warmed up just start leg pressing with a bit of a heavier warmup my knees are man you're feeling it oh my knees yeah oh cuz your knees are fucked up yeah what happened to your knees a lot of time on the yeah you want to put your knees sleeves on for the leg press oh you think of me if I do that I think so little of you already it just doesn't matter oh yep super deep leg presses there's a trick here it's not much for trick it's always a trick with you it's terrible my O-RF's and bottom two thirds only until you need to rest for the myorah so you're gonna knock them out come up two thirds of the way just when it starts to get easier you go right back down slow and controlled with the general pause at the bottom as long as you can go until the heels like while the while the heels still stay on the pad right perfectly send lock rack your mobility is crazy oh thanks so much while I'm cheating because I have weight lifting shoes on wow if you consider weight lifting shoes I happen as usually I usually train my legs and these are socks dude for ankle mobility only weight lifting shoes ever touch my body let's go nice no more is that out? hit it slow control do thirds down slow pause up and lock back which is it man fuck I wanted 17 so bad just think fuck only uh only two more of those fuck I I shouldn't believe in myself as much as I do it's just hurting me fuck I don't get up on me now I'm not just fucking I think the light press just did that for us down yeah slow rushing these slow right off the bat slow slow push rest breathe holy shit two left oh me really the fucking man let's get these good good technique only will let's get it yep slow full pause oh right right oh my god good stuff it's stuff good stuff more more stuff left time to the Nice It's plugged There you go fuck everything for the rest of the days. He's your other day. I'm sure except for the lungers we have after this Oh God, oh, I feel so good. I can't wait to lie Yes, I will get our shirts left Yep This is marathon will Yes Press on the fucker rest oh fuck. Oh good you're good get another one move rest breathe That's 12. Yeah Just two at a time one Slow up Rest breathe One by one fuck two sets of one let's go Move it last one coming up whenever you're ready Oh, oh, God damn it Oh Here's now a fucking wrong Well, have you seen it old movie a Christmas story? Yeah, no, I've had a lot of you left There. Yeah, all right. Yes, I can do what's up, though I think I train legs hard. Yeah, fuck Oh, fuck Dude, that was dope I wish it that was hell a dope man wicked dope All right lungers I'm gonna warm up really quick and I'll watch your warmups just a six-step You know warm up that way Well, yes, so that's actually a really good question. I will dress that on the video camera after your muscles are already warmed up And you're on your later exercises for muscles you've already warmed up which frost glutes lower back Attractors and quads are super warm I like to do at least one set Jay Cutler actually had the best time ever heard for this not sports scientist, but nonetheless very apt a feel set You don't want to get into this with real weight and have the first cup of rest like oh my body's gonna use to lunges Yeah, so they say you can kind of judge what you're working sets in the season apart of that absolutely but since the RPI perched Fiat already told me what I'm doing I just have to warm up to it. So it takes six or eight nice long lung steps with just body weight First couple feel honestly like total shit next couple feel okay last couple feel decent and then I get on this and it's all hunky doing 22 repetitions Quite way too much step is a rep so 11 11 back. Yeah, something like that. I usually do like 12 and time and how many reps? How many sets away? I'm gonna do two. Yeah, you should also do two. I agree Now you have many one more nice and easy set it up again. You got this little slow control your in charge slow up Go and rack you're good perfect once you get the hang of my first year sketch yes, and then you get the hang of it. That's gravy It was really fucking good is this the last time of the day coming up. Yes, oh, he shit not a very long workout. Wow. That's your thing right short in the fact that you know Haha Oh, yeah Two more in your done Yep, slow control last one got to be good Yes, walk it in All right, come on back a little quickly while the quads are still fresh here's what I want you to do will okay I was so you're gonna stay in right off of this like that toast pointed out squat technique you need to get your hands up You're gonna slowly control your eccentric you're gonna sit here for two whole seconds you're gonna come up only two thirds of the way Slowly control and sit when you can't do that anymore. I'm gonna eat a common lock breathe for a bit and then repeat we'll tell you when you're done you like pain Down down slow Up down do not fucking break will look forward there's nothing down there for you to see Up down down slow look forward up up up down one more down slow chest up chest up mother fucker Don't you goddamn touch your life wait Get out of here you're done good shit For the gram You're a tea bag, you man Sorry Mr. Tyson That was fucking dope that was dope man that shit was fun. He has fucking faith I love that So really not that much Exercise, just three exercises just three people think they have to do like fucking 24 sets for the legs We don't know they might but This is a hard enough workout for me. Don't leave me recover from twice a week. I suspect based on your current person looks Bearing since likely similar for you. If someone's like can you do this workout but with You know 10 extra sets total you'd be like dude. Why is you could you could survive it But the question isn't about what you can survive. It's what you can recover from for at least twice a week when you train legs When you get these shirts wet Water or seamen So every year for sure. Seems mostly water anyway, isn't it folks? We're juicy. He's drug free so he can only get so juicy But it's not beans like that. Yeah, you got to use a lot of dogs I mean I got my trainer you on Yeah You know, Vasculary is large in genetic and also a matter of body upper percentage But if I have white fish when they make my skin thin, then you will become runny Coleman in your days will Thank you sir. Huge pleasure. I've heard many things about you before this meeting and they were all true Guys, if you're already following him good If you want to follow someone who is not only Educated, knowledgeable and entertaining Handsome Did I mention handsome? He's also handsome. You give him a follow and if you're one of Will townsters people and you see this video. Hello, I'm Dr. Mike from He's a great guy. Great. Great. Great. Amazing guy Step down. I'll pay you later. Yeah, step down. Oh, and you step up. Son, get in here and meet up proud. See you guys next time. Bye. I'm for Jewish aim. Hi. I used to play in the little leagues. Huh. Wait. Yeah. Oh, there it is. Yeah. How cool is that? That's nice. Yeah.

We were back to high school set of six with 185. To you guys make me weaker. I said bigger and not weaker. I said bigger and not weaker. I said bigger and not weaker. You two, what's going on? I'm clearly Dr. Mike still, despite my best efforts, I continue to wake up in the stupid body with this ugly head. That being said, Jared Feather, look at his mocha. He's great. He's a guy. Mocha. Did that come out wrong or very right? That was the thing. Anyway, I was real massive. Load, really slip, I want whatever that is. Batteries not included. Listen, Jared Feather is an I.C. pro. Here is our man, Ali. Now he caught us out in the streets and he was like, I'm two things. A competitive bodybuilder and I'm Lebanese. And I was like, that means you're going to have to honor the legacy of all the unbelievable Lebanese bodybuilding champions, including Mr. Olympias. And he's like, I'm so ready, y'all. And even I ain't even playing. And I was like, leg day and he was like, yeah. And so here we are today. This is going to be a hamstring focused in the beginning, then eventually quad focused in the end. High-repe, leg pain, day of doom. I'm just kidding. But everything's going to be great. Don't tell him, let's get into it. What you're doing, how you're like pushing your hips down like this. So you can hold the stretch at the top. That was perfect. A lot of people want to get to this top. It's going to clank and just let all the tension off their hamstring. Try to hold that deep stretch on the eccentric face at the top for one second and force on the way down. Seated hamstring curls sets of 10 to 20 reps. We're going to do my rep match because why wouldn't you? What is my rep match? If you're new to the channel, you at how long are many reps you can close to failure. One or two reps away, shy, even zero reps right at failure. We're going to do that. Let's say he gets 18 reps straight. Rest two, three minutes. How long it takes to get all the energy back, breathing normal. Next set begins. He goes pretty close to failure or two failure. Let's say he gets 16 reps because he's tired now. He waits for five or ten seconds. Finish is off the last two. So it's 18 on the first, 18 on the second. Third set, however many sets it takes. So five to ten seconds. Rest breaks between the many sets to get again to 18. So that could be like 10, six, two. Brutal multiple approaches to failure. Give each huge growth stimulus. 26. Let's get to 30. Down. 27 slow. Let's do it again slower. Slow. Slow. Slow. That's 28. One more good one. 29 slow. Slow. One last one. Finish up strong. Touch. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Hold. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. That's that, Brian. How did I come up with this workout? I sort of did. But the RP training app Alphabild, which we're testing right now, when you see this, it'll probably out for sale. It's keeping track of all of our exercises. It's telling us how much low to use, how many sets, how close to failure. I love it. And I built it. I'm not just the client. I'm a customer. I got that whole thing wrong. Let's just go train. Superlock. Excellent. Excellent. As the reps get harder, you press yourself away. So a big deal on seated hamstring curl machines is as much as the machine design allows. Luckily, this is a good machine that all come this good. It's to lock your legs down into the pad as hard as possible until it comes so physically uncomfortable that the pain of being locked in is worse than the hamstring in. Why? Because you want maximum stability. You want the only thing being trained and moving is the knee joint ideally. That also means that you don't just lock in the thighs, but you take your hands usually in the press yourself into the machine such that it's pure stability for the legs and it's nothing wiggling. If I look at someone's hamstrings training and I look at them doing a seated machine and they're wiggling around while they're doing it, that is no good. People talk about energy loss. That's not how physics works. But I will tell you how neuroscience works. If you are stable and locked in, you can gear in and produce a fuccload of force exactly to the muscle you want. If you're unstable, your nervous system is like, I'm even fuccing doing something for real here and it doesn't allow you to be as strong with the movement. Get a stable, locked in as possible. Tell them to turn up the gangster rap. Just great, fine, let's shit and then get into it. Speaking of which, let's get into it. 25 people join. Again, 26. Let's get to 30. Down. 27 slow. Let's just count on. Do it again, slower. Jolot of a slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. That's 28. One more good one. 29 slow. Slow. One last one. Finish up strong. Touch. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Hold. Good. For me. Good shit. Good shit, man. I'm not burn. Do you feel? You got veins, Chris crossing your ship. So, are these like a super heavyweight bodybuilder here in Vegas? What'd you win last year? High roller. High roller. So, he won the high roller last year. Qualified for national shows. And now he's kind of just an improvement season. Quorum quote. To a hopefully, do nationals at the end of the year. That's a goal. We can really get it. Yeah. Everything works out. Right. Yeah. 24. That was a perfect rap. Do it again. 25. Beautiful. One. 26. Let's go, Ali. Get your shit together. 27. One more. And then you rest a little bit. Joel 28. Control. Breathe for a second. Rest. Last two minutes. We'll go. Begin. Two. And your dog. One. Break the Joel. Again. Resist me. Don't let me pull your legs. Don't fucking do it. And your dog. Hell yeah, man. That's the strong. That was hard. Got a little pump in your hamstring. Oh, fucking. That's the pump in my hands. All right. So our app has a question for you. How did your joints feel during this exercise? No pain, low pain, moderate pain or a lot of pain. Just for your joints. Not your hands. No pain. No pain. Sorry. It's going to say no game. That's good. Did you imagine? You just encourages joint pain. All right. We saved that. And then it'll program the rest of the shit. Hell yeah. Good stuff. So I never had a hamstring pump. This fucking drastic muscle. I'm like three sets. Yeah. And we just started the shit fellas. Three sets. My rep match of 30 reps each. Done for the seated hamstring curl. I'll use hamstrings are in a state of disarray. We're going to use a smaller amount of load. Do stiff leg and deadlift with dumbbells, which I don't think we've ever done. The channel haven't got the video to do. I must be a first time. First time for everything. I always say that's what my ankle told me when I was four years old. What happened next? I can't talk about on the channel. More technically outside of a court of law. In any case, it's going to be dumbbell stiff leg and deadlift. For probably sets of 10 to 15 reps, the focus here is arching the lower back to pre-stretch the hamstrings by tilting the pelvis anteriorly. Keeping your knees back, push your tummy out and slowly lowering to make the hamstrings at load. Pain is the menu item and depth. As deep as you can go while still feeling it in your hamstrings with an arch lower back, this is the key slow and low. I'm sure shit why I'm not all these hamstrings right now. And after this, you're going to be a fucking lawsuit. Those hamstrings are going to sue the rest of the body. I didn't think that through it. I was never smart enough to go to law school or school. Yes. Go go go. They say number of hundred pounds. More. You got this all fucking day. Big check. More. But back. Big chest. Big chest. Big chest. Go. Go. Go. One more in your dumps. Let's do it. Chest up. Come on man. Fuck back. Chest up. Pause. Up. Ooh. Strap them. How do you do warm up with a 50? I was fucking. Another level. Chest up. Come on man. Let's go. Chest up. Let's go. Chest up. Hold. He stretch. Up. Yes. Come on. Two more in your dump. I know fucking hurts. Big chest. Big chest right here. Sky chest. H-book. Back, back, back, back. Up. Come on. Go. Come on. One more. Get back. Chest into the sky. Or we won't count them all. Even at the bottom of your chest should be pointed completely forward when you're holding that chest forward. Chest forward. Chest forward. Yes. Up. Good stuff dude. Raff. Good stuff. That's it done. Whew. My man. My man. Good job for you. The technique like that man. I'm really good. Oh fuck you. It's good. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Oh. But the fun is just beginning. The selectorized original body masters linear leg press hacksquat, selectorized Schmiggle dig thing in the jig. Beable butt. This is the OG amazing machine type that has been recently perfected by Atlantis with their model. This shit though is all this is. It's like older than me. And I'm like a hundred in a spaceship. It's fucking good. Real good. Atlantis is better. It's newer. It's better engineered. God damn. This is a hell of a thing for its time. We are going to make sure that Ali skutes in here at its deepest possible setting. That he is controlling the eccentric. Here's the thing about this machine. It unloads the axial component, the spine crushing. You barely feel. It's a force us an opportunity to milk that eccentric that's slow lowering for the Quad to an extent that even Scott the video guy called needlessly painful. Now, I hope I'll be camp here this hopefully is far and away off camera. But this is going to be my rep sets. Probably two my rep rest breaks sets of I don't want to say this. A lot of 15 to 25 reps. The Quad are going to be cooked. It's all about high quality. Floreng of motion. He'll stay down. We'll clue you in a similar cues. Honestly, I'm scared to even admit it's true what's going to happen. Let's get on. Let's attention off. Get to the bottom of the halls. Control. Control. Control. Pause there. Yes. Down. Slow. Slow. Got gamut Ali. Slow. Slow. Up. And then as if you're going to do another one. Fucking extra slow. Slow. Right here. Slow. Yes. Yes. Pick them up. Good. Wrap. Mothin. Good. That's a fucking set. Dude. That slowing down in that middle portion is because it's essentially mechanically like the most torque transduced. Yeah. That's the toughest part. If you can slow down during that part, the amount of muscle growth stimulus is like that's what we're doing this exercise. So we're not doing just to do reps. Yeah. You doing an amazing job. As soon as your breathing is back to relatively normal. No rush. No rush. Yeah. Yeah. From now on, dude. Literally. I don't even think about reps anymore. I don't necessarily want to be honest. Yeah. Like all of a sudden, I could get 15. I could get 20. I don't know. I'm just going to keep my technique fucking perfect. Come on. Go, go, go. Nobody said rest. We got two more. Joel. Seven. Down. Slow. Slow. Got gamut. We won't count. Because if they're not slow. Slow. Pause. Up. Rast. Breathe. Come up. Four. It's just going to be harder. It's not a big deal. Slow. There's just a few. Heels on our way up. Up. Down. Slow. Slow. Slow. Good job. Good job. Again. Again. We'll give a fuck if you go to failure. Slow. Slow. Slow. Good job. Good job. That's it. That's it. That's it. My man. Ha. Fuck yeah. Good shit man. Good shit. Holy crap. What? Do that's great. That's like right when I started hitting failure. I noticed that middle part. Yeah. I start to fucking lose it. It's the hardest part, man. It's who he wants it. That's how I like to kind of regulate my volume when I'm training. But I fall out of the rep range that I'm giving myself for an exercise. So like we said we should get like 15 to 20 here. You got 10 on that one. I just go ahead and that's when I program a down set. Yeah. So like I'll reduce the load by 10, 20 percent. And then I'll get back into the rep range that I was doing. Yeah. So I try to struggle with the same way. Check that. And get 70. Every rep. The same. Just like last set. Even though it is lighter. Slow on the descent. Solid. Pause. Only rest at the top. When we say it's a break, he gets killed. One more. Slow. Yeah. Yeah. Slowly. Yes. We're a fucking machine. Up. Go. Go. Go. Rest. Breathe. We got one more little mini set. Control your ship. Stabilize. Breathe. You're in charge. You're in charge. I'll leave you want one or two more of a row. You're ready. Time to fucking wrap, Lebanon. Let's go. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Come on man. Fight it. Heels. Fast. One more. Last one. Slow. Slow. Slowly. Slow. Zero. Zero. Four. Heels. Go. And if you're going to do another. Last rep of machine. Slow. Slow. Slow your in charge. That's it. Oh shit. Oh shit. You're a fully fine. You're a fully fine. You're a fully fine. You're a fully fine. Hey, we only have squats left. How easy. I good luck. Squats are not the quote unquote best quad builder, right? That's what you hear that and we'll say it. It's like your huge. You could squat a fuck a little weight. So whenever you pre-exhaust and be doing machine or something like that first and then you come Squat. Squat is going to fucking be like that. And then the load is so reduced. The axial fatigue from it. So like actually what's going to is fine. Yeah. And then making you systemically fatigue throughout the week. You just reduce the load. It goes down by a shit load. Yeah. So you're not overreaching too soon. 100%. So you might only do like two plates on this today. But I see the squat like what? Four in the fours in the five. Four is fours for ref and 10. I really go, I don't go when I qualify. So now you won't go more than four plates in the total. Ily did three sets of sets of 10 to 15 roughly of the hacksquats. His quads are toast already. He's a strong guy. His quads are enormous 250 pounds of veins all over his legs. He is going to do 185 pounds for one set in the squat. Probably something like five to 10 reps. He is going to do 135 after. There's we do not anticipate him being able to do multiple sets at 95. Just two sets of squats here. 185 135. Hopefully set of 10 to 12 on 135. As soon as he racks 135 he's going to walk back. And we're going to do the RP patented drop set to bodyweight squats. So that's a failure slash death. And that'll be it for quads and the whole workout. It doesn't take much if you get the technique right. Even if you're big you don't have to use crazy heavy weights. You can't if you want. But you can use lighter weight. Do it properly. Get stronger over time from a lower position because the weights have such a huge effect on the muscles. Let's get into it. We're making a set. Let's go. Chest up. Chest up. Chest up. Up. Again. Chest up. Chest up. Chest up. Up. Go. Go. Go. Back. Oh, it's fun. Damn. One of you are back to high school set of six with 185. To you guys make me weaker. I said bigger and out weaker. Let's go to 135. Yeah. Again. Good job. You're in charge early. You're in charge early. It's 135. Fucking pounds. Don't let it punk you out. Slow and control. You're in charge. You're in charge. Chest up. One more. Rest a second. One. What's open? Chore. Chest. Chest. Up. Rack. Slow pain is a good thing. Up. Now. Chest up. Yes. Chest up. Chest up. Sit. Up. Down. Slow. Down. Slow. Let's go. Up. I said it again. Go. Go. Down. Slow. Good chest. We only count the good ones. We only count the good ones that we eat. Up. Go. Up. Up. One more down. That right away. Sit. Slow. Slow. Let's walk and go. Up. Up. Up. Clots. Yes. That's it. Feel free to roll away. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Okay. Body weight is crossed. How long are you so weak? You saw that you were a fucker. I was bleeding. We can't have this embarrassing shit here. Dude. That was fucking awesome. It's great. What do you think, Talik? Talik. But my definitely weigh it. But my weight was blackening. Fuck yeah. I love it. Dude. You did amazing. So it's appreciated. The thing that's most impressive about what you did, which is TPH no joke. It's the gold standard of the way we train and the way we do our channel training. A lot of people can train hard if you just turn up the death metal and just do stuff. A lot of people can be technique masterminds when there's no weight on the bar and they're not close to failure. You took that hardest fuck training and you paired it with excellent technical attention and that slow control. When those two intersect, the explosion that results is enormous fucking quads and a half. I appreciate that. Do it. Awesome stuff. Any time you want to come back on the channel training, anything else I have to do. Yeah. You got social media and shit like that. Yeah. There you go. Oh yeah. All the entertaining bodybuilding. That's my Instagram. We're going to throw it on there for you. Folks who click on it, I'm sure you have an only fan. So we're going to have to. I'm getting a course. I'll be here right here. Oh yeah. Hey badge bunnies. Your boys here. Andy brought us on pipe. So you feel me. Thank you so much for being on the channel. I appreciate you guys big time. Of course. Of course. You can be that stuff. See you guys next time.

Hey folks, doctor Mike here for Assam's Pyrritation. And today's BS video is about how to learn to burn fat for fuel. Aaaaah, aaah, aaah, aaah, aaah, aaah! The like that, but with fat. Let's get into it. The claim generally sounds something like this. When you go low-carb, your body learns to burn fat as fuel, brother. You always see brother, why do they say that? It sounds sweet, but there's a problem. Yes, it's definitely true that you can learn to burn fat for fuel in high intensity exercise. The problem is, by the design of the system and your body that burns anything for fuel, that is not the ideal fuel source for high intensity exercise, and you know what is the great evil, the eye of sarnet's self carbs. I just had a vision of the eye of sarnet from one of the rings, it was like a Cheerio. Mine's fine, trash. You're at a low carb diet, and I'm saying, and that shit goes, zap, and you're like, you're like, you're like, crawl over to the ice cream and someone's like, no, Frodo, don't stop going keto. Samwise, Samwise doesn't help you, right? Cause if we didn't get a bunch of like, lambness, bread, or whatever, well the fuck are we trying to get jacked out here and get ketoed up? All carb diet, you know, they works out it, right? And they might have meat. In any case, here's the thing. Anything faster than a very slow jog relies predominantly on carbohydrate for fuel. So when people say you want to learn, to burn fat as fuel, they usually specifically refer to really intense exercise. And that's just not a great idea. Can you learn to do it? Yes, your body actually does get a little bit better of burning fat for fuel, even in high intensity exercise if you expose it to, you know, whatever protein kept equal higher fat, lower carb diet, especially if it's almost zero carb. Yes, absolutely your body gets better at it. But the analogy there is like, you absolutely can redesign a race car, modify a race car to burn like 87 gasoline, normal ass gasoline or petrol if you're from the rest of the world. And it will run with regular gasoline, and it won't gunk up the engine, but it'll run shitier because racing fuel is better because it's optimized to make you go faster. That's why the fucking's racing fuel. So if you're eating lots of fats and very little carbs, you try to get your body to get really good at burning fats for fuel, you are redesigning your race car to burn regular gasoline and losing races all the fucking time. Now, what if we're talking about fat loss? It turns out that if you reduce any kinds of calories, you burn about the same amount of total calories off. And unless you're reducing protein, don't do that that's stupid. So whether you're using carbs or fat, you are burning almost exclusively body fat if you wait trained and have a decent lock in on your diet. Multiple high protein Phoenix per day, regular weight training, a calorie deficit of either carbs or fats burns predominantly fats, plain and simple, and you don't have to eat exclusively fats, and there's not enhanced your ability to burn fat. And another thing is your body is a fat-bring machine and exercise cool, but exercise burns a very small fraction of your total calories per day and gets you not so lean. Most of your calories per day are burned in just normal activities and a huge fraction during sleep. You're not even exercising that. So you don't have to turn into a fat-bring machine. You just have to create a small daily deficit, keep your physical activity in check. Eat plenty of protein, lift weights, and it doesn't really matter if most of your calories come from mostly carbs, mostly fats, or anywhere in between, you burn pretty much the same amount of fat and get the same level of lean. Period. Except if you do it with more carbs and fewer fats, you generally tend to keep more here muscle on your body, have better training, and feel better for most people. Some people love low carb diet, no judgment, but it's certainly very difficult to say, listen, go low carb, teach your bite and burn fat, and you'll have better results, because you straight up won't in most cases. So yes, you can adapt to burn fat easier during exercise. But that's not, and that positive adaptation, unless you regularly have to compete on low carb hydrates, which is nonsense, because in competition, you bring any kind of food you want with you, if you want, on a bike, for example, or an ultra run. And at the end of the day, eating low carb is a high performer when you have access to carbs, and could be an even better performer, is, Scott's very very committed, and run all time, going. Bullshit. And stop running around, run over to the gym, and lift weights, nine, nine, and you can take a big chest, and you go up to the endurance athlete to beach, and he's going to be like, oh, hello sir, you've got big packs and you shut up, and you put your, put your, you kick the sand over in his face, and then his girlfriend, she's like nine, you remind me of someone, I think a famous actor, an action star, Arnold, you're like, yes, it's me, you know what I mean, and then she's your girlfriend, and then she's like, we don't spend enough time together, why don't you watch movies with me? Let's watch the notebook, and then you realize you've a different one, a girlfriend. All right, see you later, Astala Vista, baby.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization, and I'm hitting you with another hypertrophy myth. And the myth today is that training must has to foreshore be ultra hard if you're serious about growth. We'll talk about what this myth really is and what people are saying. We'll talk about the sort of silver lining that maybe it does make some good points. Talk about the bad stuff in ways in which it really is a myth and it will sort of wrap it all up by talking about a little real talk of what you should take away from a video like this. The idea is that training has to be super hard for your grow and or just grow at your best and any training that doesn't push the limits is suboptimal. And you'll see this in a whole lot of social media comments of like, oh, he didn't look like he was that close to failure or like these guys don't scream. And then you get embellished. The social media content, we're bodybuilders yell after every rap of like extensions and stuff like that and hashtag hardcore and triple drop sets and all this other stuff. And every session we go to war and every session, everything is the failure all the time because that's how you get results. And if you don't get results trying like that, your results aren't the best or you're not serious. Okay, that's an interesting idea. The silver lining here is that for intermediates and for advanced trainees on occasion testing the limits is a very good idea. We know scientifically that the best growth occurs just before the limits. Three, two, one reps in reserve, one three or two or one reps away from muscular failure. But going to one and then zero reps away from failure and two failure itself on occasion, the one, seven, mesocycle at the very end is a good way to make sure that what you think is three, two or one reps away from failure actually is because you could be said guessing it could be kidding yourself. What you think is three reps away from failure is really six, which is not so uncommon. So occasionally pushing and is a good idea, at least for that reason. Occasionally pushing it, it also have some unique growth benefits. We're really pushing it to your limits and a little beyond your normal limits can maybe cause a type of growth, maybe via satellite cell recruitment that is special and is qualitatively different type of growth that you just would never get training normally. That's speculative, but the speculation is reasonable enough for us to at least consider, you know, we're not 100% sure that training with two hour all the time is the best gains. To make a occasion we could really really push it to see if we can get any of that kind of growth, right? And for folks that do this, the last week or weeks of a program often the last week or the last two or just kind of be brutal, especially that last week, everything is one or zero reps away from failure and it's just like, you're going to metaphorical war at that point. Lots of screaming, lots of crying, lots of laying in a puddle of your own sweat, make it a sweat, angel in the gym. That's a thing that has to happen. I get to, it gets flagged from all sides when you're in social media and you're a big deal celebrity like me. You get crisis from both sides, so one of the things we get in our YouTube videos, you know, every Monday will show a training video. And one of the things is we say, like, hey, like, don't train like this all the time, this is towards the end of a mesocycle, usually you know, we train at some more ups and reserve than this and it's not all triple drops that's to failure. People will say, you know, this is really too much and there's an affordable guy that comes in as Ken and Nadi recover from this, like shut up, everyone's clapping at these Nadi. Thank you, clap them out, get out of here. And people seem to think like any time you train hard or you're doing something wrong, you're going to kill yourself. So the good part of this train hard idea is that it normalizes the idea that at least sometimes you should be training hard, that's okay. I get a lot of flack for throwing up after leg workouts and the, you know, is that something you want to do every leg workout? No, and I don't do it every leg workout, but I'll do it every now and again because I just have to throw up because I'm going that hard and there's nothing wrong with that on vacation. You throw up every now and again, it's not going to rip your softest open and I'll likely hurt it's not going to rot your teeth to shit. That's a few, throw up multiple times into every day like a bulimic or something. So yes, there are times where pure brutality is the evidence-based prescription. And yes, I know that evidence-based in some circles has this sort of monotonic and that's the ties like you just do like extensions and you're, oh, I can feel that. That's all right. And you stop and you write your notebook with your pencil, you get your calculator, your book nerds shit. And yeah, it's just not the way it is. Real scientific training, on occasion at the end of a mezzo will be like nuts, multiple sets, two failure or close, throwing up laying on the ground, barely able to walk, convulsing all the stuff, you know, somebody like Trevor Fullbright who you've seen in this channel who trained super hard and a super evidence-based stuff like that. Like it's, it's, it's tough out there. So yes, that is a true thing. However, the bad stuff, the stuff that makes this myth well, myth. First, not all training has to be to the limits. People say like, do I take every set of failure, every exercise, I take one set of failure, every session, I take at least one set of failure and really like just grind that. It turns out that training three, two, one reps away from failure is amazing. And that's not to the limits and it works really well. And people can say, well, hold on a second, how do we know it works? Well, we have tons of direct studies on it now that compare training shy failure and training two failure and the training shy failure almost always beats the training to failure in the compared groups. And then people will say, well, now hold on a second. A lot of times that these are beginners. So the group that thinks the training three ups away from fail is really training like six reps away from fail. Like, yes, that's true. And the group that's training two fail is training like really three ups away from fail. No, yes, that's true. And they're like, so see that doesn't work. Like, no, it works even better than you thought it did. Because now, we have a six RIR in reality group, beating a three RIR group. Six RIR is better than three RIR. Yeah, for beginners, maybe. Then I say, you should go train a six RIR. Yes, I have. If it's your first six months of training, absolutely. Certainly to solidify your technique and you will get great gains that are gains that if you went close to failure. Now, actually get more advanced. A shit doesn't cut out anymore. An actual three RIR is where you want to be. But people try to wiggle around this. The research is very clear that, you know, what's going all the way to failure is not the best idea. And then I'll say, well, my favorite bodybuilder does, well, that's because you're cherry picking your favorite bodybuilders. And then I'll say, well, what about Dorian? What about Ronnie? I didn't go to failure all the time. What about you, color? Jay Cutler is on record saying he maybe has never trained to failure. People like to bring up people like JP and people like Dorian and say, oh, see failure training's the best. But like there's tons of other great bodybuilders, tons of other better bodybuilders that don't go to failure all the time. And you're just like cherry picking the fuck out of them. So like just a minute, you think going to failure is hardcore and being hardcore is fun. That's the only reason you think that is no, you haven't put any thought into it. Don't pretend your feelings are thoughts. Next, some muscles that you have just have very low volume landmarks that just don't need a lot of volume to grow. And any more volume than what you can put in gets you overlapping soreness, which means your muscles never really heal and degrades performance over time and can cause injuries. It can just have you have an abad time and actually losing muscle and maintaining muscle at the expensive, your tissue integrity. So like if you can do three sets of hamstrings twice a week and barely recover from soreness each time you train in your hamstring progression is amazing. That's all you need. And we'll actually have questions and people say like, am I doing something wrong? Like I just do three sets of hamps and it blows me away. No, no, no, you're lucky that your volume landmark marks are so low. You need so little volume to stimulate a muscle properly and you're doing everything right? Like if only all the rest of our muscles only needed six sets a week to grow maximum. Like holy shit, I'd take that fucking pill. But that's not the case. But you have people in a situation where they see their favorite, you know, Instagram influencer claim to train 25 sets to failure every week or some shit. And they look at that think of fuck man, like, how I want to do that? And that seems cool. And I guess that's how you grow. And then their own body only recovers to something like six sets of nine sets. And they go damn like am I doing something wrong? And no, no, like the you only can only train to what your body can recover from. Now can you work on your recovery separately? Get more sleep, get more food, et cetera, to potentially increase how many sets you can survive? Yes, that's totally worth your time. But whatever that number is going to be, after you make all those adjustments, that's just what it's going to be. And there's no reason for you to feel weird about like, well, I just can't train that much. That's great. That's actually good thing. And people who have more fast, which muscle fibers proportionally, people that are larger and stronger, actually have lower maximum recovery volumes on average. So many if you're favorite body builders don't train nearly as much as they would if they were smaller. So because you can train a very small amount, oftentimes that's indicative of the fact that that's a gifted muscle group for you. And then it may actually get much bigger over time. That's the people that can do 30 sets for their arms and legs every week. Then it generally endurance type, build small people that will never get that much bigger. You'll talk. So don't have a worry about your volume landmarks. They are what they are. Seek to improve them through recovery and through nutrition and through sleep and all that stuff. But after that, don't try to train more because it feels more awkward. You can only train to how much you can recover any more as a stupid idea. Next. On some exercises, failure looks really dramatic. You're pulling an eye, you're screaming and blood squirting out of your eyes and all that good stuff. But on some exercises, failure just doesn't look very dramatic. And you could try to push down and you go, oh, that's it. That's it. That's failure. And you don't have to embellish it and scream and crying yell. And that's not what causes muscle growth anyway. So as long as you're being honest with yourself in your own head and pushing yourself as hard as you think you can go and occasionally testing the waters and going harder, that's all it has to happen to make sure each set is of a high quality, especially on your peak week when you're trying to push really, really close to failure. If you have a doubt in your mind about how hard you're pushing yourself, definitely try pushing yourself harder. But if you really are just failing without a lot of emotion externally visible, don't worry about it. That's all for the cameras anyway and it doesn't matter what your face looks like as long as you're really trying you're good to go. But if you're one of these people that fails rather and dramatically, you can feel like you're missing out and that's not something you should be feeling. I mean, out in this case, anyway, whenever it runs at the party and you're at home playing World of Warcraft, yes, you should feel like you're missing out, you fucking loser. I'm just kidding. I was never intelligent enough to play World of Warcraft. It actually turns out you need friends even to do that. So I said at home and read the encyclopedia. That's only partially a joke that describes me at age 10. Anyway, another one, going hard, psychologically, the grind, the screaming the yelling, causes a huge amount of psychological fatigue. That's a technical term for that. A psychological arousal. That's a calm YouTube. I know you get aroused easily. Yes, what you're talking about, a sexual arousal, but there's general emotional arousal, which is that feeling. But that feeling causes a ton of psychological fatigue and we know that fatigue is all interrelated. So you get generated a ton of fatigue, just by trying hard psychologically, they can spill over to the rest of your training. We know this is true because if you generate a lot of psychological fatigue, not even training, you can spill over into the rest of your training or recovery. If you have a two hour long fight with your girlfriend, not physical fight, emotional fight, boy, do those hurt worse. Then you may find yourself completely drained and unable to really have good workouts and you need a couple of days of deal with. That's how much poison psychological fatigue can introduce into the system. Now, if you make up with your girlfriend properly, the post-fight. Sex. Sorry, not this. This can also drain you, but in other ways, seemin. That's what I'm talking about. In any case, warrior shit is sweet. You're a fucking roan and whatever the hell you have to tell yourself. But I can backfire. So what I would say is treat yourself more on average like a machine rather than a samurai warrior. First, motorcycle, calm, gentle, compassionate machine. I roll about type shit. You know, the next couple of mezos incrementally more machine like to like, make warrior. Gundam wing, type shit. And then maybe the last motorcycle last week. Yes, unsheath your samurai sword and or he was good. Whatever that fucking, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, so we're forward. And really a fucking unleash the warrior poet samurai motherfucker inside of you. But if you unleash that dumbass in motorcycle one, you're just going to be so drained by week three that you won't have productive training. You'll have to deal with. Then you just have to sort of like you're like a car that spotters and stops, spotters and stops. You want consistency and good high quality training. And you don't need to spill out what you really think about grandma emotionally into the hacksquat in motorcycle one. Well, grandma did. I'll never forgive and I'll never forget. But that's between me and the bar in mesocycle in motorcycle five week five week one. I only have positive memories of grandma that I choose to recollect. Here's the thing. Last point. Yes, it's mythical and cool and idyllic to do shitload of volume sets and sets and sets and we do five sets of rows and five sets of machine rows, five sets of dumbbell rows and five sets of pull downs and five sets of dildo rows and all that other shit cool. But for almost everyone when they're training properly three to ten sets per muscle group per workout is usually better than 10 or more. I think Mr. Jeffrey Nippard had a very good review video where you concludes like it's roughly six sets is kind of the optimum. Now there's a ton of caveats to that and six is pretty close. Another review found it's roughly eight on average. But it's such a huge distribution based on different factors, different muscles, different fiber types, different individuals, different times, that ends up being like more like three to ten. But does that mean that it would be feel cooler in some way to be able to do 12 or 15 sets per workout? Yes, it would feel fucking sweet. And if you've got that energy in that drive to train hard, hey, listen, I feel you. Also, when you catch a good pump and everything's feeling amazing, mind muscle, you just cut down on a stop. But the reality is you're there to do a job and the job is stimulate muscle growth. And if that job is checkmarked and over after ten sets or eight sets or whatever it is, just go home, right? If the purpose of the gym is not so that you feel smashed, the purpose of the gym is that you adequately stimulate muscle growth get a robust pump, get some sort of and get the fuck out and come back and repeat more on that last part in a second. So real talk, and here's that last part. Real ingredients of effective training are consistency, multiple weekly workouts, multiple weeks, strong together, of good workouts, not psychotic workouts, good. The beginning of the muscle, they start pretty easy, but effective. You don't even much at the beginning of the muscle, you're not used to the shit. Through the middle of the muscle to get pretty intense to the end, they get psychotic and insane, you're starting to think bad thoughts about gram again. And that all is good ingredients, but it's the consistency that you know Pfizer showing up for over the course of four weeks, eight good leg workouts will grow infinitely more muscle, even not infinitely, mildly graduation. Then like going hard once a week on legs and overdoing it in the session, and that's only four workouts. Another thing, another real effect, sort of real ingredient of effective training is progression. It's the ability to do 10 reps of the 100 pounds one week, 11 reps with a 100 pounds next week, 11 reps with a 105 pounds a week after and 12 reps with 105 the week after that. Then de-load, then start somewhere in the middle and progress. And it's that progression progression, which inevitably gets you to the heights to which you're capable of getting. One, emotional psychotic workout, and the foot blast in my legs, brother, squirted out, I saw my foot and dad, and one of those workouts, man, I closed my eyes during the abs, but there you fucking was bro. It's we, you felt a certain way about things that's nice, but are you progressing over time? And if you're training so hard and so sloppily in such shitty reps and different exercises and whatever just to burn out the muscle, you may not even be able to track progression because you don't really standardize your shit. And the other thing is like, you may get so emotionally fatigued from workouts that you have a couple of weeks where you progress and then a couple of weeks where you regress, realize you're going to hard, de-load, flip this switch again and go. It's much better to be a little bit more calculated about your shit. Don't about a good workout than add a little bit to it, then add a little bit to it, then add a little bit to it. Eventually you get to that Icarus height of your wing start burning off. That's great, but it's not the whole thing. progression in that sense means that sometimes you will need to put it all on the line, but that sometimes generally happens for like the last week before your mesocycle ends because if the last carry on top of a great stimulus and because it is unsustainable, you cannot train like that for multiple weeks in a row. And if you can, you're just doing not enough volume each time, you could be doing more volume, less psychotic failure training and growing even more. Most times, training is about showing up, using good technique, going hard, but usually not all out, hitting small load and rep PRs, coming back later that we can repeating, going up another week, repeating, going up, up, up, up, up, up, going ultra-hard, burning out, de-load and repeat, that's the ingredients. So this is myth is more like going hard, all the time is a myth, but going hard, some of the time is a really good idea. Folks, let me know if you think in the comments below. If you're interested in more in-depth scientific and more real-life training examples, we have a member section, so give that shit a little subscription there. It costs like, I think it's a million dollars per hour for you to subscribe. So make sure you're oil, millionaire, I'm sorry, I said that, oil, quadrillionaire, like myself. I actually have a few zeppelin's that are oil powered. No, no, they're not gasoline powered. They're oil powered. They burn straight up oil. The environment never heard of it. And yeah, they're hydrogen. So I live on the fucking edge. In any case, if you're a baller 1920s quadrillionaire like myself, feel free to subscribe to the member section, feel free to like and comment. Leave us a comment that's nice, you know, or not, leave us a mean comment and we'll go right back at you. Anyway, see you guys next time for the next video.

6% body fan as a deal for man, that's who, athlete next? One of the, you better hope we don't meet a person. I'm kidding. Or am I? Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Anassont's Periodization. And today's video is about the ultimate thing that we all want to know how to roughly tell your body fat or if you're creepy like that, somebody else's body fat without any monitoring or skin-fold calipers or tape measures or dexascans or even without having to wait in the apartment across from there is with a telescope. Days on end soaked in your own juices just waiting for them to take their clothes off. Yes, I do understand that it's both unethical and illegal to do these things, but we can all fantasize. So here we go. Quick caveat before we start going through the different kinds of body fat ranges and telling you what you can probably expect to look like. There is quite a bit of individual variation on how people store their fat. Some people will look really lean in a ton of their body and you're like, do you're a 10% but they have a really well, I'll just say it, fat ass or really fatty thighs or a lot of fat in their gut, love handles, etc. And then they're overall, let's say they go get a dexa, they're like 12%. They're like, really, do you look like you're eight? Well, yeah, but have you seen this and they show you the long handle and you're like, ha ha. That looks 25%. I guess it makes sense with the rest of you. So that's a big deal. Another thing is nothing beats technically the MRI, but after that nothing beats the dexa. And whatever you think someone's body fat is, if they've had a dexa, that's the best answer. Almost always. Very rarely, in some really contest-conditioning circumstances, the dexa can be a little bit illusory and the eyeball is better, but almost never is that the case. And because of these differences and these especially ways in which people store their body fat, when I go down this list, this is not a check list. If we have these things we're looking for, you're this body fat type of situation, it's more of a helpful guide that makes you a little bit less wrong and a little bit more right. You'll notice that these are in 5 to 10% increments just to make our discussion simpler and also make us more likely to be correct with a bit of margin of error. All right, here we go. We're going to go through one of these for the gentleman and then one of these for the ladies with sub-ladies. Anyway, I'm getting ahead of myself. Here we go. 5% plus, we will not go higher than this because then you're just, she was, you know, you just got a lot going on, which is sweet, but there's a lot of you, which is great. 30% plus or in this case, you know, 33122 all the way to 35-ish. As a male, you can expect in many cases fat overhang, such as your love handles, fat overhang on your lower tummy and fat droopy fat deposits, that droopy droopy, but visible, grabable, fat deposits under places like your chest, your lats, etc. And in most cases, you don't have any visible muscle separation. So if you see someone on Rolls-Charles Man, when their arm just looks like a thing that has no separation, they're probably in that close to 30% if not higher range. Absolutely a thing. Dropping down to the 25-30% body fat range in many cases, probably in most, but not all the time. You might have some fat overhang, but possibly no overhang just to smooth layer of fat, especially if you're young or have the genetics for that sort of thing, because some people store a lot of fat in their abdomen, and 25-30% they're going to have some overhang, but their arms are weirdly lean. Other people store their fat more around their whole body and then you're like, are you? They don't look lean or not lean, you just kind of look like you're there, that might be more of a thing. If you were pretty jacked at 25-30%, people can tell that you have big delts, big arms, and big legs, then they now look distinctly like they're not made entirely of fat. If you have a dude who's like 5,9, 270 pounds and is like pretty jacked, but has 27% body fat, you don't look at him in especially in a t-shirt or a tank top and you're like, that guy's just pure fat. You're like, yeah, look at my bouncer or something. You've definitely got some shit there that looks like muscle. 20 to 25%, you typically don't have any more overhanging fat, just kind of a smooth fat that lies around evenly, but there's not really any separation of muscle subsections yet. So, it 20 to 25%, you're probably going to be able to see your rear delts from your front delts, you won't be able to see the different parts of your back, the rhomboids, traps and lats, et cetera, it's just all kind of be one incrementally now more shapely, massive muscle. Well, certainly not going to see the three quads, forget about seeing your hamstrings. That's highly unlikely. If, however, you are very jacked at that percent fat, you can see your arms, this thing here, start to separate a little bit from your delts. You can tell a distinct separation because your waist is now a little bit narrower in your lower and upper back, especially if you're jacked enough for your lats to flare out. They won't look like lats, but they look like bigger things. You can start to tell your chest from your lats if you're viewing from the front and side, so some kind of semblance of shape is starting to hit us at 20 to 25%. At 15 to 20% fat, four males, you might start to see a semblance of shape to your midsection, perhaps a few ablikes structures. If this point in a long-term fat loss journey, if you're starting out pretty fat, when you get into that 16-17 percent body fat range, this is the first time where you're like, oh, my fucking God, am I seeing something that looks like arms? It's like getting really excited to drive to Chicago. I don't know if I'd ever be exciting. You start to see the Willis tower, whatever the fuck it's called now, see your tower back in the day, from 30 miles away and you're like, oh my fucking God, I can't tell anything, but that's one big, yes building Chicago! You can't see Chicago yet, but you're getting hints. You can't see your abs yet, in most cases, but there's some kind of shape there, a little bump here, a little thing there. The waist is coming down, it's starting to look like something is happening. In most cases here, you'll start to see visible triceps, so if you flex your tricep, people can tell there's like at least two heads in there, separate from the bicep, delts clearing up from the rest of the arm, and from the side, especially when flexing, you can start to tell that there's a distinct quad and a distinct hamstring. All right, getting there, getting there. Now here's where the fun starts to happen. 10 to 15 percent fat. In most cases, somewhere in that range, most people will have visible abs that are to say a sex pack, which is awesome. You're even going to get a few veins here and there, sometimes people have quite a few veins at 10 to 15 percent, but not dependably. I'll say, almost everyone will have some veins that are visible at 10 to 15 percent, especially like the various veins on your biceps, forearm, sometimes some shit gets through the chest, some leg veins, maybe. Most major muscles are now distinct from one another. People can see your lats and generally upper back, at least, is different than your lower back. They can see that your lats are different than your mid back. They can see your traps perched on high by themselves, delts by subs, triceps, forearms. You can see that there's hamstring muscles, the quads, the glutes are now generally separate from the hamstrings. There's no flow anymore. So most of the major muscle groups are distinct from one another. This is one of the reasons. That's the top reason by a long shot. Most bodybuilders won't mass up to higher than 15 percent fat because bodybuilders like to check their physique to see how their improvements are coming along in the offseason. And if you can't tell major muscle groups from one another, she was not really bodybuilding anymore in any strict sense. So a lot of times that 10 to 15 percent range, you're looking fluffy in the sense that you're smooth, but man, you can definitely tell all the muscles apart from each other was kind of like minimum safe distance from that contest prep kind of thing. And for many people, not all, some of the muscle parts are going to be invisible. Like if you flex your quad properly, you have three visible surface quads. If you flex your hamstrings right and especially if you're somebody who doesn't store a lot of fat in the ham, you can just start to see some hamstring details so it's okay. Like, this is a really, really exciting thing. 5 to 10 percent. By the way, as far as fractions of your fat mass go, imagine, sorry, let me finish the thought. As fractions go, even though we're going 5 to 5 percent down each time in this list, 5 percent constitutes a bigger and bigger fraction of whatever fat you have left. So if you go from 22 percent to 17 percent, that's really look different. If you go from 17 percent to like 12 percent, you look really different. If you go from 12 percent to like 7 percent, you're a fucking really different person. If you go from 7 percent to like 3 or 4 percent in a daca, you're not a human being anymore. So the changes get faster and faster or more profound looking as you get leaner because every single 5 for sure percent, every single percent of body fat represents a bigger fraction of the fat you have left. It's like you're looking at, oh, let's see, a strength of a division of a military. It's 100 people. If you chop off 5 people at a time, you know, 100 people is almost the same strength as 95 people. 90 people can still put up a good fight. If you got 15 guys and you lose 5 of them, 10 guys is really different from 15 as far as operational capability versus 100 to 95. And you got 10 guys, you go down to 5 guys, oh my fucking God, that's half of your force. That's the same impressiveness as going from 100 to 50 people on your military squad or whatever. So as you get leaner, you'll be able to see more intense change and I'll talk for to get leaner. But it's one of these things where I'm basically trying to explain the fact that we were at 15 to 20 and it was like, oh yeah, you'll see some stuff 10 to 15. You're not pretty good. Folks, 5 to 10 is where the nonsense begins. And it's not just comes out of nowhere. It's the fact that to get from 15 to 9, you've lost like she was over a third of your remaining body fat, which is a ton of fat. So here we go, 5 to 10% for male, for males, veins, often all over, veins everywhere, clear abs, your serratus and obliques are clearly visible. The muscles are all completely separated. Nothing's lost in translation. Many of the muscles will be strided, cross-striided when you're flexing them. When you are pumped, your skin color can change very radically. You don't go from just you being whatever color you are, especially if you're Caucasian to a weird off-pinkish red or what the fuck? Like a really lean person in gym, they get really lean and pull a shirt off. They're like, that really, like your skin looks like, well, the whole shit, it happens with the naturals, happens even more than hands people for other various reasons. But even for natties, the skin starts to look a little different when you're that lean. When you're pumped, when you're not pumped, if you're enhanced, your skin always looks weird. If you're natural, you look kind of normal. At this point, 5 to 10%, your face really starts to get lean for most people. It's getting leaner the whole time, but in a way that people can tell. If you show up to work and all of a sudden, you took six weeks off to go to a project somewhere, you did a crazy diet, you came back, and your coworkers were seeing you for the time, and you're at 8% body fat, and you're like, damn, you look like a different person. Really how happened to your face? It's kind of cool, but holy shit, so it's a really, really big deal. Now, here's where the insanity begins. Some 5%. Me personally, my best dexa has been at 5.0 something, so I've never gotten here. Hopefully, in this next contest prep, I'll get a good whack at it. Just not that many people in the world have ever gotten here. What does that look like? First of all, you're riddled with veins. In most cases, some people have genetics for not so many veins, but most people have absurd veins at this point. When you are pumped or warm, your veins have veins. If you're a warm gym, or you get into the sauna after getting a good pump, and you pull your shirt off, and you're 4% body fat, you're going to be like, you could stare to person for a long time. Like, on psychedelic mushrooms, there's something like, bro, they're super highways in your shirt. Vains and the little veins and little tiny veins everywhere. It looks like parchment paper almost. You're just like, I don't think that. Fuck is going on with your body. It doesn't look normal. It's not something where a typical girl will be like, oh my god, Brad Pitt, so mean, like in fight club. He looks good. If you see someone who's a 4% body fat training at your gym and you're that girl, you're not going to be like, oh my god, you're so mean. You're just going to be like, fuck, happy I'm going to be. You're not out in any case who cares about bitch. Thanks. Crossstrations will be everywhere, including your triceps, in many cases, quads, glutes. Here's the big difference on average between people in the 5 to 10% range and people in the some 5% range. 5 to 10, they have amazing straightens when they flex. Some 5, the straightens when they flex are nonsense, but even when just walking across the stage or walking across the gym and they're moving their arms, you can see their trice substrations coming and go. If they've got their posing trunks on, you can see their glutes stride and unstrived every step they take. It's weird. You're like, holy fucking shit, you are literally like pretty much out of body fat. It's nonsense at every level. The face at this point looks like death. Like, it doesn't look like you're lean. It's like, oh, like, oh, like, well, I'm to follow or I'm re-shriver or whatever. They do, they do. It's like clearly visible parts of your skeleton. And it doesn't look, it looks disconcerting. Their eyes are sunken in. They often have like, do a dooby shit going on. It's a huge trip. If you are Caucasian, a lot of times at this level, if you have a pump especially, your veins are clearly visible in a hue of blue. So you just like pale white motherfucker and there's little blue things going on. It's really trippy. Very, very exotic. Almost nobody gets there. But I will say for most professional contests, amateur contests, getting to the bottom of the 5 to 10% range is all you ever need to do really, really well. This is that extra extra and you see a guy at your show that is remotely any muscle mass and he comes in at a sub 5%, you see that guy won the show because it just doesn't look right. All right, ladies, preview. The ladies will have some different appearances because they store body fat differently in the higher body fat ranges. But as the body fat starts to come off, they start to mirror more and more of the responses where visual cues that we looked for in males, females will start to get a lot of those as well. I'll put it in a more simple way. When males and females are both in that 5% region, they'll look the fucking same. They know more fucking sexually mediated fat tissue. Bitch, you don't have hips, they don't have titties when they're that fucking lean. Ooh, nobody. Nobody's got shit anymore. They're just like stare at each other. And if you put 5% 5% men and women into a room naked, they usually don't even have any sexual relations. They just stare at each other and sit down and just look at the wall and when food comes in the go, oh my god. And that's all that you can expect out of that sort of thing. So ladies, at 30% plus, often times, not always, the bra and undies make distinct fat pinches where you have that spillover, which nobody wants to know this, but is absolutely one of my top tier things I'm looking for. Good. Good. God, Scott, the video guy. Talk myself into a, into a, into excitement here. I love it. I mean, girls, it's nice that you do this, not a state, but in any case. Ooh, no visible muscle separation in most cases at 30% plus. And at this level, depending on your genetics, you can either have a big, huge wide hips and waist or, sorry, big huge hips and glutes and thighs, or you can have relatively normal hips and thighs and glutes, but your waist is wide enough for there not to be as much of an hourglass appearance. If you want the hourglass shape, getting a bit leaner than 30% plus is usually a, I don't know, good idea is what you want to do to get that effect that you want. At 25 to 30% for females, they're still often no clear muscle separation. People might not be able to tell that you lift weights if you're really in lifting weights, but your shape is coming in and your waist generally starts to narrow significantly versus hips. This is where in people's transformational journeys, they start to really feel like in clothes, they look shapeally and it's an awesome super, super inspirational thing. For a lot of females, especially they've been quite high in body fat for a large fraction of their life. The first time they get into that 25 to 30% zone, they're like, okay, okay, okay, okay. Ah, she's happening for sure, right? 20 to 25%. The shape starts to become really distinct. This is actually quite lean for them in accounting for the secondary sexual characteristics of breast, gluteal and thigh body fat that women have much more than males do on average. If you obviate for that, it's really much more of what a male would look like at 15 to 20%. So you get a lot of shape that's distinct. There's no large fat deposits left in many cases here, outside of the breasts and glutes slash thighs and some upper body muscles, because females tend to have much leaner upper bodies and lower bodies can be distinct, especially when lifting like a girl who is a 23% body fat. When she does lateral raises, you're like, yeah, bitch got shoulders, we got triceps and biceps and delts, you can start to see that stuff separate out a little bit. 15 to 20% for females. Very likely you're getting into four pack if not six pack territory at this point. Your waist is starting to get really, really tight if you have really good genetics for abs, you got abs at this point. In that range, in most cases, you're going to have visible triceps, delts are clearing up from the rest of the arm. If you're just relaxed in a tank top walking around the store, people are like, yeah, bitch got fucking pack damn, he's jacked, people can tell. The hands and quads are now visible separately from each other and often separately from the glutes. Technically speaking, this is often the healthiest body fat for most females to occupy somewhere north of 15%, below that a lot of times you get cessation of the men's, amenorrhea and all kinds of not ideal things for the long term. And it's often the most universally attractive. Like if you pull a thousand men with different pictures of females, generally they'll pick anywhere between 15% fat to 25% fat skewed a little bit to the 15 to 20 as the most attractive. But they don't know what the fuck they're looking for. They don't care about body fat at all. It's the shape and the look that they're looking for most of the time the best shape. The simultaneous looks to healthiest is available for many females in that 15 to 20% range. Without putting too fine at point on it, if you're a female, you have no competitive aspirations and you don't want to take the slight health downsides of getting much leaner than this. You just want to be fucking jacked and beautiful and hot and live your best life. A goal of anywhere between 15 and 20% fat to just be at or cycle around in is fucking probably it. If you're a female and you're in the fitness space, a lot of times you have deal with the noise of the males talking about what body fat is ideal and you'll have like I think that it's got to be new guy. I think there was like a literally maybe I don't want to put it on him but it sounds like some shitty say. And athlete next video that was like 7% body fat is the ideal body fat for men which by the way is a literal nonsense. 7% you don't feel like a man anymore. You feel like a broken machine. But women will see that and they'll be like, oh my god, I gotta get to at least 10% and that's not a thing. It has let me tell you about what 10% has coming. 6% body fat is ideal for men. 6% body fat is ideal for men. That's who. Athletics. Want the fuck you better. I hope we don't meet in person. I'm kidding. Or am I? I'm kidding of course. That's about that fucking literal nonsense. It's totally insane. Oh my god. Most good athletes are in that 10 to 15% range. Depending on the sport, sometimes they are 8 to 12% range. Marathon ours can be 6% but Jesus Christ, the the only fucking sport you need to be that lean in. You go watch D1 wrestling and tell me how many they guys are at 6% body fat. It's this fucking nonsense. So okay, here we go. Training for muscle growth is never going to be the same. 10 to 15% for females. You got visible abs in most cases. I mean like almost all cases. Your waist often looks very lean and very small. You're starting to get veins that are more prominent. You really can't avoid the veins of this body fat person. Some women don't like the look of veins and that's something to take into consideration. Most if not all of your major muscle groups are very distinct from each other. You can tell delts, triceps, or biceps, horns, etc. Most are sorry some muscle parts will become visible oftentimes if you have the right genetics. Many muscle parts like three visible quads, ham, detail, etc. The face will now start to look much leaner than the average woman. There is a reason that bikini Olympians and figure girls get a ton of face filler. I think it's a great look. Some people don't like it. But if they didn't get the face filler, they would kind of look all like well, I'm default on stage, which is shit. That's fucking my fantasy, but that's not everyone else's long. What I'm saying is that a 10 to 15% in most cases, you don't look like cute little fucking Jim B. Bobberbitch. You look like you're on your way to something real serious. You do a set of rows and you turn on the guys like, man, look away, we'll be like, you're getting ready for a show. This is the body fat person that people like, you get ready for a show or you just compete or are you going to do a show tomorrow? Really, really not to look that describes many people's ideal for feminine health and beauty. I can give a fuck for ideals. That's all your individual choice, but just reporting from the statistical averages here. 10 to 15% is below the roughly 15% body fat mark below which your body decides it's too lean to give you periods anymore. It causes a long-term slow bone mass loss, a bunch of other health stuff. Nothing crazy. You can get into this 10 to 15% fat and even lower as a female every now and again to do a show or really like look ridiculous for no reason at all except for your own perception or desire. But it's not somewhere you want to live. You want to live as a female above 15% it's kind of like in mountaineering. I forgot what altitude it is. I think it could be 18,000 feet. Don't kill me in the comment. Let me know in the comments which they altitude. But there's an altitude above which you actually just can't sustain yourself as a human. The oxygen saturation is high enough. So like you're just timing out. Like a couple of months later everyone up there dies except for like gorkas or some shit like that. And then for them it's like eight months for you. It's for. So there's like an altitude below that which was like which has the highest living human subpopulations that just actually live at that altitude. Clip in that around for females 15% on average. People get away with all kinds of weird stuff for the exceptions. 15% plus is where you want to live as a female occasionally dipping lower if you would like. But this is officially unhealthy. If you are a female and you tell me you're 11% body fat I'm a very sweet which you're how long you're going to be here for. I just love living here. I'll be like, hmm, let me avail you to some of the downsides there. 5% to 10%. And some 5% for females is almost identical to what it is for males. Because all the body fats in the north of here have stripped the female of almost all of not all of her secondary sexual characteristic fat like breast tissue, glute tissue, thigh tissue. Now you just look female still but you don't look like you have a terrible affinity for one gender or the other. Everyone in a certain body fat level just looks really fucking lean. So just to review a 5% to 10% if you're female you can expect veins pretty much all over. Clear abs, serenas, so bleaks you are going to have completely separated muscles that often have strations when you flex them. Your skin color is going to look trippy when you're pumped. Your face looks really really lean. Everyone can tell you're not the average person anymore. And of course, sub 5% which is very difficult for females to hit because that body fat, the secondary sexual characteristic body fat, just hang around as much as possible to keep your ass surviving. It eventually goes on everyone. There's probably a handful of women that have reached sub 5% body fat. Maybe not a handful. Maybe a couple hundred over the course of competitive body but there are pictures of girls who watch the way in there. You're like, hey, that bitch is whatever fuck you wants to be. There's zero body fat on that person. I can believe a number of three percent that does happen. I've personally administered a daca to a figure competitor that looked like the 5 to 10 range here and she was at 7%. So I mean, look, if she just continued to die at for a 5 or 10 more weeks, she could have nailed 4.0 something. So it is possible. Riddle with names. When your pump to warm, your veins have mains. It's really freaky. Crossstrations are everywhere. You see a female at 4% bite down and you can see a cross-straded mass in her muscle. Face looks like total death on females. It's a really trippy look because when there's a sociological almost universal, the kind of puffy face female. I don't mean puffy in a derogatory sense. I mean, like a full healthy face, it's actually one of the universal characteristics of attractiveness where male male will see a woman with a full face and think that confers not think. Infer completely subconsciously that that confers reproductive and youth advantages. And so it's considered universally pretty attractive. Usually the the willem to faux faces and something that I think is a fuck great. But it usually doesn't fly with as many people of the same or opposite sex that are attracted to people as what I'm trying to say. But it'll look very, very profoundly. If you see a male with very distinct cheekbones and strong out and you can see as teeth through his face, you're like, add a guy's fucking, you know, shit happens. You see a female like that, you're going to be like, holy fuck. Because females are typified statistically by a slight their high-abody fat percentage everywhere, including their face, they're further away from their own norm when they're at sub 5% than males are males are also very far away, but not quite as far away. Like if you saw a 3,000 pound giraffe, you'd be like, think that's how much they're supposed to weigh. If you saw a 3,000 pound horse, you'd be like, holy fucking shit, that is really a big horse. So kind of the same idea for females here, the face look for females, short of filler, and even with filler, something a little bit missing there, at sub 5% the face looks, it's a trip. I encourage you to to check that out. And again, if you're Caucasian female, you can see the blue in your veins. And if you're Asian or African-American, any other race female, you just look fucking absurd in the most amazing way possible. But in a way that I must say, is no longer healthy. Now males generally can maintain very good health into the sub 10% range, lower than about 7% or 8% for most males, they're going to have androgen hormone start to really fall off. This doesn't necessarily unhealthy, it just means you lose muscle and that for a while longer and don't have the best training or the best recovery, the best sleep or the best anything. But for females getting that lean is particularly nasty because it shuts down the cycle that is, you know, the female period and all of the dependent consequences that that has. So I don't want to be too much of a health pressure. We all know we're getting ourselves into sort of wrap this up a few things. One, these are all averages and just guides. If someone brings you a daksa and it's a real daksa in faked, and it says, hey, like, I'm 11% they're actually 11%. If they don't look 11%, that's your problem not theirs. Then it turns out, oh yeah, Mike said that variation was pretty great. Someone at 11% could look fucking stage ready sometimes. Weird how that happens. Somebody at 11% could look like they're 17% and you're like, you're not really 11% is like, no, I sure should end. A lot of times people store body water so people can get an 11% daksa because it sees through water to actual tissue and you're like bullshit, you're not fucking, you're like 17% you're not 11%. They do a water cut and you're like, oh my god, would you do lose all that fat? Nothing and any fat loss, it was one week. I just cut the water and then boom, I'm shredded. I told it was 11%. Okay, so it is. So there's a lot of stuff there. Just think of these as averages. Another thing. Just slowly cautiously meticulously end in phases of roughly 5% to 7% body fat loss in any one time before a break, get to whatever body fat level makes you happy. This is not really any wrong answers here. It's just trade-offs. None of these are better. 5% fat isn't better. I've been at just over 5% fat before. You don't give you a trophy for that. You just look at yourself and the mirror and you're like, this is cool. Do you want to have any more energy to think about a lot of stuff? So you're like, I'm over it. And if it's like your jam to be 7% run around and flex everyone, amazing. You need that fucking carmic therapy for your own soul. Get that shit. But there's not like right-or-long answers. I don't want this video to be misconstrued as being like, oh Mike, says VMAO should be 5 to 10% or ideally above 15 or whatever. That's all your personal judgment call. We run this channel for adults. You're all adults. You're all smart. You're all responsible. Make intelligent choices. Check in when you're doing a contest prep with some sort of health care provider. Get your blood worked on. Don't do anything stupid. And be smart and enjoy your life at everybody 5% because at the end of the day, your aliens come down. You know, like, yeah, we don't like that person because they're too fat. They're going to be like, what the fuck is wrong with you guys? And you don't want to piss off the aliens. They have to use their guns. Be, be, be, be, be, be. In any case, if you like more nerdy stuff, folks, we have a members channel, members part of this channel that has extra videos every week for. Usually more nerd like content deep into the throws of sport physiology. We also have a team full-rump forum. That is that next level of nerdiness. And you can get all of your questions about training and diet answered. We can actually look at pictures of your body in our forum and give you some combination of advice on what to do next. And just like, snide criticisms. Like, yeah, you look okay dot dot dot dot. I'm kidding. We're all super positive. Super supporting tons of diet stuff. tons of training stuff in there. It's all one low, monthly fee of nine trillion dollars. But it's going to come down with inflation. If you liked that, that's all below in the comments. Or sorry, in the description. Get in the comments. Tell us what you think. Tell us where wrong tells you hate us. Tell us you love us. Just say something. Like, comment, subscribe. See you guys next time.

I'm about 100% connected to the exercise. I know exactly what it was and I need to get. I know exactly how to move the bar and I know that I'm getting stronger over time. Better than doing random shit every now and again. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Red Assault's periodization. And today's topic is addressing the benefits of trying to for at least a while longer than you may have suspected sticking to the same exercise in your muscle growth program. Instead of trading out exercises, going from one to another super quick, it might be a good idea to stick to the same exercise for a little bit longer than you have suspected or done before. And I'm going to offer you five good reasons to consider this. First is technique improvement. If you practice the same exercise a week and week out, your technique can get better, especially if you're mindful of it, especially if you're trying to get in better and better technique. I know what it needs to feel. I know how I need to move. Every set I record on video or every other set. I look at it and go, oh my chest could be up more. I improve my technique, which means a week upon week, upon week of technique practice. You get better and better and better than exercise, which means your stimulus goes up. Your fatigue goes down. Your my muscle connection improves and everything gets better. It becomes a better exercise. You do bent rows for the first time. You're like, ah, you do bent rows for the tenth time and you completely connect with everything. You're a bent row technique. God, that helps. If you're always changing exercises, you could just kind of suck a technique for all of them forever. But if you spend multiple weeks, sometimes multiple month strings of doing similar exercises, you get really good at them. And your body can remember that semi-permanently, months later you come back two or three sessions in. You're as good as you ever were. And then the next eight sessions you can expand to be even better. Next point, you can really discover, confirm or rule out what is a good fit exercise for you as far as stimulus to fatigue ratio. For example, if you try and exercise just once. And you're like, ah, I don't know if this is a good exercise, or I don't feel like it is, a whole don't suck. Your technique relatively to how that exercise could be done for your body proportions, what's that great? You just don't know. It's that you try a food once. You go to some restaurant that I try to the fries and you try them and you're like, that's okay. And like, yeah, but like the regular chef wasn't here. There's a bachelor's at older fries. You would at nine o'clock, everyone knows they make their fries at 3pm every day, and when they're fresh, they're amazing. You can at least try it one more time. So if you try and exercise a few times in a row, you can really figure out if it's the right fit for you. So if you did it only once, I wouldn't conclude a bunch. If you did an exercise eight times and it sucked every single one of those, you can kind of more confidently be like, you know, one arm row is just not for me, man. I really try them and someone's like, we should try and just shut the fuck up. I try to do all of it, damn it. I was here for eight, fucking week straight, don't want arm rows. Trying to get my techniques get as possible. Watching, after me next videos, I can damn it to make my technique better. And it is nothing works. Like, okay, maybe you can still delay to your life try one arm rows, but for now, it's totally cool to be off of them, because you did the due diligence of going through and really trying it out. Another thing is sometimes trying the exercise in three mess of cycles in a row, or two mess of cycles in a row, while changing other things is a wise idea, because it could be in certain contexts, the exercises and good, for example. You had a mess of cycle, we did tons of heavy dead lifting, a stiff leg and delifts, good mornings, and cable rows with a curved back. And then you tried bent rows for the first time, because someone said, look, Dr. Mike said bent rows are amazing. Try them. You try them, they cooked, you're fucking lower back, your lower back was limiting factor every time. And you all like, dude, this exercise sucks. I'm trying to feel the rest of my back. It's just a spinal rectum move. Maybe. But if the next mess of cycle, you didn't do a whole lot of hip-hinging, not a lot of heavy back work, especially free lower back. You stuck bent rows, just like, I'm gonna give them another dude, do chance, maybe it's because my other exercises were not so great choices to melt together with the bent row. You try the bent row then, and you're like, oh my fucking God, my pulling complex and my spinal rectures are failing at roughly the same time, or like my spinal rectures still have some juice in them. I'm feeling like actual pull. It's an amazing exercise. Think I didn't quit. Now, I know two things. I know that the bent row is a great exercise, and I wouldn't have known that if I quit early. And two, I know that the best way to get the most out of barra bent rows is not to overwhelm my lower back with other fatigue, so if I'm gonna choose to use barbell rows in a mesocycle, in a program, I'm going to also make sure that I do a little bit less lower back work and all the other exercises. And that's how I can get the most moving. That is something you can only get if you really try and move the variables around to accommodate the exercise. Try to make it work. It's a marriage. If you're the first fight you ever have as a married couple, you just get divorced instantly after, like, did you really try to work it out? It's wife trying to get a divorce, and the first thing they'll tell you is have you tried couples counseling. No, usually legal team will be like, you gotta try that to make it more convincing for everyone that you're really trying to work it out. It's tough to say it's an irreconcilable difference if you didn't try to reconcile it. So in a sense, what I'm saying is you married to various exercises or not. So if you're going to date the barbell bent row, give it a few dates to let it show you some of the skills, get it into a situation, maybe dinner dates are bad, maybe it's better to pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, and then at the end of pop off off you say, hey, a barbell bent row, what do you want to do? And it's like, I didn't know, I kind of just, yeah, why don't you give me that body barbell bent row? It's like, shut up, just, it's a fuck off of me and it's pepper sprays you and you're like, oh, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck. That's it, then bent rows didn't work. Point number three. Measurement of strength improvement. The number one way by long shot of being able to tell if your gaining muscle is are you improving repetition strength over time on various exercises. If you do one exercise here and three months later you do it there and three months later you do it here and there it's really difficult to conclude if you're progressing. But if you do it for 12 weeks straight and you really get good at it and start to progress progress, you can be like, wow, I'm gaming. Another thing is during a fat loss phase if you have a similar exercise in, if you start dropping off strength on your squats, neurologically you're really proficient at it at that point. That means you're probably either accumulating a shit load of a team which is bad, you can do stuff about it, or you are actually reducing your muscle size and that's really bad and you can definitely do something about it. If you always have a new workout, new exercises, and unless you're really good at tracking you look back all the way through your notebook but then it's different conditions so it doesn't even apply very much. You have a really hard time being able to tell am I really progressing or am I really pressing? So it's another big benefit. Number four, psychological momentum. As you build your rep strength and as your technique improves, it builds confidence with the lift. Hacksquats went well last time, this time your technique was better, your neurological abilities were better, your rep strength went up and you're like, fucking yes and you get the axe-quat train rolling or the barbell bench train rolling and these mini PRs happen all the time and it fills you up with fucking the psychology of momentum. I'm fucking unstoppable, that's a big deal. You want to go into the gym like a freight train and blow through all of your exercises. If you have session after session after session, where it's exercises you're just getting really fucking good at, the feel is better and the strength isn't proving, that's a huge gym motivator. If it's random, shit all the time, it's not as much of that effect. And a big deal is to learn how to push really close to failure. A lot of people in their intermediate years have a problem with they're not going close enough to failure. If they pushed it harder with good technique, they could get more results. No better way to find out how close to failure they are than to put whatever on the barbell row and do it eight weeks in a row and put five more pounds and five more pounds and try to get the same reps, try to get the same reps, you really got to wake up your head, you really got to practice good technique and you could grind into failure, using that momentum to your advantage, truly fucking just screwdriver your way into those sets and reps. Someone says, hey, do you think you're getting the most out of barbell rows? You're like, yes, 100% fucking, yes, I'm doing it every fucking thing. I'm 100% connect the exercise. I know exactly how many reps I need to get. I know exactly how to move the bar and I know that I've been getting stronger over time. I know I'm getting at this and only failure can stop me. That's a pretty good way to train better than doing random shit every now and again. What do you get when PhD sports scientists collaborate with pro bodybuilders? The most effective muscle growth training I've ever made. Get yours now. Lastly, a big benefit is the conservation of variation. You may only have like six exercises at your gym that you train at because it doesn't have infinite number of machines that are your best go to chest exercises, have the highest in most of a degree ratio. If you burn through all six of them in the same six weeks, okay, what about the next six? What about the next six? At some point a few months later, you'll have used all of your chest exercises. There will be nothing novel. Instead, what you want to do is focus on just a few of them at a time. Get really good at the milk them out. Three months later, you can change away and do another exercise or another set of three. And three months later, that first set of three used will be so refreshed. You'll have been so not exposed to it that you'll be really sensitive to growth. It'll be super friendly on your joints. It gets you an ability to hop skip into kind of infinite variation. Your body forgets the last time you did anything. It's like if you need a whole bunch of Chinese food for a while and you have a whole bunch of Mexican food, when you come back to Italian food a few months later, it's going to be like, wow, man, pizza's fucking great. We have an ad pizza in forever. This tastes amazing. Versus like if you have pizza every week or twice a week, at some point in the pizza, it tastes that good anymore. And sometimes it's really good to have phases of specific work on exercises to save the variations that you have of other exercises for later when you can benefit for more variation. Now, taking all of this some context or reasons why you should try to maintain the exercise and keep it the same for longer than you might have thought. At the end of the day, however, if an exercise has definitely lower stimulus to fatigue ratio than another, you have enough variance to trade them in, just trade them out. I would say at least do an exercise unless it's physically hurting your joints for about a mesocycle. You know, 48 weeks in the D-Load and then if that exercise definitely sucks dick compared to another one you for sure have in the tank, just switch. If you're doing pull downs, assist a pull ups were amazing. You were doing pull downs and you were just like, ah, this kind of blue and assist a pull ups are there and there's tons of other variants you could use and you just want to use assist a pull ups for sure doing. For some exercises, this kind of stainless will build up over about one mesocycle. So sometimes for shoulders, biceps, stuff like that, you can do a new series of exercises every single mesocycle every month to two months. Other exercises you can keep in for two or even three mesocycles or even longer. At the end of the day, let your body decide. If you still have momentum, you're still getting stronger. If your joint still feel good and your technique is improving, just keep the exercise in. You'll get free variation later down the line as a big bonus and great results while you're doing it. If the exercise is like, joints aren't feeling that great, you fucking hate it. You have 10 other exercises you could be doing or why the fuck are you doing this one. Just give it a one mesogood college try and if it's not good by the end, cut it out for a while, go back to the good stuff and get that muscle growth. Folks, thank you for tuning in. See you next time.

Oh bonus round slow if you're gonna do it right one more one more one more one more one more don't go anywhere Hey folks, I'm Dr Mike this is Jared Feather I have been pro and this here's Blake Blake is 10 weeks out of the J-Cutler Classic Bodybuilding Competition and a few more weeks after that out from probably the USA's in July and He already has arms that are quite large, but this morning he looked at his arms in the mirror and he thought This is not big enough. I'm gonna call Jared. Jared's gonna call Mike. We're gonna get in here I got Scott the video guy to get an RP video of Blake's arms being physically torn from his body through weights You in for it. Oh, yeah, my man Jared what do you think? It's good. He's like he said already gigantic arms. He's gonna show us how to train arms Today the manager is my learning Twenty-two years old I was 23 years old back in 1866 folks. Let's get started Let's lock it out really quick up top up and then as your elbows Try to keep the hands yeah, you want to bend them towards your hips. Yep keep them in and just touch your chin Oh shit yeah slow on the way down and quick on the way up. All right Blake is starting out with triceps Then we're gonna do some biceps and triceps and biceps gonna be a giant arm best First exercise is the barbell spell pressure But cues here to keep the elbows flush into your body To come down with your elbows traveling down towards your hips as you bend now this way This way totally cool the max variance causes elbow pain a bit more frequently than bending the elbows in is gonna be in close tight slow on the way down and with his arm length and ratio Looks like his chin is a great for a certain portion of his body to touch and then come back Slow on the way down back. We're in multiple sets and then we're gonna after another exercise The way we warmed up was like the bar for 12 95 pounds for eight one 15 for three three to four reps there. That's a really good progression forming up normal rest time between all the warmups and Blake has already done 115 for three We know it's a good weight. We know he can handle it now he's gonna do it for sets of well time to 15 to the primary work sets Normal rest time in between all of these Yes, there's a time for all kinds of drops at supercices Set or don't worry we get to that later in the workout, but the first exercises Generally should be moderate rotation range nice and heavy because you are fresh enough to impose that much tension through your muscles Later when you're not fresh you can do all of the tap muscles We can switch Yes, couple more I'm right here with you Okay, but those that was Push push push I'm late. Well This is really good too. I've a dead skull pressure in the walk. It's a weird exercise 115 pounds for set of eight we want a little bit more repetitions so we are going to do 95 pounds for the remaining three sets There you go Simple touch of the bottom leg control the whole time Yes, make it hard no Push up and forward Yes How was it slow control that shit? Push Go Was that Okay, okay, again Fast to switch man of all time Well, there's a big ass tricep so I must tell you you things though. They're non-sensical And I have big triceps. So all right, well, thanks. Thanks for your time Push that way Yes Slow control Push Good one more slow control Yes, yes, like you are fucking not let's do this shit push it Go 115 for set of eight 95 for set of eight 95 for set of six This is a fast switch boy. He's getting tired real quick. So we have to accommodate We are going to reduce the load even further to get him back into that Rep range more targeting which is sets of 10 to 15 hopefully will get at least 10 here with 65 pounds That'll be set for last set and then move on to the next tricep exercise You've got to make sure you stay in that rep range you decide it now Could you go all the way down to sets of five totally? But if you want to be on a certain rep range because you want a certain stimulus with the T-grade Sure you find exists while that rep range. Yes, you have to reduce the load and he's resting in normal time These are not drop sets when the camera's off we're here two or three minutes and it's just big muscles Fast-bridge crazy asshole must like this you've tired real fast. We have to accommodate Probably somebody showed up the fucking work today, huh? Let's go. Oh, yeah My man Help those in Public in One more go One Eight hit a front get some more Boss my skill in the last time I got a good blood shape, bro. Fuck happening there guys try something. Yep fall script fall script so thumbs thumbs like this. Yep. This guy's built for it. Okay, so we want you to slowly descend just like skull crushers. As deep as you can all try fucking crazy stretch right here. I need to put this thing lower. Yes beautiful. That's exactly what we want to know. These are going to be supersetted after your over-ide extensions. Keep your butt up. Look forward. Yes just like that. Yep. Yep. Look forward. Sink in down with your elbows flush to your sides. As deep as you can go. And up. And slow and pause. And up. Flack out. Slow and pause. And up. Break. Stop. Oh that's a week fine. Very fine. Very fine. I may ask you at some point if you can't do enough reps regular to drop to your knees which I'm sure you state your day job. That's a whole blow job joke here. And I got it bro. Blake is big and strong. He's technically as well connected with his muscles. He knows what to do. He's super coachable and cute. Which means he's only going to get two of each exercise. Two tries to set two by set. This is realistic. He's actually a body-real champion. We're not here to try to fry his muscles completely off his body. Pointlessly leading to more damage than a growth. So we're going to do another four sets. This time it's going to be a superset style. Overhead cable tries to extensions. Super set two deficit pushups from dumbbells. This is going to rig. Foric I'm trying to swear last maybe. Fuck. That's right. Here's try steps. Big time they're going to be useless and then we move on to the buys for the guys. Set's of 10 to 20 hopefully on the overnight extension. Set's of at least five on the pushup. If it doesn't work if he's too fucked up. We have to go to his knees. Many of you are familiar with that. So from your day jobs. I'm sorry. But honestly it's a great leverage to get more reps out. Watch for his technique. Watch how diligent he is at keeping his elbows in. And how slowly he enters in to that mass of tricep stretch with his mass of tricep. Lots of amazing tips. So pick up from this video. Don't ever completely mock somebody's technique or completely copy it. But yeah this is fun to close. Yes slow slow. Deep one more. Go. Yes again slow. Deep you got one more Blake. That's fucking get after it. Go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go and then slow is if you're gonna do another but don't slow slow slow pause. Rack go go go go go go go right into pushups. Oh shit yeah. Full lock out to mother fucker. Let's go. Full lock out yes down slow. Let's go let's go. This children you don't fucking swear. Good one more deep deep press out. Go lock. How do you usually train your arms? I just feel like try it. All tonight tries the bise. Okay I usually do like whole exercises for each or four for total. Four for each. Well today you're only going to do eight sets total for each of them. But we won't you won't need much more. No I'm fucking sure. It's like tell us the world. Yeah you try a set two more sets and they're already done. So everything now is overkill. Yeah. Lean into the paint. It's not going anywhere. You are here to collect the fucking paint. The paint means growth. Yes one more. I was in and back. I didn't think so. In and back strong lock out. Wow. Yes. That's it for another. One more let's go. Yeah fuck yeah fuck yeah. Your charge let's go. Oh. Oh block it. Oh yes. That was if you're going to do another elbows in slow. Slow. Slow do not let go. Do not let go. Do not let go. Relax. Fuck yeah. It's shit right away. Good. Two more. Oh yeah. All day. One more. Yes. These. Let's get live here. Oh yeah. The same thing. Explode out. Slow down. Deep. Explode. Slow. Deep. Explode. Oh. Good. Slow. Slow. Control. Deep. Explode. Slow. Control. Control. You're in charge. Oh, my. Deep. We came here for the pain blade. Up. One more. Let's go. So we ended up trying to set up to the strap. Everything you have in your fucking body. Up. Up. Yes. Oh yeah. I'm good sure. Oh. Dude, let's get it. Oh, that's good. Let's get the fucking man. Folks. People ask, what does it take to get on the R.P. channel, the train, the knock mic, Jared, and stuff like that? Or what are you guys looking for? We're looking for two things. Have good technique and fucking try. Yeah, he's asked big arms and all that shit. He knows first two things. Are going to take his big arms and make them fucking bigger than ever. Because that's what it takes great technique. He never broke down his technique. And he tried hard enough to not be able to push himself up off the ground. I don't need time for biceps. Hey guys, I want to take a minute to tell you about our team full-run membership. You get six programs every six weeks. So depending on how many days we do train, what muscle groups fits that you would like to do. If you are specialized, we're generalized. We haven't for you any time that you do. If you need any sort of diet, we have five different diets. We have a muscle gain diet. We have a main insight. A fat loss diet. And two different many kinds of options. A three week and a six. If you want to ask your question. One way is to type it into the form and someone including myself and I feed pro-Gereon feathered. We'll get back to you. There are also weekly lives. You submit your questions to be answered. And myself and Gerard do weekly life to get everyone's questions answered in that form every single time. If you have a question about your squat technique, about how to program your next diet or training, anything that you needed all we've got. You've covered. So come join us today. And I'll see you guys there. 4 sets of tri-sets done with skull crushers. 4 sets of tri-sets, super sets are really like six effectively sets of tri-sets done with the overhead extension supersets of the push-ups. Blake's tri-sets are done. That's essentially 10 hard ass. The aim basically to failure working sets. That's it. Lights out. By set time, our first exercise is going to be an easy bar curl. Watch for Gerard Feather's technique instruction. He's going to be focusing on bringing the elbows in. I'm opening up the bicep at the bottom for a big stretch and following the natural arching motion of the curl. That shit works. It's not the only way to train biceps, but it is one of a few very, very effective ways. We're going to be doing sets of eight to 12. Probably here for Blake. He seems like they kind of got the V-in-Vet source shift. And then after that, we're going to do another final bicep exercise. The four sets here. Let's get it done. Double storage is here. Come on, one more. Control. Chest up. The entire time. Good. One more. Come on Blake. You got a tri-a little bit today. Yes. Slow. Chest up. Stretch. Stretch. Back. Go to that about 10. Do you count? I don't know. 10 it is. Probably about 10. Okay. The max three sets. We are going to ask you to do 10 reps for all three sets. Bonus is if you fail, you can put the bar down and rest for like 10 whole seconds or 15 seconds. I'll go a bit. And then go again and tell you get to 10 and then you get a full two minutes rest. Sound good? All right. Take your time for the next set. We are no rush. Pushmen. Every rep needs to feel like that at the top and if it doesn't, it's not right. So go down slow from here. That was in. Yes. You got the same time. Yes. Exactly. Pushmen. Just push him up. Peak, right? Pushmen. Pushmen. Yeah, I know. Pushmen. Blower. Pushmen all the way down. Let's stretch. I don't care if you get fun. This got to be perfect reps. Bored. Good. One more. Down slow. Down slow. Slow. Slow. Chest up. That was in. That was in. That was in. Come on. Go. All right. That was six, so far. So far. You got four more. Yes. Nice. Down slow. Down slow. Last perfect rep. Fight those elbows in the whole time. Don't lean back too much. Fight the elbows in. And then up. And nothing. As if you're going to do another slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Control. Control. Rapp. Fuck. I'm going to throw up. That was a hit. My man. Do you want to crash going to throw up into? Yeah, grabbing one. I don't think I'm going to. Stop. Step right. Ah. Five. One more. Let's get six here, man. That wasn't quite it. Fight it. Good. Slow. Let's do seven and then rest. Chest up. Slow. Slow. Ah. Slow. Slow. Ah. That's rested out and get three. Nice 15 second long rest and then three good ones. There you go right there. How was it? Push him and push him in. Ah. Control. Rapp like I'll do this by steps. Yes sir. There. Slow. Ah. Sit. Three. If you're going to do it right one more, one more, one more, one more, one more, one more, I'm going to wear. Let's get back in the fight. One more good one man. No bullshit technique today. Stand straight up elbows in. Perfect. Fucking Rapp. Yes. Yes. Close it up. Slow is if you're going to do another one. Slow. Resist. Resist. Resist. Resist. Resist. Rapp. Oh my god. Shit. Oh. Holy. Oh. Oh. Dude. Oh. Well, seriously, we have more biceps left to do. I know. We'll figure it out. Last exercise of the day, inclined dumbbell curls. I'm going to see what he has left. We'll see what kind of set reps can plays out. Forset, probably. I'm going to order regularly the Rapp to see where he's comfortable and take him mildly out of that comfort zone. The key here with this exercise is to stay nice and upright and to really let your biceps stretch at the bottom. And then a nice peak contraction at the top with a slow, eccentric control. The stretch back here, the inclined curl pulls the bicep out this way. Pre-stretching it. It's kind of like the stiff leg and that left pre-stretching. Your hamstrings. That is something that really, really, really hits the bicep on a very special way. And if you haven't tried it in your program before, give it a shot. Blake has a shirt on these before, but he sure has not been like we're about to do him. Let's get him to it. Couple more. Couple more. Couple more. Couple more. Let's get the dumbbells together. Let's do 12. Two more. Right away. Yes. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go. Slow. Slow. Get ready for the specs one. Yes. Yes. Yes. Slow. Slow and wrap. You got two extra. So only eight on your next set. Easy next set. Okay. Let's explain something strange. Blake has arguably 21-inch or bigger muscular arms. How the hell is he only using the 20s on this exercise? I'm sure you've done the 20s at home for a set of 10. What explains this? Well, for her stability was fresh. He could have done maybe the 40s. Okay. Different world. So he's really beat up, which makes sense. Another thing is that muscle architecture, the way the muscle is shaped, where it inserts and originates by a small fraction on the bone. In tons of neurological factors, how much your nervous system, how much muscle contraction, play a role in strength generation. Somebody significantly less jacked looking in that regard, arms-wise. For example, somebody like Joe Sullivan. Way stronger. It doesn't look as strong. Generally, the bigger your muscles are the stronger you are. There are absolutely exceptions in a huge spectrum of variables. So Blake actually got really lucky. He doesn't need to beat the shit out of his joints to get incredible workout for his muscles. It brings me to our next point. Let's do the next set. All the way up. Yes. Seven. All the way down slow. Eight. One big. All the way up. All the way up. All the way up. Yes. Slow. As I've found other. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. And wrap. That is the workout. What do you think? Good. Yeah. That's probably not a while. No way. Are your arm workouts typically this in tons? Yeah. I train my arms hard when I'm the way you're under-ground. Okay. I don't like the super-constraight movements of shit. They don't bodybuilder. You know. Hopefully you know. You're wound your way to be in bigger, but less dumb. Yeah. I will definitely encourage myself in my training now. I'll do some good exercises. Do you have any thoughts? Any tips for the people at home who watch 21 in charms? But are not either our meeting or entertains on your arm sessions. You're going to have 21 in charms. It's ridiculous. Yeah. I'll end up in done five sets to go. Yeah. This is in times for severe ends. Folks, good tech bee and a shitload of effort. Wherever your genetics are, that'll make sense. It'll give you the best possible results. Until next time, see you next time.

I'm just letting this go. Too much good footage. You too. Like many people you, and I know you right there are the viewer, have two distinct problems. Problem number one, your arms are too small. Problem number two, the amount of time you have to train them is also small. And that's a big deal, but it's nothing we can't handle. Myself and IHBB Pro Jared Feather, also known as the man with the biggest arms of all time. We're competing at that dish. Fucking weird. They're quite big. For you, they're the biggest all time. Oh sure. But they've ever been. Which is great. I'm just going to be a witness. And we did promise that you're going to do Get Big Arms Fast. But we meant with that this workouts fast, and you can do it and workouts like it, and we'll talk about principles in a bit. And then you can get the biggest arms you can get genetically. While doing this fast. Fast. It's really, really, really, really, really, really great. We like to do it by taking two, just call the qualification. That's the logical foul. The fast was the workout. The big arms was you will get something like big arms doing our fast workout. Will you get the big arms fast? No. Now, it should take some months, years. And we're not going to lie to you on this channel. Just in the clickbait. I guess. Here's what we have for you guys. Jared is only going to do. Two. And taginistic supersets. Buy a step and try a supersets. Just two. Each one is going to have. How toast do you want to get four sets? That's a sum total of 16 sets of arms. So, but in rapid succession, the actual workout itself, but for the fact that we're going to be blabbered about technique, is going to take cheese probably like 15 minutes. And if you have 20 or 30 minutes to spare about two to three times a week, you can do something like this workout. We'll talk about how you can exchange exercises. Talk about it right now. You can do any kind of bicep and tries to exercise this. And this way, you can smash arms, get out quick, get to the little cafe down the street with that one girl. Kind of looked at you that one time. You flashed them, shit said it was just looked at. You're the girl on the guy flashed. I did the big arm. Our people are in workout now. I'm like, you see that shit? No shit's button. Pop an after that. One. Two. Three. Arms. All right, folks. First exercise combo is cable curls. And again, no particular attachment to that bar. Yep, there's a little double arm time to there. Whatever bars comfy, I can't use this bar because I don't have the mobility any more Jared can. So this is going to be the first exercise. Pretty close to zero rest Jared's going to walk over after doing about G.W. Wis.20 reps there. He's going to go to cable push downs and do something like 20 reps there. Wait about 30 seconds. And then hit this again. 18. Slow on the descent. 19. Fuck. Slow. A pop-up. Super slow. As if another. Rack. Excellent. Excellent. Push downs. You're going to be interested in having your elbows move back. For that stretch as you come up. As soon as it's your viceps, you can stop here. You can continue here a little bit more long. Hent activation, but that's not so necessary. Give them deal with choice. And of course, a smooth push down all the way. If you have to press it a little more, if you can do the arc, it's all right answers. And you know what else is good? Be shutting up. Pop. And just letting Jared be beautiful. 11. Keep going. Two more. Lucky number 13. Let's go. Drop. My man. Go. Slow. Shit. Shit. Yeah. Now guys, calling an audible here, you want to stay in that 10 to 30 rep range. Jared, you want me to lower the weight a little bit for next time. We're going to take like a 10 to 20% reduction. Jared was at 120 for this. We're going to take him down to 90. We want 15 to 20 reps on the next one to keep that rep range where we want it. You're just going about one zero to two reps in reserve. And I've, you know, kind of out. I'll talk to myself. I think it's about 30 seconds. Jared hit it again. Tack me twice on this. You're of course doing all good technique. Not in this crazy bullshit. No swinging. But you're looking to take your pinkies and shove them up into the sky as you move up. And you're looking to do the same thing with the insides of your elbows. You want to show the insides of your elbows to God. Slow. Is that 10? You're going to rest a bit. Rest a bit. Don't go anywhere. Curve ball. We said 15. We're going to my Ruffo way too. That shit. And you can totally do this in this workout. So you got short time. You got to hit it hard. Four more Jared. Let's go baby. Three. Hell yeah. Big moves. Yes. Slow. Block yeah. Right into it. 12. I'm post-contest. These are good times to do. These types of short workouts are when you're having a ton of intensity techniques inside of your training. In vacation periods post-contest periods. Time's when you're limiting the load. If I see you're on a cruise, you have like 50 pound dumbbells as a high sick goes. These are times when you can really do antagonistic techniques. You're going to take two percent. Push. And. Rest a bit. Finish the two. Slow. Full lock out. Yes. Slow. Shit. Awesome. One more of these left. I'm going to sheep. You don't look at a sheep. Is this a belt workout? My lungs are fucked. Seven. Slow. Block yeah. Eight. Slow. Alright. Let's go Jared. Move. Yes. Slow. Slow. Slow. Oh. Right into it. Oh. Cool. Six. Racket rest. Four left. Take about five seconds here. Two. Three. Go. Slow. Yes. Go. Man. Seven. Six. Five. Four. Four. Take a break. Oh yeah. Yeah. My lungs get you. Alright. Jared's going to take a break. And then we have the next exercises. Let me demo them for you. So you see what's in store. First exercise in this second series is going to be a dumbbell skull crusher. Notice we did bicep curls as the first exercise in the first series. And that's because we want to make sure bicep's get the due diligence and thus the try set quality was much lower here for the push downs because you're so tired after bicep's every time. This time we flip the script to give due diligence to try set and make sure this work out evenly hits everything. Or roughly evenly. Another four sets here of both. And that's it. Hit it. Beautiful. Two. Last point here. Take a pause. One whole second. Up. Yes. Good stop. Good stop. Good stop. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Right into my sense. Lightweight here, Jared. 10 to 15. And then rest a little bit. Four on your gun. Go. Yep. Last one. Go. Go. Slow. Fuck yeah. IFBB Pro. Jared Feather got more than he bargained for. And the same he artwork out. One more. Slow. Pause. Push. Wait. Yeah. That's good stuff, Jared. Huh. That's stuff whenever you're ready another four. Yes. One. Two. Wait a minute. That he's such a cool. He's shit. One more Jared. Try. Got damage. Slow. Control. Pause. Push. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. Three. And then you're done. Far too. Yeah. Well, you got a good form. I'm from all this. One. Two. Last one. Big push. Yeah. Rack. In this respect you're my weights. Forms get pumped after not you or else after not your form will just be like, I love that shit. I can't do this. Let's sweep. Get the eight. Two more. Go. Slow. Great. Relax. Four. One. Two. Three. Go. Four. Hell yeah. Oh shit yeah. Two more in your done. Last one. Victory Jared. Let's go. Ah. Slow. Beautiful. Great. Great. Little break. And then try steps. Good stuff. Yep. Yes. To the girls. Seven. Fuck yeah. Nine. Good stuff. One set of five and that's it. Good. Two more. One more. Fuck. God damn it. I just let this be going. It's too much good footage. Tell the camera what you feel. And why? Oh. Disanyments. Burn. Condolacty. Motabolis. My forearm for my biceps. My triceps. My front-dulse a little bit from that last bit. Do you have a pump? Oh my god. Pump out of this world. Post contest stuff. Or on a cruise after you get a shitload on the buffet. This is the type of pumps that you get. Especially when you're doing intensity techniques. So this is good. Can't bend my arm all the way down. No way. Yeah. Can't hit. I can't do like a front-dulge right now. Try. Looks really cool. That almost veins weird. Again, I'm a fan of agonistic superstets. But that was fun. I actually don't do antagonistic superstets ever. So I'm sure there's some sort of novelty. That's imparted if you do something like that. You know? So maybe something to throw in. Every like other block of training. So. Or all the time if you want to save a shitload of time. Right. So. Got a pump. Yeah. Getting going out. Go ahead. Take a shirt off and dance around the cruise or whatever. Dance around the cruise folks. If you're on a cruise, go talk to people. Everyone there have a good time. If you want to do this workout, it'll only take 20 minutes out of your day. And then you're back to party. It'll put inches on your arm. That's one of the course of your. That's the most important part. Yeah. Inches on your arms. More important is inches on something else. That's not that's kind of channel for that kind of stuff. We'll see you next time. If we had a cruise. One week cruise. What's up funny. But it was going on in your home. As your home state of Missouri was the cruise theme. That's awful. Kind of activities can be expected on the ship. Cornhole. Okay. That sounds fun. Are anyone there? Baseball. Okay. Great. Kids activity. Build your own rickety. Death barn. Oh yeah. You said dad. I did see dad. Let's get to that work.

As they say in the industry, Olympia predictions, it dime a dozen. Nobody cares. They're like, we're trying to be not swears much on YouTube. If they're like, but, yeah, everyone's got one. No one wants to see yours unless I'm subscribed to you on OnlyFans. And then I really want to see it. Please, mommy. Do you really want to see your subscribers do you see it over the earth and... Mid it. Please, mommy, more update picks. Subscribe to a single person with only things. Slow as much. Riving to a single person with only things. We've got a horn hub, 199 a month or so. It's too easy. Come on, guys. Well, you might mess really like that person. So meet porn stars and then just go... Well, not everyone has that kind of cash through a put Jerry. That's trash in your income around. I'm always a fussy. I'm coming. I live Vegas. No, Vases are rich people play. No, it's not. It needs money to be in Vegas. I've seen the last place I've seen. I've seen the last place I've seen everywhere. There's Casinos, Jen. I hope it just... There's a wasted money. Here's the thing, guys. Vegas also has the Olympia, which is coming to you in a couple weeks. Couple weeks. And we're going to put this video out just a couple weeks before. And we're going to have Olympia predictions. So feel free to use this as a proxy IQ test and retroactively Great Us on how well we did. Yeah. And I'm a classic physique pro. Mike isn't a bodybuilder. So we're just going to stick to those two divisions. Although I have my guess. There are other different. I have my guess. Name the other divisions. Go where I go. Okay. You have men's physique. Two, twelve. Fitness. Everybody forgets about fitness. Don't forget about fitness. Fitness are actual athletes. The only athletes of the Olympia. We're like actual like ex-geness and stuff like that. Yeah. Fitness. You look like that. What can you do? She has some kind of crazy split mid-air. Oh, yes. Women's bodybuilding women's physique are bikini. We forgot well enough. And while it's of course. Well, I didn't forget. It's just my. It's always. You're going to get your point. That's why I don't know. You're going to get that well. Yeah. Try to forget well this. Of course I'm my prediction. So I'm going to be sure. We're going with what? What? Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Then Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. Class C. and Sean King, French. Oh, that Chinese man. Who follows our people? No way. And us, my man. Yeah? Yeah. He was the very intelligent trainer actually. Yeah. Cods like that. Yeah. He's got a great book. Yes, I agree. His quad is ridiculous. That was great. No surprises, nothing no upsets. Uh, I mean, he would be one. He could kind of go up. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Because he knocks out Brianna on the top five. That's pretty cool. Because that'll be the first time Brianna's on top five. What's so mad about what you hate non-Briya? Uh, I'm not hate non-Brianna. This is YouTube. This is a public race. I say some shit. You're a brand. It's great. He's been going down to you. He's been going down. Yeah. He's been going down the ring for the fucked up. Yeah. You know, when you have guys that are better, that there's better, it's not a big deal. I got my ass with this year. Whatever. That's what's left. That's respect. Okay. Jerry's on that low. Classic physique. Good. West next to 12. Just open your own studio. 12. 12. I don't know because this is exciting. Lonsford's going to the open. Oh, he is. You know, bloodsford. I'm looking at his videos at two thoughts. One, that's not a human being. Yeah. Two. How is he a little me too 12 motherfucker? He's not. And so like you might not open. He's the only two I have battling out would be like Clarita and Keyon. Because Keyon looks ridiculous right now. Keyon is the person who has the best genetics in the world. Of all time, probably. It's impressive. And Sean Clarita has to eat for three weeks after the show to get back to zero percent body fat because he's negative when he competes. Then you say you saw him in real life. Yeah. And you were like, Jared was like, Mike, the pictures and the videos. They don't do any justice. It's not a real person in real life. They're literally like, when you see somebody like you were tanning. Literally tanning next to each other. Like his quads don't make sense because every, this is highly genetic. He's just very fortunate. Every part of this quad has striations on it all the way up all the way up. So even when he hits just front relax, some of those people have separation. They don't have the striations because they're hitting it like hips back. Yes. Even with his hips back, his hips is just striated. That's fucked up. But Keyon has this issue too. And better shape. Way better shape. Keyon's shape is unstoppable. Yeah. So if you come to the end. So he comes in and has some trouble coming in. Correct. But he's at whatever five or four weeks out, whatever it is. And he's looking the part. He looks like he's ready. Yeah. So it's going to be cool. And he's bigger than Clarita. Much taller and much. He's too tall. Yeah. He might be too, too if I don't know. Chuck Clarita's tiger guy. You see him in pictures. You're like, that guy's just jacked. Really bad. If fat free looking guy. What do you think? Oh, like people can knock him off. He's not great. The thing is like beating him in real life. It's a lot easier said than done. Yeah. You got to be Derek. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that's very interesting. Very exciting. I was going to say lunchford forever until I realized he was no longer in the division. Is that true? Or is he still going to cut down? These guys play games, bro. Derek and the open. It's confirmed. He's like, he must have he might be in my top five. Yeah. He's all man. His physique. Yeah. If I was Derek lunchford right now, I would just stop training. Take 10 pictures and retire. You're like, I did it. I'm the perfect human being. I agree. All right. Two 12s are exciting. Let's go to the open class. Rammy. So I had this conversation with somebody earlier for God. I forgot what the fuck it was. But they were like, the agraramies and trouble. XYZ is in it. And I'm just like, you do understand that Big Ramey has just posted, with maybe with some of his most pleasing lines ever. At a bodyweight of 339. Mm-hmm. And he already has strations. Yeah. Because if there's not something you just go, oh, he'll just get his ass kicked. And also, now that he's working with wasn't Chad Meckles, I guess. Yeah. He has completely feathered and dry glutes. Or the man who weighs 2.95 on stage has completely feathered groups. And on like running Coleman, I know I'm talking about shit. Ron is the goat. Fear, always will be a running Coleman. He has a streamlined mincection. Great line. Caped out. One guy was like, yeah, man, I wish Big Ramey had a bigger back. What? So he could fly away. Are you out of your fucking mouth? Listen, that some guy has fucking best back. No, so no, it's back. That's pretty much the wrong one. It's a running. Oh, Ronnie. That's a big, Ronnie needs a bigger back. No, Ronnie has one of the best back. It's ridiculous. It's like, I don't understand how your last backlatch you got this. Big is backlatch, but it's never been on the old beer stage. But apparently it's not good. That's hilarious. So in any case, Big Ramey has to be something magical has to happen for him to lose. He has to come off and somebody has to come in to really fucking pond. Yeah. Who typically is it like you don't break it? Chippon. How did you ponder? He did. Who said last year? Second or third. We were second and we're in a, um, uh, ran and got there. I don't know if you're memory that correctly. In my memory, there's wrong. I don't know. I know that he had like an issue with like somebody felt he had sight and handsman and stuff and his delts. So sure. He got knocked down or something. So how did your pond looks incredible? Well, he doesn't have that physical size. Right. He just shredded the bone. Shredded the bone. He has great lines. It's like the cleary to shit. Right. But not amazing. The reaction looks like he's 23 and never took drone, which is not. Then there's, uh, Brandon Curry. Who I think, I think one's for it's going to be. Oh, wow. Brandon Curry looks really good though. Curry will look his all-time best and I still think there's like 48. And I still think Derek one's for it. Derek one's for it's crazy. So you think Derek left for it's looking into that top five? I really do. I think you've slipped into a few things through your life. Yeah. But the top five he's slipping in. Yeah. I think I think he's high chance of placing really really well. Yeah. Look third worth. Wow. What do you see Nick Walker in that equation? I don't think Nick's making top five. I think Bonac is also looking his both. Bonac showing up. Bonac's always looks flawless. Best ever. And you got Curry. So that's five. I don't think Nick Walker slips into five. Now what about, uh, And I think that there are many people in her library. I think there are many people in the library. I don't think Hunter Beat and Nick last year. I think Nick's real voice hire. I think Hunter looks great. Hunter looks bigger and leaner and a meter I might add. Yeah. I think a lot of these guys try to add sides way too fast and they lose a lot of separation. Like it loses a lot of like Hunter use that really deep watch for like separation. And then as she got bigger you don't really see it. Like it's from relax. It's like that's a really nice shape. But there's not a lot of separation. So he does have a great waist of huge arms. Yeah. But Nick Walker's arms are bigger and his back's better. Are they really? Oh yeah. They walk his arms don't make his legs. He's big. I think six maybe. But there's also like Andrew Jackson going. And if it was up to me, Samson doubt it would be in that mix. Samson doubt it has been like 80 pounds of muscle in the last one. It's like getting to that Ronnie stage where you're like that's not really. Yeah. All the shape guys have been that mix. Like I really love, uh, how do you say profile? Rafael. Rafael, bro do. I just, that's jujitsu. All the shape guys would be one end if I was, you know what I'm saying? Because you don't have what it takes to get big enough. Right. Exactly. No, but Samson doubt I think is going to really surprise people to make the top 10. Ian could also be a brother. I am. Valle. Yeah. He comes in. He's big. Well, brother. It comes off sometimes. I look at Ian's training weights and I'm like, I think I have good genetics, but that's the next level of shit. Like, is it, why would you incline press like five plates on every machine? And he's just being completely unaffected by it. Yeah. He's really intense. He or his legs big enough. No, he's missing improvements definitely. And his back is improved to shit live. So I think he could definitely take the broad out. You don't got to win the front poses. You just got to win the rest. I don't want to. Yeah. And he wins this side just. Yes. Yes. It's like chef. And he's like, you're here. The broad the right side tries it was nice. But I think Ian's just at the end of the day, all these predictions are nonsense because it all depends on who comes in and shape on the day. Because if you could speculate about muscularity and conditioning and most guys deliver, but it's, sorry, muscularity. But is it already dry and full on that day, especially dry? If you are super dry out of your mind, then you're going to do well if you're not. Yeah. Then you could do much worse than people expect. Yeah. Which is why so that top five, I think it's pretty sad and storm, but like I said, like, Nick can easily squeeze in there. Any other guys that would stick to squeeze in there. Like, depends if everybody else comes in shape or not. Folks, without they're looking now, that's how I see it. This is exciting times. Yeah. It's probably the, it is second, third, fifth golden age of bodybuilding. And this is the biggest Olympia of all time. No way. Of all time. They're like 60 qualified classic guys over 30 bodybuilders. Wow. Because like the COVID thing made, yeah. Like the qualification period really weird to 14 months or something. Sure. So like, even I like competitor. Yeah. Like there was the last show to qualify for classic was last week and I made it 60 guys. I'm pretty sure. Is how did you pun? Is there any status updates on his visa or is he in American now? Is he going to be able to make it to him? Yeah. He's making it all the thing. Yeah. International politics of suits. But yeah. But you know, it's just all freedom and prosperity and welcome to go to bodybuilding. Anyway, politics aside. Thank you so much to you for that insight. I've no idea who these people are. The fact that I sometimes pleasure myself to thinking about them. Yes. And folks, if you think we're wrong, please be nice. But get in the comments. Me, me. You know, and tell us what your top five is for any class you want to talk about. We'll get in there and tell you why you're stupid. Yeah. And then you couldn't possibly be right about anything, especially this. See you next time. Thanks, stop for a bit.

Go, finish, finish, finish, finish, finish. Finish. Finish. Finish. Question. When you guys go somewhere, you go alone? I don't. I only go places with my European bodyguards. And yeah, they both have PhDs. Doctor, sports science. Doctor, sports science. Me, I'm Doctor Mike Giffin-Chelter from Renaissance Predensation. This is Milo. This is Pac. They are sport scientists and researchers for real researchers, not like me. They are here to do some working out illustrating the value of partial ranges of motion. What the hell am I saying? There's our world, the T-Full Rom dead. Find out more right now. My PhD is actually on range of motion. Oh, that's right. We found that doing partial repetitions in a length in position. So in the stretch position, like the very bottom of a row, when you're sure the place being pulled all the way through it. That seems to be as good or like a better for a higher pitch fee than a full range of motion. At the very least, something to try out for a higher pitch fee. So in this session, we'll be taking you through some length and walk. Different techniques to emphasize that stretch in your self-right. Because I've seen studies and I've seen smart people like you and the Parker talk about lathe and bias partials. But I'm always like, how does that really look in real training? Like can somebody do some fucking sets to show me how that looks? And maybe give me some good tips and techniques because length and bias for the back might look different for the triceps and for the chest and for whatever. So you guys ready to show me some love? For sure. And she will seem to think that it's quite difficult to integrate partial training. When you're reality, as you'll see now, it's super special. Yeah, but you're Greek and everything you say sounds smart and spokes maybe you're just smarter than everybody. If you know how to page, do you can't do a shift? I'm sorry. Hey, figure. I'd figure is only. You're not making eight figures just sign out. Get out of my DMs. Get out of the general. Let's get to work. What's good? First exercise, primeral. This machine actually allows you to load different ranges. Let's put it on top. It loads that length in that stretch position the most. So what we'll do will do a four-in-jim motion here. But we'll use these loading pins to emphasize that stretch. So if you have a similar machine, you don't have to do partials. You can do a four-in-jim motion and still get the most out of it by simply emphasizing that length and position. In this case, typically what I'll do is load maybe 20 to 30% of the weight in the mid-range on the middle pin and load the rest of the weight in that length in position. So you get kind of the opposite effect of a traditional row where it's really hard and a peak contraction, which likely isn't ideal for growth. In this case, you get the opposite, which means more muscle growth. We're going to go for literally as many reps as we can. Oh, God. Until failure, you guys settle up, too. Yep. You say it, Russia. Oh, oh, oh, yeah. You can finish that wrap. Finish up at the top. Oh, now we're talking. Let's go on the school. All the way. And that's what true failure looks like. But was it really failure? Greek failure. So people asked why not all of the top one. The way this machine is designed, it's weird, because then it's zero load at the top. So you get to the very top and you're like, you can technically take your fingertips and push the handles back of them, and you're going to touch them again. What's some kind of something in the back there? So that weight really works like a counterweight, but at the top it's quite easy. And at the bottom, as you go down, it's weird because you're used to a stretch. But as you go down in this machine with the pins loaded as they are, your stretch is exponential. Essentially, what happens is because it's so easy at the top, if you really try and explode out of that latent position and produce lots of force in that stretch position, it just makes the machine fly. Yes, essentially. And you have to slow down and push that. So you have to slow down and purpose and for a lengthen work, we really want to spend as much time as possible, as much effort as possible, as much effort as possible in that position. So if you don't have any weight in that contract position, it makes you kind of throttle the contraction. And we don't want that. So we want some resistance still in the mid range, then we're short in position, which is the heavy emphasis on that length position. The three people that are on this machine are like, Wow, finally. Yes, yes, yes. You weren't going to be on this machine and you were on a similar chest supported row. You could literally, and I'll do my set as well. You could literally get a big stretch and stop the movement somewhere here. Yep. And that would be pleasant. And we'll have other exercises to illustrate that with later. Two other ways to emphasize that like position, generally control the eccentric the most when you reach into that stretch. Pause at the very bottom in that stretch and then contract forcefully out of it. The second way is if you're going relatively close to failure or two failure even, try and end the set when you fail in the lengthen position. So if you can still get reps in a short and positioned or a four-way motion, keep going. Let me just impart shows at the end of your set. That's really good option, I'm so much. Nice. Go ahead. Yes. Try one more. Oh, oh, you're shit. So, my lowest saying is when you are here and you're squatting, let's say, squat, leg press, hack squat, barbell squat, whatever. When you're doing your k-d's, it's okay to go quickly from here to here. Sorry, but slow down at roughly the halfway point and milk it out to accentuate the center. So, pause, consider pausing, rock it up, finish the rep. Slow. And then if you're doing partials, come up to just where it gets a little easier, slow back down. A lot of people can do the partial, what they don't want to do is right here, you're tired and your quads are pumped and everything sucks. Slow, back down is brutal and it blows. And then when you want to do really take it to the limit and fail at the length and position, that means if you can only come up to here, you just do squats until you can't move and you fall over and you probably die. Yeah. And then life's good. And then you're not there. Yeah. As far as a centric leg goes, if you're doing like a pool four seconds or so, you're probably more than covered as far as that goes. Great point. Yeah. Just for the years to do like, okay, how much? How long? Yes. Is it good always be longer? We can move on to double pullovers. Double pull, ooh brilliant. Really great. Extra, I sure, let's do that. We shall do an amrover and see what gets most reps. So lately my lows and my low and nice, my lows and I. Anyways, our training has been sort of more auto regulated because we've been traveling. But a great way for the intensity to be up and for us to actually push ourselves is to just constantly compete on stuff. As we will now, so I propose we'll go heavier, which I'm not sure about. My low said that this will be plenty. I propose we get married. That's already covered. Wow. Same thing, yeah. Don't rush it. All the other bottom. Beautiful. Go. Yes. That's it. So another way to emphasize that stretch is to pick certain movements over other moves. In this case, if you did a cable pull over, like a cable lat player, you would get a great stimulus. It's a four-ingermotion for lots. A lot of shoulder extension, but the resistance curve is relatively even. You're still training the important position and that's all along good that's your goal. With certain movements, like a bummer pull over, by design, it is already a latent partial. Even if you want to, if you go past here, there's no resistance. It's your only training in that stretched latent position. Even more than that, the hardest part of the lift, the place we have to do is the most tension in your lats, is in that bottom position at low muscle length. And then it gets easier and easier linearly until you get that top position. So both in terms of range of motion and in terms of resistance curve, really solid option for up and down. And we're doing exclusively parses here. So we're not going to be doing the fall bend. Correct? Yeah. You're inch from touching the ground. Want that extra round. Oh yeah, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. Go. Finish. Finish. Finish. Finish. Helping safety. Am I right? He has both. The way to manage failure on this exercise is too full. You can go to really what is true failure on this in two ways. One, if you just can't get it up, you just gently go back to your end-rong and just do this. Your arms are sufficiently clear. You've had no one standing around you, the weight drops a couple inches, no big deal. The second way to do it is what he did, which is if you realize that at this point with straight arms you are at concentric failure, you bring the weight closer to you just by little bending your elbows while bringing it up, not only do you go for sure to failure, because you're like, well, I can't do the straight arms, but you use accommodating leverages in order to do a mini mechanical drop set on that last repetition. So it's both safe and meg effective and you know you went to failure, so it's like checking all the box. At least it's okay, let's go. One more. It's cool. You're going to be familiar. You're probably a state, slow, control, pause and explore. Another thing I really like about the Dumb Up over, I was supposed to cable pull over, is that it's quite stable and so reaching failure and gauging failure becomes very easy. Personally with a flat prayer, sometimes it's like, I just shift my hips a little bit that can do something. Hail, it's pretty obvious when you fail, especially if you're reaching your arms out and your elbows are relatively close to lock out. You know, like, for pack on this last set, you actually had an upward, I had an a scent and then a mini decent and he bent his elbows and fish, it finished that rep. There's no way that he could stay outstretched, he would have gotten other rep. That's for real failure. That's what we call this failure and training. Really his technical failure without good technique, continuing, he could not have continued to do it. So I was really really good. So I'm this exercise, we'll be doing integrated partials, integrated partials, fancy term, really just meaning you do a full range of motion up and you do one, two, three partials and then you do another full range of motion up and you just continue in the cycle for the whole set. The reason we do this is two-fold. One on set, next, sizes like the bar dos squat. Just doing length and partials are just a bottom half, isn't very safe because of that last drop when you're really close to failure. You may try and get a full breath to be able to re-rack it afterwards, but you may fail. And so for those exercises, just doing making partials isn't advised. However, if we just did partials at the end of the set, you'd get maybe one to three partials. You wouldn't get that many partial reps and thus the emphasis of the set wouldn't really be on a stretch anymore. It would still just be basically a four-inj motion set. But by sandwiching in a four-inj motion rep, some partials, a four-inj motion rep, some partials. What we're able to do is accumulate more length and partials and get a greater emphasis on that stretch. Let's go, go technique. Elbows to the sky and then slow. She purchased up the whole time, once we went. You got for sure two partials. Yep. Just up the whole time, let's go. One more partial at least. Go. Fuck yeah. Yeah. Oh, you got more. Halfway. Yep. Another one, halfway. Yep. Let's do this, Milo. One partial for the road. That was good. That was really good. Very nice machine. Awesome machine. Awesome machine. Yeah. It's so smooth. Very smooth. How do they do it? I don't know. And it already feels like it's emphasizing that stretch position. Oh, yeah. Yeah, relative to most machines I've used. Still better in the final. That's a failure. And here's really a defeated lucky. Farstunderization goes because I see that common being made by people who, I guess, are new to. Partials had long lost length training. As you can see, some, there was some variation between some reps. But it wasn't anything too crazy. And after you do that for a few times, it's pretty easy to set certain points. For references, well, pack a little less experience of Partials Maddo. And this is our first time using the machine. At least based on my experience, performance week to week is very stable, which kind of implies that range of motion is similar, unless I'm just pulling myself into it in the same numbers over and over again. But based on some of the reliability that we have from studies based on mountain experience and client experiences, it is reasonably reliable. So just make sure you pay some attention to a range of motion and you should be in good shape. Go finish. Finish. Finish. Yep. And then slow. You got two more partial. I ain't go shit. Let's stop. Hit it. Shoulder poses. There we go. He big. All right. Cool. He still rolls for the girls. What do you get when PhD sports scientists collaborate with pro body builders? The most effective muscle growth training I've ever made. Get yours now. The pre motion machine is what I believe God actually uses to train on. And so typically you would have the curl situation a look like this, which is dope. But if you want to try this out, you actually start at the bottom of stretch of a fly. Everything is open. This will stretch the fuck out of your chest. So if you do chest and biceps in the same day, it's got a helpful. But if you're doing this on a day in which you don't train chest, it's actually nice stretch out your chest a little bit or blood flow. And then what you do is you simply from full extension curl. Full extension and curl. And the way the angles work with the machine is here. You get crazy stretch, crazy tension. But as you come through here, it's actually very easy. So it's already a lengthened bias exercise. Which is pretty dope. You have a name. It's going to be called the double dildo curl. How could it be called anything? It's a new thing where people name exercise after themselves. I mean, they've been doing that for years, but you see slide modification in the next and it's like the doctor. Oh yeah. This is the doctor idiot curl. Yeah, wait. Yeah. That's how I'm now in in most places in the world. So we're about to do some partials on this. Whenever you're talking about emphasizing the stretch of a variety of ways to do it. On the primer, loading my lengthened position. On the pullover by design, partist in my position. And it's already lengthened partial. On the lateral raise incorporating integrated partials. If you really want to emphasize the lengthened position, especially in exercises where you're not really challenging that lengthened position very well. What you can do to make it more challenging is get more working in that stretch position. It's to simply just do the partial range of motion in the stretch position. That way the whole set is spent at those productive muscle. And you get a lot of tension, a lot of stimulus in that stretch position. Ah, let's go finish. Couple more. Slow big bars. Yep. Yep. Beautiful. Put like I'll do them. Nice. That was a nice exercise man. Thank you. You got this. Three. Three. Let's go. At least one more. I was go goddamnit. Finish. That's it. Nice. That was awesome. Beautiful. Deep stretch pause and explode. At least one more. Let's go. Control control. Full pause. And explode. Let's go. Last one. Let's go. Control control control pause and workout. That's it. Yep. You did it right for a time. There you go. Big brain. Big brain. Pat, who is that on your ship? Is that joggernott or some shit? Here. So it's Thanos, Dr. Doom and Bane. Oh, it's just all bald people you look up with. Yes. Tom Hardy. The CGI guy. And Dr. Doom. Oh, are you serious? Oh, whatever. It looks like a blow job. I mean, I'm saying it. I'm not complaining. Oh, you do it. Beer did Caucasian men. Diamond doesn't. Some people say, but I got special ones. And with tattoos. Where the fuck are your tattoos, man? Torbrio. And 12. Holy shit. So anyway. Hi, I was mom and he's just upgiven on growth hormones. 12 Holy shit. Pack over here. I'm 30. We didn't. Well, the Greek 13. I really agree. You need about 30. You're slightly more hair on your face. Change smoker and then the truck drive on the piece. Yeah. Can I have my face fly? The tracksuit ship is very great. I like it. You're like on the Olympic team maybe, sort of. Yeah. You think I have the hangs around with the hangs around with the hangs around with the guy who's on the Olympic team. That's all of Greece, by the way. Also, we didn't train chess, but the hell happened in your ship? Tom, it got pumped from the bicep stretch, whatever we just did. And the pullovers. Boom. Any words of wisdom on this lengthened partial situation? And I'd say as we briefly mentioned during the video, he got the door, wrap quality, control the eccentric, make sure that you are getting that deep stretch. And that's it. It's not that complicated. It's the equivalent of train hard with a bit of a softened one. A little bit of spice. Let's say main things remain volume intensity. Good technique overall. But a bit more range of motion is always welcome. Every little bit counts. Every little inch. Every little edge counts folks. You think about what that means in your spare time. We'll see you next time. Peace. Peace.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pre-Dization. And today's video is about the three pieces of gym gear that advanced bodybuilders have to have, of course, that's a clickbait title. But three pieces of gym gear that I think have huge benefits for advanced bodybuilding. And please make all the inside gear jokes you like in the comments. And boost the algorithm. Here's the deal. First, what is an advanced bodybuilder? It is somebody in my view, the best definition for this I've been able to come up with. Is somebody for whom the basics executed normally, no longer cause reliable gains, for whom even some insights like, oh, I have to start dealing with the start following program, they no longer produce reliable gains. This individual has to have training as well as possible. In order for any gains to be even highly probabilistic, otherwise the default is no gains at all. That's right. You have seen people training for years at your gym. Putting in lots of effort and not seemingly progressing, you could technically call them advanced if they have already done a lot of the basics pretty well, and it's just the nuances they're riding on. Four folks in that situation, nuances matter as far as executing your training. For example, at that point technique has to be personalized, to whatever gives you the best stimulus to fatigue ratio, not somebody else. I got an intermediate, can squat like most people and get decent squat results. An advanced person may have to squat very differently for their own body type, or even a band in squats altogether and search out other better stimulus to fatigue ratio exercise. With nuances like that, it also makes sense that some gym gear stuff you can buy and take with you and you can get a lot of benefits. You can also start to make advantages at the advanced level that are difficult to ignore and unwise to kind of relegate to thinking, wow, you could use this stuff, but you don't have to use it. No, no, this stuff really does pay big dividends, especially for the advanced. First thing, first on that list, is the Versa grip. The Versa grip company, they ignored all my calls and emails. I never called or emailed them, but I did talk to them once at the Arnold, and I was like, hey, I have a following, and I want to rep you guys, I don't need any money, just want to be able to say that real cool. And they're like, yeah, we don't do a brand sponsorship for athletes. Okay, you guys are cool. Anyway, oh look, a train I have to catch, and I ran under the train and committed suicide. So that didn't go so well, but so this is not any kind of sales pitch. I make nothing off of this or anything else real here. Versa grips, Versa grips essentially are the modern version of a lifting strap, and they are categorically better and almost every way. They're all pretty close to magic. If you wrap the Versa grip handle around something and put your hand on top of it, there's a very good chance your entire hand will fall off of the bone before that Versa grip breaks or is let go. All right, or let's go. And because of that major advantage, Versa grips can take back training, deadlift training, any training where you have to pull with the arms, especially shoulder training. How do you do laterals with your regular grip is beyond me, if your shoulders have gotten as strong as most people's shoulders, get in relation to their grip. If your back has gotten as big as strong as it usually will in relation to your grip, if your legs get as strong for stiff leg and deadlift and dumbbell lunges, etc., as strong as the normal people's legs get when they're advanced and relation to their grip, because they're grip gets stronger, but the back and the traps, and the legs for sure often waste strong or muscle groups. If that happens, you can no longer use many exercises without grip becoming the predominant limiting factor. When you're training your back, short of like, flat prayers, and a few other things, your grip may be the only thing you are training very hard after a while. If you get Versa grips, of course you can have regular traps or fine chalk is very good, but Versa grips show me that you are interested in the highest level of grip ability and you're just interested in the really shutting off the limiting factor. You can do machine roads, and it's all just down to your back. Amazing, huge dividends. I can't recommend this product more. If you haven't gotten it, and you tell me your advance, then I see your workouts, you better have the strongest fucking grip of all time. Or you just haven't thought things through. Next, weightlifting belt. Any kind of belt is really good. I prefer the pioneer brand belt, because they have so much customization, and they're really high quality, but other belt companies are fine. Some of them are very good, a weightlifting belt, or a lifting belt in general, does not have to be for the sport of weightlifting. A lifting belt allows you to create a high level of intramodinal pressure in your core and glumber region, which allows you to transduce more of a signal to contract, especially your legs during heavy leg training. And what that does is it just leaks out more ability out of your legs. Now as I begin to, as an intermediate, that probably just doesn't matter that much. And your legs and core will be in ratio, relatively strong enough to each other that you have a core, realistically that can outlift your legs and that's never too weak. But your legs get stronger than your core. We know this because almost every powerlifter at the high level, when it is legal to do so, will wear a lifting belt. The reason for that is pretty simple. The core tends to be a weak link, and if you make it stronger via the addition of a belt, notice you're not making the core stronger itself. You're making the whole system of core plus belt stronger. If you use a belt, you can get more out of your legs. And as a hard lifting lifter, if you're doing hacksquats, if you're doing regular squats, if you're doing good mornings, as a high advanced bodybuilder, you probably are interested in putting out a belt, because it will just maximize what you get out of your glutes, your hamstrings, and your quads at the very least. And if you're going to do any kind of dead lifting, it also keeps your back nice and safe, at heavier loads than you would normally be able to use, which is a really, really big deal. It's a big help. Is it mandatory, of course, but does it make the situation better? Where it actually makes your legs get absolutely higher, raw stimulus magnitude training? Yes. Yes, it sure does. Will it make your core weaker to wear a belt? Yes. But only if you wear a belt, and never increase how much weight you're lifting, above what you could have done without a belt. If you can squat to 25 for 10 without a belt, this you put on a belt and squat to 25 for 10. Never go above the 20 or 30 extra pounds of belt can let you lift for the same reps. Then yeah, sure, shit, your core will get weaker the belt will remain, and that it'll be harder to squat to 25 for 10 without a belt in a few weeks. Why the fuck would you do that? You put on the belt so you can go and get stronger in your legs, and now you can squat to 40 with a belt for 10s, to 25 for 10 without a belt. Without a belt, we'll still feel weirder, and for a few weeks you'll be weaker, just because you've learned to use the belt so well. With the underlying strength and size of the core musculature, we'll continue to go up if you use a belt, if you challenge yourself. So if you ever want to take the belt off, you know, feel weird to use it, no belt squats for a while, but then very shortly within several weeks, literally, two or three, you will be as strong as you ever were without a belt. Amazing. Lastly, number three, are weight lifting shoes. These are shoes for the sport of weight lifting. They have a heel and an easy slow ramp, that ends at about three quarters of an inch, to one and a quarter inch typically at the end. In the heel itself, these shoes allow for a huge amount of stability in leg training movements. They allow a ton of friction between whatever it is you're standing on and the shoe itself. And because they have that ramp situation, the actual heel lift, you get two things out of it. One is you can now go much deeper with all sorts of pressing and squatting movements and get your quads at better stimulus. And can commentantly, you don't have to lean forward as far because your ankle mobility is now higher, because of that heel, so you can actually take stress off of the back and put it into the quads, amazing. And also, you have the ability now in many more situations with a deeper range of motion to continue to press through your heels, and your front of your feet. And as you can press through the whole foot, you can lift more weight, activate more faster switch motor units, and get bigger and stronger. They're very for sure. So weight lifting shoes, not only put your quads into the best possible position to get torched, because they allow your knee to have more flexion with less of your back inflection. So they allow you to go deeper and provide more profound forces. They essentially allow you to expose your quads, but put in them and have them in a weaker position, but a more challenging position for them. But at the same time, the weight lifting shoes arm your quads with the ability to be super stable and pressed through the heel, which is kind of the ultimate in engineering the best possible leg training. When you put on weight lifting shoes versus not having used them, you take any hackswatt leg press, regular free squat, and turn it into a movement we were like, hold the shit, I'm getting a lot deeper. This is hard, but also this feels smooth as fuck, and I feel fucking strong. The best possible combination you could ever say. I will say how people train their quads at a high level without weight lifting shoes is beyond me entirely, but then you look at how a lot of ice-beaproast, quote unquote, train their quads, and you could really improve the shit out of the training if you showed them how to use weight lifting shoes and proper technique. Now, those three things, I think, if you're an advanced lift or you should highly consider, does that mean you should stay away from these tools as a beginner or an intermediate? No. But what I would say is, you can get a lot without them. They do cost money, they do wear down, you'll have to replace them. And the best reasoning I have for you is, give me a compelling reason why you need these tools, and I will say it's a good idea to get them, for example. If you're a beginner and you never have grip as a woman in problem, my and fucking gods and AMD, you need verse of grips. Fact, checked, problem solved. Weight lifting belt. If your legs are on fire, they're getting sore for five days in a row, you're still getting stronger, you never have an issue where you're like man. If I had belt, I'd get sure I should more lift more with my legs, and my weak course keep me away from being able to have stronger legs. That's the start of thing. Up until most people get most women get beyond two plates on the squat for full depth, and most men get beyond three plates on a squat. A lot of times for most people, a belt isn't even just that. Like doing a whole lot of nothing, just sitting there. And weight lifting shoes is one of these things, where you could get pretty early, but they're pretty expensive and have a requirement, big investment. So if you've been lifting for like six months or a year or a year and a half, and you really love the process, and you know you're not going to quit anytime soon, yeah, I would get weight lifting shoes is totally fine. And also it pays to just have a situation where you don't really overinvest in this shit, it's like a lot of people lie to you in it all, rate lifting shoes, and then you just don't lift anymore. That's just sad. And weight lifting shoes really pay their big dividends, once you're bigger and mobility is a little bit harder, and you're lifting really, really high loads, so they're super technique stuff is important. And also when you're constrained to variations that don't include squatting, like leg presses and squats, the squats are too axially loading for you, then weight lifting shoes pay huge dividends, but if you can do a decent barbell squat without weight lifting shoes, you can for years get bigger and bigger and bigger in your legs, and not have to buy weight lifting shoes because their benefit will be instant, but it will be really small. And you can offer the $200 that they cost. Now you can get weight lifting shoes for 70 bucks. That's all good and well, but just making sure I'm speaking to the general audience member here, like yeah, again, if there's a compelling reason, definitely buy it. When you're in your intermediate years, you may start to develop these compelling reasons, and slowly buy up the stuff, so by the time you aren't advanced lifter, you already have them. I'm not saying when you turn advanced, whatever you have your fifth advanced birthday party and balloons and stuff, you have people beat with a piata baseball bat. That's what you do to clowns, they think, once you get through the piata, you turn your attention to the clown, but you don't have the no more eye cover. Put it on the clown, time up, not just kidding. But maybe clowns are terrible. Don't just turn advanced and then buy these things. As an intermediate, you'll discover like, okay, I really fucking need verse of grits. My grip is just huge when in fact, I need a belt, and I would like some weight lifting shoes. So by the time you enter advanced, you're already rolling with all these things. Folks, give that some thought. Like, comment, subscribe, whatever, and see you guys in the comments below.

There's a ton of beef between Kendrick Lamar and Drake, but there's more beef around the Glen on Humorl joint of a Jared Feather, IFB pro, is favorite top. Delta exercises for your side gains begin right now. All right, what's up everybody? So my first exercise that I'm picking is one that you probably don't see me due to often, but I will program a lot of clients. The free motion front raise, where you're kind of starting with the cables behind you, is an amazing front tilt exercise. I program it a lot for tons of female clients. You aren't doing a lot of pressing in the gym. If somebody has weak front delts, the only way I really tend to program their front tilt training is with more isolated variations of the front tilt. Like you can't do military pressing and stuff, especially if you're packs in your triceps, need a little bit of extra work, but you're trying to emphasize the front delts. Feel free to military press. But I think you can do a better job of isolating the tissue and doing some form of a front raise. I think that the free motion station here is the one front tilt exercise I'll put on this list. Simply for the fact that when you start with the cables behind you, you get way more of a stretch. And I think that I had to put a front tilt exercise on this list just because people are going to be like, well, we're the front tilt exercises. This is a damn good one. The horns are growing. Why you got to hate? Why you got to hate? You raised me. I know. Look, people. Front raises are dope. Jared Spotong. If you're going to want to add front tilt volume, you might not want to add it in the most fatiguing way possible, which is the standing barbell press, followed by standing dumbbell press, followed by seated barbell press, followed by seated dumbbell press. It really is a high fatigued exercise. It's great for stimulus, but not just for front delts, for triceps as well in front of her packs. For a lot of the female clients, Jared trains they're judged very much on their delts, but they don't want them to have triceps or excessively large. They don't want them to have huge upper packs. And so for them, this exercise is super, super critical. So this is a little bit more of a scalpel, rather than a hammer that really focuses on your front delts. My front delts on an half the train was I had literally fake front delt material scalpel did. It wasn't Guatemala. That where we went. The guy was a doctor. I don't know. There was like crickets and stuff around. I did it without being put under. It was tough, but not my front delts, they're big. So if you are doing the front raise variation, you could also use cuffs keeping your thumbs facing up. We have actually done many variations. And I do this often. You'll see at the end that have a cable faceable variation that hits a couple of the delt muscles. If you do the variation where your palms are facing down and you do this, you're getting a lot of front delt of all, and especially coming out here. But it is an awesome lateral del exercise too. And because I train my lateral delts, rear delts, probably four times a week, I tend to do that. I'll have variations like face pulls or upright rows where you are hitting some of the other muscles that you're getting the traps involved, you need to be red delts involved. So this one, if you are a female who's training lateral delts and you need to hit front delts as well, like on my female clients, I say, or somebody with a weak front delts, of course. And you still want to hit lateral delts that day. This is a totally awesome variation because you're hitting both pretty well. But if you are literally just trying to isolate that front delt, putting the thumbs up to the ceiling and cuffs even better almost. I'll make sure you have some straps on our straps right now. But hitting them like this, you're going to get a lot more front delts taking a little bit of a less or more of the delt muscle that you're out of it rather than just using front delts like this. All right, my second variation for delts is the upright row. I keep upright row variations in four more lateral delts training. Basically half of the last 14 years, which is my entire training career. A lot of people say they don't like them. They're an amazing lateral delt exercise. Overall, for the muscle structure surrounding the delts, great trap involvement as well. If you'd like, oftentimes people run into this situation where they do start to train with lots of frequency for the lateral delts. And if you're doing a lot of lateral delt variations, machine lateral raises, dumbbell lateral raises, especially some people tend to get issues with their elbows because you're always holding the dumbbells and machines out here. And especially if you don't have cuffs, this can become a pretty big issue for elbow tend to not use things that nature also the movement pattern. So damn similar like this. So I like this for variation just for a penasionally angle changes and things like that, just the way that you're actually targeting the tissue getting a little bit of extra trap involved in it. Because I got shitty traps anyway, and I don't think anybody has two big traps. Making sure you have your versus on. Good call, my doctor, Mike. Keeping one or two of these variations and for messes like for me is kind of like how I like structure it. Couple lateral raises variations, couple upper variations, maybe a cable, faceful variation. But the upright row is one of my all time favorite, just especially on a cable. I'm done with your shit today. I got some of your shit. You're done, okay. Okay, son. No, dad. I want me to go because when you got laid off of the factory, yeah, who is there to take care of it? Your face was there. And I've made with my face. You sure did. A lot of folks will ask questions about what kind of bar to use, where to stand with respect to the machine and how to art the trajectory. And really, that's one of these human variations is so wide. Situation that the answer to the question is try a bunch of them. See which one's work and you're not looking just for the perfect one. There's going to be a bunch that works. Sometimes if you stand a little bit behind the machine. As you pull, you have to pull back as well as up and engages the posterior side of your lateral delts, even your rear delts a little bit. That's really nice. You can stand closer to get the full elbows up. In fact, if you liken it, it's pure side delts at that point. You can use a straight bar. You can use a slightly curvy bar. You can use hypothetically all sorts of attachments. Really the question to ask is how do my wrists feel? How do my elbows feel? How do my shoulder joints feel? Am I getting a good kind of stimulus tension and stretch and pump and burn into side delts that are targeting? And also how much am I being forceful? Like, how much weight I can lift in this facility? The rule is flat, but do I really feel like I'm recruiting everything? Your wrists and elbows might feel fine in the script. They don't hurt, but you just don't feel like you're activating a whole lot. If you feel like you're really doing something, a wider grip could work, a narrow grip could work, and everything in between. They're supposed to every part of upright rowing, including how high you're pulling. There's nothing wrong with pulling just to your nipples. Matter of fact, I'm just going to cut myself off. Then pulling to your clavicles is cool, pulling to your chin, nose, eyes, and you can do the James Hoffman where you can pull above your head. That actually is a ball of variation. You should try unless your shoulders were bullied at school a lot. Just never recovered. To my points about the grip and variation you use, I am pretty good with a close grip on these. The wider I go, the worse it feels to my delts. The easy bar attachment here also feels a little better for my wrist. So I can get a pretty close grip slightly holding onto these, the groove part here on the easy bar attachment. And I can get pretty high as well. So if this is as high as you feel, you can get without your shoulders hurting or elbows or anything that's fine, I'm able to get pretty high on these, especially when I use that closer grip, experiment with your grip with, experiment with the attachment. And if you can get through a larger engine motion without pain, it's probably a little better. So if the close variation with the easy bar attachment allows you to get here and the straight bar wider grip allows you to get here. Try this out for a little bit. See how it feels. If you don't have any joint pain, it's probably good to go. If over the course of a couple of mesocycles you can experience and joint pain. You don't have to take them out entirely, but you can experiment with different variations. The next variation that I like to do, and this is probably one of my all-time favorites, is the cream motion y-rays. There are tons of ways to do these. So if you don't have some people lying down, I see them do behind the body. I've seen them do without crossing the cables, I see them with crossing the cables from this height. This is probably my favorite height to do from, and I also like to cross the cables in front of me. It's a very awesome stretch for the lateral delts, and it's one of the only variations where you can actually come all the way across your body and get the full stretch for that lateral delts. So this is a variation you can include a lot of intensity techniques with like length and partials and things of that nature. So this variation, just one of my all-time favorites, especially whenever you're getting somebody really deep in a contest prep and you want to take a little bit of stress off the elbows, because you can, in fact, use these cuffs yet again. Give these a shot if you've never done them. The y-rays is a really bad exercise, and they're all kinds of different types of y-rays as you can do. The biggest thing in a y-rays generally is getting that huge stretch across the body and getting the full range of motion on the exercise. So a lot of people will ask us about this, but do I need to change which cable is in front between sets? So if you like, you can readjust, take this cuff off, put this cable over the top, whatever. It's not a huge deal to be honest, but if it is something you want to track and using something like, let's say the RPA Perchree app, you can make notes about that. If you're that concerned with it, I assume you're okay with thinking, note about it. So just set one, right cable underneath, set two left cable underneath, that's how I would track it. So again, not inherently necessary. One, dealt might be getting out in front of the other a little bit, but to be honest, they're both getting crazy. I'm good stretch here. So just for your sake and for neuroticism sake, feel free to switch them up between the sets. Quick tip on the free motion, y-rays is when you cross streams like they hold us and goes, boss does not to do. And in some more camp when you're kind of pee with each other, what? The might snag a little bit, but the way to deal with that often is to back up a little bit more out of the machine that helps. You might also have to cut your arm at the bottom and just come down to hear if you come across, they'll snag. We're just flying to where a good spot is for you before snag occurs, and then go from there. That's my only tip. The geodd described this so well, I have nothing else to add. I've never had much to add, really. I've just been grifting on YouTube. Next exercise that is in my top five favorites for the lateral delts or the delts would be the dumbbell lateral raise. Dumbal lateral raise is just an exercise that everybody has basically access to. A lot of room gyms, a lot of people have plenty of fitness style gyms or gyms that don't have free motion stations. I have really fancy machine, slatter machine, things like that. I have kept lateral raises with the dumbbell in for a very long time as well, unless I'm having some sort of like elbow issues at the time. There are tons of variations you can do that include just doing a regular dumbbell lateral raise, full range of motion, all the way up. Super arm laterals, pauses. You can even do a variation where you keep tension on them. You don't go all the way down because there's not what happened down here. So I'm just going to show you guys the generic dumbbell lateral raise. Maybe a few cues like you can be able to do. But definitely one of my all time favorites. Dumbal lateral raises, amazing exercise. Just watch the swinging and make sure you're using full range of motion. These are your stuff of variation applies to all sorts of lateral raises here. Some folks like to point their pinkies up a lot and come all the way to the side and really even like back behind themselves. Narlie for rear and side dos. Probably don't want to go to high, it feels wack in the shoulders right here as an excellent movement. You can get a little bit more parallel and come a little bit more to the side rather than back. Generally stopping right about here. If you like, you can keep your palms down to the ground same way. Come up to the front here and then a little bit out front like this. And then you can stop here, but you can also do the super rom-ladderals. So when people say, you know, where should my wrist be, where should my shoulders be, which way should I arc. The answer is generally like as long as you're not pointing your thumbs up. That's really front delts. If you're pointing your palms down or even pinkies up, any variety of back to side to slightly front. You know, people call this the scapula playing works and any range of motion works, including a super rom-range motion. A range of motion that goes just to below parallel and even my one of my personal favorites, just above parallel for a one second hold and then a slowies enter back down. The next variation on my top five favorites for delts is a modification to the cable face pool. The notice was different attachment. You'll notice that I'm kind of at eye level here. This variation is cool because most people don't have weak rear delts. You get a lot of rear deltraining with your back and similar to the first variation I showed you with front delts. You can modify this such that you're getting the rear delt hit really well, especially on the stretch because of some of the tips that I'll share here. But you can also get more lateral delton involvement because you're trying to train those lateral delts a little more frequently in your programs. This one's really cool to just hack onto an end up a program. I especially like this variation for myorips and super sets. So doing the face pool this way and going into a super set we're doing a regular face pool can really fry the rear delts a ton. And you'll have a nice lateral delt hit there at the end and then the myorips really mess me up on this exercise. You can use your straps. You don't have to use your straps. I use attachment for specific purpose. There's a V here and similar to the cable that people use generally the rope. It gets this out of the way. You're not smashing yourself in the forehead because whenever I do this you'll see how it looks. There's one more tip that I want to share with you guys. So Scott maybe if you can come see the cable. Just people don't really think about this too often. When I'm doing this variation. If I let the eccentric come down here. I'm running into a situation where I'm actually taking tension off the delts and I'm allowing the cable to pull up this way. There's like no tension on this. It's just kind of coming this way. I'm lifting this up intentionally because I'm trying to keep tension on my rear delts the whole time in my delts. So if I can resist the cable pulling me down just the tad it's a lot better for the eccentric action here. You're going to run into a situation where you do the rep and it's starting to get really hard and the set of staying up here and staying into the rep and really leaves that stretch. You'll see people go like this. Oh yeah, that's nice because it's easier. So if you can really take the eccentric slow, come back and do it and then keep the cable high, high, high get the stretch on the rear delts. That's going to feel a lot better. So a lot better a lot worse. But so watch the cable make sure it's under the proper height. You can just set it down one lower if you'd like because you're going to lean back a little bit. But it's for me, this about like chin height the cable is because I know that I'm going to lean back a little bit. But really take that cue into consideration because oftentimes when people do the eccentric phase on a lift, they speed it up. They try to get other muscles involved because it's getting super hard. But here, I mean, Mike say all the time on the channel lean to that pain, lean to the stretch. That's how you do that on this exercise. This is what I call a hard implement. So I'm a solid to it. So I'm going to get the job done on prom night fellas. But it didn't call me Mr. Flapian high school for no reason. I should boy out here. Yeah, like that. And while I always packed the size and it was black. That's curiously enough, similar shape. My shits lie exactly this way, the whole. The reality of the matter is not in that's true. However, rope phase poles are dope because they can accommodate a different angle up front and behind. They allow you to open up your elbows at the back. Some folks will love this kind of fixed attachment. A lot of people like the rope for the phase poles. Really, it's your call 100% experiment and give it a shot. Another thing that you guys will see me do is I like to do my phase poles. You'll eliminate it in the back almost entirely and really prioritize in the side don'ts. So what I'll do is I will lower this implement all the way down to about hip height. And I'll pull from there, just my favorite variation. But there are no wrong answers. Anything between hip and head and even just above head height is really really good idea to try. The last thing you notice how I did the reps. The way that we're doing these and set of just coming here and pulling straight to the eyes. To get the lateral delts involved, you're actually moving the elbows up and back out of the way like this. So this is rear and lateral delt. You're hitting both at the same time. Whereas yeah, maybe you're hitting a little more lateral delt and tears in the traps and all the rhomboids and stuff like this. Like a road to the eyebrows. We're trying to attack the rear in the lateral delts on this exercise. So if you can pull this up and back like this, keep that cable tension high here. You're going to get a lot more out of the exercise. It's going to be harder. You're going to use less weight. All the good stuff that we reach. Give it a shot. Is that fine? No. No, it's just higher. Just probably about 5-10. No, it's fine now. 5-10? I'm putting it. But we're eye to eye. I'm not taller than him right now. Folks, that's all we have for you today, Jared. Thank you for putting the D in delts. Yeah, that was a great. And those are just 5 that I like. I believe you put on top 5 videos as well. Go check that out because it's really good as well. I think we have some different variations in there. But no wrong answers on lateral delt training. Besides the wrong answers, you can't do squats for lateral delts. You don't screw it up. Yeah, don't screw it up. I really like these at the time of filming this. Maybe I'll find ones that are more in the future. Yeah. Look, those are great. You've put the D in delts. Let's go put the D in me. Which other? Beautiful. See you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pyrrization, and today's video is the five rules of chest training. Yes, they're rules, but they're not hard rules. Think of them more as helpful hints for your chest success. And that's sort of rhymes. Alright, rule number one is in my opinion nothing beats deep, controlled presses. Be they incline, be they horizontal, be they decline, big presses make big chest says. Ah, I'm sticking to that. Flies are cool too, and they're super effective. I just want you to know that you're not going to cable crossover with pinkies out yourself towards enormous pecks. It's not one of these things like for biceps, where isolation exercises seem to be the bees knees. Big heavy compound presses are really an almost certain ticket to a big chest, so don't ever forget that. It was good for gram, great grandfather, it was good for grandpa, dad did it. Your little brother's doing it already. We're older brother has a kid and he's doing it already. Don't fall behind. Number two rule. Like most muscles seeming, right? If not all, they get a better growth stimulus. If they're stretched deeply while they are loaded with a huge amount of resistance, anything between sets of five to sets of 30 repetitions, that deep stretch is critical under load. So if you can generate a deficit in which you can press quote unquote below your pecks, you are going to get a huge stimulus easing to this. Don't do a ton of sets at first because it will absolutely fuck you up in the best possible way with the laydowns and muscle solenoids and growth of course. What does that mean? Consider getting a cambered bar, which has a little do-hikki, wiggly thing in the middle of you can press below your chest. Daphisit pushups are super easy for anybody to do, two plates go between them. Machines that are well made and can do a deficit and of course dumbbell presses of inclined and flat can both be done outside of your body to do a deficit. Anyway, to create a deficit is going to pay off. It's a huge addition if you've never done it prepared to be like holy fucking shit. What the hell am I doing to my body? Good things you are doing to your body. Rule number three, flat pressing and inclined pressing, flat flies and inclined flies are all correct answers. And I just don't understand why the internet is full of people being like and you need to do inclined for better chest don't do flat. You need to do flat pressing, flat press don't actually work. Which I never thought somebody would say, but then Doug Brugnoli says inclined stone actually train your chest. If I had hair I would be doing this with it. Pretend I have huge horse-like name, sexy locks. I pretend this daily. It's all right answers folks. Press press press away fly away, decline, flat, inclined. It's all good. Don't get caught up in the weeds just do good pressing and flying work. If it gives you chest to big public, make your chest sore, it's the right answer. Number four, this is a big one. Try to do what power lifters do. Now they do it in order to shorten the range of motion. But they end up getting themselves into the most hyper-trophic muscle growth promoting range of motion by doing this. They do two things. Instead of flying flat-backed on whatever bench they're doing, whether it's machine press, whether it's dumbbell presses, or whether it is flat press. Instead of laying flat, they arch their backs, not a ton. Some of them do, just a little bit. Arch your back a little. Think of it more as sticking your chest up and then take your shoulder blades and slide them back and under yourself. Now when you press as you press, you're going to lift your chest up. To the bar, or to the dumbbells. And through the sky, pause and then come back up. Slow and controlled, big chest all the way deep. Keep your shoulder blades back. Keep that back arched or in other words push your chest up. Don't ever lift your butt off of the bench. That's really bad. Can get you hurt. But if you arch and retract, you are putting your chest at a pre-stretched advantage for muscle growth. They're basically in a more hypertrophic position to begin with, which is awesome. A bonus point is that in my view, the probability of shoulder injury is lower when your scabs are tacked back this way, so you're winning on two grounds, potentially. Not mandatory, but give it a try. Some people who have trouble feeling their chest, mind muscle connection, trouble with pumps and soreness and fatigue. They do the archer or attract and they're like, holy shit. Finally, I can feel my packs. Lastly, control the eccentric and pause your presses, especially if you're doing deficits that keeps you safer. And it gives you more time in that nasty stretch position. So instead of mention like this, come down under control, couple seconds. Pause, be barbell, be it dumbbells, be whatever. Pause for one or two seconds. And then press back up. Control, big stretch, pause and go. That will keep the weight on the bar of the same. Reduce the total number of repetitions because each rep is harder, but increase the quality and safety of the repetitions beyond what they normally would have been. You're now doing the same amount of actual effort, but your effort is more effective and safer. I can't think of a better way to get good training than have it be more effective and safer. They've only more clowns were involved and made it fun. Like every time you do a bench rep and lock it out, the clowns got the kazoo thing or whatever. It's like, that'd be great. Jim's work on that. And while you work on that, like, subscribe, swipe up, swipe down, left, right, no wrong answers. Comment. If you want to be in our members community for more nerdy videos, real technical support science, come join us. It's only five bucks a month. And for like 30 bucks a month or something, you can join the team for on form, which means you get tons of included programming. You know, every 12 weeks we have two programs come out and each time two programs come out and so we five programs because it's to whatever day you want. We have like a four day week, five day week specialty programs, all the stuff. Come on in. We'll analyze your videos. We'll do video review for all of your lift. We'll tell you how to improve your technique. We can do physique reviews and we can even try to guess to make your body fat. Which I'm no good at to be honest, I just type in 50% no matter what you put. Anyway, see you guys next time. Bye.

Huge problem is a lot of people are not going for deep stretch nearly enough and their biases in Christ. Show them a video of lying dumbbell curls and they say that looks lame, but in reality lying dumbbell curls are probably one of the most brutal and effective ways to train your bicep. Downside you get to flex your ego less than that girl over there by the dumbbells isn't as impressed because you're not doing the full stack. But guess what? You have to say you don't want any part of her life. She's supposed to take side beams all day long and ask to you of like, is this underwear like a kid? Like, uh... Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength and there are five things about arm training that everyone gets wrong. Okay, it's not everyone that's thumbnail title, lakery, but it's a lot of people. And I would say it's five things about arm training that everyone pretty much are most people at some point got wrong before they got right with God. Speaking of God, what does that have to do with arms will here's the thing? If you're a guy and you have problems in your life, bigger arms will fix all of them. Scott, have you ever gone to the bank and asked for an absurd loan with no collateral? I have it. Okay, you haven't because you anticipated that was stupid and there was no way they're going to give you a loan, right? Correct. Did you have giant arms, however? I definitely did. Yeah, that's really the problem. You got big enough arms, the bank will lend you anything. If you were a girl and all of your friends are getting married, but you're still single, it's probably because your arms aren't big enough. Now it seems obvious, doesn't it? That one grandma you had, she was just such a great woman so wise in her elder years and still so spritly looking at her arms next time you're hanging out with grandma. Kind of big for a lady, huh? World peace. People just need bigger arms. Animals rights. Can you imagine a cow, Scott, which is big ask, biceps and triceps? There's no way we're mistreating that animal. It's so glorious, gorgeous. Big arms are it. However, on our way to the obvious, obviously great goal of getting big arms, which is obvious and amazing, we tend to air in at least five really common ways. I'm going to talk about them, but talk about why they're not such a great idea to do and give you alternatives that are better. So number one, is the myth that you must have an arm day? You must do biceps and triceps together in the same workout. There is no distinct benefit of this. In fact, if your biceps are sufficiently pumped, it actually limits the range of motion on your triceps, which sometimes means they're not getting as much of a stretch and high load stretch, which means actually it's suboptimal. Can you do an arm day? Of course, but it's not an necessity. It's cool vibe, you get a big pump, but I don't actually help you with long-term growth, any more than training arms biceps and triceps separately in their own day. It's tough to program this into the same split, because a lot of times you back and biceps, chest and triceps, but then if you're doing arms, it's also like a dirt. I had biceps, the triceps, you want to know, is it gets confusing? The other problem with this is that there's a discordance and healing time. Triceps tend to be bigger, stronger, more susceptible to stretch under load, and so when you train biceps, you can do 10 sets of biceps and they can soar for a day or two and then you're good to go. You train triceps, they get soar for like two or three days and maybe even four and then you're good to go. So if you're always trying to train them together, you'll have to needlessly constrict the amount of effort, or volume you do for triceps, and needlessly do too much for biceps, it's a weird way to try to make things work. So I got to say, bice and trice together is totally fine, but absolutely not an necessity or a net benefit. If you're doing it for vibes, God bless you. If you have to screw up the rest of your program to keep an arm day in the mix, consider not doing that. Number two, a lot of people will say that for legs, you need to hire reps to grow. That's a 15 to 20, but for arms, sets of 8 to 12 grow best. That is not from my experience a dependably true thing. What that ends up doing in most cases is constraining people to one very small rep range, where for biceps and triceps are a grade 8 to 12. The reality is that in many cases, sets of 5 to 8 can absolutely 100% grow your biceps and triceps really well. So can sets of 8 to 12? So can sets of 12 all the way up to even 30 repetition. So instead of thinking okay, legs, higher reps, arms, lower reps, think of legs and arms as any number of reps between 5 and 30, and there are two things to say about that. One, try to find which rep range works better for your biceps and triceps in that whole huge range. And two understand that any rep range that works best for a while will eventually get stale and then it's a good idea for you to shift the rep range to something higher or something lower, which unjust variation will promote more growth. Don't constrain yourself to one rep range experiment across the board because for you you might find that on average sets of 15 work better for my biceps. So it's a 10 work better for my triceps, but every now and again when that gets stale I flip the script and do them in reverse. Number three, huge problem is a lot of people are not going for deep stretch nearly enough and they're biceps and triceps. People do cable extensions halfway down, they'll do bicep curls and they don't ever get a deep stretch or they'll just do bicep curls standing up and they don't have any tension in the bottom because gravity doesn't point in that direction. Show them a video of lying dumbbell curls and they say that looks lame, but in reality lying dumbbell curls are probably one of the most brutal and effective ways to train your bicep. Precisely because it stretches your bicep under its most maximum load in relation to gravity at that very deep part of the stretch. For triceps, squat crushers, etc. Yes, you'll have to take some lead off the bar, book going all the way down to a squat pressure to stretch your nose or each shin or even your throat if you have a spotter. Scott, what you once called a throat goat? Yes, what is that mean? A lot of money on that. Oh, like singing? Yes, it's a kind of singing, isn't it? Playing the body trombone? It's getting fluid if you roll. The skin fluid, the meat fluid, the great instruments are as I can tell. In any case, going for a deep stretch, any exercise you use, make sure it's loaded. In most cases, in that deep position and do not rip your soft off, go for that deep painful stretch hold it for a second or two and then go back in. You're going to get more pumps, more soreness, more growth. Downside, you get to flex your ego less than that girl over there by the dumbbells, isn't as impressed because you're not doing the full stack. But guess what? You don't want any part of her life. She's supposed to take stock memes all day long and ask to you if it's a thunder where I like. Okay, like a good Lindsay, you're good. I'm going to be up on my body here, girl. I don't need this any more ally. You know, the underwear, you know, Scott, I kind of screw myself on that one. Do want to see more of that. Huh? Number four, a lot of people who want big arms do not train them frequently enough. You're triceps, you can train in most cases hard two to three times a week. You're biceps, you can train in most cases hard three to four times a week. A lot of people will train the rest of their body and then have a one day in which they'll train arms and yeah, your arms get a little bit of work from chest and a little bit of work from back but it's just teeny teeny enough to maintain them. And then you're really only stimulating your arms robustly once a week. That's crazy. These are small muscles. They do not take one week to recover. Look, if you trash your quads and hamstrings. In my take, yeah, five days to recover two extra days to recover completely. And then you hit it once a week. You'll have great gains. But for arms man, like you can just train them more often and to most people don't. So, if you're building an arm program, make sure it has multiple arm days. But we get least two. Maybe as many as three or four if you can recover. That's the real best way to get as much arms size as you can. And lastly, but not leastly is myth slash mistake number five, which is forgetting that your arm has two parts. The upper arm and the lower arm. Your forearms can contribute massively. To how big your overall arms look. It is a distinct visual difference. For whatever size your upper arm is as big as possible. A bigger lower arm, a bigger forearm will almost always make the overall look better. Scott, can we make a note please? I mean, they had the editor folks put in a visual of Frank Magraath. He has enormous forearms. And when you look at his arms, you're like what the fuck? Maybe we can throw on some leap priest or something like that? Big forearm dudes. Oh, that's a, that's a search I've done before. And why not Jared Fathers well? Bigger forearms contribute massively to arms. So if you want the biggest arms you can, sorry I said that wrong. You want the biggest arms you can have. You should be training forearms diligently. Three to six sets, some kind of forearm curls. There's a bunch of different kinds. Multiple times per week will get you notably bigger forms. One hundred percent. All right. Go download the RPI Parchifay app link in description because we have multiple preset templates that focus on arms is a priority and also take care of the rest of your body. So you can just do them verbatim or change them yourself. It's a fucking sweet app. Give it a shot. And if you want more forearm hypertrophy over the more endurance kind, you're going to need to see and hear something beautiful on your screen. And what's more beautiful than my face except me the everything in this world? And if you want more of my face, I have a separate YouTube channel. It's just called Mike Israto. I talk about artificial intelligence. I talk about morality. I give life advice. I talk about progress. It's a nice upbeat channel. It's a lot of nerd stuff. Worst case scenario. You could hit the mute button. Get to work it out your forums. That's why I watched the channel. That was weird. See you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Anassand's Periodization, and I have five rules for you to follow for your quad training to get the biggest possible legs that you can. These five helpful, hopefully, tips will get your legs bigger, so let's just get to it because you don't have time for videos, you got time to get big legs. First, quadriceps like many other muscles seem to grow best when they are stretched under heavy load, which means that if you're doing depth, squats, hacksquats, leg presses, you want to go deep for a big stretch. Take those squats as far as that range of motion goes until your calves touch your hamstrings or put another way, depth before dishonor. Rule number two, when you're pushing whatever implement be it a regular squat, hacksquat, leg press, pendulum squat, Smith machine squat, I can continue, but I won't. Make sure that you're pushing your weight through your heels as well as your toes. If you're just on your tippy toes, those are 60 squats, they can be effective, but in most cases, you want to produce as much force as possible, recruiting the big, strong, narrowly motor units in your quads to get as jacked as possible, which means force through your heels and through your toes at the same time and even foot dispersion of force. Rule number three is as you descend in squats, Smith machine squats, leg presses, etc. You name it, you want to, in most cases, to have your knees come way over your toes at the bottom. First, in a squat, you sit back and down, but then as soon as you've tilted your hips and broken through, you want to make sure that you sit straight down, letting your knees come forward while your heels stay on the ground or on the platform that you're using. As your quads are involved in that forward knee movement, they are going to be stretched a ton on her load, put into a very mechanically disadventageous position from which they will have to work super hard and thus get tons of growth. And the big benefit is you don't even have to use that much external weight. If you know how to squat properly, a hundred pounds less than you used to squat for reps can zap your quads better than that hundred pounds more ever could. Rule number four is to match the repetition range you use to the exercise type that you're using it. Here's an example of things that work for most people. Definitely feel free to be creative, and if this doesn't work for you, adjust it to your own needs, but here we go. That's a five to ten are probably best for squats, why? Because squats are conducive to lifting really heavy. And also, there are such a whole body movement and involve a lot of your anti-gravity muscles for balance and coordination that they take a ton of metabolic drive and they generate a ton of systemic and cardiovascular fatigue. So if you're doing many more than 10 repetitions a lot of times you're breathing becomes limiting factor and the last several reps just aren't quality and won't stimulate as much muscle gain as if you made the weight heavier and kept the sets to five to ten reps on average. Sure, you could do sets of 12, but you guys know what I mean. If your breathing is what's keeping you back, it's not a great hyper-chive exercise. Great breathing exercise. But we're not here to do cardio where you're going to get been quads. Next, if you're doing hacksquots in most cases, you want to take advantage of the fact that you can go a little bit more high rep because it raises you a bit better. Sure, you can do hacksquots with sets of five to ten, but a lot of times that much knee flexion without any hip help is a bit much of an isolation exercise and it doesn't feel 100% as safe for the quadriceps. You can totally do your hacksquots with sets of five to ten, but I recommend the best rep range for me on average for hacksquots is sets of 10 to 15 reps. 15 and up for me and my personal experience and most of folks I've trained with starts to become again a little bit more cardio and not enough heavy resistance training that actually trains the target muscles. For leg presses, the best range that I found is sets of 10 to 20. Again, you can do sets of five and sets of eight and leg press, but that's a bit heavy that's probably better reserved for squats. Anything above 20 reps is just cardio, but the leg press lets you sit down and braces you in. So there's a wide range through which you could use it or cycling somewhat with a hacksquot, but also giving you that 50 to 20 rep range to play with reveriation. Lastly, the term heavy leg extensions makes almost no sense to me. Why would you do something heavy in a position in which your body limits you from using heavy load and even trying very hard? Your quads activate better when you're heel and foot have something to press against, then just extending your knee against resistance. Heavy leg extensions are just not the best use of either heavy or leg extensions. You want to go heavy to squats, but if you wanted leg extensions, there are excellent exercises that you can do for variation in the higher rep ranges. You can do leg extensions for 10 or more reps, but the real money is 15 or even 20 to 30 reps. In leg extension sets, especially if you drop sets, supersets, my rep match reps, all of that stuff fries you out. Thus, you have a whole spectrum of which exercises to use more often when you're going heavier, which ones for intermediate loading, in which ones for higher reps, thus you can match the exercise to the loading and vice versa and get the most out of the movements as far as effectiveness and as far as safety. Lastly, if you're really serious about quad training and you want to take your quad training to the next level, buy yourself some weight lifting shoes. They don't have to be super expensive, but any weight lifting shoe that's literally in a sport of weight lifting, it's not like I'm saying, oh, a lifting shoe for lifting weights. It's a weight lifting one word shoe. If you google that, it's the shoes with the heel that rises as it goes. Those shoes are going to just completely upgrade your quad training to the next level. They allow an unbelievable amount of even support so that pushing through your toes and your heels is super super easy to do in almost intuitive. They provide you with a ton of stability and also by raising your heel, they extend your ankle mobility and let you get super deep stretching the quad without involving the lower back and the hips as much and thus making all of your quad training even more targeted for the quad. Folks, that's all the tips for now. Please shoot some questions that you have in the comments below. I'll try to respond to a few. Like, subscribe and we'll see you next time.

One of the funniest things to me is when I get criticism on the internet, all to well received, all taken. Of like, man, you just got to sling this iron bro, stop with these wacky exercises that target the muscle like you look the ridiculous, like, pick up a barbell. They get a sweet. So imagine I already took your advice. Uh, 24 years ago. And it failed me. Thank you. I'm going to be doing good exercises now with good technique. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. And believe it or not, I got a few things right. When I was really early in my training and let's learn from how magical and perfect I was and how I did everything right. Not true. A little while back, I think we put out a video about how some of the stuff I did was not so great. And that definitely wasn't out ideal, but I did get some stuff right. Let's talk about it and see if you can learn from it and maybe do it a little bit yourself. First, progressive overload. I would seek to add five to ten pounds to the bar. Or wrap here in there to dumbbell movements, kind of from day one. I sort of just thought that was the point. It turns out I wasn't wrong. I knew almost nothing, but I knew like you got to add some weight. And I did read Arnold's education of a bodybuilder, not the encyclopedia of a bodybuilding. That's an alladermook. And he did talk about like just like pushing the pace a little bit. And I did that in it worked wonders. I even went so far as to put weights in my backpack. I remember I had straps. The 120 dumbbells on each hand for lunges. But that wasn't enough because I was going over 20 reps on those. And I was taking a backpack and putting 60 pounds in there. So two, 25ers and a 10 plates zipping it. It looks sagged a lot at 60 pounds. That's supposed to be doing that. And then I would lunge with it. And I got a little absurd. I probably could have had better check the heat. But the idea was more and more and that was really good. It also helped me challenge my notions of what I couldn't couldn't achieve. You know, you get to the high 300s in the squat. You're like, am I really going to squat four plates on a side? I don't know. You get to you like in 365 and you stay there forever. But if you go to 375 and late 385 and late 395, D load and you just want to jump away from 405. It can be a thing as long as you push pro actively, not just reactively. Yeah, if you seem to be getting stronger, push up. Try to push up anyway and see if you can match it. A lot of times it's just the mentality that's keeping you behind and not really the physiology. Don't just go by feel, push the pace gently in most weeks by little bit. Another five pounds and another rep and you're going to do really, really well for yourself. Another thing I did early on was I worshipped religiously with sacrifices, mostly animal squirrels and stuff like that. And I'm not necessarily a possum here and there. I worshipped the compound basics. I was drawn spiritually to pull ups, bench presses, shoulder presses, squats, deadlifts, rows and so on. And these movements allowed me to narrow my focus on strength and technique. Once you build a lot of good technical acumen and a lot of strength, you can open your focus to everything else and it comes super easy. But if you don't have a lot of strength and technique, everything else kind of is a little bit difficult. It also allowed me to keep my approach simple and consistent, focusing on these core movements. And to be honest fellas, I have many, many flaws. I have never, ever in a million years had paralysis by analysis. Whereas I like to call it analisess, parahlysis. Analisess, if you spread out anywhere, it's the destruction of the in any case. I never had that straight up I've never had in my entire life. And I didn't even know what the hell I was doing for a long time. And then when I started learning, I didn't have a moment where I was like, oh my god, there's too much stuff. Nope. I stuck to the basics until there was a compelling reason in need for me to incorporate other exercises. And I gently did. And then I was like, oh, that's great. Or maybe I had to work and I went back. Analysis, paralysis often occurs when you see the entire latent space of all of the exercises you could be doing. And you have your group that you're doing. And you're like, oh, I, if I did these, I'd be better. That's how he'd become a champion. You say to yourself. But the reality is if you just stick to the core group, you don't have to worry about what else is on there. You know, Scott, the video guy. He has a core group of guys. He always hangs out with. And they do physical things with each other. One more on the road. He's a cute boy. He is very not frequently like, oh, should I do things with him? The boy will like him. I will like. I say, no, Scott, you got your boys back home. Stick to your boys. And he's like the right. They're sexual, very young. They're men. Uh, everything. A few were old. Silver daddy is their call. Scott, do you think you'll ever be able to quit your addiction to silver daddy's? I mean, that's tough. They just keep cutting better with age. You know, that's tough. And in much the same way. I couldn't make it, fellas. Leave in the little one at it this out. It much the same way. The compound heavy barbell basics and dumbbell basics. They're always good. They don't get better with age. Although you get better with them at them with age because your technique grows in and your strength builds. I'm not telling you just jettison all the other exercises. I'll have something to say about that in a little bit. But if you want to stick to core compound heavy basics, they are never going to do you dirty, especially as a beginner. They're going to build an incredible base of size and strength for you. And then you can later refine it by adding more isolation and machine exercises, which exactly what I did. Another one. Point number three, something I got right is good technique. I did not have it right away right away. I'm going to clearly ask you guys if you saw me lift in high school, which many people did and even my gym teacher was like they could have better technique. And I was 16 and entirely interested in hearing things like that because yellow I'm going to like jam weight. One of the funniest things to me is when I get criticism on the internet all to well received all taken of like man, you just got to sling this iron bro, stop with these wacky exercises a target the muscle like you look the ridiculous like pick up a barbell. Hey guys sweet. So imagine I already took your advice 24 years ago and it failed me. Thank you. I'm going to be doing good exercises now with good technique. Technique is important. I didn't have it in high school. I actually got hurt a few times in high school. I heard my shoulder benching. It sucked. But after my first four years of lifting I got into power lifting and power lifting is a standard. You can be under any impression of what a squat is until and unless you try to do a power lifting meat and then tell you this is a squat and nothing higher than this is a squat. So you're at least going to be sinking below a parallel which is really really good even fire purger. And the bench press, you got to touch your chest and the deadlift, you got to keep you back straight and all this other stuff. And so at some point with these technique tips I picked up from power lifting and transfer them into bodybuilding and that technical stringency was really really helpful. So I didn't do it as exact to begin or at least I had. But pretty much a pretty early intermediate. I already had good technique and it never left and I've just been perfecting it ever since. That kept the gains consistent and kept me safe literally for decades. Whereas before I actually got probably got more hurt in the first three years of lifting that I did in the next 10 because precisely that I was not doing a technique in the I was. Number four thing that I did was consistency. The only time I've been away from the gym from regular gym sessions. From more than a week and a half ever, ever to this day since I started lifting was when I had hernia surgery and I say you're not supposed to lift and even then just after two and a half weeks I was doing light lifting already. And believe it or not, but for the first two years of my lifting actually wasn't in love with it. It was just painful and I hated it but I knew I had to do it for some reason. But I kept showing up and getting more more results and after about three years I was falling in love in the rest of history. And now lifting an iron like spiraling into the sky together and staring at each other like face to face. I've got my hands on her waist or whatever like this were super hard flying. And then later I'm like trying to get my tongue all of it in there and smooch it. She's kind of like, I know this room is romantic romantic. No, no, no tongue. But in any case that's lifting an eye. I didn't always have it there but once I did, he once you fall in love you're good. You'll be consistent. But be consistent anyway. So if you don't love lifting yet stick to it at least two days a week, maybe three. And a few weeks off here in there in a big deal but don't take months off. Focus the gains will come, focus on the gains, focus on the fun. Eventually you'll fall in love and consistency will no longer be an issue but it's a big deal especially early. And lastly, number five, thing I did early that was really good was incorporating some variation. Some people can do the same identical movements for years and years and years and not that an eye. God bless. This can work but in some cases it risks kind of overuse injuries because it's the exact same force vectoring pattern to the exact same tissues the exact same way over time. And also it can risk psychological burnout. There's only so many high bar squats you can do until you're like I never want to see a squat bar ever in my life. And you did a break. So what I did is very similar movements like I talked about but I would change things out every few months when they felt stale. And the way I would change doesn't necessarily go into different exercises which sometimes I did but a lot of times it's subtle changes which are awesome, awesome injectors of variation into your program. Things like stance width, medium stance squats, narrow stance squats, wide stance squats, grip width, pullups with shoulder width, pullups with just on side of shoulder width, wide grip pullups, grip type, overhand grip, neutral grip, underhand grip, repetition ranges, sets of 5 to 10, sets of 10 to 20, sets of 20 to 30, exercise a order, sometimes it's bench first and fly, sometimes it's fly first and bench every few months I changed that. And of course the exercise itself take away leg press, go to hacksquat, so on and so forth. Even though back in the day I didn't ask squatting because I was too big of an 80 to figure out how to do that exercise properly. So at the end of the day that variation kept me progressing, it kept me safer and it kept lifting way more fun for decades to come. So don't just pick your core exercises and be like that's it, 5 moves every day, that's cool. But try after a few months with the same movements, two change the grips, positions, etc. And maybe some exercises, nothing you can change is the cadence of the lift, you can do slow race tricks or quicker race tricks. When you have that intelligent variation every few months instead of every few days or like once a week, you get to best of both worlds of awesome progress, milking out all the games you can from a lift for a time and then switching and having a ton of fun doing some new stuff. Should you try to stick to all of the things I found that worked for me? Yeah, probably because they're quite basic. There was no rocket signs here, but whatever else you find in your lifting that's working well for you, forgiving you better results, or even if it doesn't give you worse results, but it makes the gym more fun lean into that foreshur. Because it might be a strategy to keep you in the game and progressing for years and that it'll pay dividends. Because eventually you'll wake up and you really go, my God, them huge. No, how did this happen? This is bullshit. I've got a scarth. I've got to buy clothes and then even know where the my pants and too small and then the biologists obviously that big enough and you know when my muscles don't push up my cock bulging the majins because I've got a lot of space. People think all maybe he's backing something in there, but when I've got to be quiet, the jeans tighten up and the people can see like oh my God, this is like a micro penis, what's going on? Is it really a woman? Do I look like a woman? Am I talking like a woman? Do you know? I'm Arnold. Stop it. But listen, before you go, yeah, I, what you want to do is look into the description. Because you've got to have parents, you're free, but then what that means is a fancy science word. In Germany, we just call it something simple like Guggenfang Baigur Starrl, which actually means dog. Yeah, and then but it's going to get you jacked and there's electrons in there, whatever. And then if you're too big, it's too fat and you're disgusting, you're too skinny, you look at you, you're puny arms, then you want to do the arpy diet, couldchap, which I didn't know what it does. It tells you what to eat and you need to help. Look at you, pathetic. Anyway, I know what the hell that was I blanked out. I'll see you guys next time. You know, one in five, her 1.5 and 10,000 males have a micro penis mic, so you're not alone. With the, where they bit this is theirs, isn't that this micro is mine? I'm going to be the champion Scott. No, you're not the most micro. That's right. Yeah, no, bullshit. The guys come up to me to like, hey, I'm really sorry. What you're sorry about is because you have a micro penis. No, don't, don't, don't stop the recording. We're keeping this in and I'm like, no, but that, yes, I do, but yours is smaller than mine and they're like, that's not true and then they pull me pants down and they're like, but you don't have a penis. I'm like, bullshit, you just don't have telescopic vision. You need a life microscope to see my shit. Yeah, and I'm working on it. It's getting smaller so at some point it's going to be electron microscopy is the only way you can do it. With the hell that's like the longest rent of Ghana, the Zahnolting 9. Anyway, I'll for real see you guys this next time. Peace home. Are you gonna hit the button?

52 sets per week for the whole body? No. Folks, I'm Dr. Mike. I had to leave forward to say that to make sure that you understood how serious I was about. A ledgering one of my name was. Huh? Who the hell are you? What am I? Don't worry about that now. Just answer some questions and you'll get your doll back and reunited with your family. Stay calm. Tell us your name. My name is Milo Wolff. Soon to be Dr. Mike. Soon to be. How soon? Well, I'm defending in three weeks. Oh, so. Congratulations in advance. I know that's a faux pas to say. Not at the final. Yeah. So yeah. Three weeks later, you DM me, you're like, I didn't failed. Yeah. They did. So you are getting your PhD very shortly. By the time this video will be released, certainly you will have a PhD in a sports science. Don't act like you don't know the answer to that question. It has to be from you. It's interesting. I see. I see. You're like, I don't know. Maybe sports science. I don't know. I never looked into it. Okay. And you are a super expert in the science of range of motion. And we've got many interviews with you over a record in the channel about that, especially in the member section of Yama Fakazus Careous. Deep science member section. But you have recently done a pretty in-depth perusal of the volume literature. It's kind of a demon coming back to hot me from the past. I've been a volume science and joyer for some time. And recently some studies have been coming out. And they're saying something very interesting. And hopefully Scott the video guy did what we were planning to do. The thumbnail for this video that you clicked is some absurd claim of doing some absurd number of sets is going to get you jacked. And if you're not doing it, you're a loser. That part is quick-baked. Though you may in fact be a loser for reasons that we can't account for. It'd be like that sometimes. It would just not be like that sometimes. And tell us what's going on with the training volume. Maybe Milo, if you can start, tell us what the story was for what we thought. Something like maximum recoverable volume. You still look like a few years ago before the Barballo studies. Et cetera, cultureist. Yes. Yes. About five years ago, our best thinking based on the study we had was that around 10 to 20 sets was the best place to maximize our approach to the. We had pretty consistent evidence as summarized in a metinosis by Brad Schoenfeld that's doing more than 10 sets was better from muscle growth than doing fewer than 10 sets per week per month. And from what I remember, they didn't have the density of data above 10 sets to conclude confidently. First of all, any specifics, what happens above 10 sets just that it's better. And also a lot of people were asking Brad about, well, what about what about north of 20? And he was just like, guys, we have like four studies total above 10 sets. Generally, they're all better than the studies below. But one of them is 21 sets and nothing else above that. So we actually don't know how high the volume cap goes. Exactly. But also in terms of those response relationship, you very much saw that each additional set yielded more growth. At least within the confines of what have been studied up to about 15. 20 sets to compare in different studies. Right. Not sets added week to week. Correct. So it couldn't conclude that bad scratch. Even though I was on about the ship for no bad damn good reason. Informed by science, but guided by the spirit, that's how I like to describe myself. My psychiatrist disagrees. So at that point, we knew that like generally, if you look at the studies of their whole, if you were going to design a program for someone and they're like, I want growth. Or at least from 0 to 5, 5 to 10, 10 to 15 plus ish, go higher and you'll probably see more growth for most people. That's correct. Okay. Yes. It was definitely a positive relationship between how much volume you did and how much hyper-to-views all. Importantly, in these studies, sets were taken to fail your typically. So if you're taking a lot of submaximal sets, you may or may not see the same relationship. You may actually get it from higher volumes. So that's a consideration. Right. Most volumes, because submaximal sets both do not cause as much stimulus per set, linearly, and cause significantly less fatigue. So it's kind of like, if you're less fatigued and you need more volume, maybe you can do 25 or 30, etc. sets if they're actually submaximal. Correct. You can recover from more sets given that each set is less fatigued, and thus you can get more total stimulus in times. So that was our understanding about five years ago. Now, since then, there's been multiple new studies looking into higher and higher volumes. With this most recent study by Anderson Colleagues looking at, at the peak volume, 52 sets a week. Well, that's a plug-in deck of cards, maybe. You know what you could do is have a deck of cards with you. And like for each fucking set, you do you lay out a card. Do that would be so demeaning, because you'd be like, oh my god, I have to get through how many sets this week. We can walk away. You're a hypertrophy stripper, and I'll just throw the cards at you. Just make it raise as long as it's demeaning to me. I'm turned on. 52 sets per week for the whole body. No. So in this recent study, they looked exclusively at the quads. They did train hamstrings as well at the end of each session, but that was a total of eight sets per week. So very low volume for the hamstrings. So you could essentially review it as a specialization phase for the quads. We're going all the way up to 52 sets. The average cross-the-hole study for that group was 37 sets. 37 set average. With a standard load. And ended up high. So they started somewhere in the 20s or something like that. 22 to 52, 37 average. How long was the duration of the training in a month? 12 weeks. So over 12 weeks, they went from 20 to 52 adding six sets every two weeks. No d-loads, no d-loads. Full send, full send. They didn't train anything other than their legs. They were free to train their upper body in their own time. And given that they were trained subjects, like they squatted on average, four and a half to parallel three plates. That's dope. It's pretty solid. Yeah, it's a big fucker. So my hunch is they did train upper body, but I don't think they trained it to the same level as they trained their quads. Because if they did that, they just got in the quad program and just do it for everything. Imagine if they actually did that. That would be crazy growth. Interesting study. Or maybe. Or they would be nuts. Okay. And then so what are the subgroupings in that study? Because they didn't just have one condition. So they were the other ones. So to give you a brief overview of the study, they had a wash out phase, or essentially for two weeks, participants were very low volumes to sort of sensitize them all to the same extent to training overall. Then they had a two week from the realization phase, where they gradually added volume to get a 22 sets of quads per week. And from there they had a 12 week intervention period. One group stayed at 22 sets for quads the whole time. So it was 11 sets in one session, 11 sets in one session. Which is like a lot. That's a lot. All sets were taken to RP8 or two reps in reserve, except for the last set, which was taken to failure. So actually as far as like ecological ability, it's pretty close to what you're doing in the real world. Yes. The last set of each exercise or other exercise. Session. Each exercise. So basically exercises. Yep. Squats, lighter extensions, leg presses. Squat, like, post-legs. Interesting. Okay. And then the last set of each one of those they took to failure. Otherwise it's a two RIR. We're going to get this question. So we might as well answer it now. People will say that beginners don't know how to train close to failures. R is meaningless. We don't even have to address that because these aren't beginners. These are three plate squatters. Been training for mostly two to three years plus. And you know, sure. They had a scientific definition of train participant usually. So I got that one correct. And then what is the situation with the confidence that we have? That they really went to reps and reserve based on the literature that you're familiar with. Yep. So we actually can do a systematic review of metanalsis on how accurate or people that estimating reps and reserve. This is with them lab conditions, whether or not these results generalize to the average person and a gym, unclear. However, in lab contexts across the bit about 10 to 20 studies. But hold on, the training situation for the study also occurred on a lab. That's correct. So we didn't say that internal validity is really high. 100%. So in this context, on average, people are off by less than one rep. They underestimate themselves by just shy of a rep. So if they think they can do two more reps on the given set on average, they're a bit closer to three reps. Yeah. That's generally the result. It's not fields and fields and reps and reps away. It's not enough of a difference to really make a practical impact on the results of the study. Sure. So they got these guys going to rep shy of failure. We can probably surprise that they trained pretty fucking hard. Yes. Hard sets. That is some of them to failure. Yeah. Okay. As far as rest time's went. And this is a big limitation of a lot of volume studies. They actually rest for at least two minutes. It's a long fucking study, bro. That's a long study for a graduate student. The clipboard was there for a long time. It was supervised by a student in the conditioning professional. So it's another thing. It's like, oh, if you're not being supervised, maybe you don't train quite as hard. Yes. It was even supervised. Yeah. In fact, even when as far as to control for diet. So they measured dietary intake both at baseline, halfway through a study at the end of the other study, for all groups to look at whether or not they're in differences. And essentially, that was similar. So it's not quite that rare. The three groups were one group that remained at 22 sets of quads per week through the whole 12 weeks. So that would look like doing four sets of squat, four sets of leg press, and three select functions twice a week. Five selects. The second group, story at 22 sets, and then added four sets every two weeks. So that would, they would add it sort of a cross the board. So we would add one set of squat, one set of leg press, one still extension, and kind of go back. Kind of almost at squat, got it. So overall volume is distributed evenly at four sets. The same thing of, because at our PL out of the stuff, we do weekly set manipulations. This would be the rough equivalent of adding two sets to your muscle group, the training per week. So that means that one set per session, yes, in the per week, yes, or week. One set per session per week, because of two sessions. Okay. So that's really like a very mild increase in volume. For sure. So 12 weeks. Meant potatoes. 12 weeks. That's crazy. Right. Oh yeah. So one group stays at 22 sets, one group added four sets every two weeks, and the final group added six sets every two weeks. So the first group stayed at 22. The second group progress from 22 to, I guess, this case that would be 30 something. 30 something in this case. And then the final group went all the way to 52 sets per week for an average of three sets. So they only trained for 50 to six per week for the last two weeks. That is great. Excellent. And so automatically, if you read this study as you should be training with 52 sets a week, you've misunderstood the entire nature of the apparatus. That's some shit we used to get a lot back in my proselytizing for MRV days, where it's like 20 sets a week. You can't record from that. I guess, I don't we do that in my last week and then I deal with. So definitely a difference. And they all, they started all at 22 sets a week, which is like, I'll say high reasonable. Yep. But then they kept going. That is correct. Okay. So when did the first subject die in how much muscle the values in group number three? Well, from fact, the dropout rate was lowest in the highest point group. And the only injury that occurred and resulted in a dropout, so participants stopped the study was actually lowest one group. So as far as people claiming that higher bodies will get injured, that's where we're at the very least we don't have compelling evidence from these studies that that would be. Yeah. Uh, what I'll say is if it's okay, if I paint my own little bullshit into this, uh, you don't have to agree with any I'm saying. Well, if you my interpretation of that is like, yeah, shot up Mike, there is absolutely a theoretical basis for saying, doing too much work over time will get you hurt. But it certainly doesn't present itself in, uh, obvious definite. This is going to hurt you way, especially in an order of weeks, usually in order of months and years of doing too much. And often like, it's not your muscles to get hurt. It's your joints and connective tissues. And if you're managing good technique, et cetera, you may be a little really crazy volumes and actually never get hurt. Uh, will you get great results though? So how do they results go? Well, so they measured hypertrophy of the quads, obviously, so it's the most frequent interest and they also measured one group maximum squad. Interesting. It's very standard exercise science, just a little bit. For the heart, since squad is like, in the exercise science side, yes, absolutely. Per that real quick question, what was their rough relative intensity? Was the sets of how many reps roughly are they doing here? So they varied between sets of six to eight and sets of 10 to 12. Six to eight in the first part of the week, 10 to 12 in the second part of the week. Oh, beautiful design. Good job researchers. Yeah, some variations. I'm like, you know, amazing. Yeah. So hey, what they've found for strengths, broadly speaking, is he adding four sets per two weeks group, so the moderate blind group. And the higher blind group, so a better outcomes in one of Max and the squad than the 22 set group. And these groups on average were doing about like 10 to 15 sets of squats a week, if not a bit more sometimes. So we're talking about relatively high volumes of squatting volume and overall quad volume increasing strength gains, which is relatively novel. Previous studies on volume and strength gains, generally find there is a positive relationship between how many sets you need per week for a lift and your strength gains. Yeah. But it's a bit more moderate. Yeah. And a peak tape is off. Because hypertrophy keeps going for a god knows how long. It's the strength we kind of understand. Like if someone's a case should I do 20 sets of squats per week for strength. And be like, I think I'll be keeping it to 10 to 15 at the most. And that seems that's not just me making. I'm numbers. That's actually evidence based recommendation for strength. I think if someone tells you hey, evidence based 15 or more sets of squatter venture done with per week is a good idea. And like, where, which study are you getting that from? Have hypertrophy different story? Y