. Nice to be out. You're good. Feel a little more. Two more. Two more. Two more. Yeah. Yep. Let's go. Yeah, Johnny. Hell yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's go. Yeah, Johnny. Hell yeah. Yeah. Let's go. Yeah, Johnny. Hell yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Ha. It's shit. Way better. Good stuff. Great thing. Taxquat time. Taxquat time. Taxquat time. 5 sets of hackswats. For me, three top sets heavy. Two downsets slightly lighter. Gonna warm up first. Good technique. We'll talk you guys through how everything is going to be. And then after that, we'll last set of hacks ends with a kind of a drop set of just bodyweight squats on the squatting wedge. We'll clue that in when we have to. Pain time. Now I'm going to kill me today. We're trying. I know. It's like the right to pass to just something. Yeah. See if there's bodybuilders like this dog shit. He's a meatheader. Good set up, Johnny. Deep and strict. Jantel pause. Still warming it up. Nice and easy. Oh yeah. So warming up for the hackswats. Warming up, especially for heavy leg stuff. You've got to take your time. Rushing it is a very, very bad idea. You could get hurt. And honestly, if you take your time warm up, the actual work sets feel better. Your technique feels better if you're stronger. All your weird nagon injuries are going to feel better because they're going to be warmer and more pliable. So you definitely don't want to rush this. The way I warm up for this is actually don't start hacksquadding until there's three plates on there. I know humble brag. But what I do is I warm up just 15 bodyweight squats. And since it's a completely vertical and I already weigh 250. When I get on the hacksquad, some of my weight is co-signed out trigonometry wise. And then three plates on there actually feels like the next jump from 250. So I'm going to get on there now and I'm going to do a set of eight and three plates. I'm going to do a set of four to six at five plates after that. And then I'm going to try doing my six plate and change for like two or three reps. And after that I'll be ready to go. So we're going to take Johnny through warm-up similarly and then we'll be good to go. Work set. Like this. Let's go. Come on. Nice. Yep. That's it. Let's go halfway. Let's go. Come on. Let's go. Go for it. Let's go. Jive up. There you go. That's it. Come on. Good. Nice. Nice. Good. I'm going to do better. Easy now. Control the double bounce. Nice pause. There it is. Nice. Control. Let's go man. There you go. Yep. You guys will notice I take a little bitty pause. Johnny takes a hefty pause. Jared isn't pausing. He's just going to full range of motion. Why? A pause is not categorically better than just doing full rom in a country. It's a very easy and simple rom in a controlled pace. A pause is an option. It's a variation you can use. It's a smart variation. If you consider yourself a little bit more at risk for injury, give it a circumstance. But a lot of this comes down to personal preference and personal fit. Jared doesn't prefer to pause versus not pause, but he has noticed over the years. That for him in some exercises including this one, pausing actually makes his knee a little bit worse. But if he gently goes through that forearm, his knees feel great. So you don't have to pause. It's just an option. But if you're not pausing, think about pausing and see if it feels better or worse. And then go from there. At least one of us training on today. Joe, my name's Flex Lewis. This is me, Jim. Not yours. I don't care how strong you think you are. You come after my lucky chance. Oh fuck. Oh fuck. Look, I fucking fish. Last set here for me. Benford Johnny, then we're done. I'm going to be doing a set of 13 here. I did 15 with five plates. We're doing a set of 13. And then transition right into a set of 20. I'll be 20 weight squats. Because the muscles are so fatigued. But you're just close to failure. The entire time you do that set of 20. And it is brutal. I'll probably have to rest pass that set. There's no way I'm doing 20 right away. I'm going to have to stand around a bit between reps. Crank them. So I don't know who it held rights my program. It's a stupid idea. Stupid idea. You can fall and go to my house. That's it. We have to think about it. You turn later. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on Mike. You can fall too. Come on. Drive it up. Come on. Huh? Let's go. Come on. Let's go. Push. Come on. I'd say. Drive. Come on Mike. There you go. Two more. Yep. Oh. Come on Mike. Come on. Come on. Come on. Down. Down. Oh. Push on. Fuck yeah Mike. Oh. Oh Mike. Always throwing up. Put soft music to the sky. Oh. Hello. I'm okay. You know what like it was like our TV shows at competitions. Like singing whatever. And like some of them come with own like things like with the use in. And like fucking nailed it. And then you got to go up next with some like shitty song. That's why I feel right now. I'm gonna make it look as hard as possible. They're here. Down slow. Let's go. Down slow. Let it control. Come on. Two left. Control. One more. Let's go Johnny. Let's go. Light touch. Light touch. Don't double bounce. Yeah. Four. Good shit. 13 down. Down. 14. 15. Let's go. Oh yeah. 16. 17. That's slow. Yeah. 18 to more. 19 down. Slow. Pause. Up. Yes. Oh. How's this feeling? Fuck. She's... Christ. Good shit man. Good shit. My shit hurts. And a great way. Yeah. Ask the leg workout. Johnny, what'd you think? Hard. Deficient. Effective. What'd you think? What'd you think? Two really. If you don't count the bodyweight squats. Two are sorry. Yeah. Man, it's shit. What's all I need if it was overlapping like that? For a whole week. So what'd you do to set? Yeah. Dude, thank you so much for coming on the channel. Thank you. Definitely a little bit heavy here. I'll have you again soon. Yeah. Jared. Good man. Excellent man. Actually awesome guys. Yeah. Mr. Shreeve has his own very successful YouTube channel. Where you can do three things. Learn. Be entertained. And observe this man's unbelievable high quality skin. Look, I tried to spot him and I touched the shit. That's like a new born baby skin. Good boy out here is rocking that. Ash canazzy Jew. Fucking sandpaper shit. It's just like just skin tips. Any skin tips from the fellas out there? That's a lean. Right. By the mini man. By the mini man. That's a good one. All day. All day. All right. Good. I'm going to give me some E. Look at you guys next time. It was crazy what the sport. I'm like, I'm like, what is like, there are no rules. Yeah. He's like, make it to the finish line. However you need. I'm like, and I was like, holy shit. That's true. And knowing that and knowing everybody knows that. It's like, get to the finish line. How are we going to get to the finish line? The judges are asking you how much gear they just want to see you look the best. On stage.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. Many bulking, is it a thing or is it total BS? Well, let's find out. What is many bulking? It's like many cutting, but daffron. Many bulking is if you take roughly two to six weeks in a dedicated colorux or plus while training very hard with the anticipation of gaining some combination of muscle, hopefully much of it, and fat, hopefully, Mattaton, but always in everywhere when you're bulking, you should expect some fat gain to come along for the right. Two to six weeks of bulking and usually bulking slash muscle gaining, slash massing, whatever you wanna call it. Usually that is best done for late eight to 16 weeks for some reasons we'll describe shortly. But many bulking isn't total BS because it does have its use. For example, two uses that are quite effective. One is you don't have the time in your schedule to do a long protracted bulk. So do you do a mini bulk instead and then maybe you'll do one later after? It's not like that's all the muscle gain you're gonna have that year. Cause that won't be that much. But just for scheduling reasons, you can't do anymore. A good example of that is like, you have six weeks right now to train hard to meet well, and you have to go on like a three week business triplication combo. I don't know like, I think I'm not gonna muscle gain through that. It's just like a huge cluster fuck. And so I'm gonna bulk for six weeks now. We're gonna maintain through that vacation, come back, do a little mini cut, and then start bulking it up for 12 weeks. So totally fine. Totally fine use case. A very related one is to be clear after a very intense competition prep fat loss diet after show prep. People say, okay, you show prep diets over, you should maintain after, to let your body recover, but hold on a second. You're like 5% body fat, the hell you maintain it. Your body's slowly like dying. It's like the same cool, feed me. And what you wanna do after a show then is do a bulking phase in order to put out actually quite a bit of fat intentionally. Because putting on fat from 5 to 6 to 7 to 8 to 9% body fat as a male and anywhere between 10 and 15% as a female, actually makes you healthier and more anabolic. We could make you more likely to gain muscle if you're fatter. Because when your body is lean enough, it's like, dude, everything you feed me, I'm just gonna store us fat anyway. Because we're dying out here. I'm out of body fat. Forget muscle or you nuts. It's like parts of your bathroom and kitchen at your house or falling apart. And you're like, hey, we got extra money. What do you think? Re-vamp the deck. Your wife's gonna be like, what do you fucking crazy? We'd have fixed the house first. Then maybe we'll build a deck. Same idea, remember your body. When you get lean enough, it values body fat like crazy. Because it's like this is a problem. It's not supposed to be this low. So it's actually good to bulk rapidly after a bodybuilding show. That crazy rapidly. But like, yeah, getting like two pounds a week of tissue. So at least most of those two pounds are some large fraction can be fat. So yeah, you get in plenty of muscle on the rebound. We also gain lots of fat. So that afterwards, that six week period is over. You can take a low break. And then start bulking and actually have it be very, very effective. So why not just bulk that fast and then after six weeks slow it down to normal. Here's the problem. You just trained ultra hard for months and months and months during your fat loss phase. Your training fatigue is very high. It's not ultra high. Because you're deluded for the show, little active rest after the show, but you're still pretty beat up. I mean, show prep beats you up. So afterwards, if you can do about four to six weeks of rebound bulk and rebound mass gaining, you gain, you know, she was like a percent of your body weight every week. That's probably pretty good. And after six weeks, you went from 4% fat to 10% fat or something and it may be less, a lot of it's gonna be body water, something's gonna be muscle. So maybe you got back to 8% fat from 4% fat. In six weeks. And that's like, yeah, that's a lot of fat gain, but that's good, that's what you want. And it's also a plenty of muscle gain. The end of that process though, after that six weeks of bulking, you, that six weeks plus the previous 14 before that, a most of which were spent in high volume, early hard training. And all that training during the diet phase was spent in a deficit where to training beats you up even more than normal. So you're training fatigue. We just like delapidated you're like, dude, now you hear it's my joints don't work. Nothing hurts. Everything hurts. I joints don't work. This is terrible. You're completely gasped out. At that point, you can't keep bulking because bulking number one underlying 100% must have for a good massing diet, good bulking diet, is to be able to be healthy and motivated and strong enough to continue trained for weeks and weeks. And you're no longer in that position. So you have to stop your bulk, take a maintenance period of several weeks or an active rest period who basically hardly trained at all for two weeks, really heal up. And then you can either do a little mini-cut, clean up a little bit and then go bulk or just go right bulk from there. So that's totally fine. But that means you have to have like a four to six week of bulking phase that is in mini-book. And in that situation, it's totally fine. Another situation in which mini-bulking can do really well is if you have a client that you're coaching, who is built up a ton of diet fatigue, I mean, they're just like, they're ravenous and they're ready to eat everything and they're just like totally devoid of energy and everything like that. And let's say they have another fat loss diet that for some events and wedding or whatever, they have six weeks of break. And you could just do maintenance, right? And maintenance absolutely heals diet fatigue in most circumstances. But it heals so at a moderate pace because it's maintenance. But like after six weeks, they have to diet for another 10 weeks to get their leanest effort to go on some cruise vacation that they want and take some pictures and who knows. So you have six weeks. If you need to heal, is much diet fatigue as possible. The best way to do it is actually to do a very mild surplus. An extra 250 calories per day on top of maintenance, is technically a surplus. Very well. But in addition to that, because it's a surplus, there's something absolutely magical. It's not really magical. It's just science. But it's not science and magic, the same thing. I should just go be a elementary school science teacher. For only I was legally allowed within 500 feet of an elementary school. The first place I would go, no wait, not that sounds totally wrong. In my pro officer, if you watch this, I'd just take back everything I said. If you run six weeks in maintenance, you'll heal a good deal of diet fatigue. Let's say you'll heal 70% of the diet fatigue you had. But fucking price that last 30%, starting 30% of diet fatigue, you won't make it that 12-week diet afterwards. By a week eight, you'll be like, I'm done, I can't do this anymore. I'm not sleeping. I'm gonna eat nal my arm off hungry. I have total lethargy, I'm starting to lose muscle. This is terrible, lose your hair, fuck all that. But if for those six weeks, you don't go maintenance. You just go to slight surplus. There's, again, a surplus heals you. In a big way, and it recovers diet fatigue, in a way that maintenance takes much longer to do. So after six weeks of a mild surplus, you may be evenly gained like two pounds of body fat, maybe, maybe, probably less. But you have 100% reduced your diet fatigue. So now that 12-week diet, you have coming up with you, how to do schedule-wise anyway, you're gonna rock right through that. Those two pounds of fat, Jesus, that's like a week and a half fat loss, who cares? You rocked it out, because you bought yourself an extra four weeks of fat loss from eight to 12. But the only one and a half of those is required for burning the fat off that you accumulated. So it's worth. So in those cases, many Balkans, actually, there's something to it. However, downsides of many Balkans. Because of what I don't want you to do is stop watching right now, because we see the way monetization works. If you keep watching, we make more money here. And not only do I collect land-breaking, this is maybe you know, if you watch this channel before, I'm technically speaking my Butler's Go Bible Ambrug Unions, I don't wanna be associated with commerce. It's kinda Iky, I don't like money exchange, I'm too rich, I don't like to touch money or see, and I like make sure somebody else is doing it. But Scott, the video guys, come on in some money lately from all these YouTube videos. He's Scott, what's your car of choice? You're a Jaguar addict, 9-11. He's got like, it's not like a fleet of 9-11s, but he's got like 5-5, you know, what if I'm gonna say the yellow racing stripes one, you know, you don't take that out on a night out with your girl. So he has to have another one, it's just like midnight blue, but then like on a sunny day, you want the red one, this is how we're living. So please continue to watch because you're gonna make us a lot of money, which is awesome. But you get even a slight side benefit. And the side benefit is, don't just be like, hey, okay, fine, this is great. Click mini-bulking, whatever. It works clearly, you're just talking about it for 15 minutes, how it works, it has downside. Just because something works in some context, doesn't mean it works in a universal context, and doesn't mean it's not on average worse than another thing that's even better. Like yes, if you are in a battle against zombies, a pistol works. It's better than not a pistol, but what about some kind of carbine setup with a fucking scope, grenade launcher, and our talk. So what is that equivalent? That is bulking for eight to 16 weeks. What do we get from that that we don't get from many bulking? Couple things. First, an appreciable amount of muscle that you can see on your frame, takes months to gain. And if you've got months, take months, because you want an appreciable amount of muscle, imagine someone's like, how's your foot, diet going like, yeah, man, your foot finishes bulking, like, yo, fuck man, you feel big? No, you don't? No, six, six weeks, the same shit. I think I gained like half a pound of muscle. Oh, oh, it's just slow clap. Not bulking. You want a lot of muscle, so you do it for longer. That being said, there are other very compelling, you did more compelling reasons to do it for longer, in one stretch, because you could say, okay, I'm in a bulk, many of you, fine. How about the calibration required in mass gaining can take a few weeks, such that you don't really get into the groove until like your halfway done with your mini bulk. Getting into a dependable, auto regulated surplus. How do you know when you start blocking that you're eating at a surplus, it actually don't, it's an educated guess, and that can be wrong. You can think, okay, my maintenance calories 3000, so many 3,250 to gain, that's actually a really good buffer for how much to gain. 250 calories is like half a pound a week, protected gain, that's a really, really good rate for many people to gain a lot of muscle and not so much fat. And much farther above and surplus, maybe just leads to a lot more fat gain and just a little bit more muscle gain. But what if you're wrong? What if your actual maintenance calories are 3,200? Now you're at a 50 calorie surplus, the fuck per day, what are you crazy? You're gonna gain weight in like two years, you'll be five pounds bigger or some crazy shit like that, fuck that. So it turns out that you have to measure your weight for two weeks straight, and then you notice on your measurements like, yeah, I'm definitely not in a surplus. That happens to me all the time. I used to think my maintenance was 3,500 calories. I ate at 4,000 calories for weeks, and my weight just dropped, and I was like, what the fuck? And then I realized my maintenance at the time was like, like at 41,50. Oh my God, say I ate like 4,600 calories for months, which was awful by the way, just really sick of food, but it worked. I didn't find out it worked until three, like my four weeks into the process. Can you imagine if I only did many bucks and be like, well, got two weeks left, actual bucking? I did four weeks of the equivalent of like, if you're going out of trip on a plane, it was just four weeks of just taxing on the runway. And then finally, two weeks of actual flying, like what? That's insane. Thought about it, take it to New Year on the World Flight for six weeks. It has actually most of that in airports. That's nonsense. So it takes a while to figure things out. And it's not helped by the fact that if you exit a fat loss phase and begin a bulk, you get this water transition stuff. You gain like 5, 10 pounds in the first three days, just for extra body water, no, fuck yeah, I'm in a surplus, maybe not, you might still be at maintenance. They're just fat loss to maintenance, automatically piles on a bunch of body water. Because that body water takes, and just like a week or maybe two weeks to settle in, you have an inherent, giant fraction of your mini bulk that is a totally like black box opaque process. You don't even know if you're bulky. If you have eight to 16 weeks, you get through those first two or three weeks and then you know you're on track and you point the arrow of gain directly at the target because now you know where to point it and now you know where to point. And then the next 14 weeks of bulking are like beautifully executed with precision. Here's another benefit. Those 14 weeks, you know, three, four, five, six, et cetera. You develop a momentum to bulking. You dial in your daily schedule, weekly schedule of nutrition. You're work out start to really, as they say, body building click. You're getting used to your new leverages. You're getting used to the pumps and the soreness, you're figuring out your volume's really well because all that changes when you go from a fat loss or maintenance and toe ball. Now you're start gaining strength. And because you've been doing the same exercises for weeks and weeks and weeks and weeks, you're getting really grooved in on them. And I don't think they make you stronger but they feel better. They're joints feel better because you're in the right position, your muscles feel better because you're really exposing the muscles. And that kind of momentum and mass gaining is a real thing. So if you're like just getting in the fucking groove, you're like, hell yeah, these workouts are feeling good. I'm getting stronger. I've got my eating figure out. I know what a surplus is. And I have a week left of ballking left. That's so stupid. That's like a party that's just getting fun and that runs like all right. Tracy's growing up in the bathroom. Everyone has to leave. She hates it when she's growing up and she doesn't want anyone around. The fuck is Tracy. I'm here for Sandy's party. Like Tracy's a roommate. You gotta go on. Fuck this. I'm still party. Call the police. Of course, the police come. Be with Patons. Here's a party you idiot throw me in jail. Happens every Monday. But it sucks to leave a party. When it's really fun, don't leave the ballking party until you've had a good time. Like when is it good to leave a party? When just when you first notice, it's like, that as fun as it was. And you're like, the good times are coming back. It's two 30 in the morning, everyone's too tired. Then you leave. That's how you leave a bulk. When like, you know, it starts to be like, I'm getting a little too much fat and my training's kind of stale now now you leave. But that's eight, 12, 16 weeks in a bowl. The shirt is not six. Let me tell you guys about the RP high-perrophy app with over 28 preset programs already in the app. You can choose to make your own. You can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs exactly as they were written by a personal. This app programs everything for you. Exercises weights, sets, reps, frequency, the whole thing. After every single workout, and every single week, the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now you're pretty interested in the app, download the RP high-perrophy app today. You could say okay, fine. But we can rush a fat loss phase by simply losing more per week than normal. If I don't want to lose half a percent per week, I can lose one or even 1.25 percent per week in a mini cut. And get the same tissue loss in a few weeks, six weeks, that I would get in maybe nine weeks with a conventional fat loss phase. And I don't have to lose muscle. And they know what that's totally true. If you can survive it, it totally works. The problem is it doesn't work in reverse for muscle gaining, for bulking. There's a speed at which you can gain muscle. And if you take the surplus and multiply it by two, the muscle you gain per unit of time, doesn't multiply it by two. It multiplies by 1.25 or so. And guess where the remainder comes from? Extra fat, a ton of extra fat. So if you say, okay, look, I'm not going to bulk for six weeks at a slow pace. I'm going to bulk for six weeks at a fast pace. And thus, whatever it takes you idiots, 16 weeks to gain, your boy is going to gain it in six. It is actually totally possible. But the it is tissue. And the fraction of that tissue that's muscle is way lower if you try to gain it in six weeks, then if you try to gain it in 16, because muscle is slow to pile on. And it works, but it just takes time. So if you construct a bunch of tissue with a huge calorie surplus in six weeks, most of that tissue is going to be fat. And then like, you're going to be like, hey, I got their fast in the new idiots. And they're like, yes, you are successfully fat or really quick. You're like, yeah, but wait, wait, move's wait, whatever. Whatever. Whatever you have to tell yourself is you cry yourself, just leave it like grabbing your own newly fat titties. Woo, fat titties. My titties are lean right now that didn't feel good. I want that tits, God damn it. In any case, if you don't want giant, that man titties don't rush, right? 0.25% to 0.5% of your body weight per week is the golden zone of muscle gain. So you feel like fuck it, I'll just gain it per cent every week unless it's post show. And you're intentionally trying to get fat or don't do it. Don't rush, and there's a mini ball because of bad idea. And to be completely honest folks, where does mini ball can get most of its, not adherence, but interest from. And I'll tell you straight up, and this is not politically correct, but it's just true. I have a whole channel called, this is not politically correct, but it's just true. Most of the people interested in mini ballics are just fat-phobic, with the very normally afraid of gaining body fat. And they would be better served with the psychological calm and lessons learned and toughness that an eight to 16 week muscle gain phase would have, but it just gained at 0.25% per week. I mean, yeah, it might mean that after 16 weeks, you've only gained like six to eight pounds. And like four of those are muscle, and three to four of them, two to four pounds of fat. Let's say it's three pounds of fat that you gained. Did you do a three week mini cut, and all that fat is gone? It's all of your worrying about I'm gonna get super fat after three weeks of mini cutting exactly after your bulk ends, your back to the same body fat except now you have a net, whatever, four pounds were muscle than you did. And while you're gaining it, one quarter of a percent of your body weight per week, during that bulk, there's not a time in which your friends are like, dude, no offense, bro, we even friends for a long time, but like, you're fat. It's disgusting. I don't wanna be out in public with you anymore, it's embarrassing. This is not gonna happen, because it's so subtle only you can tell. But for the fat phobic folks, it's always only they can tell. And I feel that, it sucks. So if you're fat phobic, I would recommend still gain for longer, but just gain only at a quarter of a percent. You will find that it's quite pleasant. Everything's harmonious and smooth, and there's no reason to freak out. Because freaking out and doing many bucks and taking away your ability to get really jacked over time with full eight to 16 week long, mask any phases. Doing that is, as I'm a Schwarzenegger with no doubt say, bullshit, but get out of here and go bulk for real, raise the bulk for years and end, nine. See you guys next time.

If I'm stuck to my ear for NSW, I have a question for you. Hopefully you can let me answer. I let me answer your good. Start out on off-grade. Don't edit this, Scott. I want all the mistakes in. Help me answer a question. Should you be rounding your lower back when you're trying to train for results, getting stronger, getting more muscular, but minimizing injury risk? Good question. And you will hear two opposing sides that are quite vociferous in this debate, so it's me. Also, I want to introduce you to some technical nomenclature in the field so that you know how to save these things properly and real life. I'm going to teach you a few words in Jewish. That's the right, not Hebrew, Jewish. And you may call it lower back, but actually it's pronounced just like something you would do to a pie. Oh, there's a lot of broads I could go down there, I wouldn't end well. Bake. Oh, my bake! That's how you say it. So when I say bake later, I'm not saying bake a cake. I'm saying the lower part of your body, which gets height. What is height? It's hurt. It's when you're injured. Yes, there's a whole world here. You may not know if you ever, unfortunately, travel to Brooklyn, then you can learn to, you already know how speak the native tongue. And you'll be welcome to the open arms. We're just going to get canceled sooner or later here for this shit. In any case, first sight. And these people really do think they're correct, which is totally cool. Maybe they are. Are the folks that think that rounding your back puts it into an anatomically very high risk position for posterior discarneation? And as you can remember from basic spine anatomy, the intro for people who are disks, sit here and the nerves of the spine sit meh and the herneation back meh, that way really can hurt your bake. You're doing deadlifts and you're round open, you're like, oh, eee! And you feel some shooting pain down the leg. Oh, my legs, I'll never walk again. I know it. Just remember, 15th rule of Judaism as you always knew shit was going to go downhill for you. It was just a matter of time. And if you worried enough, you were going to instantiate it into real life. So that's an interesting opinion and may have some validity to it. And thus, because a rounding of the back can multiply the probability of a posterior in the symptomatic discarneation, causing pain, dysfunction, et cetera, then this school of thought will say that you should stay in neutral spine or even a forced, lordotic arch spine so that, like, look, lordosis, arguably can cause anterior discarneations with the disks shoot forward. But the anterior collateral ligament that sits in front of your spine, like you can probably shoot a gun at it and nothing would happen to it. Your disk sure is fuck won't poke through that. Even if they did, it's all just guts in there. There's no nerve roots or anything. There's no loss of function. And a bunch of people have, like, you right now, probably have a ton of herniations. You just don't know about, because the vast majority of discarneations are actually asymptomatic. So that kind of gels really well with, like, look, just arch your back, minimize this the probability that you're getting a posterior herniation and thus a symptomatic one, though not all posterior are certain, herniations by long-shatter symptomatic. But if you get some anterior ones who give the shit so neutral spine or even better yet lordosis, that's what these people will say. And let's say, because it's especially true with heavy, axially loaded lifting, loading through the spine, like squats and deadlift. Like when she gets heavy, you better fuck him like, just get some fucking, get some bracing going and arch up. Very well. There is another side, an opposite side, a dock side. This is like where wolves are supposed vampires, except was it's got team Edward and team Jacob? Is that his name? David, David. Team Edward, you do that, you're the, the, gee word. Yeah, side number two, the, you know, the first side is the vampire side will call this the where wolf side. The where wolf side thinks this, that, oh, he's got, can we get a thumbnail where it's like vampire versus where wolf? And that's like the browning one has the arched back one has the round of back and amicase. I'm just gonna shut the fuck up. They think that you build resiliency and strength through exposure to all positions that the human body has to offer in their school of thought. There's no such thing as the wrong position. And they don't believe that the analysis of the evidence or theory reveals that there's anything really compelling about rounding the back from an injury probability of perspective. Like yeah, whatever, like round, arch, neutral, like it's all kind of same same. And there's no compelling reason for us to think that one of those positions specifically the rounded one is somehow theoretically or empirically just more likely to cause injury. And they will also say very many times that you should be rounding your back regularly and training. And that will make you stronger in that background or position. Decreasing your probability of getting hurt in that position. Interesting stuff, definitely compelling stuff. So what is my assessment? I sound like fucking Derek Moore plates more dates, but does he have a last name? Does anyone know what his last name is? Just kind of wanted to find out where he shops. And just sort of like just be in the peanut butter and jelly aisle when he goes through and be like, hey, Derek, what are you doing? Why watch your videos? I bet he's tall. I'm still straight. I'm still straight. I'm still straight. In any case, my analysis is as follows. I think that from a base perspective from a prema-facy argument, knowing not a ton of the intricacies, it does seem compelling that probabilistically, a posterior herniation, which is via pretty straightforward by mechanics more likely if you round your back, is probably more likely to be symptomatic and deleterious than an anterior herniation if you sort of overart your back. And probably herniation potential is lowest when you spread the forces evenly through every tuber disks. So neutral spine is likely best. So in really high load exercises, limit five RMR lower or five RMR heavier squats, deadlifts, things like that, I think neutral spine is probably a good default position knowing what the current state of the evidence and conjecture is on hip hinge movements where your targets are the hamstrings, good mornings, stiff leg and bed lifts, et cetera. I actually think it's a good idea to go actively into Lardosis. Arch, your entire back, especially a lower back as much as possible, because that pre stretches the hamstrings and allows you to have to move through a smaller range of motion in order to get an awesome stretch and the pump of your life and a huge hypertrophic yield. So it's not like a safety thing in that particular example. It's more of, we actually arch our back in order to expose the muscle more. Like one of the reasons you retract your shoulder blades for bench pressing as a bodybuilder is to keep your shoulder joint safe, but that's again, that sole compelling what you really are doing is you're pre stretching your pecs. And so same idea here with rounding, we're starting arching to lower back. Training for muscle growth is never going to be the same. And in addition to that, however, so so far, I sound like one of the camp number one type of guys or straight backs only. Straighten up the racks, barines, a bunch of soldiers standing in neutral spine how they should be God dammit. This is America. Right, do subscribe to a very large part of that second school of thought. I do think you should be training your back through positions of full flexion. And because I think just by a small margin, the face value probability of getting quite hurt is a little bit higher in a rounded back situation than it is, and a neutral spine are really arched. Lord God, explain, I think you should at least start training your lower back through spinal flexion and extension dynamically training your spine with lighter work. That's of 10 to 30 repetitions. 30 is a lot, but like at 10 to 20 for sure, even 20 to 30 if that's your gym, in exercises like the barbell flexion row. Cable flexion row, Jefferson curl. That's like where you do the world's ugliest ed lift and just exclusively question mark, style round your back. If you do those movements and you build up your strength over time, you're lower back. First of all, get super, super muscular, super, super strong, and can develop a ton of stability in a variety of movements. So that not only are you practicing very stable, neutral spine, safe lifting, when it's ultra heavy squats in deadlift, but all of a shift a little bit at least outside of that best range, hypothetically best range, when we are under very heavy loads or going close to failure. And then because you've been training your back through dynamic range of motion, actually loaded flexion and extension, through flexion rows, barbell flexion rows, cable flexion rows, all kinds of flexion rows. Hey you, what's your name? Nope, it's flexion row now. Jefferson curls, et cetera. Once we are able to do that, and we've built up a lot of movement competence, strength, and muscularity, if we just so happen to round over in the deadlift, we're not like instantly shooting a fucking inner-repeat bodisc, out of our ass, and being permanently wheelchair bound for forever, we are much more likely to withstand that and not get hurt. Because yes, there are probably more and less injurious ways to lift weights, but also at least in a higher rep setting, working up over time to get heavier, you should be building resiliency in the very likely chance that you get off center and off balance a little bit in some of your lifts. You don't wanna silo yourself and to be in like, okay, if my technique is perfect, everything's great. If my technique goes a little bit, disaster strikes. You wanna have some buffers on, and making your strong, making your lower back, your spinal directors, big and strong, and gnarly, prevents injury, and the probability of getting some nasty spinal injury while doing, that's a 10 to 20 to 30. In the fucking flexion row, is so goddamn tiny, and if it happens, man, you kinda, you're saying, you were gonna hurt your back one way or another. And on that incredibly positive note, I leave you with my best wishes, best of luck. Go out there and get a strong back for the love of God. And as Jordan Peterson says, stand up straight. So why wouldn't you stand up straight? I'm a Terrell-Jumpier, so I see everything.

The Nines and slow on the concentric, slow on these concentric, slow on the first low. Up, up, up, up, up. You've got a good job. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Autostampspearization. Jared, father here for Autostampspearization as well. And we're here with our friend Cameron. And he, uh, is this kind of, he was a backstory. He's Jared's friend. He made a terrible mistake. He started lifting weights at some point. And I like he, he's now he's on the channel about to do legs. And luckily, well, not luckily for him. He just Jewish. So, you would have, you would have a family, you would have a family. But now that that's where that is. You nervous yet? Yeah, it's like a, a make a wish, but I'm not terminally ill. Oh, okay. You will be soon. Let's start leg training. What's your working weight? Run 2.25. Not a lot of cues. Yeah, yeah, yeah. 1.35 on. Yeah. I'm just getting, that's perfect. I got another say. Hopefully, I can make myself useful. I just stand around to be like, yep. Good job. 2.25 is top. 2.25 top. So when your week is shit, you can do higher SN movements first. Kind of a damn. What a piece of shit. What a ruthless asshole. Why would you say some show? Because we're all friends here. Did you got to be mean to your friends? That's where a whole back door. That's the motivation. Mike, people have been watching the channel for a while. They know we're mean to our friends. No, by the fucker, you mean the our friends to anxiety poops this morning. So, solid. Hey, listen, just do your best. No pressure at all. You got to honestly. Fake the RIR if you have to. Like I do. Oh yeah. First thing we're going to do today is do high bar. Strict weightlifting style squats with a wedge. Probably throw a pause in there as well. This is such a five to ten really more like seven to ten reps. That nasty high tension stimulus at the beginning. We're going to be watching our technique. Cameron's going to be staying super upright. He's going to be telling us he's going to fall really far forward. Wild his heels are pressed into the wedge. It is going to be a slow eccentric control. We're going to get everything done right. This is going to be heavy. I just have these against a bodybuilding but with good technique. Only. Speed. Look up. Oh shit. All right. You want to size butter? Good. Good. Good job. Good job. Good job. Cameron is actually a competitive plastic physique athlete. We'll call it athlete. We'll call it a sport. I coach some few last show. He's currently massing on his own and working on his weak points. Legs are one of those. This is why he wanted to film the leg session with us. So he's going through this current massing phase. I believe he's in this last massing mess of cycle. The end of the massing block before he goes into maintenance and in a show prep. It's been about a year and a half since he's been to the last time. So we're going to see what we can do today. Really cap off this last massing phase for him. And then hopefully he and him are prepping again together soon. And we can display the, I think it was legs and back where what he used to work on. So display that on stage here in the next year or so. Yep. All day. He's going to be just. He'll suit us one more. We're right here. Stand up Cameron. Stand up. Come on. Beautiful. Beautiful. Good stuff. Hit it again. I'm just kidding. Oh, wait, wait, wait, wait. I'm just squat. You want to be funny, you hear it? Jesus. It's like the same, the same diameter is my bottom like. Yeah. Bigger even. Yeah. All right, folks, 2.25 for sets of well, technically eight to 10, eight to nine. And now one down set at 185 pounds. Hopefully we're getting over 10. That's kind of the goal here. We'll see what cameras capable of. We're going to push him, but push him within the context of good technique only. And then after that, we are going to go do leg extensions. Super set in two walking lunges for wards. He knew that on the horizon. Oh, that's pain. That's pain. It's, it's going to be here real soon. One in a time. Big chest, man. And the one. Look off. Yes. When you get in trouble, look up. Save it. You told that. Look up. Yes. One more, one more, one more, one more, one more. Okay, keep right. Take the time. Right. One more. Oh, you all fucking day. Look up. Yes. Good shit. Wow. Yeah. All right. Okay. All right. All right. All right. Oh, God. Oh, God. Oh, have me come have me come. Holy fucking shit. Let me all my seconds. Yeah, get up. Okay, let. Hold on. I'm going to take your extensions as soon as he hits real close to failure on these. Probably failure. We're going to usher him out and he's going to do walking lunges with a completely upright upper body to make sure the focus is really on the quads. It's going to be very painful. Probably sets a 10 to 20 on both. Not ever sure about that second exercise though. It could be a set of three of any falls over. But multiple sets here. The goal would lie your extensions as quality. So whenever banging him away, it's a slow eccentric lowering. Pause at the bottom every rep. That pause is awful because with the prime leg extension it stretches you the most at the bottom. To painful pause. Up at the top. No pause at the top. But just a quick loop into that top position in order to register that you did hit full range of motion. For full muscular development, et cetera. But we're really milking that end range. And you guys know much of studies came out. The show the end range is better. The top range will be prime leg extension machine has a setting in which you can bias the end range. Amazing. Amazing for us to be a rise about. Very terrible for Cameron who is going to die soon. Pray for Cameron. Hashtag, pay for Cameron. Let's do it. Up. Oh God. That's it. Good job. Rest. Very good. Very good. Good. Good. Good. Cameron. Don't let me talk to you because we tried doing these on camera. That's true. That was fun. Breathe. Breathe. You're not a serious person. She's just crying. You're not a nice job. Stop telling people they're pathetic while they're lying in front of you. Come foot. Stay upright. Stay upright. Stay up right. Come on. Come on. Up. One more. Okay. Just kidding. This is probably really clean in front of the bathroom too. Which is a bad dimension. Oh, that's a bad spot. The first few drips that didn't make it to the toilet are probably right there. At least four more. One good accelerated. Salarina. You got me. That beautiful. Accelerate. Yeah. One more. Don't get away. Not going. Salarate. Slow. Slow. Wait. Wait. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. One time, baby. Up right. One. Up right. Two slightly narrower steps there. You go. Three. Up right. Come on. Four. Two left. You got this. Up. The knife. And slow on the concentric. Slow on the concentric. Slow. Up. Up. You done. Good job. Good job, man. My nervous system is like fuck you. Fuck you. Shut up. I'm done. I'm done. I'm on. My heart's like 180. Holy. That's bad. Right. I'm going to die. Haven't never gone to Disneyland. No. That's a good job. Yeah, yeah. Thank you. Very, of course. We're not done yet, but the final success, boy. Oh. Oh. You get one ready. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh, sure. Oh. Oh. Oh. Take a time. Oh, you see. We done broke the disblock. Cam has done four sets of squats. Three sets of longer extension, a lot of superset. He can't really walk so well. So we're going to plug him in on the seated leg curl machine and he's going to do two Myorepsets. Basically like each one with probably two pauses. That's a total of like six mini sets, which equates to roughly about four sets of straight sets stimulus. And then that's it. No. When you do your quads this hard first, but workout, hamstrings are usually going to have to be something you deep prioritize. So because you don't have the systemic energy to get it done and he's pretty dead. But he's still going to get a good stimulus. Definitely enough to progress his hammer a little bit. Next time he trains, he might have more ham emphasis at the beginning. Quads at the Enkind of situation. And yeah, yeah, that's that. Let's look for a really good technique. Control these centrics for range of motion. Let's get it poppin. Great one. Last one. Oh. Yes. Rest. Two. Begin. Here it is. So. One bonus one. Go in your done. Ah, shit. That's it. Good. Very good. Very good. One more set left. Oh, fuck. That was a way. Last. Three. Three. Rest. Breathe almost done. Two. And you're done. Yes. One more. Just like that. Yes. Beautiful. Oh. Oh. Yeah. That's it. That's it. Just you can. Damn. That's that mindfulness. Toast. Jared, would you think cameras work out? Intense. I think it's a volume and a lot of people direct. What did you think, Cam? It was what I expected. It's the hardest and ever channel legs. All right. Yeah, of course. Dude, a huge pleasure having you. Best of luck on your male physique aspirations. Your legs are pretty big. Legs can always be bigger. And that's really the point that this whole episode. Your legs can always be bigger. Until you, the entirety of the universe is filled up by your legs. You just go in the universe, make another one. Little universe is inside of your leg. It's not cool. It's like a delicate. That's what we're in the leg right now. Oh, we're in the leg right now. Catch your guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike Israel here for Renaissance Periodization. Can you outwork a bad diet? Can you still lose tons of fat and get in the shape of your life while eating anything you want as long as you exercise enough? Well, it turns out that's probably bullshit as Arnold Schwarzenegger, bless his heart, would absolutely know out say, let's take a look at why that's BS. First, Herman Ponsor is a G kind of like an exercise anthropologist to some extent. He studied a whole lot of literature. I actually went all around the world, sitting various cultures and their expenditure rates versus their food intake rates. And he found something really, really trippy that humans all around the world have a pretty narrow band of how much physical activity they do. And if you try to take humans and make them do much more physical activity than they used to, for an extended period of time, the amount of energy they have available for daily tasks shrinks so much that all they want to do is sit there and nap and eat and be lazy. So that as you try to do more and more work, let's say you're burning a 3000 calories on average every day and you want to get up to burning 4,000, maybe 4,000 is possible, maybe it's even sustainable. What about 5,000? 5,000 is sustainable, will be almost impossible. 5,500 will be something you can do for like a few days in a row and just like sleep for 12 hours straight and you're basically it's impossible to get you to do much of anything that entire time. So because our physical activity realistically is really hard to push into extreme amounts, it's really unlikely that if your diet is awful and full of absolutely insanely high calorie junk food that you can actually outwork that bad of a diet because here's the big fundamental reason. This is BS training a ton consistently is hard as fuck and because of Herman Ponser's sort of asymptote there, as you get closer to super high levels of exercise that gets harder and harder to sustain, that's a problem. But what about eating a lot of food? That's easiest. How well you guys ever seen that show my 600 pound life? Eating 9,000 calories a day if you just do fast food is tough. But it's not bad tough and for most of us we could probably crank 4,000 calories a day. No problem fast food and junk food and all that super tasty stuff. It adds up so fucking quick the probability that you will out-actressize it is vanishingly small which is also another reason why you almost never see it happen. So here's an example. I put in 30-year-old male 180 centimeter, 80 kilogram, very average figure for a fine gentleman. Sure, it's how not me and any of those things, male, maybe the jury's still out. So how much running at 7 miles per hour? What does it get decent pace? Does it take to burn off the calories of the following foods? 1 apple 7 minutes of jogging. Pretty decent brisk jogging. And that's okay. That's okay. You have 2 extra apples, you run 14 minutes that day, no problem. Hey, looks like you can't out-trained a bad diet. It's not bullshit after all. But hold on. My fuckers aren't getting fat eating apples out here. Do you feel me? 1 large cookie. 15 minutes. Okay, it's 7 miles per hour. That's annoying. How many of you ever have one cookie at a time? Exactly. You'll have 3 of them shit. For sure. 3 cookies. That's 45 minutes of jogging. Bro, every day, are you fucking kidding me? On top of what you normally do? Uh, hold on. This is getting weird. 1 slice of pizza. 1 slice of normal pizza. This is like a reference value slice. You ever can guys ever see the government food indices? That's not a very big piece of pizza. Minimal Minimal toppings, which again, no one ever orders. You would have to be insane to do that. They made toppings for reason. God bless America. 20 minutes at 7 miles per hour to burn that slice off. When the last time you had one slice of pizza, I don't remember. I've ever had one slice of pizza. Bro, it's at least 3. 3 slices of pizza is one hour of running on the treadmill. You guys have been to obscure school parties, office parties, maybe childhood birthday parties. If you had childhood friends, I didn't. And your parents let you leave the house to interact with others, which I also couldn't. You've seen people eat pizza. Little kids will have 3 or 4 slices. Adults will have 5 or 6 slices and an office party just chatting with friends in the course of 20 minutes. And they just bought themselves, oh my god, 6 slices by the way is considered a whole pizza, which is nonsense in my opinion. And a whole pizza, again, minimal toppings, just 6 slices of the smallest fucking pizza you can pretty much get, is 2 hours of running. So when people say, remember, here's the myth. The myth isn't or the bullshit part isn't. This video isn't titled, you can outwork a diet. Yeah, you can outwork a bunch of diet. You can outwork a bad diet. A bad diet means Twinkies, ho-ho's, potato chips, pizza, burgers, all that shit adds up. That's a whole fuckload of running. We can easily see a situation in which the surplus calories that a person generates every day, necessitate that they need to run. They think you can do this in a bunch of different kind of exercise. Although jogging is one of the most efficient ways, time-wise, to burn a ton of calories, you can easily see a situation which a person needs 2 to 4 hours of jogging per day to sustain a terrible diet. Also, when you eat a terrible diet, do you exactly feel like running 2 to 3? Hell no, you feel like sitting around in any more shit. Or at least just sitting around. 2 to 4 hours is an insane amount to run. Elite ultra runners run that much. Dashers, hell isn't me. Yes, sure, as hell isn't most people. Now, yes, you can out eat a not so great diet if a couple of things apply to you. Your output is consistent. You're already involved in endurance sport. You're a triathlete, for example, you swim by grunt and even lift weights, and you do that almost every day that we can drop crap load of exercise. It's something you do. You can have a diet that isn't the worst diet in the world. But it sure has hell, has a couple extra cookies and pizza slices in there. You guys have a hung out with endurance runners. That's exactly how they eat. Mostly healthy and then a simple shit here and there. And I was like, oh, gee, it was two Snickers bars. That's crazy. And they're like, yeah, I ran like 18 fucking miles today. So, still under by a thousand calories. I'm tired of eating. So, I need more Snickers bars. Like there, they make sense. But again, when most people say, yeah, I'm just going to work harder. I don't want to control my diet. Like, so when you become an ultra runner, like, what's that? Like, that's some shit. So tough that you'll never real if I can do it. So most people just can't do this kind of thing. Here's another group of people that can out, out train a bad diet. Again, suspect because a lot of these people, they just don't have a very high appetite. I know a lot of folks, especially back in school when I was in undergrad, I first time sort of living outside of the house other than summer camp, which my therapist says it's not a good idea to discuss at all. Went to college and I made friends with a bunch of people and some of them were very small people and very skinny people. And I was fascinated. I was just like, I have to stay that small and skinny. And I realized like, they wake up in the morning. They're not hungry. They go to class for eight hours. And then they get kind of woozy. So they buy like a protein bar and the eating and they're like, oh, that's great. And they have a monster. And that takes them to most of the rest of the day and they get quote unquote according to them. All truss super hungry at 8 p.m. They go and have tons of sushi, which is two and a half rolls. They get super full and they go to sleep. That's like a thousand calories. And I'm like, how the fuck do you maintain how do you not go nuts and try to eat your own hand on that? And I don't know. And you watch the meat and then the moment you go to sushi so good, then I'll even put it on social media. hashtag I love sushi. I can eat an infinity of these rolls eight, three. Get out of here. All right. If you're that person, is that exactly challenging for you to out of your, or out train your diet, so you don't eat that much food, the people mostly that are interested in this, not controlling their diet, but doing more exercise, they have an overeating problem. They're almost never going to be able to out-act exercise because their problem is really, really big. Another one is some people just tend to really healthy on average. Some people just like feed healthy. I mostly do. I have a few friends that like when they're like on vacation with my wife and I, they'll be like, oh, here we go. Here's time for fun foods and they'll eat like a giant salad. I'm like, oh, this is it. You could eat anything you wanted and in a salad, you chose a salad. They're like, oh, yeah, we'll get crazy tonight. They'll eat like some fruits and some like frozen yogurt. I'm put the fuck where I cheat. I'm diving pizza into my shit. I don't need anything. You even go through my mouth. Some people just eat super healthy. Then they, you know, you'll talk to them and they'll be really lean in muscular and they say, hey, do you watch what you eat? And they're like, no, not really. I just eat whatever I want. And I go, my god, like, but you train a lot that I train all the time. And I see they're out eating. They're out training. They're bad diet. It's a habit to diet. It's not that bad. It's easy to assume that everyone's diet would be just like yours if you were in charge. But a lot of people eat weight healthier than you. So if you think, oh, that's okay. I train my diet. You could out train their diet, but you wouldn't want to eat their diet because you'd get more a shit on it. You would quit eating, you know, a couple of days. Lastly, you're just lucky as hell. Your metabolism is a shit. Some combination of appetite regulation and body heat, not exercise activity thermogenesis. You can just tend to move a lot. You're the kind of person that just like, where output is really high, it takes not that high. And when you just don't track anything, you're in great shape. And you say, oh, I just work out a lot. It works for me. For a lot of people, it doesn't. And remember, again, your diet's probably not that bad. For most of us who do not fit into these very tiny categories, this idea of out training, your shitty diet is highly suboptimal. If you want to lose maximum amount of fat and keep it off, your best serve in doing this establishing a decent, but not unsustainable, level of physical activity, moderate, maybe moderate to high. Lots of good weight training, some good cardio, good daily physical activity, 10,000 to 14,000 steps, something like that. And you hold that pattern. And you take your dog shit diet. And you take the fucking junk food mostly outer holy out. You reduce some of the fats in a little bit of the carbs. And now your diet has generated a big deficit for you. Moderate activity, diet used to be shit. We don't want to bump our activity here. We won't sustain it. So we stay here and we take our diet down here on solid, not insane daily deficit over the course of multiple weeks. Ta-da. You're super lean. That's the best way to do it. That's the best way to accomplish results. Not saying, hey, I don't even want to look at my diet. I don't give a fuck what my diet is. I'm just going to do exercise really hard. In most cases, it's not going to work because in most cases, it's bullshit. See you guys next time.

Hey, folks, Dr. Mike here for Assault's Pair Disation. And today's BS topic is food pairing. What the, you want us to eat all the foods by themselves? Now, Mike, what is this? Actually, the opposite. So food pairing is very common in religious circles. For example, if you are Muslim and you eat according to the rules that determine what is Hatham and Hala, then Hala has some things about what you can eat together and what you can't. And some things you can't eat at all. Almost identical, just kidding. Very very frighteningly similar rules to the Jewish religion. Cosher food has all kinds of stuff. You're not supposed to pair one food with your milk, and meats are supposed to pair and not supposed to have in the same time when Christians do lent. There are some food pairings that are not allowed. And you're actually supposed to take a food group and take it away altogether and stuff like that. So it's very common in religious circles, but it actually has been seen in nutrition circles. For example, and this is the tab. This is not a religious video. I just want to point out that food pairing is a thing that exists in another realm that has nothing to do with nutrition, really. If you think about it, here are some things that are actually advocated by people in the nutrition community, not to say qualified nutritionists, actually to say the very opposite. One qualified nutritionists, or people that aren't nutritionists really, it just people that say things, will say things like proteins and carbs, digest, better by themselves than if you pair them. I actually have, I was at a hangout, a picnic, that my parents had with their friends and older folks, and they were in their 60s at the time, and I had a lady sit me down and be like, you know things, yes, you're sort of an expert. I was like, yeah, why not? And she's like, I'm doing this great diet. And now that I know nutrition too, you and I can talk and we know things and I was like, oh, okay, cool with the diet. Like, she's like, well, I know I know now that the enzymatic environment in the stomach and the intestines is so different between digesting proteins and carbs that I have all of my carbs separately in meals and all of my protein separately, social have like some whole grain bread and some fruit in one meal. Not what I would call a meal, that's like, where is the meat at? And then she would have like in a slice of fish or something like that in another meal. And then the next meal would be again, some carbs and the next meal again, some protein. So she was doing that fun conversation because she was like, this is good, yes, and I was like, actually you would be surprised that this is all nonsense. And then they said it slightly more politely, but not by much. I've heard people say don't eat fruits and vegetables in the same meal because there's some kind of interference effect. And something I used to do in fall for is don't eat both high carb and high fat in the same meal. Because you see the carbs, they raise the insolence and the insulin is very bad. And they make you fat fat, but not if you don't eat fat. But if you eat fat with the high carbs, the insulin from the high carbs takes the fat and smashes it into your fat cells and you become fat forever and people make fun of you. Then you have nobody to talk to, but you can eat ice cream and so it's a self-fulfilling prophecy until you die of obesity, 700 pounds, precisely three days after you start. So don't do it. And I used to avoid this as well. Now here's the deal. All those three things I just said, it's all total bullshit. The religious stuff, respect. You do your thing, religious freedom is amazing thing. But if it's not religious, you're going to have to justify it. Because religion justifies things on faith, dope, end of discussion, total respect. Nutrition, people will ask you, is this a religious thing? And they would know, no, no, no, something that we figured out works. Oh, okay. Why? And what follows is usually a descent and timidness because there is no why. Let me prove my point. Proteins and carbs are just better by themselves than together. Almost everyone who tries to do this kind of diet is trying to lose weight. If you are able to digest your food better, you actually take more of the food, pass it through your GI tract, and more of it gets to your body's cells, including the fat cells. If you had a condition whereby you were unable to digest food, very well or at all, untreated celiac disease, if you have lots of gluten, is that thing? I don't know if you guys know anyone with untreated celiac disease, but they usually weigh like 100 pounds. Because all the food that goes in, it goes right back out. It goes mostly undigested. That is a recipe for extreme weight loss and inability to gain weight. So if you claim that a diet enhances the digestion of the foods that you're eating, maybe you're interested in gaining weight, cool. I know bodybuilders that are very concerned when they're putting on a ton of bulk, they're like, I have to make sure my digestion's good, which is a good, legit, a good point, because if you're pooping out all the food, you're eating good God, you'll never gain weight. These people, though, that do these diets, they wanna lose weight, and they're like, my digestion's better. It's like, maybe the opposite of what you want. It's not just a say that you want bad digestion, but if oops, by accident, you poop out half the food you eat, your life just became a lot easier. You're trying to make things harder. Good news for you, it doesn't work. Buy themselves and together, almost all the nutrients you can eat as a human, get digested almost completely either way, 97% efficiency. But for a couple of weird situations where you're allergic to something or something doesn't fit, or you just eat way too much of it, and then your digestion's like, fuck that, I'm passing it all the way through, but for rare circumstances, carbs alone, carbs, plus protein, carbs, protein fat, you're just gonna digest and absorb all that anyway. And there is no upside. But there's a huge downside. And the downside is you're wasting your time destroying your quality of life by disassembling your meals needlessly into different sub-fractions. Like you go to restaurant friends and you're like, oh, I love this chicken risotto. I'm gonna have to get the chicken separately and then the risotto separately. The waiter's like, yeah, okay, all right, that sucks. I guess you're like, yep, that trying to get lean. So you know, proteins and carbs, they don't, they don't, you know? And the waiter's like, yeah, yeah, sure don't. Give me 10 minutes. I'll give you your pathetic plate of everything and separate so you can save something for later. Kind of nonsense is that. Don't eat fruits and veggies in the same meal. Why? Why? Or to quote Christian Bale, why not? There's no, there is no good theoretical reason and absolutely no empirically validated reason and there's no practical reason. It's just make belief. Like, and the bird of proof is on those people that say that to give us a substantial amount of either logic or evidence or at least some like, hey, if some fucking will get some before and after is going. And then if you get those going, the first critique is like, well, didn't you just eat healthier altogether? They're like, well, yeah, how do you know that? It isn't what did it. I don't know. It's the fruits and veggies not together. It's the acidic and whatever. Non-sense comes out of that. And what about the high carbs with high fats? Isn't that bad? Well, if you have high carb plus high fat, you just have more calorie. So number one way that works well is if you tell yourself I'm not gonna consume foods that have both high fats and high carbs at the same time, you've eliminated almost every high calorie food. Cookies gone, pizza gone, ice cream gone, cake gone, tattino's pizza rolls gone, what? Sorry, nobody takes tattino's pizza rolls out of my, you pry them out of my cold dead hands. But all of a sudden, I can't eat them. So yeah, I don't get as fat. But isn't there something molecularly chemically, hormonally, a good fix there? No, because you get a lot of insulin secretion quite quickly, if you exclusively amel of carbs. Okay, insulin, yeah, lots of it. It will, if there's fat present, will cause that fat to be analyzed to some extent into a fat sauce. Quarkey thing that happens, which has been known in nutritional science for 180 years, is that when you have lots of fat enemy with carbs, it takes the glycine index, the rapidity of insulin response, it lowers it all the way down to like what brown rice and apples are. So if you have a simultaneous high carb and high fat meal, the glycine index is incredibly low, which means insulin slowly reaches out, which means like nothing special happens that's very insulinurgic or very fat game promoting. If it's also protein in that meal, then it's just like a great antibiotic feast that makes your body more jacked over the hours that it releases. So the whole idea that this is even possible, just forgets the idea that your insulin dynamics change when you introduce fat to make things less insulinurgic. So it's a self-fixing problem. It's not a problem. And if you get people to be like, I'm just trying to avoid highly-seem the index foods, man, that's what causes fat gain, bullshit, by the way. And they're like, yeah, like, I can't have treats and stuff. You're like, I just looked at the GI for ice cream and it's 17. Okay, here glucose is 100. Brown rice is like 40. So you can definitely have ice cream. And they're like, well, no, cause I had a sugar in it, you're like, if fruit does has a GI of like 15 or something, by itself, dick would get but like, right, they just don't know. They just don't know these things, so then they make them. Let me tell you guys about the RP hypertrophy app with over 28 preset programs already in the app. You could choose to make your own. You could modify an existing program or you could just run the programs exactly as they were written by a personal. This app programs everything for you. Exercises weights, sets, reps, frequency, thought-hole thing. After every single workout, and every single week, the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now, you're pretty interested in the app, download the RP hypertrophy app today. Grouping secular food in arbitrary ways is pointless. And here's the worst part. Like I sort of said before, it intentionally inconveniences your clients if you're in a nutrition coach and you tell them to do that. And if you're doing it yourself, it intentionally inconveniences you, making your diet adherence lower on average. Because if you think splitting up your carbs and proteins is the way to get healthy, that's what you've chosen as your sort of vector for health. As your salient through the battlefield of health, then once you get really sick of doing that, and it obviously isn't helping anymore than anything else would, you have a pretty high probability of being like, now you know what I was like this. I'm going back normal eating. Where this could have just eaten healthy without any arbitrary rules. And then you just have most of the food you like anyway. You control your portions. You have mostly not junk food and some junk every now and again. It's an awesome balance thing. You can sustain forever. But if you make arbitrary weird rules that destroy your quality of eating, all of your friends go to restaurant, you can't come, your family, through the home, you have to split it up. It's nuts. And it's so inconvenient, you're probably gonna do it last and you're probably gonna fail. And human beings, if they fail at something enough times, they get kind of dejected. We have probably dozens of millions of Americans if not hundreds. Thousands of millions of people, for sure hundreds of millions of people across the world that have tried a bunch of these fads, stupid wacky diets that don't work, inevitably failed with them and are just checkboxing failure in their brain over and over each time they fail a diet. After a while your brain learns like, dieting, not for me, I will fail. So I stopped trying and then the obesity epidemic continues. So make sure to diet rationally, logically. If you guys wanna learn how to diet, we have fat loss dieting made simple series. We have a healthy eating made simple series. You're just Google them, shit's the right on YouTube, enjoy watching them. It's like an eight part series, each video is a gate minutes long. And you'll know everything basic and effect of the rest of know about losing fat, gaining muscle and being healthy. And you can save all this other bullshit. And just take the word bullshit and just let the people who say it best say it, which is to say Arnold, which is to say, BUSHED, NINE, CULATER.

You take one drug. You lose 20% of your fat mass and gained 3 to 4% muscle mass from one drug with no diet and training in the mix. That's totally insane. And so the visible physique changes you get from this and the health changes are way even more impressive than just regular weight loss alone, which is wild. Sounds to good to be true. It isn't. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. And I'm going to ask you a question. Who is he at the end with the ZDO? No, I'm kidding. No, no more Arnold today. Maybe a little bit more. But is it possible to have your cardio and your lifting come from a syringe? What? Maybe. Let's find out. So today's topic is to investigate the drug class called active and antagonists. I know that's a lot, but I can explain. These are antibodies, functionally. They are molecules that are engineered to basically take another molecule that's floating around. For example, the active molecule. And active in has a receptor that it's going to. And if it gets to that receptor, it shuts down or reduces muscle growth. Active and antagonists work in a few ways. One of the most common is they hook onto that molecule and then it no longer can clip into that receptor. They take it right out of the equation before it ever hits that receptor. And if that receptor doesn't get hit and that receptor is called the act R2 receptor, then muscle growth continues at a much higher rate than normal because normally in your body. Active and levels are quite high. After lifting heavy weights, they fall a little bit and they come back up just like mouse stat levels. If you take these drugs and you take enough of them that half of your activins just don't get to where they're going, you experience constant muscle growth as a default state of your body doing nothing else. And because this muscle growth is constantly happening, it takes a crap load of calories in the form of making more ATP to power the molecular machines that grow muscle. And thus you are burning a crap load of calories in your muscles to build muscle. Or evolution designed us in such a way that we have these caps to muscle growth, specifically to spare calories so that we don't spend all of our calories on muscle growth and have not enough calories taken for organs, our brain, walk around, plant decisions, build buildings and do all the other survival things that we do as humans. So that's good, but now that we're living in an environment with tons of calories are coming around from the grocery store, from the fast food restaurant, if you take these active and signals and you mute them, you get more muscle growth at a huge calorie expense. Clinical infusions, which means you go and they put a needle into your vein through the IV and you just sit there for 30 minutes and get the drug pumped into you, all of a prototype drug called, and how names these, Bemagramab, say that five times fast, raised daily energy expenditure by 200 calories in people with obesity. Zero diet change, zero physical activity change. What we're saying here is the muscle growth process that was initiated and a few of the other health promoting processes, these drugs initiate or allow to happen because they unblock them, cost 200 calories per day, which is a lot of calories per day, and in upper weeks and weeks that's a crap load of fat burning, I don't get to how much fat burning in just a little bit. Here's another crazy thing. This act our two pathway is upstream of insulin and leptin, and thus you get fat oxidation, you get fat burning without the hunger rebound or the energy decline, seen in pure caloric restriction, kind of your body's just none the wiser for it. And it's like, wow, muscle sure are working hard, and it doesn't make any other adjustments seemingly. And more good news, early data are showing that the fat burned in these processes is preferentially visceral intrup dominal fat, stuff that's really bad for your health and how it makes you have a poochy gut, and it's also deeper subcutaneous fat, and so the visible physique changes you get from this, and the health changes are way even more impressive than just regular weight loss alone, which is wild. And active and signaling, the thing these things block. Typically limits what's called brown fat activity, and brown fat is the types of fat cells that are always burning through the other fat. White fat is basically fat that just kind of chills there and doesn't do nearly as much. It's a lot of hormone stuff, but it's not really burning its fat at home. If you reduce active and exposure in the body, which these drugs do, you now convert more of your fat cells to brown fat like behavior. So your fat just starts burning, it does not stop. Now, normally, the act our two receptor complex tells muscle fibers to cap their growth. If you block the activity at that receptor by just eating up all of the stuff that was going to go activate it, you allow protein synthesis to outpace breakdown even on a diet, direct trials. Guys, this is going to blow your mind. Direct trials report, lean mass gains of three to four percent, while at the same time the subject's lost more than 20 percent of their fat mass over the course of like a year. Let's see about that for a second. You take one drug. You lose 20 percent of your fat mass in gained three to four percent muscle mass from one drug with no diet and training in the mix. That's insane. That's totally insane. GLP one drugs can't do this by themselves, not even close. And the really good thing is that more muscle mass means a higher resting energy expenditure than if you had lost that muscle mass, it keeps the whole machine rolling along. Potentially athletes coming back from injury, people taking time off, can take a drug like this and just not lose any muscle while they're chilling and rehabbing their knee, come back and get into sport way faster. Sounds too good to be true. It isn't. But there are some side effects we have to talk about. Generally, this class of active in inhibitors is very or active in antagonists is very well tolerated. However, this is introduced by either subcutaneous or usually IV injection. There's mild flu like symptoms, sight aches, it's a thing injecting is a thing by itself. Some subjects in rare cases have seen transient elevations in hemoglobin and hematocrit, a lot of red blood cells. We'll talk about how to basically manage those side effects in a bit. And some people even kind of have low grade nosebleaves and a development of skin capillaries closer to the skin that give like a red like texture. It's not dangerous, but it's cosmetic. And very rarely, some people have very high liver enzyme increases. Not crazy, but higher than you would like. Standard with many biologic treatments, one of this is a biologic chemical. And so it's a thing. Quite rare, but it's a thing. So how do we manage these side effects potentially? You want to rotate injection sites as soon as this thing is out for commercial use. It's going to be injectable. It's not going to be IV and I'm going to be drawing IVs yourself. It's going to be intramuscular subcutaneous. Really, there's not a lot of problems with that. It's annoying, but not a big deal. Another thing is you have to get blood work regularly to make sure your blood values are good for red blood cells. He may go. You might have to do philobotomy if you're one of these rare responders that gets a lot of hemoglobin from this. The redness of the skin is cosmetic effect. You could do laser therapy if you like, but a lot of times just stopping for a while fixes the whole problem. Liver panels, again, blood work will fix all that. You come off of your liver panels are not so good. And a really good thing that ties these in with a lot of other modern weight loss drugs is there was no serious reports of hypoglycemia and something that's unique about this drug. No GI distress. The modern weight loss drugs, semaglataid, trisapatide, they still come with some GI distress. semaglataid a lot. Chersapatide weight less, but still some. This had no seemingly no GI distress reported whatsoever, which is such a big deal. If you think about this, this doesn't affect your appetite. Razor Caliburton increases muscle mass, it decreases fat mass, but it doesn't have any GI distress. Maybe we can combine it with another chemical like trisapatide for one crazy effect. Now before combining it, what would you expect from typical doses of durations in fat loss and maybe muscle gain if you combine it with a 500 calorie deficit? Because honestly, how will you guys use this when it comes out on like 2027? You're going to use it, we're all fitness people. You're going to be in a great diet, a little bit of a deficit to burn fat. You're going to be resistance training and eating super well. How is it going to affect you then? So far, a Bamagram and about 400 milligrams IV check this out. Every four weeks. Scott, you ever have to take a drug that you take only once every four weeks? No, that's freaking awesome. It's freaking awesome. It's insane. Every four weeks for 24 to 38 weeks. So it's sorry, 24 to 48 weeks. So we're talking about less than a year, something like a year and a half, something like 6 to 9 months. That's the protocol that delivered a four inch smaller waistline on the average person in the study. And a 20% total of their fat mass reduction. Okay, so that means basically if you have 20% body fat, after that you have 16% body fat. So you lost 20% of your body fat. And the average person, by the way, these people did train. They lost about, oh, gee, is three to four. Good God lost. They gained three to four pounds of muscle during the first three months. While eating at a sub-maintenance diet. But not lifting weights. So if we're talking about folks that are lifting weights and eating well and eating plenty of protein and having a calorie deficit, you could expect with the introduction of an active antagonist like the Magna Ramp, realistically at clinically tested dosages, an increase over about 12 weeks of several pounds of muscle, and a decrease of potentially an extra pound of fat per week on top of what your deficit burns. That's insane. And remember, no rebound hunger or low energy or any of that stuff. It's kind of free fat loss, which is really insane. Now, some evidence suggests that after about 69 months we're getting dementia returns, that's a good time to pull it out. Spend some time off of it, then recycle it back in, just like with most drugs. No big deal. Now, here's the real crazy thing. We have this Magna Ramp drug that's on its way out in a few years, it'll be out. What if we combine it with a modern weight loss drug like Trisapatide? Because Trisapatide slashes your appetite. You're allowed to consume way fewer calories and you feel just fine doing it. The active and blockade guards muscle and lifts calorie burn. Two things. So we have fewer calories coming in. We have some of those calories being stolen from muscle growth. And then we have calories even extra burned for that muscle growth from your body fat stores. If already tested this exact combo in two trials, these trials have awesome acronyms. One is the belief trial and one is the courage trial. That's actually what they're called. And these combined the Magna Ramp with a Wagovi, which is Ozzempic, a Samadletite. All right. That led to 22% fat loss versus 16% fat loss with Ozzempic alone. And 90% of that was pure fat. So we're talking about shaving the degree of muscle loss on Ozzempic by 70%. Just at those small doses of Bermagma. So if you were to die at a little bit more slowly, because this is one hell of a time, and you were to take a little bit more Bermagma, you were almost guaranteed in most cases to lose tons of fat and lose absolutely no muscle at all. That's insane. That's next level. And this combo therapy did even better for anti diabetic outcomes. Even more A1C, which is a long term marker of how good your blood glucose is, A1C felt even more with this, which is such a huge deal. So trials for Bermagma, Tresapatite combo, are now in phase three and actively recruiting. Scott, you better send a message to someone. I'm out. I need this. And FDA filing, which means ready to sell to public, could happen in 2027 if all the safety data holds up. That's intense. But there's more to say about the future. Next generation subcutaneous versions are already in development. These are half-life extended ligand traps. Okay? So what does that mean? Self-injection. At home, you don't have to go to an infusion. Every six to eight weeks. And it has all the same effects. I don't even know what to say anymore about this. There's supplements you take twice a day. This thing you inject every six to eight weeks. And it just keeps working better and better over months and months and months. That's why. Still other delivery methods are in the works. There are in pre-clinical trials right now. Or a small molecule act R2 blockers. So active and antagonists. That means that you just take a pill and it does all the same thing. No more injections. And the first human trials of these are a little bit far off. That's probably going to happen more like 2027, 28. So maybe a 2030 release for those. A lot of this is going to speed up with AI. I'm not so optimistic about regulatory deadlines. So it's a face to say it's in the works to just have this in a pill. But not to be outdone. Scientists even have a patch in the works that detects your muscle growth rate. It has muscle protein sensors under the skin in the skin patch. And adjusts the amount of drug you get when you're on a diet to keep your muscle in check. Because here's the thing. All of us watching the channel pretty much. We want us much of a Magra Mab is probably doesn't kill us. Maybe even a little bit extra just for good measure. But most people what they want is just to be able to lose fat from their Trezzapotide without losing any muscle. And for them, this patch automatically adjusts how much it's secretes to keep your muscle the same size, which is so dope. So now people will be able to use Trezzapotide and be like, This is not going to lose any muscle as long as I have my patch on, which is unbelievable. Now very long term and already this is actually in the works and being tested in some capacity are genetic alterations for myostam and active and just to silence those permanently. And then you get one genetic alteration and depending on which one you get, you just kind of grow two times more muscle given any stimulus than normal. You eat protein, you grow two times more muscle, you train with weights, you grow two times more muscle, then you normally would give it everything else. I mean, that's truly why that'll be a 20 30 type of thing or a very late 20 20 type of thing most optimistically. But for now, this stuff is in the works in as early as 20 27 real humans may have access to this. It's not that far away. Scott, that's a year and a half away. So sick. So sick. Say what? So soon. So soon. Amaze? Now, let's talk about how you would use something like this, ethically morally. I hate the framing of drugs versus diet and training. It's not how it works at all. Diet and training are core. They're super important. They're the foundation. And then drugs are optional on top of that to enhance your abilities. And here's the thing, if you just take the drugs, you're spending a lot of money and getting a lot of GI side effects because a shit diet makes your GI real terrible on these drugs. For like good results. But if you do diet and training plus drugs, you get phenomenal results with even better health. And even fewer side effects. Now, I'm sold on that. That sounds real good to me. More and more over the next five years. Drugs will be so much more powerful and so much safer that using them responsibly is going to become more and more of a good idea. It's going to shift from, oh, I don't know, to huh, that's interesting to know. Some of my friends are using it to like, I'm going to try it to like, oh, when I die it, I use these drugs because that's just kind of what you do. In the longer term, adding drugs will take your physique to places safely that diet and training alone never could. And if you want to go to those places, I think that's why I think it sounds really exciting. And up until that point and through that point, we at RP will be here diligently keeping you up to date on what's hype, what's real and what's evolving in the far more world so that you can know how to diet. How to train RP, hypertrophy and diet coach app, by the way, and hit, and wink, wink, and can description. And you'll be able to leverage all of the pharmaceutical enhancements that you want. Now that you don't, to get your best possible results because remember, it's not diet and training versus drugs. It's everything that can help you in a safe long term. We're going to keep providing you with that information. Are you excited for active and antagonists? Let us know in the comments and we'll see you next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. Here's another episode of BS. I'm gonna say the real world word. A shout-up Scott to video guy. Motherfucker. We're keeping all this in, yeah? It's like we're doing the this whole channel together. Remember this is just me. I'm Dr. Mike. It's my show. Where were we? Carnivore is the healthiest diet. I'm likely to be true. Why? Here's the thing. Some people have gone to the Carnivore diet because they have crazy food sensitivities or allergies and maybe too lots of common foods and maybe too lots of plant foods. And the Carnivore diet has essentially been in a lamination diet for them. And as caused them nearly or 100% symptom relief. And that's awesome. You just got some shitty dice roll in your way. You got to do what you got to do. Two people that come to mind on that is Jordan Peterson. And McKayla Peterson is that his daughter's name and Kale Pearson. And I think they both do like an all-meat diet and it works for them and they've tried other diets and it was just like their bodies were falling apart. Let's have total respect. It is what it is. But for the rest of us, and I don't mean us since I'm just them to the rest of us, for most people, almost all human. Veggies, fruits, whole grains and healthy plant fats, like olive oil, etc. Can be super health boosting parts of our diets. And the research confirming this is monumental. One of the worst things in the world to see is when you got like a crazy psychotic carnivore advocate that's trying to hashtag science. He's having your read the studies on anti-nutrients, shot the fuck up. Well, the fuck are you read to studies yesterday? There's a first two studies you're read your life. Do you know how much research exists on how healthy fruits, veggies, whole grains and healthy fats are for you? Oh my god, dreams it would fill textbooks. It is just not a cogent thing to say that everyone should be eating only meat. Some people for special circumstances absolutely. Many people, if they want to live a life, and also a pretty healthy way, and they're supplementing some fiber, maybe getting a greens powder in there, and if you've edges here and there. But mostly eating animal products, that's totally a fine way to live, and it's pretty healthy. Not the healthiest, but it's totally cool. And if that's your jam, that's your jam. But pretending that it's the healthiest diet forever is she was there's a term for that. But let me make it in another way. This will be a short asked video. Before you start eating only cows, remember that the bulls can be eaten too, and so can their shit. Bullshit. Now listen to Arnold, stop it, stop with this carnivore. You've got to eat your veggies and you drink your milk and your beer. That word has no art in it. beer. I'll see you guys next time.

Folks, this is Mitchell Hooper. He has won the World Strongest Man Competition. I'm Dr. Mike and I have won the second best-looking person in my bathroom between the hours of 3 and 5 pm on Tuesday at one time competition. And I was proud of every single one of those victories. How do I sack up in my bodybuilding, high-perrophy, back-and-shoulder training to World Strongest Man Champion? We're gonna find out in a second. Oh, when he's Canadian by the way. Good. Yeah. Finish. Stricted to come on. Rrrr. Yes. 15. Wow, that's so much heavier than it looks. All right. So 15 reps here. Super maximum stretch at the top. And then just gently touch your chest at the bottom by arching your back. Now, super maximum stretch at the top. Can we contextualize this? Because if I super maximum stretch, I tend to have my pecs into my throat. And it chokes me out of the same bro. Same. Just vibe it. That's one of those things that the folks on the TV will be like, what? When you get jacked enough, you say, remember distinctly two years ago, I finally got jacked enough to choke myself on bull downs. And I was like, oh, the dumb. Try your best. We'll see how it is. Also, let the blood flow when you're down here so that you don't pass out. Are you gonna pass out? No, no, no, no. It's just uncomfortable. You bitching about uncomfortable. But why am I getting you know about sacrifice here? If I'm honest, it just turns me on a bit. I don't want to do that on your channel. Oh. How does the covering feel back to 100%. I don't feel anything in my scar. No pain. It's a little tight and still inflamed. It'll be inflamed up to a year after surgery. What? I still haven't done any heavy flexion rolling. Sure. But I'm cleared for it now, officially. I start GJJ next week. Oh, cool. So yeah. So, yeah, pretty goddamn good. Cool. And in terms of aesthetics for scar bodybuilding, if you sure looks all right. There's going to be two vertical scars that stick out all the time in every pose. Okay. I don't give a shit. I think scar is look cool. Also. But the main scar is completely hidden in my pose and trunks. Awesome. That's great. That's like half the eye of UV. I'm kidding. That was a UV. There's like a three things you have to consider during a given set. One thing is how hard am I trying? That's indistensive. Yeah. Because you can be like, oh, man, I'm going to really feel my last. But you're using like 30 pounds for like, that's a 10 or 50 R I R. Wow, I trained. They want to do that. And the other one is technique, like externally validated technique, like your elbows moving the right way, you're not cheating, et cetera. And the last one is like, are you connected to your muscles that you're supposed to be hitting? And like, are your lats really doing something or something else taking over? Which you do have some small say in budget. And so all three of those need to be checkmarked with a green check. And it's as little of expense of each other as possible. So the way I like to do it is this, I like to for people who are training for hypertrophy for other sports like strong man. It's intensities number one, go hard. Make sure you have good technique, don't sacrifice. And then way lastly, fuck it if at all, worry about where your lats are doing. You're lats are fine. Yeah, strong man. They're going to get some benefit. For pure bodybuilding, pure physique, you actually start with technique. Like technique, gun to my head, I'll never can fail the technique. Then you miss, if it's good technique, then every single rep I have to have intensity on. But that's roughly tied to feel. So if I have good technique, put it more around. And I can't feel my lats anymore. The next rep I pull from my lats. I'm only here to train my lats. If I'm not feeling, I'm not sure sure that it's going well. However, the intensity still there because if you really feel your lats, which are not inclining, you're not pushing in a lot of force, then you're just kind of showing. Yeah, yeah. That makes sense, of course. This guy is a great, great question. It's a real, a real thing. Music Music Oh, that's it. Rack, I missed the pump so much. In training in the first place, that's what I fell in love with the most. Yeah, it's good. Well, you can always make a return to the real sport. The body building, the real sport becoming incredibly incapable and doing a beauty pattern. Hey, you know what I'm saying? Beauty is about pain or whatever. For what it is, I think body buildings are awesome. For what I'm saying, call it a sport. Agreed. You know, agreed. It's a great performance out. Agreed. I have actually a technical, a technical reason why I wouldn't call it a sport. Okay. My, one of my favorite definitions of what a sport is is that it is a competitive interaction. The outcome of which is based at least in part on your physiological performance limit. Cool. So people will say chess is a sport. Like are the pieces really heavy? Will you fall over from time? Yeah. Not a sport. Golf is a debate. It could be a game. Now, okay. Because it doesn't really push you to your limit and hardly any way. Not. Is body building a sport? Intraining, yes. In competition, absolutely not. Yeah. No, in a way. Is it a pageant? Yes. I'll tell you what body building really is. And this is a big compliment to body building art. Yeah. It's a real art. Absolutely. Now, you give me three world-strogous man contenders and a big puddle of jealous. No, I'm sorry. Scott's dying from laughter over there. He's got you sick. Fuck. You got four. Let's go. System. System. Come on. Why was that, Jim? I thought it was going to get harder for you. Yeah. Yeah. I was waiting for it to get harder to share you on. You're good. I can get hard, Mitch. Oh, exercise. Yeah. Two things. One fake failure. Two. Um. My failure for many exercises. Looks like that. So two reps away from there. I would have had to start cheating to get any reps. What? Yeah. But it looks fine up into that. I don't feel fine. Yeah. Looks fine. Yeah. I know it looks like I don't train close to failure. But I just want you guys to know, like, I'm really tough. Like, I'm a tough guy. Yeah. You want me to show you tough? How show you tough? Hey! Hey! Last one. Good one. Boom. Flow. Big stretch. Yes. So you guys say, come on. Two more. Good. And let's go. Strip. Come on. Roo. Whoa. Hello. Just several years ago, I was wandering homeless and alone in the Los Angeles suburbs. And I was picked up by the police and they told me that I can't come back to that neighborhood. Unless I come in with the best grip assistance advice ever, the VersuGrip. I came back in and they welcomed me in like family. And now I'm a real human being with with the goals and ambitions. And one of my ambitions is to make sure that when I'm training back or shoulders or hamstrings with stiff leg and that lifts. And then I can do that because the VersuGrip is wrapped around the bar and giving everything you need to take my back shoulders and hamstrings to bounce. I'm going to say pound town, better than me. Funkey town. Sure. VersuGrip is a great and even a world-striker man, Mitchell Hooper, is here to have me read this ad read, but I don't know who he's sponsored by and who not cited and want to include. You could tell me the pound town, if you want. We'll be back. I thought it was going to be a however for you. I can get hard, Mitch. Next exercise, which we can do just one warm-up set for, is going to be the lat prayer, aka the straight arm lat pulled out. I've been fuzzing with this attachment on it recently. It brings your lats in close at the top, which extra stretch is done, which is awesome. The other thing is, it has these stoppers, which with VersuGrip's or straps, you might not need him. We have chalk too. Really make sure that you're not slipping. I see guys do the rope, but not on the back stoppers. Like a middle of the rope. Yeah, like, for sure, no, you're not trying to. Yeah. There you go. Come on. Yep. Let's get into it. Let's get it. We're trying to find where the pain is and go in more. That's right. You heard exactly like I said it. Couple more. Couple more. One more. One more. One more. One more. Oh. There it is. Finish. Finish. Finish. Oh, and control. There you go. Beautiful. Wait a fix. I'm sorry. How many was that? 18. So good news, bad news. You have three sets of 18. With many breaks. Yes. I don't get to let him go. No. No. Maya Ratnach. So however many reps you did in the first set, all the subsequent sets of which we have three today are some total of the same number of reps. That's what you take as many breaks as you want. Five to ten seconds between reps to go. You might get like ten and then four and then another four. That's going to hurt. It's going to hurt. Yeah. The thing about training for growth intensity fucking matters going close to failure matters. Once you get to within a certain amount close to failure, we're after the set you feel kind of pumped and like ten Chin was really good. Yeah. The thing that matters the most after us, how much volume you do. A clean and simple. And then so volume can measure in total sets or total reps. But it really can be measured also in number of approaches to failure. Yeah. And so with Maya Ratnach, you do 18 times four number of reps with like eight approaches to failure. Holy fucking shit. That's a lot of volume. Yeah. That's a lot of stuff. And there is no way around it either. You got to put in that fucking work. And again, let's go. 12. 12. 12. 13. Go ahead, Mike. You got three. Show rest. Let's go. You got a bite. See, last one perfect. Good man. Stretch. Hold it. Your back's going to be double the size after this shit. Yes. One more Mitch. Let's go. Yeah. One more Mitch. Let's go. Oh. Yeah. One more. My man. Yeah. Finish. Strong slow. Big stretch. Rest. Oh. Whoa. Bro. That was a slow. My man. Somebody got three left. Three left. You're the fucking man. Let's do it. Man's physique. World champ. Let's go. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Slow. That's it. Oh. Man. Oh. Yeah. That's it. Oh. Man. Oh. Yeah. Good stop. That's it. That was a cue there. It really seemed to work for you. Athletic and strong. Yeah. That was a good stop. Yeah. I'm just concentrating on my concentration. Bodybuilding control bullshed on the eccentric. Yeah. Works every time. You can take that cue and put it in your pocket for all of your head hurts. We training. Yeah. So, a lot of people get into this phase in this mode. Where there's like a real mind muscle connection on that powerfully centric. When you're really slowing it to try to like get stuff going. For people overdue that and like so for example, on leg curls. I'll curl fast in the way up because I'm just trying to like match them. And then I'll slow a centric on the way down. Half the comments like, oh, shouldn't you be like controlling that movement? Like on the way down. Yes. On the way up. Be athletic. As long as the mechanics are good, which they are like push up power and don't like do this pretend. I'm not saying you're doing it by the way. Yeah. People do it all the time. Yeah. The pretend kind of like fucking really feel it on the way down. Like stop. Yeah. Move it on the way down on the way up is when you're really going to feel sure. Sure. Which makes sense because I suppose that's a closer match between e-cens or concentric as well. If you try to explode. 100% versus control. 100%. All right. So last back exercise coming up. Probably you want your straps for this one. Okay. Let me check my RPA picture view. RPA picture view. I got my own voice stuck in my own head. Chesaporter row. Chesaporter rows for these chest supported hose. We got three of my let's go. Two. One more good one. Keep it solid. The extra. Ugh. Ugh. Whoa that hits. 12 weight of strength. 12 weight of strength. 13, two more good ones. Okay. Keep it chest down. Yes. 15. Rack. Fortress. Wow that's so much heavier than it looks. Yeah. Yeah. I got a lot of shit for doing two plates on this and I'm just like, I don't know. That's all I have. Yes. Because it commercial james are four plates on that first shot. Still not. Well, first shot. That Atlantis does not go around. 16. Okay. Four per cent. One. Stretch. Do it halfway there. And again. Last one. Perfect. Yeah. Yeah. We're ain't a control two more. Slow. Slow. Slow. Deep stretch. Pulled it. Rack. Oh. That's so humbling though. Jesus. Yeah. Good stuff man. Scott. If you ever work. Up to this. I'm here. You are the world's strongest man. We're done on here. We're going to go do lying straight arm front raises for five sets of a shit load of reps. My right match. I'll talk about that in a sec. But the only way really I got my shoulder to grow was to do a little volume. I can hate it. I hate training shoulders. I ain't going to do it anywhere. I'm just having a shot today. So he's. I want to see what you can do on this because. Dems are some big showyledes. You know, no. What's your best standing over at press? Uh, Barbeau. Barbeau. Not split jerk. I've done. No pushing. Oh, straight. Straight. Ah. Four ten four fifteen. No. Not much. Just more than everyone has spot. But that's Barbeau. Like log is logs about four thirty. Yeah. Yeah. Or should be able to do more than me on this. What I'm trying to say. Maybe because I only over had press four or five. And my dreams. Okay. Let's go. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Music. Two. Yes. Finish. Oh, there's another control. Bragg. Oh, Jesus. Great. That was like what? 25 or 60? 23. 23. So for next time, instead, what did you do? 100 and a 5. Why don't you do like 120? And then just that's a 15 or something. Yeah. Another four sets of 15 at 120 or so. And then. 17. Straight through. 15. 15. Oh. That was awesome. I can't believe that your shoulder endurance compared to mine. I couldn't imagine doing what I did on the first set for. For even one more set. Yeah. It's just that I have really big. I don't know. I've been doing this for like weeks where I've been doing. I'm doing like three to five. My up match sets for shoulders. Yeah. Every. Basically four times a week. Like I'm doing like 25 set equivalence of shoulders per week. Yeah. And like they, they will get adaptations. Yeah. It's also the only thing that's really moved the need to learn my dull hyper-tripe. And now like legitimately like right now, I have the biggest delts I have ever had by a long shot. Right. Like just and I don't. I've been saying this recently in the internet. I don't want the fact that I have the biggest shoulders that I've ever had to be because of just grinding. King volume. You look at the literature. Yeah. But okay. Yes. I just don't know where. Which is like it's getting a game. Right. On the one hand it kind of sucks. There's nothing like I want the micmen's should to be true. Yeah. I want me in one emotional set on the axe blocks to be the difference in the league. I would love that. Yeah. But the reality is more grim. But also the positive is it's really straightforward. You don't like like how do I grow my muscles? Like are you having trouble recovering? No. Do more volume. Yeah. Really like. Yeah. How do I get better at math? Like do your homework more like fuck me. Yeah. Yeah. Isn't this a good time to read it for you? Of course. All right folks. Trying to read books to figure it out. That's a it's a rookie mistake. We didn't learn our shit and books. Man's work. That you know I've both known our respective fields. For not being that sharp. We got that work. We got that flavor. Get that shit. We're out here doing it. You feel me in way is zero prisoners taken. And no regrets. And any other means you would like to add into this conversation. Just a quick shout out there on the. Promise. And you guys forget about her on bay. How dare you. Mitchell Hooper, a real strongest man. He's got an excellent YouTube channel. That's not only informative, but also entertaining. And if it's late at night, you put it on mute. You can watch him talk. Perfect. Catch him there. Big back workout for here. Hopefully you guys enjoyed it. Look for more content from both of us in the future. I'll see you next time. Thanks, guys. Bye.

You, YouTube? Oh, Mike, a doctor, Mike, for Renaissance Periodization? Guess what? I know something about you. You have a problem, and you haven't talked to anyone about him. That's okay, because this is a safe space between me and you and thousands of other viewers. And the NSA, which has your search history, you sit, Bok. You are worried about your triceps not being big enough. Now, for the record, I think your triceps are absolutely wonderful. Exactly the way they are. But, other people may not agree with you. You may not agree with me, and you may want bigger triceps, and because of that, close grip bench press for the triceps. Let's fix it. Let's find out how to modify this exercise to make sure you get the most out of your triceps possible. Mike, stop it with these stupid long and troves. You're not a comedian, you're not funny, you have no friends, you're dick a small, you're trying to overcome and say, just get to the fucking tips already. Fine. Alright, folks. The tip is to get a nice solid foundation, which means you are going to slightly retract your shoulder blades, not as much as you would for the regular bench press, but just enough to keep the shoulders nice and safe, not with the rain. You're going to arch your back a little bit, and you're going to make sure you plant your feet into the ground. This will give you a really stable base from which to push relatively heavy loads. Why? Because there are many, many tricep exercises that isolate your triceps, but do not allow super heavy loading because it was awkward, weird, one joint at a time, not so safe feeling. You can really do sets of 5 to 10, 10 to 15 on here, and for that you want a really stable base. It's terrible for me when I go to regular jams or whatever, not this RPG and we have. And see people trying to lift heavy, but their feet are like this, or even the stupid thing where they put their feet up, which does nothing except these stabilise you and give you less of a good workout. Unless you're training to be like a performance seal at SeaWorld, and you can bench with your feet up. So what you want to do is set up something like this, lay down on the bench, shoulders back a little bit, chest up a little bit, my feet are firmly planted. This means that when I start closer to benching, that I am able to generate a crap load of power with my triceps, and everything goes super well. Voila. Oh, hey, you're back for tip number two. This one's going to be a tiny little wrap of bear with me, grip with. A lot of people think that the narrower the grip is the better the triceps work. So you'll see this in a lot of jams where they'll take a grip like this, and they'll do this shit. Because you physically can't fucking touch your chest with a shit, it's by definition a partial. And sometimes if they're stocking and thick enough, it's a partial on this end, and a partial on this end. You're fucking yourself twice. It turns out that if the triceps go through a very large range of motion, and especially your stretch at the bottom, even a wider grip can work super well. So my best advice to you on grip other than what you feel is best for your body is to take a grip that is just outside of your rib cage width, so it's as close as possible, which you can still get the full depth of going all the way down for me. That's probably one finger in line with the bar here. I'm going to guess really quick, and so I'm going to do this. Notice the bar comes down. I'm actually floating right here. I'm resting completely on my biceps. I'm not touching my chest. If there was real weight, I absolutely could touch. This is a really close to ideal grip for me and notice my hands are buzzing just outside of my ribs. And he closer too much. Any wider, it turns into a bench press that isn't really for the triceps anymore. Just outside of rib position is a really, really great. But it's only great if it works with our next tip. As you descend in the close grip bench, it is critical. I mean, I critical. Healthful. But you keep your elbows flush to your sides. This is just fine and dandy, but that's a lot of chest because we're flaring out. And the chest does that motion. If you keep your elbows close in, you can really, really load the triceps. Now you can't lift as much weight like this. And it's absolutely imperative that to maximize this function, you do a slow eccentric. And during that slow eccentric, you want to feel your triceps and then press up. Triceps with elbows in, elbows in, elbows in, elbows in, elbows in, press triceps in, in, in, in, press. That's how you do this shit right. That's how you get the most out of this movement. One of the things that grows muscle lot is a deep stretch at the bottom. If we're training our triceps, it is true that if we want to lift a lot of weight, we can push the bar down to below the nipple line. And the elbow angle isn't going to be insanely high. There's a stretch there, but not a ton. You will be able to lift a lot of weight if you do this. Sweet, if you want to win the close grip bench world championships, amazing. When I want to convince you guys to at least try, is to turn the close grip bench into a little bit of a JM press. A JM press is something that goes to your channel, your knack or your clavicles, generally your clavicles. But we're not going to go that far, we're just going to do a little bit of just above the mipple line. You guys see how down here it's a little bit of a skull crusher type of feel. My arms are kind of going this way a little bit. This is too much, we don't want this. This is a different exercise, this is a JM press. Yeah, this is standard, but just one inch here, and I can feel my triceps stretching like crazy. Press out, elbows in, and the entire time you have your elbows in and down, and you're looking to press a little bit higher on the chest. That's a shitload of triceps, it feels kind of like a skull crushery thing. And here's the big kicker. If you bench close grip down to your sternum, yes, you can lift more weight. But also it involves your triceps less, it stretches them less, it makes them less limiting factor. And then that regard it actually worked your chest a lot. They've done direct research on EMG and stuff like that, and they realize that close grip bench pressing as most people do it really is still predominantly a chest exercise. And it's just not that great of a tricep movement. But to get more out of triceps in close grip bench, which is the whole fucking point in this video, try to do a little bit of where you don't touch a dniple line, just one inch above. And as you go down, you will feel your triceps and you'll feel like crazy at the bottom and on the way up. You have to use less weight, you have to be more meticulous, more controlled, but I promise you there's a very good chance it pays off your triceps. We'll get nuclear annihilation. This is the outro. Thank you so much for tuning in guys. Check out all of our products on RP, links in the description below, like, comment, subscribe, box-by-instifuck, InstaSax, Foxx, Facebook, whatever the kids are into nowadays, social media type stuff. Also, I made up a dance. I want you guys to, like, maybe tell me if it's good, I think it's good, but I get excited. Maybe think I'm better dancing than I really am. Jared Feathers says I'm terrible. I think he said I'm the second worst dancer ever. I'm not going to say who was first between us. But I made up a dance here, just going to do it, and then we'll roll out, and just do a comment. Just let me know if you made up his farm the video. If I'm pretty good, I'm ready. And Scott's video, if you'll feel free to cue any kind of music you want. All right. Thank you.

I think there's three videos now of you trying to do my fucking accent that are floating on the internet Well, and they get progressively worse That's because you're living in Vegas too long in your accent starts to sound like one of these fucking casino epic methods Mother fucker listen you tell us who's got a better flex accent me flex Lewis or Flex Lewis which ones which maybe I got me a shave no more out here Lost a bit muscle for this one Okay, we'll pencil in the beard you get into that fucking dragon's layer You do fucking fan in our we fucking take somebody is the best you're fucking eyes This is fucking way of not condone any of this language welcome to the dragon's there no race a pledge will be you But maybe Ha Mike Jared PhD I FVB fro and then it's Jimmy for no no bicycle no human no car no bus bigger House I knew it was a common object that you would see in the neighborhood But large and in fact Jimmy is really large. It's really intimidating stand next to him for a few reason I'll tell you life first of all Look at them ears. How many years man some kind of childhood accident fell off a bike in a really weird way on both years radiation Yeah, excellent fell off a bike into a cool irradiation But as he floated through the pull of radiation he got a ton of training in juditsu and it was awarded various belt rings He has actually a black belt in Brazilians you'd see the real deal. He has 205 pounds currently roughly thereabouts and the most I will swear yet messed up thing YouTube algorithm the most messed up thing about this Is that to my incredible ego pain this gentleman is drug free As our power three of us what you did with my best that two hundred you're 720 740 pound that lifter black belt Yikes so usually what I do in my head is like I'm like I have to be better than everyone I mean Literally like you know like out of the shell So I give myself all sorts of excuses like but hold up but he's running more gear than me, right? So he's a drug addict he's gonna dice in none of that which is bullshit Before I go to the bathroom I thought I could cry and masturbate to make everything feel okay Crystery Christy make you guys know about a lot of you do and I know you do Before we do that we are gonna hook Jimmy up with an unbelievable back workout because his back is big RP style will be doing pull ups will be doing pull downs. Hey shit They should we're not gonna be doing all you did every single exercise in the gym tune in this workout that you'd be four hours long hit it Here's the exercise folks Jimmy is going to be doing Pull ups of various heights The first thing he's gonna be doing is pull ups that touch right to the chest So I'm gonna require more of a back arch each rep counts when his chest touches the bar When he's no longer able to do that the owner switches to getting the pull ups to go right around mid-neck Yeah, a clear chin way over the barn when he's no longer able to do those in the same set It's a mechanical drop set He's going to just barely get his chin to touch the bar by leacher pull ups Pull ups pull ups the depth expands the good thing is that big super crazy bottom stretch that does much of the growing is In place every single time anyway The height to where you pull changes it's just about honesty to wonder transition to the next style of pull ups If you're really good at pull ups, we look around for a dip belt within bind one So if you're really fucking strong like him you do progressively easier pull ups as the more difficult ones become impossible sounds good Perfect one more One more we got this all day Jimmy Great All right now to the net check that chin clearly over the barn Okay He's one I can control the center slow Beautiful one more Great now just touch your kids to the bar Three more control it down Slow yeah slow makes it harder we're here for harder Jimmy Brack That's good do Good stop those are top. Oh super tough Excellent that's awesome Rest it will do another sister sounds good. I can't wait for the comments, but Are you ever planning on going to the dark side or no? Honestly, no, I mean not like as right now unless it was like obviously the future and TRT became appropriate But I don't see right now currently in need to I've been looking to saw spy So it's kind of a there's kind of like a A desire to find out where my true potential is and I haven't slowed down at all In strength or even to be so it's kind of one of those things where I'd really like to get close to that I see some testosterone decline Then make the call from there whatever it is, but do you know your test levels? I haven't been tested before now now like as far as that goes I can tell them on the floor Oh Can't talk to chin talk to this Good one Two one more Jimmy get your phone together Sac fight my teeth good stuff. I'm gonna eat that bar now good shit now. That was really good. Thanks guys. That's awesome All ups are pull ups are one of those things where If you think you're too good at pull ups and you need to use weight Try some pull ups to the chest. Yeah, and you're gonna be like oh, I can be like four of these and then all of a sudden What you just did like ten pull ups and that was hard. It was a set of failure. Yeah, which is like just with your upper body strength shit If you were doing Bro pull ups you could be like yeah, I do 50 chance every day PS on a side note. I love love love when guys make claims for how many pull ups they can do and you're just like you've been around fitness long enough You're like I know you're lying, but I don't know if you're lying on purpose and you know you're lying or if you just don't know what a proper pull-up is And that's why you're lying Actually, I did question from your from your guys is technical perspective some neat comments on like lack of back engagement with the protection at the bottom and Then with the excess not excess up at the extra make range emotion at the top What what would you say to describe how that's more beneficial for a back development? Yes, Jared would you like shot at this one or should I take it? Jared has all sorts of feelings I mean, yeah, I'm a little more angry about stuff like this than my When you go all the way down on stretch you are stretching your lats under load Which is usually hugely hypertrophic and causes tons of muscle growth So that one's easy to solve the idea that you have to maintain constant tension on your back Is that idea that it's like what I would call like a notion people say it But that you have to amy they actually can't answer you But so why is constant tension better than intermittent tension? Why don't you do just one set in the gym that is a drop set for 50 minutes and then leave? Why do you even take breaks between sets doesn't it fuck up your back? No, you take breaks between reps and between sets each rep is thus more full range emotion or more quality So it's totally okay if you unload completely between each rep at the end you'll get as close to failure as With constant tension your muscles will you push even harder because you have little reciprocates between the reps So at the very worst it's the same effect and it probably is a slightly better effect as far as coming up really high Do your lats disengage when you clear to hear? No because your lats are now pulling this way because the lats are still involved in the first part of a dip in a first part of a muscle up So your lats actually pull down and then your lats turn your humorous this way that is active function of the lats So if you get to hear that's still lats first of all second of all if your lats can't do it other muscles in your back After doing imagine you have a really well developed back just kidding who only have well developed lats You kind of look kind of fucking weird Break into the bar now Oh yeah beautiful one more yeah Slow control that's it This stuff you stop That's great. I'm definitely taking that one home. Thanks guys full downs Excellent all right People always ask folks like us use black belt. I'm brown belt What is the real benefit of jujitsu because you go beat up with your friends years get all fucked up what's the upside right? There's a guy right now who has two more sets left on the pole now, but we need it Jimmy Handily Just right to see the guard the guys like I know he just goes back to doing pole downs Like it's supposed to be intimidated like now we are going to do pole downs for extra volume for her to cope Pulling Probably go for some kind of neutral grip just to vary the grip slightly different angle gonna be doing another four sets of You know 10 to 2015 to 20 reps slightly higher rep range and then after that we'll talk about doing some rows Let's go get it done four one more Awesome slow stretch and Good stop very good very good very good So Folks one thing you'll notice is we're gonna be reducing Jimmy's working weight a little bit each time maybe every other time That's just to keep him in that 15 to 20 rep range We've already done the 10 to 15 rep range of pull ups. We want something a little bit higher more of a metabolite stimulus His muscles are more tired now so that real fast twitch super strong stuff is already gone out the window now It's time for more reps with that said should I pull as if I still have Expose if fast concentric okay fast concentric control the center okay Yeah, yeah two more Good Control big stretch Keep keep keep good It was a chance yeah, it was a good one. Thank you Yeah, actually since Performing a lot of the pulling movements. I you guys do I assume there's a correlation but I feel like my shoulder mobility is Oh yeah, drastically yeah, honestly yeah Four inch emotion in general improved mobility like people don't understand that I guess So it would be like how do I improve my flexibility mobility? I'm like are you doing four inch emotions straight like deadlifts right and you see them in this stopping like right here Yeah, I have friends that like like I can't get to a back double anymore because they get really really big I like mic or myself. I really ever had that problem because we're always in that deep position here So I think it just helps I'm starting to get it a little bit yeah, but I think your combination for me is like I'm just getting older and also I'd be decreased to an age also like there's only so much muscle like Right, he would be a totally physically half ship back there. I can't watch my own shit. It's always too big for stuff I usually have to coach for people but he's actually doing a great job already when they go from the end of the E-centric into the concentric the kind of snap back into the concentric face He's doing a really good job of controlling when he gets to his end range emotion here He's immediately controlling the E-centric the entire way a lot of people have an issue with that, but he's just natural One more sir deep pull oh yeah, oh that's such good stuff That's it Thank you for finishing excellent with the finishing body positioning If you are getting full length out of the lap and my basically vertical here or do I have Okay vertical's fine. Okay either way. It's very close. Okay. No, okay got it. Well, thank you. Ben Rose We've done pull ups. We've done pull downs the lats are pretty fried vertical pulling is great Now it's four sets of barbell rows to get the rest of the back the mid back the erectors the rhomboid the terrace the middle traps Mower traps for sure even upper traps bent row trains at all sets of we'll see 10 to 15 reps here and a lot of technique learning for Jimmy to get down this is a really trippy way to do bent rows most people don't do I'm like this but because we are bending over with a lordotic posture and only the arms are moving and the scabs are coming forward at the bottom of the big stretch notice the chest is still up and then touching with the scabs back it's an amazing pull back stimulus no legs no heating and hoeing no bullshit. Let's do it Chest up yes just like that struggling keep your chest up the whole time Good one more Jimmy Good stop we'll take a weight down excellent technique Thank you excellent technique appreciate it deeper good really put that stretch on a amazing Jimmy keep going great touch that tummy good big chest excellent excellent strength Good one more strict control these central control control control stretch and let it down good stop yeah yeah definitely feel it back there and then upper back region yeah a lot of things to think about it once like for sure yeah for sure for sure you think my gosh you'll be a little bit wider maybe your grip look great to me but it's like one inch wider that's totally cool okay I got a special surgery to make my shit one inch wider your boys like a fucking pop fan maybe no no take I got that's I got that's so to can't shit two more good one one oh hell yeah big stretch hold it rats right that's amazing though like have death cool does even 95 when you're like just really that's awesome because the reason I think for me personally I never do bottle rows I think it's the mixture of ego feeling like I need to go to a certain weight but then at the same time no I'm not really doing shit so then I just stay the way for me to get together Jared and I really like to standardize the movement so that ego gets completely like expelled like there is no ego when there's a clearly defined you don't swing you touch your tummy and you touch the ground every time and then it's like what it's just like bench press starts here and ends here this is something you can try for a mesocycle all of the musculature involved in here can make you look super fucking thick and super fucking wide if you fill it out and one way to hit this is it hits when your scraps are retracted and your elbows are way back here so what we're gonna have Mr. Jimmy do is he is gonna do rows with just the bar where he holds the top position to his tummy for two seconds in a row you will feel a deep searing burning sensation in your back that is exactly what we're after give this a shot if you guys want at the end of your back workout to really get that shit back there hop it that's science way there let's get in here do some science hold good now again hold down he's going down and one more hold down I've been humble like that by one bar not at all you know I thought it was bad when I tried to curls your way too but it was as even worse dude that's fucking sweet speaking of curls we're gonna do some some Jerry curlant I love those ones I saw this video a little bonus round some arms at the end some Jared feather style Jerry curls for one of our users on the channel thank you for the recommendations for that name you guys are gonna see a lot of queuing in for the elbows to come in for the arms to be outstretched and the super focus on the bicep it's gonna be a big deal Jimmy has enormous arms is really unfair vitamin vitamin vitamin curl that shit down slow slow control one more before we quit you got a low rest break off this vitamin slow that was in down from there oh yeah I'm front of you oh yeah and relax relax rock don't go anywhere best break don't go anywhere folks if you want to do something quick after back get your biceps apple bit myorips a perfect five to ten seconds rest about four total sets time to start Jimmy hit it again vitamin good not big ass arms Jimmy less word there it is and then in and so it was back I was forward and go where did you come on slow slow it was back that was for last yep camera people notice how much weight we have on that shit seventy fucking world fucking hero type shit it just does not take much weight to train your biceps properly if you're curling one fifty's and your arms are one fifth the size of Jimmy's which they probably are you got a technique issue slow uh rack rast one left one set left to a great stretch those biceps out I was in immediately let's go vitamin then'll Two watch. Two. Two. Two. Two. Two. One last time. I'm gonna open it up. I was in. Maybe the hardest one. And in. And in. Two. Two. Two. Two. Two. Two. Two. Two. Ooh. Sorry for my bitching. All right. Thank you guys. I know. Matt. Where'd you go? So, you can look at me. Can't look at my arms. All right. That was great. Thanks guys. I was gonna say you have a t-shirt, but I realize you couldn't go t-shirt to your face. All right folks. Jimmy's gonna sit down because he worked really hard. What'd you think? That was. I did buy a village a little bit of high school obviously. I've been compared to this. The biggest takeaway I had was the implementation of full range of motion. But how that applies per exercise? I think the one that I took away the most was the barbell route. I used to never do them at home because I never really thought I was getting out of it. But with the form corrections from Mike and Jared, I've never had as much upper back activation as I had the day with that barbell variation. So, it goes to show. Maybe even with the bar or 95 pounds, something like me, about 25 pounds. Power looks there. Jiu-Jitsu, black belt can be pushed and pushed to an extreme. And those curls are just a whole other thing. My chest is still super tight. So, guys, thank you so much. I appreciate it. It's our pleasure. You did amazing. Thank you. Folks, Jimmy's got his own YouTube. He's got his own inflates. He's got his own TikTok. His got his own fucks wife. He's not throwing his pants. Only feet. Team full sproke. We'll catch you next time. Give him a follow. Peace. Thanks, guys. Hey boys. Do you like only fans? Yeah. Yeah, you like that and that's sick.

Creepy doesn't help you with reps 1, 2, or 3, but with reps 8, 9, and 10, it will help get another extra rep potentially. If you're really tired, long day of work, and you guys know after a day of work, it's towards the end of the day, your boss says, hey, do this and you're like, ah, my brain is mush. Your brain will be less mush on a creatine that it would be without it, helping you in that last mile, so to speak. Maybe something like, I don't know, half a coffee, but without the gitter. Not terrible. Looks like Creepy does something for the brain. It's pretty good stuff. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. Lots of talk lately about Creepy for brain gains for memory, for attention, for cognitive enhancement of all kinds. What's the deal? Does Creepy make you smarter? Hmm, let's find out. I worked with OpenEyes O3 Mega Hyper Super Intelligence to aggregate a bunch of information. I'm going to spill down your throat. Baby burn style if you just let me, but just let me help you. I looked at four of the best literature reviews on the subject, which take a bunch of studies together and look at all of them at the same time. And for our last slot, I looked at this single biggest randomized control trial, a direct study itself, on the effects of Creepy on various cognitive parameters. Let us find out what I discovered, time to get science, get blue and the tissue, 321, lubed tissue. First systematic review was published in 2018 by Afgedy Nus at all and associates. It was published in a the Journal of Experimental Gehrontology, which is going to be a theme because older folks seem to be a big target of Creepy and Research nowadays. The systematic review looked at six total trials, six experiments were included, with a total sample size of 281 individuals, which is pretty decent. They took between five and 20 grams of Creepy in per day. It's kind of a lot. And the trials were conducted for between one week to figure out acute effects to six weeks to figure out more long-term medium-term effects. And short-term memory and reasoning had improved in Creepy. Versus placebo in four out of the six trials, which gives us an overall pooled effect size rated as small to moderate. So something is almost certainly happening. It's not a huge deal for short-term memory and reasoning, but it is a deal. They tested other domains, things like attention span, long-term memory, and executive function. Your ability to kind of stay on task and coordinate multiple things going on at the same time. And those results were either mixed results, where some of the studies found benefits others didn't, or nowhere, none of the studies were really found that he benefits. In these studies, an interesting situation occurred, which is vegetarians, folks that don't eat meat, showed larger gains in their short-term memory and reasoning than omnivores who did also consume meat when the two went head to had in trials. That's curious because we know that vegetarians probably under eat, Creepy in a natural diet mostly occurs for meat sources unless you supplement it. This is going to be a theme recurring, that your terrients seem to be able to benefit more from Creepy in the meat eaters. Which since they're Creepy in a bad for meat eaters, it's also good, but it's probably saying vegetarians really should consider Creepy in if not just for the muscle growth stuff, but potentially for some of the brain gains as well. And so the real world application of this is you essentially have a boost that's noticeable in the lab, subtle in daily life, but will definitely help not in a way that you can tell, but real world you won't be able to be a hard. I'm not sure. Extra sharp today because the Creepy in a way will be working in the background, and the effect is going to be most obvious and most helpful when you're in a high mental fatigue so like Creepy in is similar in the brain as it is in muscles, Creepy doesn't help you with reps one two or three, but with reps eight nine and ten will help get another extra rep potentially. If you're really tired, long day of work and you guys know after a day of work, towards the end of the day, your boss is like, hey, do this and you're like, ah, my brain is mush. Your brain will be less mush on Creepy than it would be without it, helping you in that last mile, so to speak. And you get the best effects here if you have a low baseline brain, Creepy, which is to say if you're vegan, often if you're female or if you're in an energy risk for to die it. So if you're vegan, female, an energy risk to die, supplementing Creepy and it's starting to look pretty awesome. Now, one of the downsides here, the caveat, the takeaways, or the sort of the constraints on our ability to conclude, it's only six studies, they're not gigantic either, so it's not amazing. There's a high-hundred-genity of studies, which is good if you want to reach broad conclusions, but if you want to lens in something actually real, it's not good. And because it's not a lot of studies in small sample sizes, the heterogeneity here is not ideal. Most of the tasks presented have what's called low ecological validity, which means the tasks they test you on, it's like here's a string of numbers, tell this, tell us backwards, and write it down really quickly. You have five seconds to look at, five seconds to wait and then five seconds to write them all down. There's nothing like you do, exactly like that in the real world. These are tests designed to measure abstract reasoning and attention span abilities. They do map onto the real world, but not very strongly, so you could be like not so great in any tests, but still be a baller in the real world. So in Creepy and Proves these tests, can we say confidently that's going to improve real world intelligence, con cognition? Not so confidently, but a little bit confidently, so there is room for some hope here in this situation. All right, that's just one man analysis that was in 2018. Now we have another meta analysis from 2023. It's by... But I copy this at all, which I say only pronouncing in Russian because I think it's Greek and good God knows how those people with their love affairs with men pronounce things in any case. So this was a memory focused meta analysis. It was done on the journal Nutrition Reviews. They looked at 10 randomized control trials of 10 separate studies. They're combined subject pools, 404 people. That's pretty decent. And they were testing adults that were between 18 and 76 years old, which is really important. So you might be able to learn some things about how older folks respond here. The pooled overall memory effect for Creepy and Supplementation was in the low tomataret effect score category. So the hedges G, which is a statistical abstraction, was a 0.27, which means that like it's definitely a thing that seems to work in these trials. It's not crazy revolutionary, but it's a bit of a big deal. And the sub-analysis here is really interesting. Adults over the age of 65 got double the benefit. So their hedges G score was 0.45, which means what? For over 65 year-old adults on average in these group of studies, they got in their ability to recall things quickly, a rewind of about three to five years of cognitive deterioration in old age. So however good you are about 64 years old, this would rewind you back to age 60 levels of cognitive ability. All things being equal, that's a big deal. For younger folks, the bump is going to be like one extra item on a digit span score, which means you're a bit better in memory, but nothing crazy. So it's nothing crazy for young people, but something pretty meaningful, not crazy, but very meaningful for seniors. There was publication by his flag, not a big deal, because this is a statistical treatment after we're still revealed effects, but not ideal. And unfortunately, all of the trials were less than six weeks in duration. And the thing is, creatine and the brain takes four weeks to come up to its highest levels at which it plateaues. So we actually might expect even better results if more of the studies were conducted in that five to ten week range, but pretty much not worth. Some good findings here so far. Let's look at our next meta-analysis. This one is from, uh, why I don't know how to say, XU is it? Who at all or XU at all? I have no idea. Chinese people? Let me know. Y'all agree. This was a broad adult meta-analysis of the effects that creatine and cognition published in front years of nutrition journal. 16 randomized control trials, no doubt some of the ones included the other studies plus some more. 492 total people analyzed, which is really good, ages 20 to 76, all of creatine amount of hydrate, the most effective and vetted form of creatine. Improvements were seen in memory. Improvements were seen in attention time, how much attention they could put to a task before they wavered, and processing speed also improved. With the biggest responders being females and folks that were 18 to 60 years old, interestingly enough. Clinical cohorts as well, folks with fiber and my algebra, for example, seem to respond better. The real world situation here is as a creatine user, you might experience something like a 5% quicker reaction time, and a noticeable pop in your recall ability, especially in multitask, settings that fluidity of brain. Maybe something like I don't know, half a coffee but without the jitters. Not terrible, not terrible. Now the effect for memory, attention time, and processing speed was better, but overall cognition and executive function were not significant. So it's not like creatine boosts everything about your brain just some stuff. And the effect for memory is moderate. It's not high. And unfortunately many of the subtriles, they did a pool analysis, but many of the subtriles are quite underpowered. So you know, the median and size, the median number of people they tested per trial was 24 people, which means the probability each trial gives you an erroneous statement is decent. So good news here, some real good stuff on memory, attention time, processing speed, nothing crazy, but definitely detectable over and multiple studies. Looks like creatine does something for the brain. It's pretty good stuff. Now we have a little number four here, our last review of the evidence, not its own study, is the European food safety authorities, scientific opinion on creatine and cognitive improvements published in 2024, the panel reviewed randomized control trials and mechanistic data. So like how would this work if it did work molecule to molecule in the brain? And they judged all of the evidence in total for any domain of cognitive enhancement as insufficient for creatine and they considered the mechanism weak. Damn, Scott, that's kind of insulting, isn't it? You were judged as weak. It's a bit. That's like 300 getting kicked into the pit type of shit. Get Europeans. Now here's the European regulators basically said like, oh cool, like it's a nice idea, but we need much more data to be certain about this. The good news for creatine is that the European food safety authorities insanely conservative. You got to have a real, real high bar with them to show that you have an effective supplement. And so lots of effective supplements just don't meet the criteria it doesn't mean the supplements are effective. It means your criteria is very high. So can you scream at the top of your lungs to the European peoples while they're trying to club and eat sausages? Um, everyone has to take creatine for brain gains that'll change your life. No. But to create a still help aspects of your cognition? Yes, it seems that it does. Lastly, number five, the biggest randomized control trial single study in this group is by Suntkula at all. Yes, and so also very European person. Uh, Sandkula, I know personally was smoking in a long-gated cigarette as he did the data analysis of the study. He, she, I don't know. Well, so in Europe, with Suntkula, it's not very cool to talk about. 123 omnivores and vegetarians and one giant pit to battle. No, that was a dream I had last night. This was just them being tested to see if creatine enhanced their cognition. They were given five grams of creatine a day, which is a good robust dose. And the thing ran for six weeks. And it was also a double blind crossover trial. So they would do six weeks of creatine or placebo. They didn't know. They took six weeks off completely of any placebo or creatine. Then they did six weeks of the opposite either creatine if they had placebo last time or placebo if they had creatine last time. Again, they didn't know. And then they measured at both pre-post pre-post. So this is a very, very robust study design. The only not going to study design is a six week washout with how long creatine takes to get into your brain and back out might be a little short, but I think it's pretty decent. And what it showed was that working memory as measured by the backward digit span, which is really annoying test to take. My OCD does not make me very good at that test. Showed that there was a borderline small effect on working memory. And they also tested the users abilities to do the Ravens Progressive Mace Recessive Test. I am personally brilliant at mouh ah ah my brag more about your stupid tests. Okay. So anyway, this one time at No. Sirems, Joe. Ravens Progressive Mace Recessive is probably how it's say the most robust test of deep pattern matching intelligence abilities and takes a long time to do. It's usually not even time to take a few hours. At some point you just won't be able to solve some of the problems. And there seemed to be no effect on the Ravens score. So we could probably rule out that creatine makes you in some deep way like smarter. Like if you talk to like if you have a like a special fancy account with open AI, they let you use the research preview of GPT 4.5. And I'm going to take you to those places. But I'm working memory. It does have a small noticeable effect. They did note some side effects. These are just regular people. Some people got GI upset. They got bloating. Scott, do you blow from creatine to get GI upset? Nope. It's still great on it. And I have never met anyone who actually gets these side effects. Yeah. I never have either. No. I can't even tell I'm taking creatine. You're saying completely transparent. Yeah. So these side effects were more common than with placebo, but they were also described as mild, no big deal. And it seems to be that if you are cognitively taxing yourself consistently, really pushing your brain to the max, creatine might feel like a one-rep upgrade and working memory. Not a new brain, but I can use a rep here and there. Not bad. Not bad. Now, here's the kind of complexity. And this is why science is a mother. In this best of all randomized control trials, they found that there was no omnivore vegan interaction. Like vegans didn't do any better vegetarians didn't do any better with creatine that omnivore which a lot of the other studies do show. So we still think it's an effect. But this time it didn't show up, which means it's probably not this enormous crazy psychotic thing. So across all five of these modes of analysis, which is four of the best review studies, and the best randomized control trial, what can we conclude about creatine and the brain gains? Scott, can you imagine like a little gift of like old brain, like what with biceps and he's like curling his head. Yeah. And then he's like, man, should I like up the weight or should I up the trend or like what? And then he's like, I wonder if Stacy's ever going to notice me when I get more jack. I'm just over thinking it. I'm a brain, you know. Anyway, take homes. The magnitude of creatine's effect on reaction time, episodic and working memory, and other such subcategories of cognition is something like 3 to 8% improvement, which isn't crazy. It's small, but it's that trivial. It's not likely to be just a statistical error. It probably actually helps those things for real at a deep mechanistic level. And there are folks that can benefit probably a lot more and other folks that might benefit but a little bit less. On the more benefit side is people who don't eat a lot of meat or have vegan or vegetarian diets. Women, especially when they're a period meta puzzle, it seems. Folks that are in chronic sleep debt, look, listen to Brian Johnson, don't be in chronic sleep debt if you're up to about 18 different other ways. Or folks that have metabolic neurological conditions and especially older folks. But if you're younger, you're jacked, you're an omnivore and you already take five grams of creatine per day, just for the extra swelness, you can expect an uptick in your cognition, but it's going to be very small. And I almost promised two subtle for you to notice. It's still happening though, but it's going to be very subtle. Dosing in timelines as far as if you want to take creatine to boost your brain gains, three to five grams per day. Though I would just go on the safe side and take five grams per day of creatine meta hydrate. It's going to take four weeks to get your creatine in your brain up to standard levels that really help the most. So keep taking it. You can take 20 grams of creatine per day for like a week or two to really boost those levels up faster, but it's going to lead to more GI distress and more wallet distress because it's a good way to piss away creatine. Like you should be taking creatine for months if not indefinitely. So just ramp up normally with five grams per day, set it, forget it. Eventually your levels will be really good. And then four weeks later, you'll be like Superman thinking about shit. No one's ever thought about before they even thought about it. That's right, figure that one out. So the bottom line here is this folks all jokes aside. Creatine is cheap, creatine is safe. It's already in your gym bag. You're already using it to get jacked and it does help with that. For most lifters for most of you guys, it's really a why not. If I already take creatine or considering it for muscle growth, I might as well get a little brain boost. And then it's an insurance policy. It's awesome. It's just a little bit of an enhancer, kind of like going from 1080p resolution to 1140p. Not crazy, but for those adult videos you really like to zoom in on, might make all the difference. So does creatine boost brain gains? Yes. Is it a very small amount? Yes. Is it a real amount? Yes. So when people out there tell you creatine doesn't do shit for your brain. They're probably wrong. When people out there are trying to hawk their creatine supplement five times in order to out because it'll revolutionize your cognition. They're probably exaggerating. But you know what isn't an exaggeration is that the RP diet coach app and the RP high perchography app together can not only make sweet love to you, but that sweet love will result in a leaner physique, a more muscular physique, and you know what more happiness is why wouldn't you be happy if you were more jacked and more lean? Links in the description for those, digital products for you to purchase with your money. And in the meantime, be swell and take an extra scoop of creatine for Scott the video god. Bye now. See you guys next time.

Okay good technique. Suck it. You don't like any jerk on this. No jerks. Your back looks twice as big as when you walk in here. It feels twice as tough. I don't even know what to say because everything is wrecked. Yo, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Godization. Jared, Father here, all of us for Renaissance Godization. Mr. I, you pro. Mr. Steel your girl. Ish, in any case, there are two things we do not have for you today. We do not have alpha destiny. Nobody liked that by any name anywhere. But we do have Alex Leannitis. And we don't have 300 warrior trained. Oh, oh, oh, oh, type my fucker Spartans. Cause we only needed one. He called me on my rotary telephone. And I picked it up. And he was like, people get into these back workouts without understanding how basic back sizes built, trying to do fancy cable ship. I need to hit my outer lats. My fucker, you don't have any lats. That's right. So for real, hardcore, no biomechanics, circa 2021 BS, which as it's place, we'll talk about them in a second. We're doing a hardcore for real back workout today. Alex Leannitis, pleasure having you on the channel. How do you feel about all this? Mike, it's pleasure to be back on. I'm so excited for this. And what's cool is where it's at. That's how I built this back. Pull ups, rows, the basics. You have to never go wrong. And although I'll put Destiny's gone, I'll let you know that it's an bare mode. A state. How's fucking good? How you doing? Let's go. Alright folks, so you'll notice that we were starting to work out with weighted pull ups. But we're actually starting to pull about. Because if you just go right to pull up, especially weighted pull ups, that's how you go into your regular working weight and bench with no warm up. That's nuts. You're going to get shit performance, probability of injury is going to go way off. Fuck that. So we do pull down, light, then pull down is a little heavier. Set a 12, set a eight. Then the next thing we'll do is probably unweight it. It'll do a set of two to four pull ups with this body weight. And then the next set will be a working set where he actually puts weight on and goes to town. When we do these pull ups, watch for slow control, standardized height, and a big stretch at the bottom of the little pause, that's where we're going to get it right. You're going to build a shit load of back width, doing the fucking pound heavy basins. Now, I'm just going to dress this right up front here. What about that casual shit? Richard. Not your match ship. It's fucking great. It fucking works. But it's not an either or. A lot of your masks will be built through conventional shit. That fucking overloads a dick out of the muscle. When you're really big and you want to focus on part of it, this cash shit is awesome. This workout is hardcore because it uses effective movements from back in history. Not because it's historical. Look at old school guys, Edder Rado, a lot bullshit. They had a lot wrong, but they had some shit right. This shit they had right. That's my view on the ship. Jared may be less nice about this and we'll see what Alex is the United States. It's on the one hand, he's Canadian. That many other hand, he's great. The Greeks keep it real. The Canadians are all nice. Keep the stretch feeling good. There. Couple more. Come on. Oh yeah, slow. Big stretch. And right. The pull-up is a movement that often gets facetized with a ton of momentum. Yes. And no four-range motion at the bottom or top. In fact, this can be taken from even further level by doing chest bar. And for that, I would reckon that nobody else would go weighted. Yeah. Like, even Frank will crumble. Who, uh, thing was five and five. You can get out one, eighty five. Yeah. You never went with a 25 or 45 off of it. Yeah. It's waste. Just high reps. It's light as possible. Bull range of motion. Chest bar. Chest bar full stretch. So hard to the sternum right here. Oh yeah. Oh the great. Beautiful. Great. Please fun more. Go. Yes. Slow. Stretch, break. Crack. Beautiful. Beautiful. Beautiful. Good. Good. So, it's a long pause at the bottom. Yeah. That's bleeding my strength quite a bit. Oh yeah. Like a plate is hard right now. This is fake intensity. No, yeah. How wide. That would be. That would be weird. Yeah. And like my arms are even pumped right now. It's awesome. So everything. Sure. You form has got bigger since your shell. Dude, you've been checking off a lot. Absolutely. On the daily. The problem is it's been a crusade against the basics. Yeah. It's not entirely. Yeah. I've fed up because we know what works. Yeah. And pull ups are not going away. Yeah. So when I see someone saying, look how strong I am, he's on my 15 sloppy reps. I'm like, no, this is, you can't say that you're going. It's a bad genetics. Yeah. It's bad for. People talk shit about pull ups and betrows. Our precisely the people I've never seen them demonstrate a well-executed pull-up or bent row. That's right. And it's like, properly, like, high-green does where he bends all the way over. Fucking full stretch all the way in. Pull-up same way. You're going to be like, oh my god, my fucking lats are back completely blown up. And you can go, yeah. One more. Go. Yes. Slow. Slow. Beautiful. Right. Ha. That's it. That's it. Alex did three sets of weighted pull-ups. Now we stay doing pull-ups, but we take the weight off. It's an automatic down set. We're going to do it for two sets. Then we're moving on to pull-downs. So basically, we have vertical pulling. That starts out heaviest. And as the body tires, we go lighter, lighter, lighter. It's just a succession of down sets. And the pull-downs are essentially down set for pull-ups, sort of. It's a bit of a different curve, a bit of a different feel. We could use a different grip to increase the variation of somewhat. But here to be same grip, same everything, same to the other side. And so we're going to do maybe 10 to 15 reps on a first set. We'll see. Nine. Ten. Nice and easy. Cool. They're not tail-dance. That's it. When you use high-purchar-free steps, you can use the same grip. You can use the same grip. When you use high-purchar-free specific technique. Chains to the bar, no pausing at the top will put chin, slow on the eccentric. And a full big stretch pause at the bottom. The pull-up will humble the living fuck out of you. I, at a bodyweight in anywhere between 225 and 250, can typically do about 10 to 15 pull-ups fresh. And I swear to God, everyone in Instagram is like, really just 8 pull-ups on your second set. I thought you were big and I'm like, motherfucker, you have no idea what you're saying. You come trained with us. We'll teach you how to do pull-ups the right way. You make it zero. Bitch, that's you, Frank. You stop commenting on my stuff. Jesus Christ. Six. Six. Oh. Oh, Jesus Christ. Oh, I'm not that good. Good. Can you set this man up on the pull-down? That's three sets of weighted pull-ups. Two sets of unweighted pull-ups. That's five total sets of pull-ups. Well, in our way with the fucking vertical pulling muskowature. Last, here is major. Long ahead of a chy-sepskits hit, rear doubts. Biceps, warm, flex your forms. It's all cooked. Three sets of pull-downs are up next. And then we go into the rows. These pull-downs are going to watch for some cues. Going to really expand at the top of the big stretch. Chest up big to crunch at the bottom. Just the gentle touch at the bottom. We don't want to hold it. Not a very advantageous position. So put a lot of stretch underload from the last. So gentle touch here. Just for consistency. And then a slow eccentric with a big stretch at the top. Beautiful. Now we're going to be doing slightly higher reps here. We already did a low rep work. He did basically everything with sets of five to ten roughly. Already. We're going to do sets of ten to twenty. For these pull-downs, probably the first set is going to be like fifteen to twenty. And then we'll have the reps drop off that. Yes. One more. Come on. That's it. Slow. Big stretch. Slow. That's it. Raps. Aw. Feel a pump. Y'all. I'm still pump right now. This is amazing. All right. Bent rose. Last one last exercise. Sort of combo. It's just with the dig now. Won't take much. No. I don't know. And the lower back will never be a limiting fact. Yes. Especially for your vertical pulling first. That's right. It's all up or back. Lack. Back to lat limiting fact. Yeah. Fete inside shoulder width. You're going to hit hinge right into it. Tommy out chest up, arch lower back. When you get down to it, you're going to want to take the bar out here a little bit wider than shoulder width. No movement. So you're going to take the slack out of it, just flow here. Touch right below your sternum for a quick second. It gets stretched, touched the ground. As soon as you're done, take a quick break. Move in, one fist. And then regular rose touching the top. Good. Good. Fuck it. It's a work set. Keep going. Good. Good. No swinging. Yes. Yes. Yes. Well, swing don't judge. There it is. I forward. Yeah. Big shot more. It's just the same time. Yeah. Let's it. And down. There. There's a big stomach. No swinging. We got the endurance of a fucking box here. Big chest. Rack. Rack. Rack. Rack. Is the ox meant to be a good or bad thing? Uh-huh. Um, you know, it is men. We'll do three sets this and then three sets of vent row. Same way. Uh-huh. Super set. We were going to plan on doing the superset of chest support. Sorry, chest support. I got rose to the chest. Far down. Super set to regular rose to the tummy. But I thought that Alex is the tire. So we're going to do a couple sets of rows to chest. Rest in a roll-mount of time. And then a couple sets of regular rows to the tummy. Yeah. Good. That's it. On my own. Okay. Good. Tech me. It's not good. You don't like any jerk on this. Yeah. No jerks. But you know what makes it hard because it's not lengthened by us, man. So it's like the cheat helps smooth out the resistance career. I feel. So I actually have a recommendation for I do that. Don't. Don't superset relax. No superset. Oh yeah. We'll do it. Yeah. So Alex made a very good point. He pointed out the fact that the bent row was not lengthened by us. And if you fail when you can't touch a chest anymore, you have a lot more left here if you wanted. But you're being limited by this week position. Totally valid. If you're an advanced lifter and we'll have this. This is not a to-do list of RP videos somewhere. It's own breakdown. If you're an advanced lifter and you already know how to do a strict bent row, you can take it to the next level and make the bent row. A little bit more lengthened by us by doing this. So normally you would touch. And when you got to failure, that's it. You can do an in-norl bent row to make it a little bit more challenging and interesting. If you can do the regular version. Is as the row becomes a little bit more difficult for you or even from REP 1. You come back down to the same bottom position. But the top position is slightly elevated to the right position. But the top position is slightly elevated to allow you to have a mechanical advantage to track into touch your tummy. So what you can do is here we start here, notice my position. As I come up, I tilt up a little bit. Tilt up. Tilt down. Tilt up. Tilt down. And you can do this regular until you get tired and you're like, okay. And the next one. Tilt up. Tilt down. Notice the tilt is still coming for my hips. Yeah. So I never swinging. It's not an athletic motion. It's a smooth adjustment. Rise up. One more. I'm throwing nothing to slice. That's it. That's it. That's it. Yes. What's it more? What's it more? What's it more? I'm swinging too far. Control. Control. Yes. One more. Control from the top. Oh. Control. Stretch. I'll do it for it. Rack. Good. I just got to show you the back bump. It's unreal. Your back looks twice as big as when you walk in here. It feels twice as fucked up. I appreciate. Form guidance. Keep it in your check. Guys, check this out. Alex is one of the strongest motherfuckers on social media. Do a crazy ass weighted pull ups. Bench and three 15 for 10 shit like that. I saw that by the way. I checked off. I didn't. I didn't not to it, but I got me to where I needed to be to where that next video. I knotted to. And today at the end of the back workout, he's using 115 pounds for sets of five to ten on that road. So you think you're strong, amazing. Use precision technique for hypertrophy, control the centrics, touching your tummy every time, bending away the fuck over. You can lean up the two on at the top. You will understand that it does not take a lot of load. You get a fucking insane workout. Alex, any wise words for our viewers and the folks came from your community to see this video? What do you think? Well, first of all, I think I'm going to love it because we focus on the basics. Ultimately, that's what many of us should be focusing on. As you described perfectly, I've legal a lot heavier than this, even for lower repetitions. Less volume. My technique is always good, but not to this extent. This is new level. This is control. Yeah, but long pods, because one thing to make it brief a second, but when you're holding up for three seconds at the bottom, and I just much more contracting, low back, oh, the lights you up. And right now, man, like, I don't even know what to say because everything is right. Yeah. And none of this was acted. Like the faces, the straining, like, RP training works. And you guys got to try it out with stuff like this. And you don't need a fancy gym. This one's nice, but. Very nice. Oh, yeah. It was an easy move. But I want to fancy a gym in the world. We use like 2% of the fancy. Or in the section where it's empty. He was in a basic Olympic bar. You know, so if you can get by with a Pola bar, a simple lap Pola machine, a bar bow. A couple dumbbells. You're fucking gold. Your money. Focus on the technique. Focus on that steady progression. You have the high-perrophy app. If you don't like the app, fuck it. Don't use the app. Use your own shit. You'll get where you need to go. Drug free, not drug free. 50, 50. It's all going to work out. Focus on good technique. Do your best effort. Check out Alex LeNido. He's got his own YouTube channel. He puts out great shit. He's got his own Instagram. He puts out even better shit. He's got his own only fans. We should probably not get enough of them. He's got a lot of shit. Because that's the best lap heavy art. Mixed together with champagne. On a percent. Anyway. Peace on you.

Use the pen. Oh yeah come on. Hey! Hey! Hey! Alright good luck getting up. Alright folks, this is Kevin. He tells me he competes in men's physique, which I feel like what? A lot of big men's physique's out there, but I'm trying to say. Hi, Bruce. There you go. I compete as you guys all know, rather unsuccessfully, and open body building. Jay had feathers, of course. Very classic. Look at our class kids. And it turns out, you know what I'm saying? We got beef. Because Kevin looked at Jay at one day and he was like, I don't like how your face looks. Stop looking at me. And Jayard was like, you think you have a big chest, huh? I can't believe he was like, no, no, no, it's sign the papers. Let's get this on video. Crazy chest workout. And this gentleman has a brand that's called. Shut up and stuff. Shut up and stuff. And we'll see if Mr. Kevin does just that. If we get a few win per side, we'll let's get to it. Yeah. Yeah, I need an injury. You got to work around with anything? Are you pretty good? Not pretty good. That's good. So you're done to do whatever. Alright. Scott, let's get out of here and get to the origin event. We're going to go to an origin event. We're going to go to an origin event. We're going to go to an origin event. Alright. You see right. You put it in the wrong way. How long have we been training? How many years have you been training? How many years have we been training? How many years? How many years have we been training? What do we do today? I've figured it out. That's a wrong way, not a wrong whole. Alright folks, big chest workout means. Alright, a few other muscles after this. But we begin often, not always. But definitely today, with a compound. Incline press. Get the upper packs. Get the whole packs. Go on. It's going to be really good. Today, we're going to do a split for machine presses. Just as Jared says, the machine here is pretty nice. And we'll work the try. You want me to run your ass? Watch for this technique. Slow, controlled, gentle pause for range of motion. Let's get to it. You can make it a lot harder. I'm gonna follow you guys, but soft falls on the top. Soft falls. Go down, go down, go down. Right here. All tension. Up. Again. Soft falls on the top. Slow. Talk to your chest, but barely. Up. Up. One more. Let's go. Slow, slow, god damn it. Hold on. Pause. Ugh. Go. Push. Oh. How are you? How are you? Sheesh. How are you? That's what you want to see right here. That's it. That's it. And that's the whole workout. We're doing it. We're not moving. Just kidding. There's like 10 more sets. So you guys will notice on here that Jared is going to really push his chest up. Really retract his shoulder blades. Nice, powerful arch-sweak and press them on big platform. He's going to descend to very slowly. He's going to pause at the bottom of the chest. And then he's going to come all the way up. And a pretty explosive manner. But it's accelerating from the chest. It's not an explosion. And just kind of wish I looked like that. I put in years to this. Years of looking after him. Look at me. I look like fucking homework. I'm doing it. Oh, six. Couple more. You got this. OK. One more. Come on. Pause. Up. Go. Go. Go. Rack. Oh, fuck. Beautiful. We've been in this shit. It's just too hot. I was going to only five. Not at all. Another heavy set like that is fast-wish guy. We have an option here to keep going and doing heavy sets for Kevin or to let him cook it heavy sort of five to ten rep range, which is in now. Or to reduce the weight and bump him into a higher rep range. And we're just going to take a rough guess that is a high proportion of fast-wish muscle fibers. I'm going to try to correct about that. Sweet. You know what I'm saying? And that means that he's probably going to benefit from some lower up sets just like this. So we're going to leave him here for a while. These low-wrap sets tend to hit you pretty well. That sets a five to ten mess you up. There you go. Correct, guess. We're going to get out of for a while. And later we're going to do some high rough stuff. Two to four minute rest periods. One heavy compound stuff. The deep break in the prep. The more intense heavy techniques, like super sets and shit like that. I'm throwing in. So the rest periods are short and I'm just trying to get a really good pump. So longer rest periods in the front of the workout. And generally you reduce them as the workout goes on because you're going into like isolation, shit. And that's why usually go like the first two exercises have everything else. This quick like 30 seconds. We'll do something similar. Good, stop Jared. One more heavy set for Kevin. Perfect, keep going. Chastop. Got a pause longer. That was really good. Pause, wait. Good. A little longer, wait. Let's make this one count. Chastop. Up. Another clue. We're here to work. There's slow, slow, slow, slow, slow, slow pause. Up. One more. I'm right here with you. Be your best. Chastop. Up. Go. Go. Up. Rack. Yeah, I'm so hungry. That's a sick. That was good. That was too pale here. All set here. You know, when you get tired, that's what you want to do. So you can use your Chastop to the springboard. So when you're pausing on the top of the chair. That was a bautonalassem, please. That's why I'm here. Call you on the bullshit. Fly's next year. Yep. Oh, they're full of this soap. I don't know where it's. Well, at least it's going to be very clean. I'll just get the fuck out there. So you're opening up to that wall and you're trying to keep it. Most people only fly to go like this. Yeah. We're trying to keep it out to that wall. I'm really used to pecks. But a whole range of motion. Incline pressing is done. Four sets there. Now we're going to get into four sets of machine-chastoplies. These are awesome. Set them from big stretch. Full contraction. A pause at the top. Different kind of force curve for the chest. They're usually experienced with something like dumbbell flies, which gravity doesn't affect at the top. And all the way control big chest at the bottom. This is temptation to collapse at the bottom. So do that. Leverage your chest up. Shoulders back. And then feel free to cave in. Jared is teaching the technique here. Where you stay retracting, even all the way up. That makes it really hard. But super effective for the pecks. Multiple sets here of anywhere between five and 15. Usually between ten and fifteen reps. And a little super bonus. To the end of these sets, we're going to superset them with wide grip push-ups. Probably to a deficit. Really fry up the whole thing. Let's get to it. Slow. Chest up. Chest up. Chest up. Go. All the way. Keep your fingers together. There you go slow. Chest up. Chest up. Chest up. Chest up. Hold. Right. Good. Good stuff, man. Excellent. They're popping out of the skin. Huh? Oh, fuck. Big chest. Ah. Ah. Slow. Mmm. Let's go. Yes, Jared. I'm a more man. Let's do this. Oh, yes. Yes. Oh. Got a pause at the top. Make this one pause with three seconds at the top. Go. Three seconds. Hold. One. Two. Three. And slow. Chest up. Chest up. Right away here for push ups. Slow. Slow. Slow. Deep. Deeper. Pause. Up. One more. Right away. No setup. Go. Yes. You ready? Chest. Slow. Deep. Deep. Deep. Deep. Pause. Up. Go. Go. One more. Bonus. Time to suffer a little bit. Up. Okay. Cheat. Rack. Good enough. Good. Stop. So who want to approach your chest a little more to the exercise? I set it in here. I was saying keep here. But in something back, I mean, like this here. And you're using all pecks. Like this stretch. Instead of being here. I'm sick. Yeah. I exercise way too easy. So here, you're strong. Right here. All chest. Stretch. Stretch. And the extent. Do you not? When you come down, this is the first thing you do. Right. That's like completely taking. You were more stretched here than you were here. Gotcha. So you're here. You want to maintain that stretch the hallway through. And instead of being here, that literally takes the stretch off. Okay. Think about that as you're doing it. When you feel the shit start going toward the floor. Go. Hold it up there. Hold it. What if fuck is that? That was zero. Zero. And that's it. Right to the push-up. Let's go. There you go. That's perfect. That's some half of that right there. Right down again. Zero rest at the top. Barely locked out on come back up. Down. Slow. Deep. Wait. Up. Down right away. Slow. We've got butter from the way up. Deep. On the way up here. Don't see. Deep. Use the press. Up. Come on. Up. One more. One more. I'm going to fuck that. I'm going to let you go. All day. All day. Warrior shit today. Slow. Control. Deep. I want that stretch. Wait for it. Up. Up. Okay. Kick those out. Just push-ups on the ground. Again again. Pull your arm up. Slow. Up. Shoot. Up. One more. Go. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Wait. Use the press. Up. Oh yeah. Come on. Nice. Come on. All right. Good luck getting up. I think my chest grew just being close to that. So Kevin has the interesting opposite problem that I have. He's not supposed to train his arms according to his coach. He says he doesn't want to. So we're going to use it today as that one time. And show him a. Try to exercise that he probably hasn't done. All right. Folks. So Jared is going to be warming up and thus demonstrating the Smith machine. Spell crusher just in the variation. But you guys can try it. Kevin's going to try it today. Jared is going to get it so that more or less the bar lines up just under his chin. And he's going to keep his elbows in as much as he can on the way down. He's low big. So that's hard. The rest of you can probably push your elbows in further. He's going to control the centric on the way down pushing his elbows towards his hips the entire time. It's like for quads. If you're squatting, you want your knees to be pushed forward as you go down. Same here with elbows elbows forward and in all the way deep in a pause. And then all the way up, it's that simple give it a shot. You'll have to adjust the Smith machine position a bit to get it right. But once you get it right, oh my god. Fucking beautiful. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Let's give it a round. All right. Get out of here. This is the elbow issues when he does skull crusher. So I asked him does he do them like everybody else. Which when he's he will do skulls they lie down and they go like this or some shit. This is probably a little better for elbows. I've at least done in a go to the for myself and clients and stuff. Putting your elbows behind your body like this and putting in that position. Really weird. A lot of people just kind of let that weight drop behind them a bunch and it's just like ripping on your elbow, shit load. This is a little more controlled. I like it more. Why should you try to demo overhead looks like you get that mic is a level of a little bit. Oh yeah for sure right now. Yeah. Well I was demonstrating lying down. That's me lying down shoving it behind my head like most people. I'll shove some of my down. Slow. Gabbos in. Yes. Big pause. Up. Up. One more. Let's go Kevin. Slow. I got you on right here. Slow. Elbows in. Big pause. Up. One more. Bonus round. Reposition. There you go. Hit it. Slow. Elbows in. Slow it down. Big pause. Find him in. I'll go way up too. Press. Go. Rack. Hell yeah. Tell me you feel that. Yeah. Let's do another. What the fuck? Yeah. Yeah. Big stretch all the way through here. That's all good. All right. So as soon as you're done with your Tri-Subsettle at you know, you're going to rack, Requisition Superquit. Still grip here and here. Closed grip bench press right away as many as you can. I'll talk you through that. So just first good technique here. Again. That was no both in. Slow. Press. Go. One more. Elbows in. Nobody said. Press. Elbows in. In. There you go. Slow pause. Up. Okay. Yep. Go. Good. Slide up a little bit. Slow. Boom. Really chuck the elbows. Fuck the shit out of me. Up full lockout. Good. Slow. Up. Again. Go. Slow. You got a fucking man. This is how muscle grows. Up. One more. Slow. Slow. Elbows in. Up into a full lockout. Pull up. Pull up. Pull up. Slow. Down. Down. Elbows in. Elbows in. Up. Go. Go. Up. Up. Six. Up. Up. We got the chills on that one. Oh, it's really funny. That's a good look. You guys want to hit some poses together real quick for the camera. Sure. Well, this is a good lighting. The way to have a big chest is to do clearly shit like these guys are doing Holy crap. Amazing workout. Kevin, where'd you think? It was awesome. Awesome. I knew how to train chest. Wow, it was clearly wrong. So, compared to what you normally do. Yeah. Yeah. How much comedy less working sets do we do? A lot less. Usually I'm doing like at least 30. I want to do it more than that. No, no, no, no. I was done after the first exercise. That's good stuff. Dude, you are a pleasure to train your technique with instantly flawless. Amazing easy to coach. Awesome. That was awesome. All around. A good pleasure for us. Yeah, what about this guy? I don't appreciate him too much. I told you the color of the day was blue and purple. You come in here wearing red. I don't know if that's. He just got to be different. That's what I was always like. As my biological son when he was growing up, he was always trying to be good. Anyway, guys, give him Kevin a follow. He's a big deal. Clearly. Follow his brand. You hooked up to it today. That's your damn show. You know, if you're trying to suffer and shut up about it, this is a guy to follow and get a chop about it. I'm going to go shut up about a lot of stuff. I'll see you guys next time.

No bullshit. We get a rest after this. Let's go to the bottom. Slow control control. We'll get a pain. We'll get you. We'll get you. We'll get you. We'll get you. Up. I'm. Hey guys. Dr. Mike for unsancededization. And I'm sure glad Jared Father, AFB Pro is okay. Because near minutes ago, Jen Aguirre, our superstar now AFB Pro. Congratulations AFB. She physically lifted Jared up Darth Vader style. He was hanging on to Dear Life by his neck. And she's like, bring Dr. Mike and Scott the video over here to film a proper quad training session. Or else, when Jared was a group. And I think I made out that he was like, yes, and he texted us. We flew right over the Derizurable take some time, but we got here. And now we're here to smash Jen's quads. Jared and he revenge fantasies here for you. Yeah. What was the pull? You might throw up. Yeah. We'll see what happens. No promises. You feel good? Yeah. A fun thing to cut back to. Let's get to it. We are going to warm Jen up. And then we are going to get to doing probably three or four mile rep sets of hack spots. We're going to be slowly descending. We're going to be pausing at the bottom. And we're going to probably start the first set in around 10 to 15. Rest a few seconds. Hit it again two more times. That's one set. We're going to do three or four like that. I don't think Jen has ever done this with us. She's had it quads once at the end of a glute workout. Let's hit the great news. It's got the video guy. It gets past muscle. One more. Come on. Go. Control. Control it too. Slow. Power. Oh. Oh. Beautiful. This device has three purposes. The first purpose is for when you don't have blocks to put down on a hack spot to make an inappropriate range of motion. Thanks, my god. Unless you guys are doing great work. Just kidding. It's a great machine, but there'd be a lower. Or I guess we could be taller. In any case. One thing we can do over doing Jen today. This is Permister Jan Feather. We put this here and her shoulders push into this. It's nice and solid. It's comfortable enough for the next. Seems to work. It stays a range of motion by about four or five inches, whatever that is. I'm not used to measurements that large amount of personal life. The other thing you use is for. I think is to pick it up and to look at your friends and go, hey, you know, you just do. And the last thing, a minimum kind of like a third-hand design element. It wasn't even really designed for this. It's something to do with yoga. Something with yoga. But I'm not sure what. In any case, hack squats. It's a Christian option. Knees bullshit anymore. I'm pushing up my knees. I've seen it in almost every leg video. You never. Don't shoot. I'm a person. Fucking video up right now. Go ahead, pull it up. We're friends. I'm here in the last one that I was with. Oh, you guys. I just want to know what they're doing now. Slow. Big pause. Up. Rest. Breathe. Breathe. Nobody said, rack. We're resting. Yeah. I think you're going. There are a few ways that you can actually increase range of motion without using something like that because it does seem a little unstable. Yoga blocks, we're looking for those. There's a little yoga blocks. Or you can stack plates or blocks on the foot part. And that'll increase range of motion too. This works for us today. But the yoga blocks might be a little better. You put them on each shoulder up against this thing. You can even tie them around. Or the foot. At Mike's gym, you guys have seen. He has like actual pads and he can place there and kind of tape around. So this works though. This is good. We can slow. Control. Control. Up. One more. No. Go. Control. Control it at you. Slow. Slow. Up. Power. Rack. Oh. Oh. Beautiful. Oh. That's suck. That was amazing. Good. Good. That was all giant. Literally how I recounted my last sexual experience to the word. The socks was amazing. My mouth was dry. It's good when it's dry, right? Oh, I do want to be with you. You're not ready. So relax, yeah. Just breathe it out. Gen is a woman of fury and valor. And this is a sword, by the way. And she says she's ready right away. But we noticed that she is still breathing quite heavily, which tells us that her cardiovascular abilities will limit her abilities in the next set, which means she's not ready. We have to make sure she's fresh enough in the target muscle to get at least five more reps. That she's already been for quite a while. Want to make sure the cardiovascular ability is not limiting. So breathing has to return roughly to normal. We have to make sure that she feels strong and ready to go. She already does. So that's a check mark. And also you have to make sure that the synergists are not limiting. Do you know about feeling okay and everything good? All right. So we check all the boxes when she breathes a little bit more normally, which is probably pretending she's doing now. She's going to have her mental aid soon. Then we'll get back to it. Low. Up. Stand up. Breathe. Breathe. Come. Come. Whenever you're ready to, there is no rush. There is no rush. There is no test. There is no evaluation. Nobody's judging you. You go with your own bit. Come ready. Let's do it. Hit it too. Slow. Slow. Yes. Deep. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Yes. That's it. Deep. Up. Stand up. Up. Up. Breathe. Rest. We'll do one more. You did amazing. You're going to finish up strong here. Okay. I'll let the pitch off the bottom. Okay. Get your feet lower a little bit. Get your feet lower. Not ready. Feet lower. All you. Slow. Begin. Hit it. Okay. Slow right here and all the way to the bottom. Slow. Slow. Lower. Lower. Up. Yes. Go. Up. You're a little funky there. Oh, we got one. We got a live one. Good. Stop. That was your message. Just one. I know. They'll feel huge. Just walk in the room. After she said. Z. She went. She had more than one friend. Oh, my God. She didn't good job. That lady had needs. What do you want to know? Oh, it's such. One more. Four sets of squats and. My. We talking about. What we got. Game over. Three sets of squats. I see the issue with this kind of stuff is when people aren't used to those and ranges approach like that and she has to be shaking. Yeah. That's a damn good time. She's just going to overreach up this very perturb. She, yes, she's not used to that at all. Yeah. So there's a lot of fucking damage and curing it. What? Do we just want to keep like give her bad. What the fuck. Right. Of the same. We're probably value. Usually, we're pretty good. You too. All right, so we're done here, yeah? Or one high reps that here. You want to do a higher reps that here? And then I wouldn't do four sets of squats. Yeah, okay, yeah, two or two to three. Yeah, okay. And that's how volume happens. All right, let's get this off and just a plate. If you guys have ever come back from a D-Load or a long off period, and you notice your technique during that time is really shaky and weird. Notice that she's a very well trained individual, clearly. But notice when she's getting into the hole and we're telling her to control that last part, I've seen her train. She doesn't normally go as deep as stuff. Or control the essence of that well. Notice how she's having that similar, oh, I'm new to this stimulus type of shaking going on. That's actually a physiological thing that occurs. And very essentially damaging exercises like straight leg deadless. Any other hip-nges, when you're not used to those deep stretches, you'll get those shakes. You guys have seen that happen. So if she was hack squatting her regular weight, which I've seen her do like 405, and she tried to get in that position, high chance of an injury. So if you guys want to mitigate injury, lower the load, really control that last part of the eccentric mic was talking about, and you'll probably be good to go, and then you could progress from there. So one, you're going to recruit way more motor units. You're going to have bigger quads and you're going to mitigate the risk of injury. So it's all around the lens. Up, up, Jen. Down. No bullshit. You get a rest after this. Let's go to the bottom. Slow control, control control. The pain is good. We will watch him change. Hold the tension. Hold the tension. Hold up. Yes. Stand up. Yes. Breathe. Rest. Two in your gun. Watch your knees. No bullshit. You're time to rest. Grab the bar. Let's go. Let's go. Slow. Each one quality. Slow right here. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow, slow. Slow. Breathe. Up, go. Go, go. Grab. Oh. Oh, yeah. Oh. Yeah. Oh. Oh. Oh. I'm going to do that. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. That was good. Good job. Good job. I'm good. Okay. Oh, God. Oh. Yeah. Yeah. I'm gonna slow up. Jen, I would help you up, but it's better for YouTube if you try to do this. I'm just making a sound. Oh, I'm sorry. I've flowed, not in the nose there. We're gonna go do the regular squats. The... She's fine. Okay. Okay. Oh, fuck you. Fine, Jared. What is it like, while they're well-swalled? Yeah, fuck you. Yeah. I'm not moving until I can see him. What was that for, Seth? For Seth. Fuck you, that was like 900 sets. So, point to toes out. Just to tad more. And I'm gonna show your hips. So your knees should be in line with that toe. So, point to toe out. There's a tad more. There you go. I don't really keep your hips open. Can I help your lower back? Yeah. I'm really gonna keep your hips open. Can I help your lower back at the bottom? Now, she's doing squats. High bar squats with one of those elevation heel thingies. Really great technique. The focus here is to keep the chest up. So that when you're standing up and push through the chest, which really means you're pushing through the quads. If you start to push the chest down, you can get more leverage with your posterior chain. It's a lot of glutes. It's a great thing for lifting more weight, but not ideal for the best stimulus to fatigue ratio for the quads. And bonus round. These are quads are so pre-cooked. Really fully cooked. From the abs squats, she needs to use a minimum amount of weight here. Thus, the amount of loading through her back. The amount of stabilization you have to do is very small. 65 pounds. She's squatting. You know, two plates and stuff before the depth. This is the kind of squats that you do. Once your legs are already cooked, that means the stimulus of fatigue ratio on them is going to be unbelievable. It's all quads, all quads, all quads, essentially. She's so pre-cooked for half squats. This is the ultimate high SFR squat exercise for quads. You just don't need you a lot of it to really put that cherry on top. And the cherry, unfortunately, happens to be pain flavored. Chest up. Please, the corner. One blink of your chest. Up. Go. Slow. Yes. Get to get there, Jack. Good, you're no matter here. Chest up. Slow. Up. Quads, quads, quads, quads. Eight, two more. Good. Slow. Good chest. Good chest. You're just going to leave the quads. Up. There we go. There we go. You're good. Stay there. Hands up. This is the last set of the day. Descend slowly. As if hands forward like this. Slow. Pause. Up. Oh yeah. One more gen. Slow descent. Wait. Up. What? Up. Go. There's one more gen. One more gen. Stand up, gen. Stand up. You're a flettakelle. Descend. Slow. Slow. Slow. Watch. Don't you hear about that first? Up. That's it. Yep. That's it. That's it. Oh, amazing. Amazing. Amazing. Gen. Great job. When you failed, keeping it in the quads. Oh, yes. Most people know. Most people will modify their technique and then fuck me. You're the best last representative. I was amazing. You never compromise to check the first of all. This may be the most pathetic anyone's ever looked at the gym. Fuck you. Fuck you. Fuck you. Do something about it. Fuck you. Do something. Go ahead. Take all of them. Okay. Shut up. I'm getting up. Okay. Oh my god. I'm in the first video we did with her. What she was like, I don't sit between such a thing. Why not? Because I just don't do that. I do. And then I set her a section. Okay. I can do this. Gen. That was a classic genogery level of effort. We expected nothing less. We got nothing less. You're amazing. You're a superhero. You're a superhero. Just because I want to make this out, you're even longer. She's living building the tablates. As she's standing here and she's really having a hard time. Like she's getting more and more active. Gas and burn the more we talk. So a gen. Kind of like hobbyzer into whatever energy you're using channel. Gen has her own YouTube. Go check her out. Check her out at Instagram. This is how real training works. Yeah. Gen. You've been amazing. We'll have you back soon for another muscle group. Thank you. All right. I'll be back soon. Bye bye. Bye bye. Bye bye.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Predensation and I'm here to talk to you about the stupidest reason I've ever personally heard for using steroids and that is to try to get girls. This presentation is entirely hypothetical because I have never seen a girl in real life let alone gotten the tone as to go talk to her. I assume that's what you do to girls. But in any case, I digress. Here's the thing. There are tons of bad reasons to do steroids and many people may be most used in for terrible reasons. But I had a question on a recent video that really just you ever read something like internet and just goes like, right into your fucking brain and you're like, ah, I got to make a video about this. Here's the video. It was a video of one of the earlier ones we made about steroid downsides and tradeoffs and costs and all those bad stuff and you're going to, you know, die sooner and you're going to be dumber and someone was like, yeah, for sure, I feel all that, but and actually have the quote here. I want to use them because I want to get a female attention like the jacked guys at my gym seem to get. Oh boy. This is so off base. This assumption and this logic that I had to make a video about it because believe it or not, humble brag, not so humble, brag coming up. I'm the most jacked guy at most gyms. I'm like, dragons layer or there's all pros and I'm not exactly a women in the sea of you know what clearly it is because I'm five foot one as my official height. I decided to put various parts of my faith where they don't belong, but I do have some insight on this and it's one of these things where you see someone genuinely, wholeheartedly believing something that couldn't be further from the truth. In this case, very very very far from the truth. I just had to say something's here we go. Here we go. Here we go. The big question here and a couple of questions off is will getting more muscular get you more theme. More female attention. Very generally the answer is yes, but huge but maybe that's the kind of girls you're into. Ah, ah comedy. It's just by a bit more on average female attention from being jacked versus not jacked. It's a small change and it's only to a point. If you gain a certain amount of muscle and then gaining past that, you actually get into the neutral zone of the last 10 pounds of muscle you put on had no effect. How much you were pulling in and then after that it's actually less and less. It gets tougher to get laid as you get more and more jacked. On average of course. Another very interesting thing that I'm going to this is a hill I'm in a fucking die on. I mean technically I'm a scientist so I have to say all of these are tentative conclusions and I will absolutely change them in light of better reasoning and evidence. But I think this is good. Good reasoning and evidence here. The point of peak male attractiveness physique wise. For the average hot girl and what she prefers let's say in the modern Western world. For sure in the Asian world because Asian girls tend to like eyes that are significantly less muscular is achievable by the vast majority of people within five years of completely drug free training. Just to anchor this in your mind. Because I won't give reasons in blah, blah, blah, blah. Specific numbers and a second we'll get into this. But if you're having trouble believing this you are part of a subculture fitness which is different. Very very different and we can get some illusions as to about what is that most people like. It matters a shitload to you that you're jacked and shredded and vaining in the gym and you're looking in the mirrors. But the girls around you in the gym are at a Scott fitting out where do people meet girls when they talk to women. bars clubs disco texts, saloons getting old wild west here. Get shot. And it's got a hot, bitch for some guns. In any case. Regular people, regular hot girls even fitness hot girls. Think that Brad Pitt from a fight club is like the bees knees. He's like heroin thin. Fuck. I'm starting to sound like coach Greg over here. Brad Pitt. You guys. It is not a jack guy. And all. And if you look at all the celebrities that females like the most. Oh, let's see. Justin Bieber could just straight walk into a fucking crowd. If you and you might place now for casual sex. And they're like, ah, bro, Justin Bieber, ways to talk. My fucking leg does. We are in a mass delusion in the fitness community about what it is that is peak attractive for the purposes of attracting females in this case. If you're male, if you're female and you're watching this, she's a better uses if you're tired. Just on to the next. I am on the say, it's going to sound nicer. Be pleasant to it. Even make sense. In any case, here's the thing. If you're about six feet tall, all you have to wait at a relatively lean around 10% body fat is 175 pounds or so. And that's pretty fucking close to what the average hot girl thinks is the hottest physical type for a guy. Not insanely much the face or the income or the personality will get to that later. Two things I know about each one of those and we move on with just on physique alone. It doesn't take much. Now, if you want to get bigger than that by 10 or 20 pounds, it's probably going to yield about the same amount of female interest or appreciation just in a different way. Like, oh, like, hey, when you think about Connor, like, he's kind of big, but I like that. Like, that's like 181.9 year, whatever. That's six feet. If you get to above 200 and keep going relatively lean, you're into like the muscle fetish girls that really like jack guys, but like there's a small fraction of all attractive girls that you probably into. And the attractive girls that are not muscle fetishes are less and less inclined to believe that you are very attractive anymore. And it'd be like, hey, like, what do you think of like Connor and they're like, I don't know, it kind of looks like the rock. It's like too bad direct quote. All right. So let's try some other heights. I ran the numbers on this. Here's how it looks. This is going to potentially shock you. Here we go. 150 pound male physique at 5 foot 6. That's how tall I am. IRL. That gets you. And FFMI of about 21.8, which is like damn near 5 points below where they start to think you might be taking steroids. This is not an overly jacked individual. That's fat free mass index by the way for folks I'm on a Google that at 5 foot 6. So if you're 5 6, which is my height, weird. If you're around 150 pounds lean, you're kind of in that zone of what the average girl who likes guys and is attracted to them seems to think is probably really best. Now average is a huge bandwidth. Tons of different kinds of girls know where he's, but if you're really like, you're going to take steroids to improve your physique to get the girls. They get least got to be shooting for the highest volume of girls possible. You can be odd to take steroids to get like this 1% of really weird girls. And if you're into that, hey, fuck and juice up fucking fuck off whatever. But if you're really serious about like I just want attention from females, you could have the logical thing to do is to become as attractive as you can be to as many people as possible. And that means if you happen to be 5 foot 6, which is never brewing in an adult height, like me, all you do is you weigh 150 pounds with some abs, okay, about 10% body fat, and that already puts you into above average muscularity. 150 or 5, 6. Man, do you really need steroids for that? The answer is maybe, but highly, highly unlikely. If you're 6 feet tall, it's about 175 pounds, and if you're 6 foot 6, first volume of swim in the shit, because bitches love a tall mother fuck. But all you gotta do is weigh about 200 pounds. NBA players, 200 pounds at 6, 6, 6, but that's actually like a pretty stout NBA player. Do those guys have problems following in there? How many NBA girls you ever seen? Like, yeah, like an NBA guy, I had a maybe, it's like too skinny. A lot of people think NBA guys are muscular. They wear the jersey, they got the Nelson. I don't know, I got it, it's so big, like, no, he's not. And you're over here killing yourself about it. But the reality is, our standard, our community standard of what we think, our guy should be, it's kind of infinite. Like, if you see a guy who's like 5 foot 6 and 3, 4, do you lean, you're like, yes, calves are small though. But if you say, don't 150, 5, 6, you're like, what does that Harry Potter impersonator? Get out of here, but in reality, your point Harry is pulling that shit in. You feel beating, I know problem, you got a wand and shit, bitch, that. In any case, that those are the numbers. And you can be skeptical of them, please, I encourage you to do so. Give them some thought. Google some celebrities. Google models, male models. That's a real job, by the way. I used to be a male model for some time. I don't like to talk about it, it was a very traumatic. It's an exploitative industry. Google their heights and weights. So the extent that you can get variable numbers, you're going to be like, oh shit, I'm already a, the most jack mail model it's ever been. It's a real thing folks, it's a real thing now. Here's the thing. For some people, within five years of drug free training, these numbers will actually not be attainable recently. Maybe they're attainable in eight years, maybe 10, maybe never. Okay? And for those people, steroids use may have a net attractive improving effect to the opposite sex. But before we get to be in like, yeah, those guys should use steroids. We have to ask a more intelligent question, which is, if the goal is to get laid more, or, well, I'm sorry, to presuppose. We'll put this more PG to get girls to like you more, see, God, nice dates, meet nice young ladies that are clear, oriented and have everything big and out, even hold that hand on a walk through the park afterwards, and Malady, and you walk off, and it text them two days later, like a respectful person. That's what you're into. Then, yes, you could have a number of things you could do, like taking steroids. Absolutely, is a fine idea, not really, maybe. But you could also do a bunch of other things to improve your life. That's the whole goal here, presupposed in this discussion is like, I want to take steroids that are more attractive than I could track more ladies, right? Everyone else, okay, so if you have a physique that is already meeting these standards, or is above, or just below, and you've gotten their drug free, we've only been training for two or three years and you're damn near there, do not use steroids to attract women to become more attractive to women, because you can do without steroids and without all the fucking awful side effects. Let me tell you, there's a ton, all right? So, here's the thing. First, second, there are other ways to increase your chances of interacting with the opposite sex, and officially. We'll get to that in a sec. But first, steroids are not something you just do, and then what happens is your body becomes more muscular, and then what happens next is you wake up in a room full of adult film stars. Most of them female, some of those boys in the videos, they look pretty cute. I wouldn't say no if you know what I mean. I'd say no, but I'd be playful about it. In any case, you don't just take drugs and you wake up in a group and origin or, oh, I did it. Finally, here's what really happens. Here are the downsides. First downside that came to mind, it's real. It's relatively frequent. It's a direct-tile dysfunction. Back in serious? Nancy's finally, oh my god, Rob, that's me out. And later, she's like, you want to come back to my place? Rob's like, yeah, I thought, yeah, I want to do that. I just like, just, if I can just take me. And you're like, uh, yeah. Can we just like, tune your high-the-shit? I got hands. I want a working member. She'll say next in my voice. Strange. ED, not fun. Not remotely fun. Not some shit you want to get into, and it's a very common side effect. And I'm going to give you the fnh.gov bullshit. You look up Buddhist areas, you're like, they give you the impulse and your friends break up with you and you get cancer the next day. Like, ah, that's all over exaggerated. But there, ED shit is real a shit. Without putting too fine to point on it, you know what I'm saying? Hmm, it's got to be to you guys again, we'll hide in here. Not hide enough for me to get an erection. Oh, moving on. Health shit. They're bad for your health, legitimately. That's not help your game. Moog shit, holy crap. Typically, you would go to a club or bar to interact with people in a Jovial way. Like, hey, what's up? Oh my god, Rhonda, from Mergey. If you are on more gear, uh, any gear versus being drug free, is your more likely to become a bit more sound into bit more like this. We fucking stand the bar and go, oh, dammit. I bet I got fucking beat up every single bounce are here. And then Karen from Earth, like, hey, aren't you like I? Jim from work. Can you look, yeah, so what if I am she saying, okay, and she just fucks off and you're like, uh, come back. I'm used to be nice when I was a man here. Yes, steroids can improve your confidence. But a lot of times, that's confidence in and not so nice way. Not life of the party confidence, more like approaching a 405 pound deadlift kind of confidence. John, oh, you guys pick up girls, uh, not exactly the kind of vibe you want to create. In addition to that, I'm a little further. Stairheads make you more masculine on your mood and even your brain processes, which I suppose is the same thing. But you end up being less communicative, less empathic, you're able to clue in on people's emotions a bit worse and, um, sort of give, given tape with people, like, uh, you know, if someone's like, oh, I kind of bad day today. Like if you're not on gear, you're like, oh, man, that sucks. Like I really feel bad. If you're on lots of gear, and they're like, I'm having a bad day. Like, yep, just get stuff sometimes. You're like, okay, I don't. You see me and focused and angry. Yeah, that's kind of what you're like. So that ideal. Next legal shit. Hey, shit is illegal, right? So if you're like, fuck, and I'm going to buy steroids and get laid more. We're going lying here like, by steroids.com. Yeah, it's a site from Indonesia. It should be safe. It agents bust down your nose, but I'm not going to happen, but you might get things that aren't steroids. In any case, because they're illegal, it's all bunch of shit. You just probably don't want it. It's a huge cost, as well. I'm trying to say. Another thing is the real life of taking steroids is injecting sucks, traveling with your gear and even know how that works. Who's got time for that shit? It's awful. It's not used to wonders, but I don't know. I take a pill and boom. I agree. I reject and files and needles and swabs and all this. Yeah, it's like, if you get a girlfriend girlfriend, you can have to tell her sooner or later. She's like, hey, so like, this guy's like, I'm an Instagram, he's super juicy, stop it's gross. And you're like, oh, yeah, I thought that guy. She's like, I would never date a guy. It's dare I'd use it. I would also never date a guy who used steroids. Just to agree with her, but like, you're going to hide your vials or some shit. It's all nonsense. Unless these steroids cost money, which you could spend on other things that would get you laid at higher ROI. Can I say later again? Take matter terrible. Question. What other levers, casino style, can you pull to get more female attention to become more attractive to the opposite sex to potentially get more dates? I say it's very nice. That maybe have fewer downsides than using anabolic androgenic steroids. And holy shit, I thought of at least seven of them. Again, this is all entirely theoretical. I have yet to speak to my first woman. Hey, Scott, do you guys talk to a lot of girls? Is it scary? You know, it's like a roller coaster. It's like after you go over the first hump, it's just smooth sailing. But what about the flip roller coasters that the flip as after the first hump? That's that one crazy night in Vegas. You don't tell anyone about. You tell your pastor five years later. And he walks out of the booth and throws up and you're like, holy shit, I guess confession as it's limits. In any case, here we go. If you want to increase female attraction, with yourself as the node that is the attractor, there's a couple things you can do that have to do with taking drugs and getting more jacked, and they're generally much more effective. Here we go. One, it's confidence. Maybe the most, maybe the thing females are attracted to the most. Certainly top two or three things, than most attracted to. And it's a trainable skill. I have a shit load of it now. I can talk to anybody, I don't give a fuck, clearly. But like when I was in high school, early college, holy shit. I was introverted. I was just like this, do my fucking homework. I did a lot homework, nah, I know all this fucking science shit. But I had a hardly talked to people, but I realized I had confidence is really important. Actually, I had a girl I liked to tell me that directly, and I was like, noted, and then for several years later, there's got to mean something. And there's something you can work on. It's something that's like training you exposure self to. And one of the ways to increase your confidence is actually point number two, which is to practice your conversational skills. Like, it's so funny, right? The point of becoming more attractive is so you get to talk to girls in a way that's like, hey, just like, for fun. And then maybe go somewhere. But we do this in the gym for 80 hours a week, and this, and if I can get jacked, and then you come up to a girl, and she's like, oh my god, you're jacked, I love that, and you're like, ah, nothing to say, your conversation skills suck. Great conversation skills can close a fucking ill-up easy. They're super, super powerful, and mega, mega, mega trainable. You just get good at this stuff. There's tons of guy books and stuff back in the old days. People would resh it like, you know, social dynamics, the game, pickup artists. That's all conversation skills, and confidence. And you get them both through intelligently applying the principles, and I was going to say exposing yourself, I'm not exactly what I meant to, certainly a way to do it, land you and jail. Just getting in and getting the volume of interactions. Talk to, you know, easy to start out with someone super nice. Talk to grandma, be like, hey grandma, what's going on? Try to hold a conversation and talk to grandpa. And then talk to, you know, like, the lady down the street, that's always nice to you. And then you're at least three people you're talking to, that you're pretty decent at, and then talk to someone, it a grocery store, just like talk to the cashier for a second, and then you're good. I can talk to people, I've got some things to say, and you try to talk to girl with a gym, you shit your pants, physically, literally, right there in gym floor, everyone laughs at you, they point, you go in the bathroom, you cry a lot, it's all right, go out there and talk to them. It's all right, go out there and talk about how big of a shit you took of a gym. Yeah, I'm not guy that did that shit. See, now we got confidence. Here's the thing, I'm not just blown, blown, air up your skirts here, this shit works. We're fucking better beginning juice out of your mind. It just does. I wish it wasn't the case, you would be swimming in the shit, I'm jacked out of my, fucking mind here, this stuff just straight up more important, and trainable, which means that if you're genetically an introvert, you could be like the cool kind of, like, doesn't say a lot, but always says kind of the right shit type of person. This is a worlds your oyster, you can be really, really good at this stuff. Number three, humor. They just love to laugh at some shit, and I have, I got nothing else going for me. You laugh that still, if I give a naked eye, never spoken to an actual female, but hypothetically, it could do great, humor's a big deal, also trainable, also potentiated by confidence and by conversational skills. I start to see there's a bit of a kind of a cool lesson between all these things that make you drum roll, social, which is the whole interaction of trying to get laid is social. So, matters will actually train the thing you were going out. Like some people will be like, I want to get as jacked as possible. No, that's what you're doing there, push ups and sit ups, right? I got you. You're doing like a push-up and sit-up contest later, like, nope, why don't you, like, lift weights and do cables and machines, and things that actually make you optimally jacked? Like, I don't know, fuck that. Okay, so it's just a stupid, just be in the gym training for girls whereas most of the thing involved after they let you into the conversation is conversation shit, which should be working on if you really, really thought this through. Number four, these are mostly like statistical elements of what actually determines attractiveness, but there are ways to leverage yourself into improving your chances here. So one is something called local status. Female's generally in a group paid attention to who the alpha is, but it's not necessarily alpha and like, where's the ed hardy shit? You know, and has like one of those got the video guy probably has that right now. One of them beards cut off like this little trim beard, and he's a pro there's, has that necessarily alpha? It's like if you're the top trainer at your gym, for example, I can, and people know you're just a really good personal trainer. Another personal trainer girls, the other girls are training that kind of like, keep an eye on you. They're like, oh, that's that guy Kevin. I don't know if I've heard people talk about him. And all of a sudden, your status with them goes up because in that local little zone, you're kind of the fucking, you're kind of the big man on campus, right? And that's definitely a thing. And it's a matter of not being alpha like, hey, well, got away, nerd, and pushing people soft drinks out of the way. It's a matter of just generally competency, like you're kind of the best or one of the best at someone thing in some little area. I'll tell you this, if you're the best guy at math in your college math class, fuck, so the longest thing ever is like one half of a girl at the average math class. Let me back up psychology and the hell now we're in the money. Through the best person in your psychology class, at psychology class, there are going to be a few girls that are going to be like, oh, a more interested than you than you had expected, because you're in the fucking man, you're that guy. Get a very small scale. That's often not that hard to do, just by working on something and becoming really good at. In addition to that, there's global status, which are ways of representing status that apply, not just here, not just there, but kind of more around the board, even around the world. So things like a high income job, right? Bitch, see a tax return, if you're going to land up at your house, cool, wick. Please don't show random people your tax returns. But you know what I'm saying? If you're pulling in that paper, holy shit, you could look like fuck all. You know what's that? The classic, that's my, like that's my golden life. There's been a short, shriveled up Jewish man with a gazillion dollars. And by 18 supermodels around me, I'll just start hiring supermodels. It's my butlers. It's my wife, all approved. And then you, you fucking made it. But there's tons of people like that in real life. Look at the fuck is that asshole, that a war joy. Shit, dude. So the guy that owns half the Hollywood, oh, oh, and girls actually think that's attractive. Money talks. It's, I think it's definitely a thing. And you have a choice in how much money you make. You can become profoundly good at something and offer your services on the marketplace and just end up fucking making way more money than you were. And you're not, which increases your value perceived value to the opposite sex. In addition, demonstrators of previously high income, like lots of what's called stable wealth, you get your house, you get your car. Like, you know, there's a very different conversation where you're in a bar, let's say in like New York. And, you know, you're just talking to girl. And she's like, so like, where are you like, where are you from? Like, do you live around here? Like, very different conversation, like, room under the cup of buddies here, down, it's cheap, but the work's in the road, which is actually my friends versus you mean, like, well, actually, like, I don't think, I've kind of like, I have a piece of land in Westchester. Yeah, it's a bit of a commute, but I love this bar. You know, bitches like, got dollar signs for eyes at this point, like, oh, ladies, shit, what the fuck bit of land? Do you have letters? Do you have a Lamborghini? Oh, you're not Dr. Mike. Get out of here. In any case, industry awards. I know, crazy. Like, if you're the best neuroscientist in a given year at some awards thing, you go to the bank or later, people look at you different. You're fucking rank one. That's important. Military stuff. Huge. You grant you, you finish out. You're your time in the Navy, and you get your dress bluser, whatever. That's a real thing, girls. They're all with that. Man in uniform. I'll take me a piece of that. And, of course, of course, fame. If you're famous, famous, not the stupid internet, not for real famous, Scott the video guy, famous, for example. Wait, no, that's infamous. You know, like, if you're a Scott, with a leading male today that we can consider famous, I'm so out of touch. The Thor guy. The Thor guy. And for hell's worth. That heck is his first name? The Dr. Saviourist. Chris Evans. Captain America. I mean, if you see, if Chris Evans comes up to the average girl in a coffee shop, and she's seen any Marvel movie, and he's like, hey, how are you? I just kind of noticed that I just didn't want to be rude. She's instantly going to urinate herself and be like, just take, just take me away. Just like it take me away. I want to be your wife. Maybe that's too much attractiveness. Anyway, celebrity's the thing. You can really aim to be a celebrity. It's not likely it's not really like a plan goal, but you sure a shit can do a great job at your work. accumulate a lot of stable wealth, and then realize that shit. Yes, taking steroids is significantly easier, but accumulating wealth and getting a great job. Have zero downsides on the net balance. It's just all amazing. Taking steroids is like, yeah, plus is a minus isn't the very best. Next, this is going to be the latest thing I ever say. It just happens to be true. Fashion, and like, how you do your hair, pull a decent amount with women. Sometimes outranking, even physique. I'll put this in a very, very fine point. The fraction of women that can resist a man in a well-fitted suit, is zero. This may be not something you knew. This is something I didn't know until relatively late in my game, so to speak. What does an attractive girl wear to really get attention? I mean, like, as kind of a, no, like, short skirt, fucking the boots to go up to whatever, fucking, you know what I'm saying? Yeah. Da. Holy stuff. What does a man wear to attract a woman the most? Most man will be like, basketball, strong. Posing, trunks, wrong. Well-fitted suit. Well-fitted business suit for some damn reason. Probably to do the status and wealth. It affects women different. And then I, oh, who's that guy? I don't know. Just some important. I want him. I want him. I have to have. In any case, that's some shit you'd get into. Why not say this? Because, like, you might have 140 pound physique at 5 foot 6, or 10 pounds away, and you've been training for eight years, it's just not a legitimate accessory for you to be 150 pounds of 5-6, which is ideal meal jacked, right? And you think fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, like, I had to take steroids. Now, hold on a sec. What about just, like, getting you some wealth-fitted clothes? Getting your hair done and your beard done, right? And shit, like that. It's some shit I've never done, and never fucking will do. It's totally outside of my fucking area of shit I do. But it works, man. It works. And if you're really serious by getting laid more, that's the shit that'll work way better than juicing to the kills. Lastly, on this note, of things you could do better that would get you more female attention than using steroids, is what I call targeting your best ROI archetype. Ideally, we're all fucking thaw from the Avengers, and we're just like, physically walk on fields of the giant as all the time. Yes, great. But there are so many ways to present whatever it is that you have in your own way that's optimized for attraction, especially to target a specific sub-population of females that you may be interested in, that you don't have to completely change yourself to optimize your attraction for attractiveness, rather. So, for example, like, there's a shitload of hipster girls, which some of them are fine. See, you're seeing a hipster bitch in a coffee shop, you're like, what all? You know what I'm saying? I'm not into that hipster shit, but hello, the problem is that will work. Because you usually hit hipster guys. But if you're a hipster guy and you've got the whole beard oil shit going on, and you're not in the greatest shape, but you can talk hipster bullshit, you wear all the right clothes, those girls are into you way more likely. And if you just optimize that version of yourself, you're going to be swimming in that hipster ish, you don't have to go on, get like six-foot-seven, blonde, Scandinavian model girl, because like, that's huge, but there's tons of other great stuff going on that just fitted to your archetype. No, you're not a professional basketball player or fucking billionaire CEO. It may realistically be out of very unlikely freedom track. You know, I'm kind of like, you know, elite blonde model or some shit, but there's a lot of finance woman out there that are into some different shit, and they may be into some of the shit you got going on, because there's all shapes and all walks and all sizes that fit squarely into very attractive, and you're not trying to attract the whole world just a small fraction. And then voila, right? There is a type of girl out there that very likely already likes which you have going on. You take what you have going on, get a bit more confident about better conversational skills. Couple of canned jokes I'm kidding, better sense of humor. Get you some status through doing a good job, accumulate some wealth, put on a well-fitted suit, holy shit, well maybe the hipster girls might not like to suit. Whatever, well-fitted, Scott would a hipster guy's aware that, like, for the record hipsters, non-nostate, I love you guys, but I'm all right. When you have a flannel shirt that's five sizes too small for your body, and the top button is buttoned up to here, so I think you're choking to death, and you have them skinny jeans on, Scott, you know what I'm saying? Yeah, kind of like a pair of like, poiny boots, what you, you, the wicked witch, some shit with them boots for. But in any case, you put some of that shit on, why are you doing your best life, you got that confidence? That's it, hipster girls. Is this a whole talk about how to pick up hipster girls back, accent, what have I created? In any case, all right, here's the thing. What have we established and what does the grand conclusion? First, most guys, most guys probably you, can get to peak general attractiveness physique for themselves, naturally within five years of training, and a serious attempted dieting, is just a thing. Again, Brad Pitt and Fight Club, not an impressive physique. Just Hollywood shit, but that really is the physique. Most girls are like, that's great, but I still don't want to be a bit more muscular. Not at all. God damn, that's a low bar. Oh fuck, here's a guy that girls make a super hot, Tom Hiddleston, Loki from the Avengers is like a super fucking attractive. Because like a fucking rail, do you think he fucking takes steroids and lifts? Are you kidding? Why? So put that into perspective. Second, for those folks that can't get up to that muscular-rare leanness, for genetic reasons, within naturally within five or whatever number of years they've tried, the return on investment on non-stairway, levers of attraction, things you could do like improving your humor, confidence, income, etc. are just way higher than for steroids. And in the reality, point number three is, most guys that use gear just really aren't doing it for girls. They're just off on their own shit somewhere and turning into a comic book. Well, everyone has a normal life and family and loving friends. You're just fucking doing this and you seem to think that's great. So it's kind of a big illusion that like, oh yeah, you want to be attractive. Use drugs like that's that how that works. And that bodybuilder guy that is, you know, that fitness chick keeps talking to. It turns out that, you know, he doesn't even want her attention because he's so trend out of his mind. He just wants to work out. And she's like, what are you doing later? He's like, oh, the way for me, I'm curling later. And I'm like, oh, did he do that to get her? No, no, no, no. She's just weird and into guys that are super jacked. And trying to understand this is really tough. Because most of us think like, especially watching this channel. Yeah, like, if you're more jacked, better things happen to you in real life. It's just better to be more jacked. But turns out getting more jacked just gets you more jacked and not predictably a whole lot. I also have a strength from cross-sectional area stuff like that. But guys comparing who's more jacked is kind of like girls comparing brand names of clothes. Like, you may walk in, let's say with a girl that you're friends with to a gym. And you're pretty jacked and there's like, I wee more jacked. Oh, look at that guy. She's like, oh, no, what do you mean? Look at him. I'd love to look like that. She's like, ah, that ain't me. And you're like, what? But in a similar way, girls like we'll judge other girls for wearing some kind of off-brand. Like, um, those are not real Gucci pants, girl. And I'm like, like, the fuck is Gucci? It's just some shit my buttlers buy with their Lamborghini salaries. I don't even know what it is. But most guys couldn't give a flying fuck. Could you imagine you see a fine ass girl to gym, fuck the gym. You see a fine ass girl to barren like that. And you're like, you know, a girlfriend, friend that's a girl that you're with is like, oh my God, she's really wearing that brand. You're like, what are you both the fuck? Gives a shit. She's like, aren't you like, this is gross y'all? She's wearing like cheap stuff. Fuckin' that hair. Who the fuck can read a brand from where he who gives a shit? Same idea. Guys are in to jack. Guys, girls are into brands. Goes that way. So if you want to go this way, you gotta meet somewhere in the middle. And luckily, it just doesn't take a herculean physique to be able to do. You can probably get there without drugs at all. So if you're thinking of using steroids and other performance and answer you substances to get more girls, think again. Yeah, just kidding. 19A's drug propaganda out of the way. Seriously, think about it again. And there is really a good chance that you don't have to do anything like that. And there's way better stuff you could be doing. So that you don't end up like me. I first forgotten. I don't think anyone's ever talked to me. It's certainly not a girl. That's like out there fellas. See you in the comments.

Oh, you got more. Keep going. Go! Three, don't you fake it Amanda. You got two more at least. Up. Hey folks, it's me Dr. Mike for YouTube, 4 Rattason Spearization, and an interesting tangent that I promised I'll leave back in. There is a Japanese heavy lift construction machine company called Komatsu. And we got a little bit of our own flavor at that shit because Amanda got hot soup. Has a bit of Japanese in her, yes? 50%. 50% that means she's 50% industrial grade lifting machine. I wish I would have come up with you. Clearly, we go well on your way. Now, this workout is going to do so much straight damage to the gym. We were not allowed to legally do it without an officially licensed fellow sports medicine doctor. And she had to be so close. She had to actually do the workout. This is Dr. Crystal. And no relation. But I got one of them. I got my eye on one of these girls. I don't flirt ever, ever, ever professionally on set. I may make an exception today. In any case, I just love we meeting you ladies. But we're going to do a little back workout, little IFBB pro and a little IFBB pro. And just going to be tons of giga-going, tons of room or meal bullshit. And tons of me trying to train these young ladies to have bigger backs. And a shit, girls with them. All right. Watch for the technique. Watch for the effort. Watch for Amanda's traps. They're not that hard to find. And watch for Dr. Gavara's straight animal intensity. Let's get in. All right. First exercise is the Atlantis chess supported row. It's a great machine. There's a truly different ways to use it. We'll be using one of them. The ladies are probably going to be doing some wide grip growing. Oh, big deep stretch. Arch all the way at the top. And a full sweaty center troll. Set up 10 to 20 here. I want to start with this movement. Because the rest of the workout is going to be much more vertical pull and the last focus. So this is going to hit a lot of traps, middle traps, rhomboids, rear delts, all that stuff. You can go there, went with, with up there. And then we can meet with the last. And then you go into the world. And people say hello to you for the first time. Because you have a big back. They're nice to you when you're like that. Let's get into it. 12. You build that stretch. We don't count it. 13. Two more. Pull up high. Use your body. Yes. Slow. Attack the egg last one. Slow. Control. Control. Control. Stretch. Woo. We're tearing. Fire. Good. That was really good. Really good. 10. Couple more. There you go. Come on. One more. Let's go. You got more. Well, we do not help here. Do not help. There is no one in coming to save you. Press. Do more reps. Good. Stop. Couple more. Two more. One last one. Good. Attack. Go. Slow. As if another big stretch. Got it. Yeah. I'm sorry to yell at you. I have a trouble. I feel like we're really good match up for training together. Because we're both like, like, babies, but we're stuck for the whole time. Like, like, like, like, she makes ugly faces and it's going to be hard. Good. Three more on your done. Big, good. Slow. Watch. Up. Slow. Stretch. Big stretch. That's one. Two. Slow. Big stretch. No matter keep your tummy on that platform. Hold all the way up. Yes. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Big stretch and hold the stretch. Hold. Hold. Hold. Hold. Hold. Hold. Hold. Hold. Hold. Hold. Hold. That was stuck. Three. That was dope. But shit. Four. That was four sets. That was a big fuck here. That was four sets. Yeah. That was four sets. Slow, big stretch. Full stretch. Two more left. Up. Go. Go. One. Slow. Good. Nice and easy. That's one. Up. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Wait at the bottom. Bonus round two more. Began. Don't. It's always too more. It's never over crystal. It's never over. Stop thinking it'll ever be over. You just fucking pull it. Pull again. Slow. Pull again. Got damage. One more crystal. We're going to burn up. Let's go. Into the place. Amazing. One more last one. Let's see. Set that energy. Move. Yes. Slow. Slow. Slow. Big stretch. And here. Good. That was a whole legal ceremony. That was good. That was good. That was good. That was good. She was like, I want to go on YouTube and have a fun work. That was like, oh, you're crazy. You know, I've been bitterly like, complicated. Just thinking about working out of my life. That's a lot of things we're not training legs here. Safe. Yes. Next up, we have assisted pull ups. Assistance allows us to get more reps and focus on really good technique. After the row is the ladies of tradition, shambled up. So sets of 10 to 20 reps. High quality is important here. Slow on the way down. Cook on the way up. Make sure you're in your motion that deep stretch at the bottom. Try four sets. 10 to 20. We did four sets of 10 to 20 rows. You guys see a theme today. That's the theme. Let's get into it. Oh, you got more. You got to go. Three. Don't you fake it, Amanda. You got to more at least. Up. Slow. Up. Slow. Slow. Slow. Pause. Stretch. Unwrap. Yes. Yes, one more. Pull straight up. One more. Fire. Go. Slow. Slow. Big stretch. Hold it. One wrap. There you go. That little leg was like a little. It's like a little. On the road. She was doing both. I know. Can yours after do that? Mine can. I doctor is 55 and has no need to be shaking. Close my pants. Keep it going. Slow. Oh, my. Rumble more. Up. Slow. Up. One more left. Speed. Now slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Stretch forward. Up. Up. Oh, man. That was so good. Yep. One more stretch. Good. Couple more. Last. Go. Again. Come on. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. On wrap. That's a good last set. Good. Oh, the. That was a little bit. Okay. Oh, we got, we neither said any. Nobody tried on that fist bump. No. That was no. In short. Lat first. Great. Wonderful. We trained for our last, but we also pray for them. I'm praying for my last right now. For sure. The lat prayer. A couple things you want to keep in mind. One is you want to lean over here at this top part so that your lats are stretched a ton. You don't want to stop here. You want to reach overhead. Up there. Somewhere I can't do that. I'll be back in here. As you come down, I want you to come down and hit in just a little bit, a tiny little bit. And then as you go down, I want you to lower your chest to get a big stretch. And then come on. We pause here. And then we pause gently here. Okay. Keep those arms pretty straight. Three more in your duck. One slow. Go! Chest down. Six slow slow slow slow. Good slow. One more. It's easy work today. We're here taking a fucking off. Slow big stretch chest down. Rack. Down. Go. Yes. Go. Slow. One last one. One last one. Open and pause. Down. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Slow. Rack. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Shit. I'll turn away from the camera. You turn into that camera. We proud of yourself. Slow. Deep. Yes. That was the perfect wrap. Again, do it again. Perfect. Slow. Build that shit. Again, hit it. Yes. No bad thing of the elbows. We're here only to protect you. That was a stupid, awesome wrap. I hate myself for looking at it. Chest down, chest down, open off, yes, stout. That's it, that's it, that's it. That's it. Ah! That's it. It's good, stop. This is looking at my stout. Good, yeah, yeah. These are perfect, Chris. So I got nothing to say except P.P. And perfect. Oh, yes. Milk that shit, stretch that shit. Ah. Ah. Ah. Oh, yeah. We got a re-all. Yeah, I got a re-all. Chest down, big reach. Ah! Yes, one more. Good technique. Only good technique. Go, go, go, go. Slow is it for another. Slow is it for another. Slow is it for another, chest down. Open up, open up big and control. Wrap. Fuck. Howly on. Do that with sweet. Man, don't say any of her another side of those. That was really good. I don't want to do those anymore. That was yours. Maybe ever. You guys did amazing. You showed up. You did great technique. You ground yourselves into a giant fault boat. Flash and bats. There's a lot of bats. Dr. Crystal, what did you think? I was, that was a lot of work. That's all I had to say. Great. Amazing insight for a doctor. Where do you think? I think I am more pumps than I have probably other things. I never thought I would cry doing assisted pull-ups and lat prayers. But I shed a little tear today. Doing what most people would, like, in the county of the world with college accessories. But I think that's going to be a big lesson for me, shifting from housing today is there is no accessory. All the movements are the core movements. Folks, while of these ladies on social media, the planning is to stop some customer medical shift. I see pro man. She's been around for forever, even though she's only 22 years old. Somehow, she's been around for generation. I think it really is. Tons of good stuff. And I mean, physique is like, when she turned pro, she turned pro in like six different divisions at the same time. Bitch had their pro card out. Amanda had her shit and she's like, I'm gonna have that too, bitch. I'm gonna have that. And hey, hey, come here. What was you in Cynthia? That bitch. I got 18 pro cards. I'd pour pro cards on me like it's fucking raining. Oh, my nose. My nose got bugger's in it. I blow it even another pro card. You got a pro card? That's just mine too. They were given him out. There was a bogo that year. People were clutching out of them for fear. And she still ripped. There was one eight year old. They got a pro card and Amanda's like, come here. Hello. The chaps look kid. I'm gonna re-sought the my own arts. He was there, but none of that happened. I'll see you guys later. Hey.

You're like having to get lightbows seems like an admission of the fact that I'm a fraud. I totally hear that. 100%. I just don't see why it's worth it to put your body through something like this in your 40s. Do respect. You're 40s. You're a grown man. You've already made a bunch of money. Your famous already on this other crap. You have a pretty cool physique. It's a really for four pounds of tissue. You went through this 12 weeks psychotic recovery process and complications and risk of death. In my salty about this comment, yes, God damn it because I have feelings. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strengths and I recently had cosmetic surgery to delete out extra skin and fat cells that accumulated in my lower back and my love handles from me back in the day when I was younger, ballooning up to a drug-free 270 pounds with gigantic love handles. And got the surgery. I'm well into recovery. We're recording this video at now five and a half weeks out from the surgery. Everything's going pretty well. It's a cool new look. Hopefully we get a chance to see it at some point soon. But I wanted to circle back and read some comments with you guys that I had in my Instagram post my first talk about getting the surgery. Because some of these comments are kind of alluding the fact that maybe I made a mistake. Maybe I should not have had surgery. So I'm going to do three things for every single one of these comments that I'm going to read with you guys. One is I'm going to clap back with an attitude all for the jokes. None of that is serious. I'm just riffing saying you come at me with the riffing. You're going to get it back all of an respect. Then I'm going to steal man their position and try to see like okay, they're actually making a pretty decent point here somewhere and I'm going to try to get that out. And then I'm going to kind of give the real talk what I actually think calm, logical analysis using in the steel manning and kind of maybe my retort to where I was coming from to sort of maybe learn a little bit with you guys and at least get some laws. Scott, you're ready. I can't wait. Can't wait. I'll release the hate. All right, here we go. So clay underscore guns said good for you if it makes you feel better about yourself. No clay, it makes me feel better about other people. JK, let's continue reading the comment. But personally, I just don't see why it's worth it to put your body through something like this in your 40s. When you're already done competing, you obviously have a great physique and immense success. Not sure why some loose skin was worth this much trouble. So let's riff first. This is actually a fairly polite comment. I'm not going to go too hard in the paint. Let's see in your 40s, I guess Scott, there's a better time to get cosmetic surgery than your 40s. Is it supposed to be later or earlier? Actually, I don't know. I could see it both ways. Or neither. In your 40s, you're healthy enough to recover well, but also old enough for it to be sensible to put the knife in your body, but whatever. And clay says when you're already done competing, I'm not done competing. Pretty much every single video or comment I would put on on that is I'm not competing for the current time. And pretty much every other time I said, like, I'm going to be back competing eventually very likely. So I'm not done competing. That part just like, hey, look at all of it. All of it respect all jokes. People like absorb some kind of some sort of something from the ether from like a real they heard about me. And they're like, I know things about you. And like, yeah, you probably don't. You probably don't. You're probably probably the kind of guy that comments about other people. Shit, no offense. All of it respect all jokes. Pretty salty here. This is me coping. Scott is not with the other. Yeah. Lots of coping today. And the very nice things you obviously have a great physique and a man's success thank you so much that I would say like, why not have a better physique and to more success through enhancement. And not sure why some loose skin was worth this much trouble. Like my my my my my razzling of this is like, okay, Clay, thank you for putting your confusion into a comment. Scott, can you imagine like going on to people shit and actively being confused in the comments like I'm confused like, okay, thank you for letting us know that there are no doubt very good reasons for this. And he could I'm I'm not sure by someone was going to do this as a snarky way of saying, I disagree with you, which might snarky response back is you know close to nothing about anything that I do in my life. So the audacity of you to think that you could just say shit like this is pretty impressive. Now that was all just a riff all for good times sake. Let us steal man this young gentleman's position. Um, good for you if it makes you feel better about yourself, facts like that's probably what most cosmetic surgery. If not all of it is for is to make someone feel better about themselves. Um, I just don't see why it's worth it to put your body through something like this in your 40s to respect your 40s. You look a grown man. You've already made a bunch of money. Your famous already on this other crap. You have a pretty cool physique like really, bro. Now you're getting under the knife. Like what is the play here? I totally hear that 100%. And when you're already done competing, I guess you could have thought like I was done competing. It's totally reasonable to expect that because you're at various points. I was you know, said I'm done slash, you know, done for now, wherever it's tough to parse those. I get it. No worries at all. And it's very nice to say obviously have a great physique. I think that that's vibes and immense success. It is really strange like, you know, surgeries like in risky for like life and land like people dying surgery. And you know, for me to have like tons of YouTube success and have a bunch of money and apps and stuff and then be like, oh, I'm just going to take this massive risk. It's kind of like, giant why like risks make sense when you don't have a lot and you have a lot to gain, but a lot to lose. But when you have a lot of stuff and you've done really well, like, it's kind of weird to take risks. I totally feel here that. And if the ante says not sure why some loose skin was worth this much trouble, dude, facts, it's like they, they, they took out a total of like four pounds of tissue. It's a really for four pounds of tissue. You went through like this 12 weeks psychotic recovery process with complications and risk of death, like it is an odd flex totally. And so that's the steel man. Now to wrap it up with with logic and reason in my actual take, you know, these are all good points. Some are really easy to refund anytime you talk some, you know, even well intentions back in the comments, you don't be surprised if you get some back all oven respect, all jokes, but it is definitely a trip to see someone make really, seemingly odd choices from your perspective. But you got to remember that like, people have different values. And for me, like, my love handles because of the excess skin that never goes away in the excess fat cells that never go away, like physiologically, it just don't know amount of dieting and I've been very lean before can get that off. And so for me, I really value just having a body that I think is cool. And I think my body is that the greatest thing in the world, but I love how I look except for my love handles. And when you are a professional in the space of helping people how to navigate their own physique, so you really care about bodies in general and aesthetics and your own body, it's kind of like, oh, man, if I just got rid of my love handles, I would feel way better about my physique. Let me tell you guys, I still have a ton of information. I still have a ton of swelling, stuff to wear, buying all the time, and recording this five and a half weeks out. I don't even start training until like a week or two from now. I haven't trained in five weeks. But when I turn to the side and I seem completely zero love handles and my waist to turn a cinch and like crazy, it is a transcendent moment every single time. And I only get to see myself in the mirror like twice a day when I read just my binder shower. And so it's like really, really wacky. Like I've had love handles my entire adult life and to not have them anymore is like it's worth everything. This whole thing was worth it. 1000%. So I hear all the the other criticism and it's all very, very well meant, but to me, it is marginally worth it to me. Does that mean it's worth it to you? How though? Probably not, but that's something for you to decide. All right. Ta-la-la-la-la-salon says. Dr. Mikey, Ellie, and I wish you best of luck, with the doctor, Mike, Ily and I wish you the best of luck with how you want to look, but saying it's way harder than dieting just sounds like a massive cope. I'll riff on this one. So let's see here. I said in this post by the way that I made originally that the surgery recovery was way harder than dieting and I stayed by that 100%. It's way, way worse than any diet of overdons. We were 75 diets ever done put together. So first of all, Tallah, Laira, Lallah, Salon. I don't know who Ellie is. I don't know you in real life. You're treating me like a friend. We've never met. Saying it's way harder than dieting could absolutely be a cope or hashtag a cope is something faceless in cells with no friends and no relevance, say to people to try to make themselves sound better. Which one is it my friend? So that's the riffing. Now to steal man, thank you for the wishing best of luck. That is very kind. I still am uncertain who Ellie is or who you are, but very nice of you. It's way harder than dieting absolutely sounds like the cope of a lifetime. Scott doesn't it? Like I did this thing because I'm too big of a pussy to diet and now I'm saying it's harder than dieting so I can get my respect points back. And now you're just doubling down in this video. I get it. 100%. Yeah. Is this like double cope? It's terrible. The thing is, so I hear that. That's the steel man. Now the overall logic wrapper to all this is like it's totally, totally possible that this is all a cope. 100%. And me saying it's harder than dieting. The thing is, is that dieting is like pretty tough. But you get into this point with really tough diets where you get like a last half of the diets like serenity. Like your heart rate is really low. You're in the state of deep calm all the time. Things are like tough but like, like lower case teeth tough. And you know, you feel quite comfortable when you're not like training super hard. And you're getting like pretty decent sleep because you're not a giant load of anymore. And you're in this cool rhythm. Your body's changing. Look better all the time and dieting is tough and it's challenging. But I've done like dozens and dozens of diets and it's pretty straightforward at this point. A diet is tough. But when you've been through surgery recovery of major surgery, you almost certainly and actually had a bunch of people comment on this and comment on other places. Major surgery is a totally different realm of suck than dieting. Like when you get cut basically in half, your body hates you for weeks and weeks and weeks. Like constant pain, constant itching. You don't feel right at all. Your motivation goes to how because your body's like just I don't hold and recover. I wish I could say this was super easy and easier than dieting. Yo, if this was easier than dieting, I'd get one of these surgeries every other month. Man, I'd be like this. I'm kind of weird plastic person. It would be awesome. Unfortunately, that's not the reality. So it does sound like a massive cope. But if I had never dieted, it would be a massive cope. But I've dieted into absurdity and place last and like 18 body building shows. Clearly, I got nothing to cope with. Not afraid of dieting. So if that's my honest rational take. All right. Wayward fitness, way W. D. Fitness says, why are you pro cosmetic surgery? This one strikes me as odd, Dr. Mike. Scott, I really can't riff on this person. It's just kind of, I can do better. I can riff. Anything that strikes you as odd and fitness that I do means I'm correcting you're not because I'm smarter than you. And more important. And have a more purple sweatshirt on. Rift sucked. This is a very polite comment. Let's steal man the shed out of it. It does sound strange that somebody who says, you can use diet and exercise in the will power. All of a sudden says, you don't need any of those. And I'm not going to lead by example. And I'm just going to go under the knife and take the easy way out. Absolutely strange and odd indeed. But to put the logic wrapper on this, I am pro human enhancement in any way that makes sense for you trade-off-wise, time sense, money sense, risk sense. That's worth it. And in any way that doesn't hurt the people around you in some strange way, I am 100% for if it makes you better. This goes all the way from learning math to become better at mathematics. That's a form of enhancement, learning a new language, getting a haircut, getting your nails painted. If you're happy to be in that sort of thing, putting on makeup, putting on the clothes that you like, eating better and exercising all the way through cosmetic surgery. And if you think that's weird, you should hear my views on cyber enhancement. Yes, when robotic limbs become better than human limbs, I will be replacing my human body with robot parts. That's an odd take. But I 100% support it. I think it's logical because enhancement means better than. And so if someone wants to diet and train, I think that's amazing. I diet and train all the time. It's been my whole life. I will continue to diet and train. But dieting and training is a part of the equation. It's like, do you worry about the electronic control system in your race car or do you worry about the size of the engine or the quality of the tires? These are not competitive against each other. They are synergistic. You should be concerned with all of them if you want to race the fastest. And if you want your body to be the best that it can be, should you get a hair transplant? If you want a full head of hair and you're balding, sure, I don't care. I would be bald rest of my life when bother me. But when people get hair transplant, some other go a man, you're like, you know, why would you do that to yourself? Like, hey, if you think it makes you look better, you like it and it's worth the trade-offs, God bless you. Because I'm 1000% from people being better. And however they see fit aesthetically intellectually, psychologically, with enhancement. So if someone is doing cognitive behavioral therapy for their major depressive disorder and they choose to go on drugs, I think that's awesome of the psychiatrist approves. I don't think it's therapy versus drugs. I don't think it ever was. I don't think it's diet and training versus cosmetic surgery. Unless you're a Kardashian, just get in the Kardashians. All I'm good fun. It's both, it's all of the above. And so that I think is how it makes sense to me. All right, oh, Scott, this is a juicy one. Dakota Burnheart 26, a man that has differentiated himself from every other Dakota Burnheart of which they are numerous ones. Says Imagine being a doctor and having the largest training app and having to get lipo. Okay. So, last guy, you took that one from me. You don't have to imagine it Dakota because it's real. So I know that the hashtag Imagine Rift that you're doing an Instagram makes you feel cool when you have friends, but neither one of those is the case. You're not cool and you don't have friends. And am I salty about this comment? Yes, God damn it because I have feelings. So imagine being a doctor and getting a cosmetic procedure that's surgical, no contradiction there, continue. Imagine having the largest training app so your four bodily enhancement and that includes lipo, no contradiction there. Let's talk about where you are correct. I mean, okay, ostensibly being a doctor means I got educated and how to change my body. And so you would think I would know things. Having the largest training app means you'd think my app would help me alter my body. And when both of those fail to get me the body, I want because I'm really a fraud doctor. And my app really actually sucks. RPI, hypertrophy, aptly, and the description by the way. You know, like having to get lipos seems like an admission of the fact that I'm a fraud. I totally hear that. 100%. But like I said, of last critique, the logic is being a doctor and getting a PhD in sport physiology makes me look down at my love handles and go, well, that didn't work. Executing rigorous diets up to a deck that confirmed 6% body fat never got rid of my love handles. Because your skin cells, once you multiply a bunch of them, they don't resort hardly at all. And so my skin grew a ton when I was drug free, 270 pounds and it never really went back down. It just loosened out and just kind of hangs there. And the fat cells, once they multiply, they don't die off. So I got tons of fat cells multiplied in my love handles. Now they're all still there. And so as soon as they gain any amount of offseason weight, it doesn't kind of go all over my body. I still have super ripped quads and veins everywhere, super ripped arms. And then they go, still have a six pack. Then I just have these huge love handles. And so, unfortunately, or fortunately for what it is, being a doctor sports physiology, they actually reconfirmed to me upon much more analysis that, I'll actually I can't do anything about this specific thing. And the largest training app helped me get jacked, but never have we claimed our training app is going to burn body fat outside of a calorie deficit. So that's kind of a non-secret or in all due respect. And having to get lipo is just a sensical part of a holistic process to make yourself as good as you can. If you don't need lipo, don't get it. It's stupid. It's insanely insanely invasive. But if you have a problem area that you've had loose skin in and as a fatheous won't go away, lipo is a thing that really works. And so, Dakota, all of them respect, I appreciate the riff you've got me. But at the end of the day, yeah, like it's real mad. I wish my shit, you know, I'll tell you this, there's no doctorate I could have gotten. And there's no app I could have used instead to have gotten rid of love handles, unfortunately. So that's the right thing. Oh, unless I was a doctor of plastic surgery, Scott and I did my own procedure, can you imagine a wake? I would be sick. I can't reach back there. That's probably the biggest problem. That would be sick. You go on like half of the, um, the downers to like still be able to up. No, I would work. All right. This one I really like. Scott last one. Yes, sounds good. That's good. Mark C Watson. Mr. Mark C Watson, whose avatar is a cartoon of himself, my man, says, I saw a video of you recently doing pull ups with your shirt off. My allowed to say this guy is the environment improved yet for this. No. Okay. I won't say. No. No. No. It's going to use the G word. I know. You watch and videos and men's with the shirts off, huh? You didn't event need this surgery brother. So, Mark again, I'm riffing you just for vibes all of an respect. You didn't event sir before you hit enter on a comment that you want to be taken seriously, proofread your shit. And then between this surgery and brother, there is no comma. And pedantically I have to say you probably never graduated the 10th grade, because you can't spell or do grammar, but on a serious note, let's steal man this comment. In many poses and in many angles, especially during some time when I'm leaner, it looks like there's no problem at all. 100% thank you for the compliment by the way, it's actually very kind, post all riffing aside. Yeah, it doesn't immediately look like the case. Now here's the other thing. Real talk. I don't post most of my least flattering pictures on Instagram, because that's not what you do on social media. You tend to post the content that you think puts you into the best light, because posting on social media is kind of like walking into like onto a stage in front of a big crowd, a crowd of in my case, 1.3 million people or whatever 1.2 million. And so, you kind of everyone pretty much puts their best foot forward. And so, if I showed you some pictures and I have, and actually in this post hilariously, sorry, that's this post, it was a post, a post a day later where I showed all the love handle stuff, I actually did need the surgery, because I would love to have agreed with you. It would be amazing if I realized, oh, I don't need the surgery, but my love handle skin situation was pretty pretty intense. And hopefully you guys will get to see pictures of my physique here coming up in a few months, but the transformation is wacky. And I already showed one post surgery picture, and this is completely different waistline. So I'd love to agree with that, but I just don't think it's, uh, it's really the case. All right, folks, what do you think about videos like this? Is this cooler not? I can't tell. Again, the riffing, all jokes all love and respect. Riffing is super fun when it's funny. When it's serious, it's like weird and, um, kind of like rear guard defensive and very copium and stuff like that. And it's like that's a bad vibe, right? And so, uh, if you want to come on my socials and talk that shit, I got all the time in the world for a shit talk away. Hopefully the steel manning worked a little bit, because every riff has a little bit of a grain of truth, sometimes a lot of truth. At the end of the day, I guess my take-home messages like, I appreciate the riffs, I appreciate the kinds of gestures, but, um, how do I say this in a way that makes the most sense and doesn't make me sound even more like a deck than I already do? When someone who's, it's career to care about physics chooses to alter their physique. It is a very possible that they're just insanely body-dust more thick and all of that stuff. And they just made a terrible mistake and you were able to figure out that they made a mistake within two seconds of looking at their feet during your scroll. But it is probably much more likely that they thought about it to a considerably longer duration and deeper depth than you have, and that they're probably on pretty solid ground with their decision. There's no guarantee of that, so I appreciate all the comments, but, um, I guess if you're not interested in the clowning yourself, it might be a good idea to rethink how you phrase some comments. Don't just spit them out into the comments fear, because you're going to get clap-back at like you just did. If you're cool with getting clap-back at my man, I won't say something. But at the end of the day, yeah, you know, people who do stuff, who's job to do stuff, usually have thought of through. Maybe I made a mistake, but I probably didn't. Hopefully this video ages well and I don't dive surgical complications. If I did die, I loved each and every single one of you, like you were my very children. The RPI Perchography Apple love you even more if you click on the link in the description. I've been Dr. Mike, and I'll see you guys next time.

This used to be the type of bullcraft that Dr. Mike would call out. But now there's such a concern with getting views that you're willing to give absolutely horrific information just to get clicks. Yo, so check this out. A while back, we put up a video about eight of the most efficient combo exercises you could do with the gym. If you're in a pinch, you don't have a ton of time, you want to stimulate some muscle growth, you kind of want to hit multiple muscle groups at the same time. But a bunch of the exercises I think were pretty good. Except one really wacky one, which I did say on the video was wacky. And I did say on the video probably wasn't going to be super stimulated for your chest and shoulders. Did make the cut. And a lot of people had a lot of feelings about it. And they made react videos. All of react videos. Now we're going to make a react video to that. Is it YouTube? Fucking crazy. We start up here. And we are going to do a classic cable fly. The next movement is for me to bicep curl all the way to this position here, which sets us up for a press. Returning us back to the fly slow and then a curl and then a press, just like that. If you had a bicep that could keep up with a chest press, you would have the biggest biceps. If you have ever seen the weakest chest, triceps and shoulders that we have ever seen. Or a combination of the two. It can't keep up with a chest press. The eccentric part of the chest press is something you're doing. And then you bicep curl and then you continue to exhaust the chest again on the concentric through the press. And then again on the eccentric. So we have two chest movements. Her every one bicep movement. So it's just not true to say the bicep has to keep up with the chest movement because it has to keep up with two at the same time. Does that mean for most people the biceps is probably going to be limiting factor? Yes. Is for some people the chest giving a limiting factor? Yes. Is for anyone that tries to have some fractal. It's going to be limiting factor. Probably not. To your point. The reason why this makes zero sense is because as mentioned, you're going to be far stronger on the pressing portion of the lift compared to the curling portion. And so your biceps will always end up being the limiting factor. Which is where your chest failure way before your chest even gets close. And so what's the point? So Sean, this is an excellent critique for sure your triceps and front delts are going to be largely just kind of synergistic Movers. When you're doing this exercise, you're not upright, you're caved over and you're not getting a super deep stretch for your chest at the very bottom. And also when you're coming up with your arms, you're actually putting this thing, the whole upper arm forward before you curl in. If you just start curling in from here, the lever arm radically improves quickly and makes the lift really easy. So all you have to do is try hard the beginning and finish up. And because you get a huge stretch with the chest, it actually creates a structure chest substantially before hand. Does that completely rectify your chrysanthemum? No, your chrysanthemum is right not. But am I going to talk a little bit of shit about it? M-pick what I can nitpick? Yeah, guys. This is what desperate retreat into pseudo and animity of famed looks like. I'm an authority figure. I have a PhD. I have all sorts of insensitivities about it. And I don't want to hear any bullshit from any of you. Even if you're correct, and I'm just on the wrong type of shit when I made that exercise up on the spot. Hold on, hold on. Hold on. Will you guys still be my friend? Absolutely not. You pathetic balding 40 year old man. Alright folks, real big insight. All jokes aside. It's me after all. Super easy modifier. You can make to almost every single combo movement. Every single one we talked about here. Every single one from the last video. And you're going to be able to hit very close to failure with every single involved muscle that you're targeting at the same time. How? But it's not your mind. I feel like you just rear guard defending your stupid bullshit. You can't take the L. I am the L. Seriously though, here's the tip. If one muscle is really just much weaker, much more anatomically leveraged in a poor position, much less likely to fatigue first. What you do is to the other muscle, to the other movements in the combo, you do a higher number of reps relative to that muscle. So for example, let's say that when in just a second here, we're going to plug back the editor boy to do one of these exercises against his will. And I really, because God, do we care about legal stuff? I don't even know what that means. I'm not a lawyer. I just know that it's too far for max to scream. When we plug him in to the combination of skull crusher and bicep curl, what we might discover is he's going to be like, you know, a couple reps in just kind of warming up like dude. This skull crusher parts are really easy. The bicep curl is actually pretty hard at this way. No worries. We go to a two to one, a three to one, even as high as a five to one ratio of, let's say four skull crusheres now, they're starting to feel it. One bicep curl. Okay, that was tough. Four skull crusheres, one bicep curl. Any ratio you want. Take the exercise that you're the strongest in, give it more reps. The weakest in, give it fewer. Whatever ratio you come to memorize that ratio, that hard, find the ratio for you and just grind that shit. And then you actually do have a completely symmetrical situation. So even on the dreaded fly press combo, where you can do, as do a slow eccentric fly, come in with your biceps. Do four presses really get tired, try a set of chest and shoulders. Super crazy eccentric back. Come in with your bicep. Four presses, try that. And I promise you it'll work. And that's a corporate Renaissance periodization. Ganty. Rrr, see? Mhh. Yeah. All right. Three skull crusheres. And then at the bottom of the last skull transition to curls. There are two scenarios in which you want to use this. Maybe even three. Sinario one is you want to save time and do biceps and triceps at the same time. Generally what I found is with this exercise, especially if you do a very strict, elbow's close in skull crusher. And especially if at the skull crusher you don't lock all the way out, you lock two thirds of the way out or come up to Thursday's the way up, rather. And then come back down. You tend to hit failure pretty close together on these movements, which means they're both for a bicep movement. So number one, you just want to save time. Number two is if a girl just walked into the gym, you're sitting down, you'll only have two dumbbells. And she's like, I'm gonna like fuck the next guy with a big ass arm pump. I don't care how it is. And she's walking around the gym, like waiting for it and shit, but you're like, oh fuck fuck fuck. So you can't, how do you get into full arm pump? One amazing combo exercise already in the bench. So as you're doing really hey baby, she's like, I'm not a bad guy, I'm a bad guy. I'm a bad guy. You look like the fucking way you want me. Yeah, I just like, I got your fucking arms. I ain't you guys know the rest, I'm not gonna get into it. Up. Finish. Three. Go right away. Almost all the way up and then slow control. Good. Big lack out here, come all the way up. Go, go, go, go, go and then down slow. One last curl. Begin. Slow. Reach your feet. Feed. Feed. Feed. Wait for it. Up. Move. Move. Move. Move. Move. Move. Almost full lock out. Down. One more. Go. Good. One last one. And then finish with this one all the way up and then stand up. Power out. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go. And stand. Good shit. Hey. That fucking dude. I don't speak scottler. It works. This next exercise is one I did not make up. But I'm calling it my own because I'm a piece of shit and finally famous enough to name shit after myself. Scott, what's your favorite food? No. It's the doctor my mistake now. All right. Now that we've named foods, let's get into the exercises. I think this is called a thruster, maybe. A thruster is another thing that, um, well, you guys know the rest of that joke. I won't even bother with it. It is a combination. Back squat. To behind the neck, push press. It's a full squat. You will all the way down to a full squat and my healating. That H you got to pronounce and my healating. Your glutes, your inner thighs and your quads and your soul. And then on the concentric, you don't slow down. You continue to accelerate until the bar pops up off of your traps. And you press it out by coming up on your toes and using as much ballistic momentum as possible. As opposed to what other kind of momentum, my fine physics assholes. You got me on that one. It's just one. This allows you to lift a weight that is very challenging for your quads and your glutes, et cetera. But at the same time gets extra propulsion from your lower body to help your upper body lift the weight. And if you stay completely super upright, ideally, where weight lifting shoes and sink super far down and slow and pause at the bottom, it makes the leg component so difficult that it really starts to match up to the upper body component. And you can get very close to failure in this movement for two parts of your body at the same time. If for some reason there's any symmetry, you can always line up the reps differently, doing a few more squats or a few more shoulder presses or push presses, depending on which body part of yours is the strongest. Guys, I'm not going to bullshit you. This exercise is going to kill you probably. It is like literally almost full body. It wrecks your metabolism in the best way possible. You're going to be even going to be throwing up blood. Everyone's going to wonder how they can help you and maybe they're attractive females. And maybe help means a hand job. I don't know. I'm just finnrollin' the dice here, people. I don't even run the program. Who's supposed to be writing a script? In any case, this is a balleracter size. You can do it for sets of sheets. I can't believe it's saying this 10 to 15 reps. If you just need something to prove to yourself that child had never really let you taste, Crossfitters do this. I'll just put that in a perspective. They just tougher than the rest of us. But if you want to save time, you get a massive stimulus. This is how you go about it. Folks, our last combo exercise, if you just don't have any time, but you want to be Jack. But you just don't have any time. But you want to be Jack. I'm not going to even do it. Max is already laughing his ass off. He knows what's coming next. But you don't have any time. The combination, standing dumbbell curl, to shoulder press combo. This can also be done with an inclined curl to a high inclined combo. You're called. You can zap your biceps, your front delts, and to some extent really stimulate your triceps and potentially even chest with this combination exercise. You can do more fewer curls, more fewer standing overhead presses, or overhead presses, or inclines the bending eye you do this, depending on which muscle tends to fatigue first. And if you want to keep them aligned, it's totally dope. I will say it seems like you could shoulder press like an infinity, but at least standing dumbbell shoulder presses are actually a lot harder than they look. So you might even start with a one to one ratio and see how it goes from there. Otherwise, this is a great exercise. If you don't have a ton of time, you can pair this exercise with the skull crush your exercise, combo with curl, get your arms, you get your triceps, you get some shoulder work done, all those while manning you leave the gym because if you have big delts, you have big arms. But what the, go you in the gym to begin with, to look for girls, to look for guys, to look for people, abandon gender, that you can love with your body. All right, guys, we're going to make max the editor boy, who actually edits full stack, the entire exercise science Friday show, they actually assigned to critique show, he's the fucking man, but good things come with punishments. So he's going to bleed for this shit. He's going to do a two to one ratio of shoulder presses to bicep curls to even it out to make sure this is still a combo exercise, but they try steps, the shoulders and the biceps, get the right dose. I always with the dose stuff, technically dose extends to any quantity of substance, but mostly tryin'. Yeah, let's go do this. Super deep. Slow, flip, very minimal rest of that top flip situation as soon as you flip you go. Up, slow control, deep. Right away, good, just like that. Up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, two good ones go. Slow, deep. Finish finish finish finish, one more bicep curl, finish this one strong. Two more reps and then you're done. Big moves, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. Big press right away, press one. Slow all the way outside and then a full lock confident lock out. Lock it, lock it, lock it, slow, slow, slow, slow, negative on the curl. You're fucking swimming in it now, man. Two to one was good. Yeah, two to one was Scott's idea, because Scott's a smart guy. You know you guys think Scott's just a guy who points the camera and does nothing at home, but stare at a wall in between editing videos and while all those things are true, he's also really smart. And beautiful. And gorgeous. Oh, he doesn't like combo. Alright, folks, hope you enjoyed these combo exercises look. These aren't like the greatest things in the world, but they're really good for saving your time. They're a cool source of novelty. And in a very equipment constrained environment when you're going to keep your hands fast to the dumbbells, they work super super well. Just a few tips on making them work well. Number one, you don't have to do the combo variant. You can just do the super set. Do as many curls as you can, flip over into shoulders. That's awesome. The thing is you have to choose which one for teagues first. And then they may be not get an even amount of stimulus. No big deal. Then you do the combos. But because some acts that your body performs, some leverages are not as good as others. They're weaker than some muscles or small than others. You don't have to do a one to one ratio of each rep. You can do one to two, even one to three. And it's crazy as one to four if it comes down to it. Give a bunch of these exercises a try if you'd like. And if you love them, just warmly think of Scott the video guy and Max, the editor boy. But I'm really not doing it. Brokeback Mountain, except the super unrated version where you're like, is there like a plot to this? Or is this one and a half hours of just like, should I wish I'd never seen that? Think about that and I'll see you guys next time. I know. I guess you have to do a B-roll this. Oh, B-roll kissing. I'll hold both cameras.

Slow. No! Buz! Holy f**k. Ha ha ha. That's what we want to see. Hahahaha. That's what we want to see. Yo, what up, YouTube? Listen, I used to roll solo. And then I realized there's a four-letter word that takes that and throws it away. And it's CR-E-W. That's crew. And I'm deep-stacked today, fellas. We got Mr. Alex Reynitis, who is a literal Spartan. You never heard of the 300 per Spartan. That's my man. He didn't die in no battle. He straight up beat up everyone. Perceus, Alamo, a fucker's dead. And now he's a natural bodybuilder. Three weeks out of his neck show. He's my man. He's got his own channel. You better be checking that out. It's Alex Leanditis, formerly Alphabeshti. But the destiny is that he's shacked and shredded and ripped. But the only downside is he's a tiny bit too light-skinned. Which is where my boy Johnny comes in. Johnny Shree, the Nigerian Prince, the man, the myth, the legend. What more can I say? What less can I say about him? So I don't get canceled for that Nigerian Prince shit I just said. You guys see Johnny before you know who he is. These guys both call me up at the same time. I have two phones like this. And they were like biceps, it was like, yeah. And the other was like delts, I was like, yeah. So we're going to do biceps and delts. Delts and biceps. Shout out Mike, let's get to work. All right, let's do it. We're going to do my rep match. Cool. Which means, yeah. Sorry. Wait, wait, wait, wait. I know what that is. This is what it is. Fuck that. Nice. So who's wiping my ass after? Right. Come over. We'll take care of it. He's going to take a shower. Tongue wipe. Just take. Daddy. Okay. First exercise is the Atlantis lateral raise machine. The best lateral raise machine in the business. We are going to be doing sets of 15 to 20 reps, but it's my rep match. Probably three sets is good enough because damn. That means. Do about 15 to 20 reps very close to failure on the first set. Walk off. Alex comes in. Johnny comes in. I go back in. I have to do as many. Many sets as it takes to get to 15. So if I get to 12, that means I put a dot. I rest for five seconds. And then I do another three. I have to match 15, 15, 15 every single set. And so do these motherfuckers. Or whatever reps I'm going to get. That. Yep. One. Slow. Eugh. Ugh. How many? I don't know. Just do it. I don't know after 15. 15. I'll come back. Come on. Come on. Come on. Two. Slow. That rest for a sec. Don't go anywhere. Rest. Begin. Come on. Finish. Push. Now slow. That's it. Oh yes. Dude, there's only one. One. One, kingly and I. That's not my. Fucker. Dude. Awesome. Your delts are coming out. I'm delts. Is there really three heads? It looks like one, three heads. You cheated. What do we activate in the make sure we did this entire thing? Like crap. Far end emotion. Like what are we? Where are we thinking? Feel in this entire movement. The first thing you want to do is make sure you're moving right from an external perspective. So start here. Are you thinking arc out? Not like this shit where you pull in. Don't disappear. Are you out? Up. And try to get the tops of your hands to touch at the top. You don't have to do that, but it's a cool cue. Once you get there, think of slowing the descent down, using the very tops of your shoulders and nothing else. And then back up, just move. Move on the concentric, control with your side delts on the eccentric. There's other cues, they're good cues. That's my cues for the shit. Cool. Let's go. Two more and then rest. Hit it. Come on. I sit. Yeah. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Come on. Go in. Slow. Slow. One more. One more. Take your time. You got to take deep. Take deep. Take deep. Come on. Move it. Push you. Move it. Yes. Slow. Control. All the way. There you go. How are you? This shit. It's amazing. It worked, man. Really good. Side five. Solid. Y'all. He's got his own foot. I'm pushing you. I'm pushing all that. I don't even know what I'm saying. Wow. I'm glad I said why are these idiots going so high up that their front delts take over the movement. It's because your front delts get so much training from chest movement. They don't need a lot of extra training. So this top part is probably good enough for them. I don't do any other front delts work than the small part I get here. But also, yes, past about here, it's mostly front delts. That allows us to get free front delts work and the side delts are still working to some extent. But it allows us to get up so high that on the way down, we're instantly essentially controlling right off the bat because the side delts are a bit unloaded up here. Once you reach the top, you can say, okay, now I'm in control. And that slowest centric is worth the extra front delt in all of them. Can you stop short of that top? Yes. Is it still just as great of a movement? If you just go to 135 degrees instead of 90, instead of all the way up, to 180 row of the fuck that is? Yes. There's no wrong answers here as long as you at least clear parallel. And then a little bit higher is usually better. All the way up is not mandatory. But for us, the extra front delt work is totally cool. And that is centric of control on the way down is easier if you go all the way up. So give me that some thought. That's 12th. Yep. I'll take a little break after this one. Finish off all the two. One more one you're ready. Two more one you're ready. Easy day today. Yep. Yep. Slow. Holy fuck. Fuck. Fuck. Fuck. How much does whole dumbbells have to do this? It's a barbell. Good news. Great. How does whole barbell are off there? I don't know. I was hoping you didn't ask to follow up. Let's go find us a barbell, yeah. Look, man, I said, hey, we just I just did a video on. Do I do one of the prices in the squat rack? Shit. Man. Only because Pyramos has about 75 squat racks. So as you only time you allowed to do, biceps in the squat rack. Johnny, why not curling? What are you doing? You just want to curl, don't you? Just let it just let it just let it do it up, right? Just let it mother fuck curl up in here. Do it up, right? But still, is that considered? Is it an accessory like this? Considered? These are upright rows. We're going to be pulling them to above the face in height and pausing at the top. That allows us to do this get a crazy amount of range of motion. Use not so much load. It is insulting to the ego. But that pause at the top activates your side delts and you keep them active in a slow control-based center, gone the way down. And because we're warm already for who skeptical is some shit? What's he doing? I can't see his face. Just sit in the head, man. Yeah, it's about. Sit in the head. So I've just got actually started my first work set because we're already warmed up for shoulders. So consider this an intro. And set number one. Like, you know, I'll feed baby, I need space. At least sets the tone. Ah! Just the intensity standard. Sir. Oh, no. Wow, I can't wait to do these. I used to fear upright rows. Do you do a certain somewhat. So I've ordered... Jeff Cavaliere. We can say it. What's your gonna watch our channel? So I'm kind of a new bed this movement. So let's see what this feels like. Yes, but you gotta stop at the top and pause. The visible pause. It's gonna be painful. Fuck you, you feel that? Let's go. Yes. Hi. Yes. And then slow. That's one more Alex. Big move. Up. Pause. Slow. Oh yeah. So I'd be punished last. You're like, a freak. All these idiots already want. Slow. Slow. Slow. Ah. Oh yeah. One more Johnny. Go rest. Go rest. Up. Slow. Holy fuck. That's what we want to see. I feel like we should be putting like six plates on each side. 100%. And just fucking hot. We're talking now. We're talking. Ah. How do you make a simple movement as shitty as you pause and can? Mh. Like is the architect? Come on. There you go. Come on. Come on. Let's go. Whoa. Nice. Come on. Ball. There you go. Yes. Three more. Three more. Three more. There you go. Come on. Go. This shit. Let's go, man. Come on. That shit. Good one, zone me. Come on. Yeah. Yep. All the way up. Come on. Come on. That's just nice. Slow. That's nice. That was awful. Fight it. For a second. One good one. One more good one. Here you go. Come on. Yes. Four. One more. Just one. Hold it. Slow. Slow. Yes. Yes. Yes. That's good enough. That's good enough. That's good enough. 13. Beautiful. 14. Last one. Yes. Slow. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. So good. Nobody's helping you, man. Amazing. Amazing. Amazing. Good work. Let's do some curls. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was good for you. It was good for you. It was good for you. It was good for you. All right. I don't know. I kind of wish it was more whatever. I think I think I think I just got to get it. Get set yourself somewhere behind it. I've been like kind of shit over. Not like to like, you know, come up. Walked with tight. I think it over top with things. That's all this is going to work. That'll work. It's like last exercise. Weird. Pinnata machine bicep. Preacher curl standing thing. It's kind of a trip. It feels pretty cool. Three sets. Relatively heavy. 10 to 15 reps. My rep match. And then we're going to do one set of like 20. This many many sets of takes. Lighter. Work that's total. And we're fucking done. I'm out. You motherfucker. Never. Come on. I ripped a place. Let's go get it up. Get it up. Come on. Oh yeah. Come on. I pull up. Pull. Come on. Pull. I see. Come on. There you go. Control down. Control down. There you go. Come on. Stay hard. There you go. Shit. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Pull. Pull it. Pull. Pull. Let's go. Perfect. Pull. Nice. Nice. Nice. Sounds nice. All right. Penata. Mike's over there. Get it. Black belt. No. Thanks again. Thank you so much. Nice meeting you. Because it's because it's just you. That's why it's getting back up. Yeah. Yeah. Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice. Excellent. Good technique. Only. Got. Slow. Got. Good. Slowly. I'm going to do my usual set of 12-mile rent match here at 110 kilos. I don't know. I don't know, pounds. And then after that, I'm just gonna walk and put it into the 77 or so, or whatever that is. 110 down to 77, and I'm going to do 20 total repetitions right after my 12th. However, many old mini sets of takes. That'll be the end of the end of the line. Last work up. Oh man, I think I was just trying to say anything but I don't know, I thought those, I'm like, is that part of your sweater or is that like a, miss, are you that hairy? When that we fucked up, I was yesterday we changed. I'm sure that was hairy. I'm so glad to be the first. And I'll stay in the entire time. Come on, Mike. Come on. You're right, you're right. I'm so easy. Let's go. There you go. Two, there you go. Come on. Three, back there. That's it. Come on. That's good. There you go. That's it. There you go. There you go. Come on. Or yeah, I might worry you out. Come on. Come on. Three. Two. Three. There you go. Come on. There you go. There you go. Goddamn. Who's next? Two. This shit, come on, holy up. Come on. Three. Can I say it's in a strong? Last hit your best, that's come on. Come on, get it off. One more. Up. Oh, rest, breathe. Three more. Three more and then two. We'll split it up. Oh, it's a hard shot. All the way up and down. All the way down. Two, there you go. Yes, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. Now slow. Rest. Yes, there you go. Come on. Go. Yeah, go. Pull, pull, pull. And then slow. Sit. I love going last. Beautiful, beautiful. Beautiful. Johnny, sign us off here, baby. 13, 14, 15, 16, 17. Go, 17, 17, three more. 18, 19. Yeah. Fuck. Sick, Mike. Folks, the shit has been so fucking real. Reeler may be close to impossible. Johnny, Shreeve, IFBB Pro. My man, from the great white north. I'm sorry how that comes off. But that's literally the nickname of Canada. And the one and only, Spartan King Alex Leonitis, Repping the CA, like W-O-A-H. Anyway, I've been Dr. Mike for Anastons Predization. These guys are the shit they have their own channels. Follow them and I'll see you guys next time. Peace.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike Isrtle here for Renaissance Periodization. The question for today's video is, do steroids make you Dumber? Now I'll give you a following, couple of seconds, to make any and all jokes in my clearly abusing ass go. All right, and I earn them. Here we go, do steroids make you Dumber. How would we begin to illustrate something like this? How do we answer this question as evidence-based folks? Well, one is through theoretical mechanisms, specifically, you know, is there anything in the literature that shows that steroids might cause some kind of harm to the nervous systems and neurons and stuff like that? I think if it says like oh, trans seems to be or testosterone, seems to be poisonous to neurons in some context, it's kind of like oh shit, maybe it actually does hurt the nervous system and by that method because the nervous system is the seed of all intelligence, maybe it hurts that as well. Okay, possible. Number two is actual experimental illustrations those mechanisms. I guess it's fun. It's totally fine to posit that oh, I think Andrews and hi-doses would be neurodegenerative, but if you actually test that and Andrews and hi-doses are neurodegenerative, at least in cell culture, then you can say, wow okay, like this harm actually occurs in some contexts. Not sure that it actually decreases intelligence and users in the real world, but at least some mounting insight into that. Number three is this is a very big one is a direct observation of cognitive differences between users and non-users because if you, you know, say, steroids make you domer, but you compare a steroid users, non- steroid users and non- steroid users are no smarter than steroid user-like, well, I guess all the theoretical stuff just kind of goes out the window. Mind you, there's, you know, here's a perfect example of how that breaks down. Alcohol absolutely is neurodegenerative, and if you bathe cells in petri-dition, alcohol, it fucking kills all of them, if they're nervous system cells, it really does a whole lot of damage. We know that alcohol causes, you know, they kills your brain cells, that's actually a true thing that they're very, very, very popular. But when you look at people who drink you do glasses of wine versus non-drinkers versus people who drink tendrings to light, you know, tendrings night, yeah, clearly they're going to have lower intelligence. Not that much lower as you would expect, it takes a significant amount of alcoholism to really do damage to your brain and that capacity, but you know, two drinks a day, two glasses of wine versus zero, there's actually no evidence at all to suggest that that much alcohol reduces your intelligence. So it's not quite clear right off hand that we, you know, could say, oh, because, you know, we've seen like 10 articles, ways in which testosterone, other addrogens are bad for nerves in general, a bad for neural structures, that's not immediately clear that some kind of steroid use would have to make you dumber because without alcohol, their relationship doesn't seem to be like that up to pretty high levels of drink, right? So we would like to see direct observation of cognitive differences. If you could have some research that says, look, any more than one and then two and then three and then plus drinks, you just lowers your IQ the entire time over across large samples of population, but I don't know, we fuck maybe that's because of the alcohol, maybe not, it could be correlation, not causation, but be sure at least would like to see correlation here, right? Number four, sort of trying to unweave that mystery between correlation and causation at least a little bit is potentially linking the degree of intellectual decline with or cognitive differences put more specifically with dose and duration. Like if you have from some research that people who used very small amounts of antigen for a short time had very small or unnotable decrements in ability or they're just a score average as bad as highs you expect on IQ testing versus if people ran 10 years of gear at three grams on average per week and they're the ones that are like the most cognitive deficient like, it's a bit more evidence the fact that maybe something there is going on, but hold on the last thing is an obviation of potential errors and to all of the stuff I just said there's lots of ways in which even if the relationship seemed very clear it turns out that might not be the reality that steroids and andadrogens actually do make a dummy. For example, if you have really good research to say as a kid the more gear someone takes and for longer they took it the dummy are. You say, okay, fucking clearly the gear makes you dumb or maybe maybe but maybe it's actually that dumb ass motherfucker stupid people to begin with make the choice to take five grams of gear for 10 year straight and smart people just don't do things like that on average. So you're actually getting a selection effect and no direct effect. Maybe it's a combination of the two. Maybe dumb ass people start taking way more gear and take it for longer anyway and making their stupidity problem even worse and smart people if they do take gear they do get less smart but they're usually more responsible with it usually more moderate and those they don't see as big of a hit so that that window between the two groups can really open up and also is at the drugs themselves or isn't something else you know every time you take gear lots of other stuff happens that's not the gear itself that you could maybe control for. For example, steroid users have on average much higher blood pressure than non steroid users and to most people is fucking insane as who use gear do not control their blood pressure and then we've made an attempt to do it. We've had lots of videos on this channel where we've seen people you blood pressure's really bad you don't let it get out of hand. So maybe it's the thing that actually high blood pressure chronically is neurodegenerative we actually know already that that's the case so that's definitely a part of the puzzle and maybe that it counts for 100% of the variants we don't know so we have to make sure before we say yes it's for sure the endrogens we have to make sure to at least try to get obvious out some of the obvious errors so this is kind of the task that isn't front of us and now we I think yep go directly to the literature which I'll have if you guys pause this at any time you can get the the you can copy the link or whatever directly in your shit. I will say a trick to this I don't know if Android does this because I'm an Apple man and I don't soup down these Android filth but if you take a screenshot of this on your phone and you zoom in you just open the screenshot and your photos on your iPhone you can actually text select all the stuff and you can just go right to the article. We may be able to dump some of these links into the description but if don't get to that then for sure just click through here but here we go each one of these points that I just described points one through five we're going to take a look at the state of the evidence for them so first is theoretical mechanisms is the as are any evidence in literature that steroids might my cause neural harm the answer is absolutely yes adrogens may cause neural degradation via apoptotic and necrotic pathways which means apoptosis is when the steroids basically tell the satellite hey you should kill yourself and the cells like thia and it just degrades its structure but in a clean way necrosis is the cell kind of dies in more natural death it's not program cell death it just falls apart can't do its job anymore and regions might have a role in that as well so okay all right definitely not good news for me so okay this is a definitely a thing number two do we have experimentally illustrated mechanisms so of any studies actually illustrated that this occurs the answer is yes there's a bunch of studies there seems to be a potentially similar way in which hydrogen exposure occurs or affects the brain maybe to something like Parkinson's you know men do are are more affected more by Parkinson's and men do have way more of a lifetime exposure to testosterone which is the original androgen and so there's some decent evidence here and there's a lot of studies you can look at potentially to see if you're going to and weave the rainbow on that but okay so we have theoretical mechanisms check we have experimentally illustrated mechanisms check okay not not great news so far let's see where this goes next we need direct observation of cognitive differences do we actually have evidence the steroid user is dumber the answer is yes okay there's a few studies that have looked at this in a couple of different ways a quote one really quick long-term and metabolic engine exterior users showed no significant differences from non-users on measures of response speed sustained attention and verbal memory but on visual spatial memory however a S users performed significantly more poorly than non-users within the user group visual spatial performance showed a significant negative correlation with total lifetime a S dose okay the real bad news of that is maybe something going on especially with visual spatial performance the not so bad news potential glimmer of hope is that generally when you have a single substance that's very general mechanism of action degrading the brain in a way that like it kills off the above in nerve cells you just generally tend to see a decline in global ability so for example you have like lead poisoning and your IQ is reduced like that they didn't basically hits every part of your intelligence you'll be worse at everything that requires intellect with engine exposure maybe this is just very very preliminary work not a ton of evidence it seems that it leaves a lot of your intelligence alone but only hits you in a specific place and remember that males and females are actually considerably different in visual spatial performance and maybe there's some interaction of brain and hormone there that specifically toggles that switch right maybe in a sense the brain makes you the steroids make you more energized or feminized in that part of your brain that is more responsible for for visual spatial but but this at the best case is this is not ideal news the worst case is that like a couple studies in the future will show that you for sure get done with this way and maybe other ways to so okay we ask the direct observation of cognitive differences we have we have not ideal next is their link between cognitive differences and the dose and duration of Android application the people who take steroids for longer do they have worse performance in their cognition some research suggests no some research suggests yes I would say it's very mixed in this regard sometimes you know there are some analyses they do where they kind of do a brain aging index see how old your brain is and they sort of found out that longitudinal analysis revealed no evidence of increased brain aging overall in the antibiotic engineering steroid user group but accelerated brain aging was seen with longer AS exposure that doesn't mean they gave people AS or animals AS or antibiotic engineering steroids and just like measured the shit that's a self report so there's a big confounder there there's it's not explained by other substance use but they only ask certain things it it and it's not explained by general cognitive abilities which is interesting it is kind of good news because while steroid users some of the probably most high steroid users there is some research to show or some insight to show that they may have more aged brains at the brains of this big an aged faster and you can see some guys very off-hand remark here by me then don't take this too seriously but guys that run a shit little gear you can look at their face face and you're like what the fuck how old are you like I'm probably I don't look all out young and so gear seems to kind of maybe age you a little faster but it said that there's actually no connection here with general cognitive decline so while brain aging index goes up it doesn't actually seem to drag down your IQ which is mixed mixed and there's other studies that do say yes actually there is a link of cognitive versus between dose and duration and and how bad the intellectual deficit becomes so I would say this is mostly not so right news but with maybe a couple of little silver linings now sort of lastly how do we know guys taking grams of gear for decades aren't just done as fuck to begin with right and here we have a quote from one of these studies the typical antibiotic energetic steroid abuser is a male poly substance abuser which means here's not the only thing they're doing who has poor self esteem that's you baby everybody laughing at you now dog ha ha ha okay maybe it's me poor self shut up Scott the video guy laughing back there poor self esteem poor school performance and cluster B personality disorder or trades look that up it's fun to look up who may or may not participate in organized sport so with it it's actually people using steroids more are not necessarily the jock people there people who like maybe on average more help like a chip on their shoulder and aren't so smart to begin with and so no study can have instantly rules out the fact that it could all be selection bias it is possible I'll get to this later I consider it unlikely but possible that steroids have no negative effect on your cognition as far as general tall jumps is concerned that it's just like you're done a shit you'll take a lot of gear which is at least partially true right so it's certainly a factor that people who are stupid are decided to do stupid are shit with steroids and usually take more of them and for longer and don't take as many of the risk preserving mechanisms as they can that's for sure true the real question is how much of the difference in intelligence between users and non users does that explain is it all of it as a part of it is definitely part we're not really sure how much of a part the thing is is that we know that people who use antibiotics for a long time especially recklessly have a higher long term exposure to oxidative stress they generally take anti-estrogens sometimes a lot and there's a lot of chronic high blood pressure involved and we know that each one of these three can have very profound neurodegenerative effects most of these three have much more intense neurogenerv effects than any antigen has so there's definitely stuff involved and almost certainly some antibiotic antigenic steroids are much more neurodegenerative neurotoxic whatever where do you want to use than others so for example you know if you are like hey I wonder who I'll protect my brain but I'm going to take only trend and try and all the time there are direct studies that show compared to most of the drugs they studied against trend as the worst for your brain so there's definitely some nuance here and we haven't mediated all the potential errors so what are some implications here this is my reading of the literature as it stands at the time this video was released as always as good scientists we have to be ready to modify our positions with incoming evidence okay so my position is tentative they're tentative you know so it's my reading so maybe in an accurate read it if I get this wrong just like an unsubscribe from this channel so you never I'll just stop post jk so first I got point a through point c point e yeah five points point a there is no body of very strong evidence that shows that steroid use makes you dumber so it's not like old for sure it's not bad oh there you go alright but there sure are lots of candidate mechanisms for such a thing happening and we can't just rule it all out like I don't worry brother just watch your cholesterol and you'll be okay nah and there's plenty of decently controlled correlative literature which should at least make us like do the the people's eyebrow at it and be like oh no we're it that's not good you know that's not good the evidence is convincing but they sure are a lot of hints if I had to bat on it I had to bat money on it I would say my best guess is that long-term adjunct use does reduce some factors of intelligence some of your sub abilities of your general intelligence if not the underlying general intelligence factor itself though that is also possible and I wouldn't rule that out either so I'm saying some kinds of intelligence I think it's probable that Andrews do degrade and it's possible they degrade by some small but notable margin you're overall general they may not do this directly so indirect mechanisms like oxidative stress heromatase inhibition and chronic high blood pressure are likely involved I would bet they're involved to a pre-highest which brings us to the last point point E of what I think your best bets are in the situation clearly hands down best bet number one is just don't use steroids don't use androgens if you really need to be sharp for work and you love being of whatever intelligence you are and you don't want to get any dumber just don't use ananders right getting dumber makes everything you can imagine worse everything you can imagine feel free to debate me in the comments below I may we may find one or two exceptions but generally I think being smarter is better for almost every outcome if you do choose to use anandrogens or you currently using anandrogens like I should I'm a competitive bodybuilder the fact of my supposed to do just quit my sport you may be able to do some things that guard against this or minimize the effect to some extent here they are first use the smallest doses you can to get the result that you need don't overblast gear that is also a good idea for fifty trillion other reasons mostly your health but then this case may come in handy as well next is use drugs that are the least likely to do neurodegenerative harm use more premable and less tremblone I know crazy the more you know right next is do not use aromatase inhibitors at all preferably or use them for as little as possible if you use them to get dialed in for a show they probably are neurodegenerative probably much more than steroids so they're not a good idea I've seen many cycles of pros and national with a year-round smash anti-estrogens that's the fucking worst idea you can have stop doing next is take met foreman and otherwise reduce overall oxidative stress that means eating healthy that means experiencing less life stress everything after you bring your oxidative stress down get as much sleep as possible sleep seems to be super protective against a lot of the stuff and very neurogenerative and if you degrade your quality of sleep bad things can happen and all these things can become worse measure and control your blood pressure via any means necessary including blood pressure drugs the amount of research that shows blood pressure drugs reduce your intelligence is zero the amount of inference for that is also zero so you having a little blood pressure makes you better often every single fucking way you can imagine and potentially keeps you smarter for longer so kind of an operator there and then wait as long as possible to use drugs so if you're you know you're 20 years old and you're getting really good and really jack you want to start competing a bodybuilding go on man I just want to jump in and start using gear don't way too you're like 25 or 27 or something really tap out your natural gains go as long as you can without drugs and then when you use them use them with a buff recommendations which is like use less of them and use the safer substances and take care of the rest of your stuff and watch your health your blood pressure etc and then on the tail end get the fuck out of suit as you can so I'll end this on a personal anecdote I'm 38 years old I gave myself more or less hard-ish cut off of like age 42 to try to do whatever it is I'm going to do in bodybuilding I have a couple goals I'll keep them to myself the big one is just show up on stage looking like yeah like last time I competed I get it real close I just need maybe a few more shows around like oh yeah and those are real walnut lutes you know I really fucking peaked I really did it as soon as I'm done with that and or age roughly 42 hits as I understand things to be now I'm getting off all the gear that isn't TRT and I'm fucking dropping bodyweight from like like 245 right now I'm going to go down to like 190 within a few months if I make it this far you guys will see that happen in real life and there's a new you will not see me at age 51 red in the face from running grams of trend that won't happen so not only should you start drugs late if you're ever going to do them don't do them if you're going to do them start them late take us few as you can watch your health and when you're done doing your bodybuilding thing generally people in the early 40s can no longer match the peak of their um their physique that they achieved in their you're right around age 40 late 30s to age 40s when most people mature um once you're done especially in your mid to late 40s get the just stop taking gear and get the buck out that's my plan hopefully it's your plan to yeah series shit we'll see how this happens and maybe in a couple years we'll see some updated literature and I'll make another one of these videos yeah consider this mine a gruff the the crime dog moment of folks don't do drugs see next time

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pyrridsation. But newsflash, there is no team called team notes off, and I'm going to talk to you today about why rest days are important for you to get the most results. So I think I have a total of 7 points for you today. Point number one is to define what a rest day is. Here's the definition as I use it, and we'll be using it throughout the rest of this lecture. Her rest day is a day on which no weight training occurs. For the purposes of most of the people watching this channel, who weight training is kind of their sport, it's their hobby, it's their activity. Some cardio is okay. If it's easy cardio, if it's just activity and get your 10 to 12k steps a day, that's totally cool. Still counts as a rest day. Extra cardio is not a good idea, and it doesn't make that day count as a rest day anymore, but we'll get that in just a second. Now, I'm a big fan of rest days. I think they're important. I think that training seven days a week is generally fucking stupid, and you should do at least one day off. Why? So that leads us to point number two of what are the actual advantages of rest days? What are the benefits? First, your muscle do not grow on the gym, the growth side of the gym. Taking it extra day after a crazy hard week of training is the day entirely dedicated to muscle growth. That sounds pretty good to me. Just on paper, it sounds fucking sweet. Second, there are two types of fatigue that your muscles and your training can take on. One is local fatigue, like your biceps or sore. Two is systemic fatigue, your whole body and brain are a little bit fucked up, and they need to cool that system off and drop the fatigue. When you train biceps one day, have a next day you train chest and triceps the day after you train legs, your biceps locally are healing the entire time you do any chest and triceps and legs because they're not being fenced with. Perfect. But what about the system? Your whole body, sure as shit isn't healing because it's being demanded to work very hard on both when you train your biceps and your back, chest and triceps and legs. It's just boom, boom, boom. So taking a rest day is a unique kind of fatigue reduction because it brings down systemic fatigue, that global fatigue that feels like, oh man, fuck, I never want to train again when it's high enough. And when it's low enough, feels like dragon balls see lightning bolt energy flowing through your body and it's ready to go crush the gym. You want to feel like that second way, you're going to want to bring your fatigue down, which means you're going to want to take rest days. Next, psychological fatigue reduction, that lightning bolt feeling is physiological in nature, but there is a whole other spectrum on the psychology and the psychology is affected by two things. One, physiology affects psychology. When you're cortisol, stress hormones, your fight or flight hormones are up and your testosterone is down from too many days without rest, too much systemic fatigue, just those hormones alone and other nervous system processes on the physiology side actually make your brain think differently in all-terrier psychology directly. That's definitely a thing that happens, but there is another side of psychology, the purely psychological side. That reveals itself by the fact that going to the gym and going, really, really trying, sit on a toilet and try just as hard, eat more fiber people, it's 2023, her four or five, one of the fact this video comes out, he's got the video guy, why don't we just do like a video dump of 500 videos that we record in advance all in one day? See if he can keep up. Psychological fatigue is something that can accumulate with the grind of having to try hard all the time, it's just like, oh my god, I need a mental break. Because a mental break is awesome, you're relaxing, you're recovering for a day, maybe two of pure rest, but at the end of that second day, you're like, bro, I don't need to relax anymore, I need to shoot energy waves out of my fucking hands and then back to the gym you go. So tie for muscles to grow, systemic fatigue goes down and psychological fatigue goes down, which is all lame and whatever it's pussy bullshit to fucking think about fatigue, but to think about it another way, you're preparing your body and mind to go psych, hotically hard that next week. So you go hard, hard, hard, hard, hard and you accumulate fatigue throughout the week. You take one, two or three rest days at the end of the week and the fatigue comes right back down so you can fucking reload the cannons of gains, brothers and sisters and, you know, properly sight them of course, that's the good technique part and then boom, fire off for a whole week straight, get really tired and repeat the process over again. I believe in the liking, they call this the circle of life. The liking was a movie about training, right? It's got the video guy. So when I got out of the book, I'm going to go through that. Bro, for real end, like, mandrels and shit like that, I don't want to get in the motherfucked faces untrained, you feel me, have all that red ass, you know, I don't know where we got with that one. I do have red asses though, fellas, you feel me, I ain't lying. All right, what do you want to avoid on rest days? You go to find Dr. Mike, you talk me in the rest. I'm a fucking bitch like you now. I need to rest all the time, not a warrior hand joint. How do I rest properly and what do I want to make sure that I avoid and screwing up my rest day? A couple things. One, doing more cardio or more mental work, like your job or your school, then usual to make up for the fact that you're not actually training with weights really hard. People do this and I totally understand where they're coming from. You fucking grind every day, you do some fucking work, you do some fucking school, you do some fucking hard training, you feel like you've earned it, you go to sleep with a smile on your face, you guys like that, that's my fake Russian smile. Technically, the Russians smile looks like this. So we have nothing to be happy about, but a fake Russian smile is in your eye stay the same, but your mouth moves. Look at my eyes. I don't know any happiness. In any case, you go to sleep, you wake up, repeat, I love it. Hashtag, work hard, hashtag, play hard. Dope, thanks for great Instagram story, but some days, all the stuff you do, you need to bring it down. Because recovery occurs when you're under less total stress of every kind, because remember this psychological impact to recovery. So if you do more work in more school, you'll just be delirious from that. You'll be very accomplished in the short term, congratulations, but your fatigue will continue to stomach over the many weeks, and then you'll fucking fall apart into pieces and after pull back on training all of a sudden. Instead, be smart. When you take a recovery day, try to make sure that at least a few other parts of your life are on easier mode as well. Don't make up for it. Even if it's just going to work like normal. Just normally you go to work. You get out of five, you go to the gym from five to seven. You grind with the gym. You come home and you, I don't know, look up, hem tie. So what I do, oh, I forgot shut the fuck up. I know you're able to attract actual females. You don't need to look at adult films, but some of us do it alone. And the Japanese away foods make it so nice. Am I saying that right fellas? You hit me up in the comments. In any case, if you instead go, you know what my wife who life who will be seven p.m. anyway, but I'm not going to the gym today because it's a rest day. I'm going to stay at work for two more hours. Your boss will love you. Your landlord will love you. Any proper Zeppelin owning billionaire, trillionaire like myself will love you, but you're not actually recovering as much as you could, because instead of actually recovering, you took the training and the physical stress of it, and sometimes the psychological destress of training, and you put in more psychological stress at work. So let's say don't have to take the whole day off of work, although that's pretty cool to do. Especially if it's a weekend that's really good. Is that'll bring not even more fatigue? But even if you just go to work and leave at the normal time, those two extra hours, because you're not training, just go home and well, I suppose get into the hand tirely. I'm just sit there because you have nothing else to do with no friends. Not even any hope of making any. This is an autobiography. I sing and heating. People think recovery and they get an alls voodoo nonsense. Ice and heat. John actually help heal you. They prevent some extent or delay to some extent. The very recuperative processes that in the short term, EQ, tighter and more so are been a long term, making more jack and all the solid great stuff. So I see an heating is cool for athletes to use the day before the morning of a game, so they never feel tight to begin with from all the practice or the game they had the other night. But for all of us who are Jim Monkeys, I show call us, we are cool being tightness or enledding those inflammatory processes mediated by the new system, actually heal us and make us more jack. So don't go over there and start doing fucking cryotherapy and heating and shit. The exception is if one of those things really psychologically relaxes you. If you're strange and you're from Northern Europe and you go into the finished song and because that the only song of the three who work in the Swedes, they don't know what they're doing. Now you notice my finish and Swedish accent is the same because to my untrained, stupid American ears, they are the same. Can you tell someone from Indiana apart from someone from Missouri? All those states are further apart than Finland and Sweden, motherfuckers. In any case, my digressions into verbally assaulting the Northern Europeans is just better than us and everything. Aside, if you love the sauna and it's super relaxing for you, amazing thing to do on a recovery day. But if you're in the sauna like I am, you're like, oh, come in a die of fucking heatstroke in here. Why the fuck am I here? At least there's naked dudes. Oh, I'm gonna scratch my knees, sorry. To look at and they're nice. We're naked and they're dudes. It's checks both of my boxes. Unless that is something that turns you on, just don't go. So remember, heat and ice at a physiological level doesn't do dick for you that need on a recovery day. So if you do it on a recovery day, if you're doing sorry, if you're doing a rest day and a recovery day, we'll get to what that means in a second. You don't need all that shit. Just be easy, set on the couch, take walks, eat food, etc. And what I would stay away from, not as a matter of course, not as a matter of principle. But I suppose if you're very serious about your training, all-trust series, and this training cycle is super important to you. Maybe you have a competition coming up or something like that. I would consider avoiding activities that are fun, but not relaxing and restful and easy. You know, 50 cent can be in the club and still be jacked, but the rest of us from your mortals and not like 50 cent. By the way, my dog shit 50 cent impression is incoming. And when I do it, it's probably gonna suck. But it's not the worst 50 cent impression in the world. And I gotta tell you, how do I sound like 50? Well, fucking, I'll just do impression. Ready? Scott's video, are you ready? By me in the club, by the blue bum, I would never even make love and in the second. Anyway, that's what he sounds like. Pretty good. How do I do it? 50 cent never opens his mouth because then I shit wired shut. I don't even understand I talk. So if you're gonna do a 50 cent impression, why is words to you? Just keep your teeth closed the whole time. And you're well on your way. You're about halfway there. So yes, it's fun to go to the club and to grind on everyone. I'm talking about fine ass bitches. I'm talking about bitches who look pretty fucking good. I'm talking about bitches that everybody needs love. I'm talking about the bitches that even know they needed love. What's consent? I'm talking about dudes. Let's 20, 23, whatever you're into. It doesn't matter who you're grinding on. You're moving your hip up and down. You're moving to the music. I'm Jewish. So I have an inability to dance or even understand how dance would work in a muscular, coordinated manner. But I assume it's difficult. And the difficulty of that makes you sweat, makes you sore, makes you tired. Don't do it. If you're very serious in that training phase, so rest day means I know the sounds crazy. Rest. Strange. All right, doctor, Mike, if that's even your real title, you told me what not to do. What are some tips of what to do on a rest day? Well, easy there kind of viewer a couple of tips. First, get as much sleep as you feel like. If you feel like sleeping for 10 hours, rock on sleep is amazing. It is recuperative. It's more powerful than any steroid in the book. Next, eat as much as your diet allows, which means if you're on a mask-aating plan, and you're a lot of 500 calories surplus, you better be taking that shit. If you're on a fat loss phase, you can't eat a ton. Well, eat as much as you can, definitely don't skim on the shit. A common question that I get is look, if I have times when I have training days and other days which are rest, but my Renaissance Predensation diet from the RP.co. Appalachian Apple Store and your Google Play Store, and for money too, and my Butler's stay like money. It takes my rest days and it lowers the calories, but it keeps my training days for higher calories. That okay, it is totally okay. But an advanced tip is, if you're training hard, you're training six days a week. Maybe even five days a week on some occasion. Twice a day on some of those days. It's a really, really good idea for you to think about elevating your off-day calories, especially on a bulk, to the same as your training day calories. Because then you get some extra calories in the mix and you really, really, really allow for that recovery. Because some people, whether or not training, they'll take the calories and drop them like crazy, that's okay if you want to lose fat. But if you're just eating some proteins and trace fats on your rest day, yes, you're resting, but you're not recovering as much as you could. So it's a real good idea to maximize calories if you train a ton a ton, like five, six plus times per week with two it is. Yeah, on your rest day, like I trained six days a week, my rest day as as many calories as any other training day that I do because I'm beat up and I need that ship. Lastly, try to do as much relaxing stuff as you can. Watch Netflix. Great idea. Hang out with friends, chilling on a ton of crazy movement don't go running around the park or anything like that. If it relaxes you, massages are a great idea. Newroom massage isn't even better idea. Do you guys know what new room massages do not Google it at your work computer? Scott, why are you giggling? I was going to say some shit that's private Scott, but one of our friends who's not here, you know what I'm saying, I'm going to talk that shit, but I shouldn't, right? We may be there's the one who might have gotten more. I've heard of people that I've known who've got new room massages. A new room massage is just like any old fashion massage you see except the person that's doing it to you is female, of reproductive age and appearance, entirely naked and completely lathered head to toe in massage oil. And she uses both her hands and the rest of her body to massage you. And I believe all those massages really just kind of end in one way with a happy customer that is. Give it a shot. It's probably dope. But what would I know? I've just seen a few people on the internet do it and websites are not allowed to type in it work. For real, for real though, compassion at touching, cuddling all the way up to et cetera somewhere in there is just regular massage, has a very big effect on reducing fatigue, huge effect. So if you can get some cuddles in, that's a really good idea. So find you someone you can cuddle with and no joke. Petting and cuddling with pets has a profound measurable relaxing effect on most humans, at least the humans it like to do it. So if you have the kitty cat or little bull doggy, this is me playing with their flaps, you move the flaps. Then that's actually helpful for recovery. So you can pick up your bull dog and send a minor lap and he's like, who made big man, help me recover, who's a big man? And it never say anything back. But that's how baby talk works to pets, what you do in every conceivable moment. And if you ever meet me in real life and you have a pet on you, I will absolutely do baby talk to it. Now, that's rest days. But there's another kind of day I want to talk to you guys about which is related. There's a rest day where you don't fucking train. And then there is a recovery training day. You do train on that day, but it's a recovery style training training, whose purpose is not generally to elevate your fitness characteristics to make you better at stuff directly, training that has the purpose of increasing your ability to recover it, and attention for the recovery. Generally speaking, while there are many different ways to skin the cat, you guys ever think about how that actually looks, it's fucked up. The template I like to start with as a thought exercise, at least with recovery days, is to take 50% of the load, 50% of the weight off the bar. Only do 50% of the reps you normally do half the reps and only half of the sets as usual. Did you think about it? Someone who's benching 200 pounds for four sets of 10 is now doing two sets of five with a hundred pounds. Holy fucking shit, that is so much easier. It's so easy in fact that it just barely potentiates through blood flow and stretching and moving and activating the nervous system. It barely potentiates. It's like mini rehab, mini physical therapy, just a little bit of a dose of exercise to super boost the recovery process while not adding any fatigue and actually subtracting. So the biggest quintessential critical thing for recovery training is for it to be very, very easy. If it is remotely difficult, it's a bad idea and you should be resting instead. Recovery days do a recovery training does a couple of really cool things. During multi-day rest periods, if you rest generally for more than about two or three days, your body actually starts to recover slower because your metabolism's like, oh, fact that. I guess we're done with sport. If you do a little bit of light movement and training during a three to four-day rest period, you can actually have better, faster and more complete recovery. In addition, just that minor workload and moving through going through the motions can save a little tiny fraction of muscle from going away. These are tiny fractions, but over months and years of training, they can add up. And because you're still training with the exercises during recovery training and because the exercises are so easy, very far from failure, very low, much lower reps, many fewer sets, much less load. You're actually able to focus on technique meticulously, so recovery training, still take your technique very seriously. And then it's an extra opportunity to improve your technique while your fatigue comes down. Very, very, very cool. When should you use these? A couple, there's there are more situations that I'm going to list, but I would at least probably about 95% of all situations, falling in, I think, basically three things. One, when you otherwise have multiple, and this, I mean, three or more days off in a row. So if you take a recovery half week, you take a d-load, you take an active rest, well, yeah, all the training days on those are recovery training days, roughly half of everything and super easy. If you are just taking two days off from the gym, don't take your second day and go in their new stuff. If you're one day off, don't you dare go to the fucking gym. If it's three day off, 50, 50. Maybe the middle day, a second day, you can go and do recovery training. But if it's four or five six days off, yeah, I should probably get your rest in there and do one or two recovery training sessions. That's a good idea. Next, it's a really big advantage these kinds of days when technique optimization is a big factor for hypertrophy trainees such as, well, maybe you and definitely me, it's not a big deal. My hypertrophy technique's not that complicated. Also, you get a shitload of practice because you're doing tons of sets of reps all the fucking time. But if you are a weightlifter or a powerlifter or if you're into SNM, which means strongman, then you have an opportunity to do all the events and lifts very light and maybe even for a little bit of speed and that promotes recovery and it improves your technique. So to a body builder, if given the chance between a recovery day and just a day off, many times they'll just take the day off because they don't have a lot of rest days to begin with anyway and because technique doesn't matter much so one of the upsides is a little bit not as big of a deal. But for people who are powerlifters, weightlifters or strongman competitors, we're just recreational strength, people, strongman and strong woman, I think women just still call the sports, strongman, just a bit of a archaic term. If that's the case, man, recovery training is actually fucking great because it drops your fatigues. You can get crazy, heavy training after, but also makes you more technical. So when you go to that crazy, heavy training, you're even more fluid and everything is really good. And lastly, you can use these when you are taking away pre-planned hard training days and replacing them with recovery training days. If you had just rest days planned, like you planned two rest days. And on the second day, you're like, man, want to go to the fucking gym. I didn't have any fucking thing planned here and I'm not supposed to be at the gym, but fucking all go do a recovery training session. That's not the worst thing in the world, but it's kind of fucking stupid because you really, two or three days in a row, just rest and let the body relax. The utility of a recovery training session doesn't really show itself until you do rest for a couple of days. That's when it really makes a big difference. And if you're layering in more training than you're supposed to be, if you're supposed to train five days a week, but now you're adding an extra recovery training session on that sixth day to quote Dr. James Hoffman, one of the world's experts in recovery training and RP coach, you do not recover by adding so if you're six today was supposed to be hard, but you're like way too fucked up to do it, replacing it with a recovery training, great idea. Five days was the plan. Six was supposed to be rest, but you're like, man, fuck rest. I'll sleep, but I'm dead, brother, dope. But you're going to be dead real soon because if you go and do a recovery training, it's just probably a waste of your time. At best. And at worst, it actually markedly adds fatigue because of the psychological fatigue of going to the gym and experiencing all that bullshit. Otherwise, outside of the circumstances, probably take a rest day. Now, there is a feature to this discussion more advanced of timing your rest days. Generally speaking, if you're training five-part-trifian strength, you're going to take somewhere between one and three total rest days per week, which is if you train four days a week, you take three rest days, five days a week, you take two, six days a week, you take one, seven days a week of training is not a serious approach training. If you're hard-core athlete, you want the best possible results, you should be training at most six days a week. I really do think that because again, this all fucking lecture about how rest days are important, so you need at least one's per week. When you're constructing your plan, let's say you train five days per week. You have a choice. You can either interspersier rest days or you can take them contiguously, which means they line up or adjacently, one, one up to another. So you could do Monday, Tuesday, rest, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, rest, and then come back, or you could do Monday through Friday training, and then Saturday, Sunday, rest contiguous adjacent days and then Monday back to training. By a small margin, I think most of the time, and I mean like 60, 40, contiguous training days, sorry, definitely training days, contiguous adjacent rest days, if you have more than one, are usually a good idea, at least two in a row, at one point during your week. You can drop a lot of fatigue in one day, you really can with a great night of sleep, but two rest days in a row, get you jazzed the fuck up for psychotraining like none other. There's some special to that. And if you're a bodybuilder, hypertrophy needs to not that hard, you might be able to do just one rest day or not even do the contiguous ones maybe five days a week, but you split it up, no big deal. But you're a strength athlete, you're strong and you're a powerlifter. I highly recommend taking two days off in a row. It can be a game changer, at least try it and see how you feel. Now, within all that context, whether or not you do the contiguous days, there are a few timing options you can choose from, and they both have their upsides and downsides. One intelligent way to take a rest day, let's say your bodybuilder, is before your big priority day or days. Let's say that you have two rest days a week. And this mesocycle, fuck this whole training block, three mesocycles in a row, like chief four to six months of training, you want big back gains. You were at the club, and you really gave noticed you from across the room, but she's like, I'm going to cut you off. She had my exact ton of voice. She's like, when you came over here, I thought you were a fucking hot, but then you turned around to look back at your friends and I noticed you have the back of what looks to be a literal vagina. And I'm not interested in you talking to me. When you come back to me, when you've got a fucking meat on your god damn spine, and then she takes a shot, and fucks off. You're like, first of all, that bitch was Russian for sure. Second of all, damn her voice is weird. She was so hot. She had these horns on her head from growth hormone abuse. Are they still there, Scott? I love them. You need a big back. You're like, fuck that. I'm never getting distant to the club like that. Out of fucking knock them off, fuck her out. Now, hit women, but I'd also bite head knock her out because my back's not big enough. What are you going to do? You have two rest days a week. A smart thing to do is to take your rest days before your big two back training sessions of that week. Tuesday, you train back, Friday, you train back. Odd, but Monday and Thursday are your rest days, which means that you show up Tuesday and Friday for back training. You can't fucking wait to rip the barn to pieces. You're fed, you're rested, and you're going to put every fucking ounce of pain and brutality and bare as many times just never having become the person you were supposed to be. Fuckie worked out. I don't know what they all have that shit. I'm going to put it in the goddamn way. Very good idea. Another compelling idea also exists. Instead of taking the rest days before your training to get up for it, take the most important training for you in that mess of cycle, which is in the aircase because you got disted the club, the back. And put it, put the rest days after the back training. You get in the gym, tie or not, tie or grind, but then you get a day off after what do you do during the day you fucking rest, and you sleep, and you relax, and you eat what happens to your back, it grows and grows, and grows because you will not see higher growth rates in any muscle. In any time during the week, other than the time directly after training, and especially that day after that, when you get a ton of growth, you might as well line it up because if you do another workout that day, there's some interference. It could not be large, but it will absolutely be interference. So if you're really serious about bringing up some kind of muscle group, that you've been offended about at the club by a female Russians speaking woman, then either taking a rest or rest day before that big priority muscle group or after, they're both fine options. Ideally, you would take before and after, then you're training like twice a week, and that doesn't make any fucking sense. Lastly, there is another compelling case where you take your off days on weekends, why? Because weekends generally for all of life-strafting, work, school, your parole officer keeps calling you. She didn't my life that I have to deal with. On the weekends, it happens less. So the weekends are already a low stress time. Why not maximize the fuck out of that by taking those as rest days? You're working like a dog Monday through Friday anyway. So Thursday's your rest day, you're at fucking work. The boss is yelling at you. You're at school, you're a professor, you're yelling at you. Show up to your parole officer. She's yelling at you. And then she's like, if you've been a bad boy, she's got handcuffs. That's pretty dope. It's got to be a guy. When you were on parole for that one-and-a-crime series of crimes, crime-sprie, that we won't talk about, did you ever get SNMed by your female parole officer? Oh, I see. You're like, I'm not into the seduction park. I'm into paint just beat me with your baton mercilessly. She's a boat. Okay. Haven't found you all, yes? In any case, that's gross. Folks, this is a family channel. Okay. You gotta ask. Same. So weekends are awesome because they're a big cool down and they take that rest that you're trying to remember. The point of rest is to recover and they maximize your ability to recover. Consent-traded loading, consolidation of stressors into one part of the week, consolidation of rest into another, sport science approved. It sounds like I said a bunch of things. And you're like, well, certainly, I have to hit one of these if I arrange my rest days. You could not. You could say, chest is really important and you train your chest Tuesday and Friday. And on Monday and Thursday, you're training legs and back together. And I can Wednesday and Saturday, you're training shoulders and arms like crazy. So, okay. Well, you just be tired on both sides for your chest. Good job. And then it turns out that you take your off days. Some fucking wear other than that. That's not the weekend. And then so like you fucked up everything. You can totally fuck up most of this or not all this. So, if you have priority muscle groups, try to rest either before after. And if you don't, try to rest in the weekends. No, this is minor stuff. It's that mandatory. But if you want to make a little optimal-ish kind of program, then download the RP Hypergrophy app, link in bio, no description, description. I can YouTube. But for this stuff, think about your recovery to maximize it. Try to do the best as you can. And that's it. Folks, that's all I have. Go rest and come back and don't watch any of our videos until you're well rested. That doctor's orders. See you then.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NSOMS Pyrridsation. And today's video topic is to ask the question of, do you need your fitness trackers sleep data? And if you do need it, how should you use it for your best results? So, modern trackers, including the one in your phone and a variety of apps that you use are very, very powerful, make collect a ton of data. Some of the sleep tracker apps, including ones on your eye watch, or G-watch, where how you rich people have a Chinese watch from. 1850 Abraham Lincoln's old watch, they said, these things can tell you a lot about your sleep. For example, they can tell you how much tossing and turning you did. They can tell you how long you slept in what was probably deep sleep. They can tell you how likely restful your sleep was. They can tell your sleep duration, et cetera. They can give you an integrated sleep score so that you can keep all those data bundled in one actionable measurement. They can tell you a lot. But the next question becomes inevitably, what do you do with this data? When I came up in sports science, in my sports science education, my PhD program, about a decade ago, we were first dealing with a ton of influx of technology. And we were dealing with this problem in sports science, a lot of sport coaches in sports scientists, more sport coaches and performance people. We were getting a ton of data input. And they just didn't know what to do with it. They were like, well, look, we monitor all these things about our athletes and then us the sports scientists have been able to look at you. How are you using it? I don't know. I don't know. We just collect a bunch of it. That's good and well. But why would you collect data if you didn't have at least some insight on how you're going to use it? What do you do with this data? And in order to answer that question, we have to first ask a related question. What of the data really matters? How do we answer that? Well, here's the thing. There's a spectrum roughly, a spectrum of options of what could be happening with your sleep. First, your sleep is bad. And you know it because you're tired all the time and you're not getting a recovery that you used to get from sleep. It is something that when it's obvious, it's obvious. When you wake up in the morning and you don't have an alarm and if the weekend and you wake up and you don't you don't feel rested, you feel like Jesus Christ, did I get beat up in my sleep? The hell happened? She was. You're not getting good sleep. The option at the other extreme is you're getting amazing sleep. Every time you wake up, you feel like a new person. Let's say you have a spouse and you're like, hey honey, do I like toss and turn to my sleep? She's like honestly, I'm jealous as fuck. Because I'm up in the middle of the night watching soap operas because I can't sleep, but I look over you. And you have like a half smile, serenely, no snoring. Don't tossing, no turning, I swear to God, you're like in some kind of crazy ambient mode where you just like regenerate. And you probably know that too. It's pretty obvious. Then there's the middle part of the spectrum. In which your sleep is maybe not as good as you think and you could do better with what's called sleep hygiene to improve it. Let's talk about when a sleep tracker would be useful in those options. The first option is your sleep is bad and you know it because obviously you're waking up a zombie. You don't really need a tracker to tell you that. You just don't. Option C when your sleep is serene and incredible and you could use a tracker to just confirm what you already know, but you don't really need a tracker. So it turns out the only time you really can use a tracker for its biggest benefit to put it more technically is when your sleep is not as good as you think and you could do better with sleep hygiene to improve it. Right? So at the end of the day, you can lean on your tracker if your sleep is something that you wanna work on. Right? But let's think through through just a little bit more. Let's say you wanted to check and see, okay, I think I'm sleeping okay, but it's not ideal, let's make it better. At the end of the day, the hygiene tips that you're going to use are going to be the same. No matter what. And so for example, sleep with the darker room, and we have another video on this by the way, if you Google it, sleep in a non-distraction environment. Sleep with maybe a sound machine or some other way to get the noise is out. Sleep in a colder room, put away all your devices in our two before you go to sleep, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Those are the same recommendations that you would be using whether or not you had a sleep trial. And here's the big kicker. If you're sleep improves, you don't need a sleep score to tell you that because you're gonna be more well rested throughout the day and everything is gonna go better. Now, on the margins, a sleep tracker absolutely can help you confirm that. But it's something that if it's worth noting, it should be pretty obvious. It's similar to, should I get a body fat percentage test? Yes, that's those are totally cool. But they're not gonna tell you if you're really fat or if you're really lean. Why? Cause that's what the mirror is for. That's how you're close fit. That's how you look at yourself. That's what other people say you're already gonna know. Nobody needs to tell a bodybuilder who's contested sheep that he's lean. Of course he's lean. You know, everything else is just super precision at that point, right? Because many sleep trackers exist on your phone and basically are free, you can lean on them in non-extreme cases where you just kind of want to play around with stuff. Now, if you're getting really bad sleep, would you spend a lot of money on a high-end sleep tracker? You could, but I present the following to you why. So it can confirm that you're obviously sleeping like shit for a really high price. And the recommendations of how to fix it would be sleep hygiene anyway. I think a sleep tracker in many respects is like testing your 10 RMs every month. If you're reps in the actual training or going up and so is the weight, you don't need a 10 RM test to beat you obviously stronger. If you used to bench 150 pounds for roughly sets of 10 and nowadays you're benching 185 for sets of 10, do you really need to do a 10 RM or 1 RM test between those conditions to confirm up? You actually really did get stronger. No shit. Of course you got stronger. If the evidence is in the phenomenon itself, another one is if you're getting great sleep, are you gonna spend a lot of money at a high-end sleep tracker? Why? So can tell you're already getting good sleep. You gotta be smart about the stuff. So I don't wanna knock on sleep tracker's a ton. If you are profoundly wealthy, such as myself, I have a team of 80 butlers, always tend to my every need. Most of them are by Lamborghinis, but every now and again I see one of them. Hey, a-a-a-a-a-a. Butler number 35, you know what's your name tag? Go make me toast. They always know how I like my toast by the way. The seven setting on the toaster. I was told a while ago was actually just seven minutes of toast. In any case, if you're profoundly wealthy, you can buy a high-end sleep tracker, just for ships and gigs, and just like use the data and maybe try some sleep hygiene improvement and see like my sleep score went from a seven to a seven point three, right, it's a low-clap success. And they absolutely do have the utility when you're just not sure if you're getting good sleep or you're not sure what even sleep, good sleep feels like. You could be at a position where you're like, I think I'm getting a good sleep and you finally get a sleep tracker and a Sager Sleep course socks, okay? You implement some sleep hygiene tips and all of a sudden you're like, whoa, I didn't know someone could be this rest of the sleep, then it's valid. But in many of the other cases described here, you don't want to get a sleep tracker just to confirm we already know or find out something to which the actionable insight is like, this is something that you already have a protocol for, right, to put a really shitty analogy to it, if someone, if you're a really good with your hands and you can draw fast in a weapon situation and you have like a, your carry up pistol with you, if someone draws on you in the street to try to mug you and you know like you can draw faster and fucking zap him, you get that really important, what kind of handgun they took out. Oh, well, if that's a, if that's a, if it's a black 19, it's only different than if it's a desert eagle or whatever. The fuck would mug you with a desert eagle, Jesus. It's data that you just don't need to make a decision. It's a gun, draw, that's it. So with a sleep tracker, yes, in some cases, the expensive ones are worth it, but in many cases, just come back and ask yourself the question. If I found out more intricate data about my sleep, first of all, do I need that data or do I already know I'm sleeping like shit or I'm sleeping amazing? Secondly, what do I plan to do with that data? And I'm going to have some kind of really trippy protocol and I'm going to try one sleep hygiene tool at a time, see which one works best for me, maybe, but you really could just try most of them. So there are absolutely use cases. I would just try to get you guys to think this way, as with any technology. Technology is amazing. Technology is the answer. Technology is the future, but technology will evolve through market forces, only into the direction in which you bias applying demands pay money to people who make technology. And if you want little tech gadgets, they just don't give you much information at all, and you want to pay high prices for them. The absolute best thing you can do in that terrible scenario, is just buy expensive sleep trackers, do nothing with the data and pretend like you're doing stuff. On the other hand, if you want great tech, demand a lot out of your tech. Make sure that your tech is actually telling you actionable things and the tech tells you which way they're working and how to help you make solutions. Like I don't have an iPhone just because I think it looks cool, like a little flat brick. I have it because it fucking works in the real world that actually solves my problems. So if a sleep tracker that costs more money can solve your problems, amazing, please buy. But if you can solve your own sleep problems by just having better sleep hygiene, you know what you do already, and that's completely free. Folks, thank you for tuning in. See you next time.

At the end of the day, is the post workout window dead? We've really just been saying that more protein we don't have enough and more calories you don't have enough of them. Is a really great thing. Timing took a big, big, big, big, back seat and that is really important that we found that out because all this paranoia of making sure to get your post workout shake and if you miss by 15 minutes, you're just gonna have no gains. But trans-out was almost entirely misplaced. However, there are elements of the post workout window that still matter. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength and today we're gonna try to solve a big mystery. What happened to the workout window as far as nutrition was concerned, especially the post workout meal? Let me tell you guys a little bit of a story about this. So back in the day, maybe 10 to 15 years ago and before that for a number of years, there was this idea about nutrient timing being really, really important. And we had a couple of studies that showed that when you supplied people with protein and carbs immediately after training, that led to very different results in muscle gain, then if you had them just not eat anything after training for a few hours. Very clear comparisons and very basic studies illustrated that you grew more muscle and every correlate of that higher levels of muscle growth, lower levels of muscle loss, so higher inabillism, lower metabolism, where evident in the groups of people that had high quality protein and carbs post workout. And at the same time, we're compared with people that didn't have that and just drank water, there were very large differences seen. And so with that kicked off with some of John Ivy's work in the book, Newtrant Timing, the earlier 2000s was a whole way of thinking about the post workout meal in the post workout window as like this really important time to get very precise amounts of proteins, very precise amounts of carbs paired well together and that was going to make a huge, huge difference. But if you've been in the evidence-based fitness space for a while or even just cruising videos online, you realize that while in the last several years, we haven't heard much about the workout window. And if you look at some of the great work done by folks like Eric Helms, folks like Brad Schoenfeld, a really standout work from an explanatory and published empirical perspective by Alan Aragon, who's amazing and you should be following already, really pointed out something that these basic comparison studies were missing. And it's this. First thing they pointed out was, yes, protein and carbs together have a certain synergy. But that synergy mostly affects protein breakdown and not protein accretion. So if you have carbs with your protein after a workout, it lowers the amount of excess protein breakdown is already occurring from that workout, but it doesn't raise net growth a ton, just a little bit. Just consuming more protein can basically give you 90 or 95% of that anabolic benefit and carbs don't need to be involved. So all of a sudden that breakdown breaks, it broke our paradigm a little bit because our local cave thought it was protein and carbs turns out the carbs aren't as big of a deal as long as the calories are there and as long as there's high protein we're good to go. So that was an interesting revelation. Another one was this, it looks like some of those studies that were being done. Thought they were manipulating one variable and really they were manipulating two, which means cause and effect can no longer be established. The one variable I thought they were manipulating was, are people eating protein and carbs a nice meal in the post workout window versus not. But the variable they were manipulating in addition to that was the variable of total daily protein intake. The vast majority of folks from those earlier studies without a post workout shake. They were consuming 120 grams of protein per day for example and many really were consuming roughly that much. With a 40 gram post workout shake, protein and 60 gram carbs, those people were now consuming 160 versus 120 grams of protein per day and got an increase in calories so they were now in a slight surplus because of those carbohydrates and the proteins contributing to calories. So in reality we're comparing not just protein timing in those studies but overall protein and calorie intake through the day. When we started making studies and conducting studies that looked at protein timing with total daily protein being equal between groups and total daily calories, we noticed that all but about 5% of the difference between timing or protein one way versus another between eating protein and the post workout window versus some other time of the day only about 5% of that difference remained and that it looks like those earlier studies that were showing us the post workout windows. This huge deal and it's causing tons of muscle growth. We're really just showing that an extra 40 grams of protein per day when you don't eat enough protein can make it a noris difference. And that combined with the other literature we've seen on protein intake is really mattering over the course of a day. Kind of was like, oh man, we've really just been saying that more protein when you don't have enough and more calories you don't have enough of them is a really great thing timing took a big big back seat and that is really important that we found that out because all this paranoia of making sure to get your post workout shake and if you miss by 15 minutes you just got going to have no gains or turns out was almost entirely misplaced and that if you managed to get enough carbohydrate protein and calories through the whole day of eating, how you split that up just doesn't matter nearly as much and you're going to be good to go as long as you have enough protein which is super big which is why the kind of modern consensus is that if you hit your total daily protein intake and you distribute it relatively evenly through three to six meals roughly evenly spaced with roughly the same amount of protein in each meal per day that as long as your calories you're good, your carbs are good and then just you're just doing most of the work there to power your workouts and to get all the hypertrophic stimulus from them that you need and then you're good to go so that's a huge thing to keep in mind. However, however there are elements of the post workout window that still matter. If you look at all of the literature taken together and all the theoretical constraints you find out a few things. One is that while overall protein and calories matter missing multiple hours in that post workout window can still cost you a few gains missing multiple hours of not having enough carbohydrate in enough protein coming in. So it's one of these things where it might be a 5% difference but think about how 5% can reflect itself over years of either missing it or of getting it. After several years it's a legit muscle game that you're missing out on if you always work out and you skip two to three hours of eating anything after and then finally when you feel like you get some food in you. That could be costing you 5% of gains. Here's the thing in a 12 week comparison study often you can't even detect 5% gains. Only the most intricate studies can detect things like that but 12 weeks can't be extrapolated to a year for sure or definitely a life time of training. So on theoretical grounds and direct experimental grounds where fairly certain that you should be getting a good bolus of protein and a probably good bolus of carbs that's more option but for sure protein and calories within three hours of having stopped your actual workout for hypertrophy. One of the big reasons is that your hypertrophy is stimulated by direct detection of muscle tension and possibly some other factors the actual working out and that grows you muscle for days afterwards. But the M-Tore complex, the central regulator of muscle growth in your muscle cells is also independently and synergistically stimulated by amino acid availability which means protein that you have to eat and there is absolutely a sensitive period of stimulation that lasts generously about six hours after workouts but the first three your body's the most sensitive to it. Is it 90? No, is it liver die? No, does it matter? Yes, it probably matters. In addition to that the M-Tore complex has an insulin independent mechanism by which high levels of insulin caused by high increases in carbohydrates also stimulate that complex, probably not resulting in overall net growth. But sorry, not resulting in an increase in synthesis of protein but almost certainly resulting in a reduction of protein breakdown. And so we end up getting from this whole situation as if you consume lots of protein within that three hours after working out plenty of carbohydrates and obviously that combines to a lots of calories. You get a slight increase in muscle protein synthesis, a slight decrease in muscle protein breakdown and that over many, many workouts, many, many days of training and many weeks and even months of training the difference is going to start to become notable. But here's another reason why workout when known nutrition is a good thing to pay attention to actually two more reasons. The second reason is that as you become more advanced in muscle gains become sparser and sparser, things that just didn't matter much start to matter a lot. For example, if you have a rickety biplane for World War II and you have a bolt sticking out of it one extra inch, how much drag does that bolt have on an airframe that goes 120 miles an hour as a max speed? I mean, she weighs you can't even measure it. Who cares? So if someone's like, hey, before you take off and you're your regular biplane from World War I, just make sure to bolt a bolt to her sticking in, like, well, is it coming apart? No, no, but just for the drag, you would be like, that's crazy, for sure. But if you're flying the SR-71 Blackbird, the America's best spy plane from back in the day that goes Mach 3, three times sparsha in the speed of sound, one bolt protruding can throw off airframe dynamics completely and literally kill you when you get to Mach 3 by ripping the wing off behind it. It's a non-starter, just the same way or much the same way. When you're in your first few years of training, dude, just eat food and lift weights and you're going to be golden, I mean, it getting great gains. After you train as an intermediate for a while, you'll notice that, like, yeah, just eat food is not causing amazing gains anymore for the gains to still be amazing relative to your advanced age of training. Now that has to be a situation where you look, okay, I mean, you get a, I mean, four times a day, not just twice like I usually do. I'm going to have high quality protein in each meal. I'm going to make sure to get a really good amount of sleep, then that keeps the boxes checked. When you become advanced, training consistently for more than seven years, even things like nutrient timing can start to make the difference between that amazing gains and okay gains. At that point, nutrient timing can make the difference between your making gains, versus you're basically not making gains at all. Because at that point, 5%, that's all you're growing anyway and it could come entirely from the fact of, do you have a postwork out meal within three to six hours of training or do you not? And that feeds into my last point about why the workout window still matters in 2025, 2026. And here's why it's just so easy to check off. If someone told you hey, this thing you can do is going to increase your bank account by 5% per year. You go, okay, what's the catch? Like no catch. Like, oh, how hard is it? We just need to sign on this dotted line and the bank does some kind of trading with your money. It's guaranteed. We won't spend all your money, but you get 5% back. You're like, new check with chat you be to you, check with your accountant. That's not all the time. There's no catch. So what's my cost? Like, just sign the dotted line. Like, okay, for 5% more money, like, okay, why wouldn't you do it? Just the same way. If you have an opportunity, post workout, you don't need to just, you don't even need to bring your shake with you to the gym holy shit. You can't I do for that extra little extra bit of insanity. If you just stop by the gas station on the way, grab yourself a muscle milk and a pop tart or you go home and you make yourself a way shake and you have a two bananas with it. And that happens within several hours of your lifting. You can get a free several percent growth just from that. I've said free. It's not free. It requires the effort to eat a meal within three hours of training. Guys, here's the thing. If you're gonna eat at any point of the day, you're gonna have two points of the day that are really important. Eating at some point before you work out if you don't have more energy to give yourself energy to train. And the other one is the single most important meal of the day really is the post workout meal. And just because it's not a big deal, we can say, okay, this isn't life or death. And it's not. But if it's so goddamn easy to eat a meal within three hours of your workout finishing, you might as well do it. It's also shown that if you have intro workout nutrition, the importance of the post workout window shrinks because you're still feeding in that food is still getting to where it needs to be. So you can even have a shake of protein and of carbohydrates and of enough hydration and a lot of electrolytes what I do is I use genius shot. I use gatorade for my regular carbs. So genius shot for protein, gatorade for carbs. And I use half an element packet in order to get my electrolytes. I measure off the fluid. So it's basically one liter of fluid. That is my go shake. It powers my workouts towards the end and it begins to replenish my body. So it functions as an intra and post workout shake at the same time. It's just not hard for me to make a shake like that and just on the way home from the, you know, we're the gym. If you catch a protein cookie and a banana or something at the gas station, having it be that easy, check off that 5% box is to me what makes the difference and why it makes sense discussing the workout window because something happened for some people when we reach the modern consensus of the workout window is not that important. It went for those people from not that important to literally doesn't matter. There is a big difference between those two things. It's subtle, but it's a huge difference. The workout window not mattering at all is not true. It does matter. But if you're worried about, oh my God, I take seven minutes to drive to this gas station to get my post workout shake. It takes 10 minutes to drive to this other one. I got better do seven because three minutes that said, I'm going to lose all my muscle. That's not nonsense. That's what it was been refuted. But whether or not to eat any protein and carbs within three hours of your training afterwards if it's a serious hypertrophy session, that will make a difference. It's not a huge difference. It's 5%. But listen, if you don't want 5%, you can stop all your sets for a rep shy of failure. You can do half the volume you plan on doing and all the other stuff that's all little 5%. It starts to go off into the wind. 5% at points adds up. And if it's just not that hard to get a post workout meal in, then you can just do it. Let me give you guys some real world guidelines and how much protein needs to come from this and how much carbohydrate and what some of the sources are. So generally speaking, it really depends on body size. But small folks can do with about 20 grams of high quality protein that means milk or egg or meat based lots of loose in and there. That's the start coupled with anywhere between 20 and 40 grams of carbohydrate is usually an awesome post workout meal and then three hours later you can just have your normal meal like you were going to have. If you're larger, it can be as much as 60 grams of high quality protein paired with as much as 120 grams of carbohydrate from any kind of source that you like lower fats to get the proteins and carbs into your bloodstream quick, fats slow down digestion. Those are the extremes. Anything between those so that 20, 40, 60 for protein depending on how big you are. It's 20, 50 and 100 for grams of carbs depending on a big you are and the carbs aren't even that important, but my jewelry give you some good numbers. Those are kind of the general ranges of the in-takes that you're looking for to consume. Lower fats doesn't mean zero fats, it just means no extra gobs of butter or cheese or olive oil or something like that. And to that point, let me give you guys some suggestions of just normal foods you can eat within three hours of stopping your weights workout for hypertrophy for muscle growth that are just awesome examples, awesome ideas. This is not all of them. You can just take it this anywhere you want. Here's one. You have a rice crispy treat with a banana and a shake of way protein. Boom easy. It takes five minutes to consume. No problem. You can eat that shit in the car on your way back. A classic bodybuilding meal, chicken, white rice and some fruit. Just chicken of white rice is great with some fruit and makes it even better. Amazing. No problem. You can have with your fancy a Greek yogurt, Scott, a Greek yogurt parfe. Oh, darling. Did you smoke friends? Oh, do I. I was in the, and they cat him. Yes. So get yourself some Greek yogurt. You throw some fruits in there, some honey, some granola. And all of a sudden you got protein, you got carbs, you got a little bit of fats. It's awesome. If you really want that loosey spike that extra amino acid that makes you grow more, yogurt typically has enough of it. But you can have some way in addition to that really, really a suede your concerns. Of course, classic lean beef plus baked potato, little lean beef patty. Never hurt anybody. That's totally cool. Super simple, super share forward. Can be found at most restaurants. Can be made at home very easily. And if you're really in a rush, low fat chocolate milk with a bagel, and if you're really just needs some protein and carbs, it's not exact. It's not super specific. It's really going to work a super, super great amount. So at the end of the day, is the post workout window dead? No. Is if the most important thing in the world to get instant nutrients as soon as you stop that last dumbbell set hits the ground, do you just need to be eye-veying amino acids and carbs? Absolutely not. If you're only post workout intake is just protein, you're really doing well for yourself. But if it's protein at a higher dose and carbs of any kind with relatively lower fats, and it happens within three hours of your workout, you are doing a super straightforward, really easy thing that if you make habit, it gets you an extra 5% or so of muscle growth year on year on year. If you're into that sort of thing, it's going to pay off with minimal investment. If you want better gains and you're not doing this yet, here's an easy option. And if you're just eating enough protein throughout the day, you don't want to bother with the workout window, the workout window, you need to bother with it at all. But when you want that next level of gains, the specific start to matter and just a little bit attending to that workout window might be a good thing. Think about that. And if you have the RP diet coach app, shit, it can program a post workout meal for you. You don't have to second guess anymore. Link in the description for that. Folks, let me know what you think about this. If you want more science, the in-depth goodness, I feel like I had a huge script here with all the science in it. But I think I give you guys more of a low-key real deal that's practically useful. If you want to get into crazy science, we've got a lot more videos on that just coming up. And I'll see you guys next time for all those.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NSP, you're not getting sore in your training and you want to grow muscle. Is that a problem? Well, let's see. I've given this an extreme amount of thought and I've come up with at least four scenarios and you'll have to think about which one of these describes you. I'll go through each scenario and try to tell you if you're in that scenario, what your best options are and why to think about should you be worried about not getting sore. You're training. You think you're going pretty hard, but you're not getting sore. Option number one looks like this. And all of these, you're not getting very sore or sore at all. In the first one, you're also just barely recovering your performance week to week. That means if you did a whole lot more stuff, you would start to underrecover and stop progressing. You're really pushing your body to its limits and you're making great gains. Your muscles are visibly larger over the months. Your performance is going up over time. The veins are there, et cetera, et cetera. You're getting stronger and stronger. Things seem to be going very well. Should you be concerned that you're not getting sore? No, probably not. There is not a huge concern. No changes are needed. And generally speaking, when you're in a position of getting pretty great gains, at least good stable consistent gains, the idea that there's an honest to change rapidly in a big way is just not true. If it ain't broke, don't fix it. Is somewhat true. You can always optimize, but optimization needs justification. And if you're doing really, really well, you definitely don't want to screw with a lot of stuff. So the default here is touch nothing. Definitely no changes needed. You can play with a few things though in order to try to optimize the situation. You may be able to get even more growth for a similar, a lower amount of fatigue resulting. If you play with your technique to try to increase your mind muscle connection, that is perceived tension and or burn in the target muscle when you're doing the lift, such that you were spending the same or smaller amount of physical energy on the lift. More of that energy goes to growing the muscle, less of it dissipates off as fatigue. That could be a great thing to potentially get you even better results. That might help you get a little bit sore, though that's not really what we're looking for because results as the reason soreness is even on our minds. And also it won't cost you any more actual inability to perform on the exercise, fatigue, etc. So it's not available to you. Big deal, in this case, even though you're pretty much topped out in how much stuff you can do. So if that's you, those are your resources. Again, just to review real quick, if you're not getting sore, put your pushing your performance hard, such that you're barely recovering and you're making great gains, leave well enough alone as the best advice. And if you want to mess with something, try to improve your technique. So you get a better mind muscle connection. That may give you small improvements in that context. Definitely don't add a ton of sets to your program, just to try to get sore because you'll overreach because you're already pushing your body to its limits as defined by barely being able to recover performance. Number two scenario is you're easily recovering your performance and you're making great gains. First rule, you don't have to do anything because this is like a magical thing. You're getting great gains, you're easily recovering, you could easily do more but you're getting great gains without, you're getting great gains. You're already winning, so you don't have to change anything. The second thing is if you want to change something, you can definitely try to increase your mind muscle connection by messing with your technique. You can also up the relative effort. You might be going four reps, shy failure when you're really should be going two reps, shy failure so you can try to train a little bit of hard, harder within each set, a little bit better technique within each set. And if that happens, but you're still way overly recovered and having great results, you can could experiment with increasing the volume a little bit by adding a set here there every few weeks to see if you can get even better gains. Again, not a big deal because you're already getting great gains, so it's dealer's choice. Number three scenario, you're just barely recovering your performance, you're just barely hanging in there. But you're making not so great gains, poor gains are no gains at all. In this case, I have one almost fact free that you can really rest your ideas on and go from there. More is almost certainly not likely to be better. How could it be? You're barely recovering and you're not making great gains. If we do more, you're going to under recover. In what scenario is under recovering and getting weaker over time going to result in best long-term gains, gee, I can't really think of a ton. So the number one thing you do not want to do in this case is add more. You say, but hold on, but I'm not getting sore. Yeah, but in whatever other ways your muscles are fatigue that's not reflected by soar as clearly they're really fatigue because you're barely recovering and you've got bad gains to go with. It's totally cool in this case to work on your mind muscle connection and your technique. But doing less is the better option here. So if you're not getting sore, but you feel totally inundated with your program, you can barely recover and increase your performance week to week. Then you can try to do two thirds of the sets you normally do. Even half the sets you normally do, make sure they're good technique, high quality, high effort, but take a deal out and then reduce the volume of work and see if that smaller volume of work can actually allow you to recover better. It might in fact result in better gains. But whatever you do, if you're pushing your body to its limits already and you're still not getting sore, doing more than your limits is not a good idea. It's almost certainly a wrong answer. Last scenario, you're easily recovering performance. The amount of volume you're doing is this not pushing you very hard, but you're also making poor gains and you're not getting sore. That's kind of the trifecta of you need more stimulus. So first what you want to do is attend to the mind muscle connection, which means better technique to really hit your target muscles hard. Secondly, you want to make sure your relative effort is attended to. Each set is pushing you hard. It's not just junk volume. It's quality volume. Because our sets are now with really good technique and each set is as hard as it should be, we fix the quality portion and now you can mess with the quantity. If after you fix the quality, you're still easily recovering from performance. You're not making really good gains and you're not really getting sore. More probably is the answer. So once every week or two weeks, increase an exercise or muscle group by a set here and there instead of three sets of leg press go to four. If you can still recover great after a few weeks of four sets, go to five, so on and so forth, such that you raise the training volume. And because your effort is great and your technique is great and you have no problem recovering, you're probably getting it two things. Probably more sore and better results. And that better results is what we're going for. So in other words, just to review all of this, soreness can be an indicator that if we don't get it, we could be working harder, getting it and also growing. But if we're already working as hard as we can, via performance tracking and the ability to assess if you can even do more work, then even if we're not getting sore, more isn't the answer, not because soreness will be bad, but because you can't do any more as your body is telling you. So if you can do more and you're not getting very sore, it's a good idea to work on quality first, get your technique better, get your effort better, per set. And then if that doesn't fix it, you can absolutely start adding sets in order to try to get two things, one more sore, which if that happens, great, if not no big deal, as long as your results also improve. Folks, if you have any questions about this, please shoot them in the comments, like, subscribe, and I'll see you next time.

Hey guys, what's up Sam Soolek here? I'm just a regular guy in my car and It's got this hair. It's beautiful. Got this arm work out coming up got my gallon jog I'm gonna take you guys through it. Tell you what I think about it and train a little bit and Let's have some fun huh? All right broccoli hair zoomers 1 2 3 zoom All right folks. I'm gonna do Sam Soolek's arm workout and before I do I'm gonna get Clued in on why and how we are doing what we're doing so well, that's here from another man himself But for today arms try set by steps light squeezing sets Some heavy kind of nasty sets and then maybe a couple kind of super sets is a combination of Anything in between you know and this is I mean this is something I see a little bit too frequently But if you've been lifting for a while and You kind of reach the point of you know you're six months deep your eight months deep whatever You can't really do fluff work because it's not gonna give you any results whatsoever Yeah, that's dope. It's cool to include a lot of variation a lot of it's for psychological benefits Like you don't want to do the same stuff all the time. There's also only so much heavy pounding work your body can take And if you do some higher networks and lighter works and more mind muscle connection work That can absolutely increase your training volume the eight more hypertrophy Not beating them with a crap out of your joints and Sam's absolutely correct about the fact that like Fluff work which is work, you know that you just very far away from failure kind of more for the look and the squeeze is gonna work a little bit But not a ton and especially as you get more advanced like Sam says You're gonna have to put in the work work for real for real and So today you can send people of train hard, but you feel me about the train ten times as hard as the person train the hardest before me Right now too, maybe ain't nobody playing For triceps I've really been liking starting something light and squeezing is Whenever I move on to heavier sets my triceps are already nice and warm and my elbows are as well Yeah, yeah, I hate this exercise the bulbs hold on to it. They're always slipping out of my hands That means I can't hold on to it. They can't produce as much force Also almost everyone's gonna be much stronger with their triceps pushing down than pulling on the side Yeah, this is something that I don't really feel a huge connection with my triceps at all if I come in close And I let my elbows go far back So I do my push downs this way I do my skull crushers like this I do my dips like that all the sudden huge triceps stimulus for me I guess a really important point here is never ever do exercises that don't feel really good for you Just because someone else is doing them So like if I had to design a tricep program and have almost nothing in common with Sam so look tricep program It doesn't mean he's wrong. It doesn't mean I'm right It just means that we prefer different kinds of exercises movement patterns You can take inspiration from anything you see on the internet and try it a few times But if it's not looking for you, it's not moving really well Then you've got to explore your own set of exercises So try to learn from everyone but in the end the program you're gonna build is the program that's best for you All right set three just can live in a Ohio, you know, just in regular guy You know what I mean? Just trying to get after it live looking hardcore lifestyle Baseball hat broccoli hair Look at the jug The Sam's still looking at our act with the ladies Scott as our other groupies then must meet groupies Yeah, just looking just looking for the right girl, you know someone who's a compro at kind of can Look at jam in the gym if you've done a couple of our cycles this definitely help your case Couple pimples on the shoulder never hurt anyone Hi, yeah, okay, I a little burn in there. I got to be honest got a burn pretty cool Not terrible all right. Let's see let's see what Sam has to say about exercise number two All right cable rope push downs two sets with parcels to failure. Let's see what Sam has to say about it Literally the same length that I was just doing single arms, but now for double arm Rope push down, but it's actually well at the bottom it will actually feel like a bit more than that Because I'm not sure how you uh, I don't know how far you made it through a school if you know about trigonometry or anything fancy trigger who Trigger what I'm done honestly a rope is kind of cool because it changes the strength curve of the actual movement like with a straight bar You feel like the hundred pounds the whole time that's it, but with a rope it actually gets a little bit heavier in your triceps Because you pull it sideways at the bottom which I like So that's kind of cool. He's totally right about the physics component that you're gonna feel a lot more tension at the bottom of this movement than at the top Problem with that is it's been shown numerous times that higher forces at the stretch produced more growth than higher forces at the P contraction at the extension the structure size is actually backwards so what science is recommended on an average However, it's a variation especially if you really feel you try something that you connect with it well and it's great for your joints It's a great exercise I think he the circular can't stand a structure size It does he dick all for me and I'd much prefer a straight bar push downs with my elbows really far back to feel that crazy You've stretched at the bottom have an easy time at the top and optimize that way not just from a science based perspective from Formal evidence which does support doing the the the exercises that put a lot of tension on the stretch But for my own personal experience, it should just work better It's gonna be up more makes me more sore make makes me have bigger triceps But assure shit didn't do anything for my hair fellas It may be I grow a little bit of natural shit by the way. This is my natural hair if anyone asked you guys have seen my body hair before How I can grow a body hair I grow head hair just the same way Scott was like hey queen do some slow work out I was like yeah, give me two days I grew the shit out and feel me I know I'm beautiful. I know every can day someone's like your hair your amazing your face are so gorgeous Yeah, okay, okay, good. Let's do some work. Jesus It's kind of hard to do anything Overhead for me because like if I grab a I can't even grab a dumbbell So it's tight now like if I grab one like a hundred pound dumbbell or something and try to throw it over my head like this That just does that work for me But with something like this very different than what I'm focusing on for those first sets of rope Because with these first sets I was really focusing on the squeeze at the bottom This was the hard part and this was kind of easy you know, I was just getting the tension off up here. It's good stretch That's the hard part Whereas with this I'm really trying to emphasize that stretch at the bottom And really pull the lung head like kind of where it ties in the right here this whole chunk. I want to feel a lot of activation And then you know a few sets here Should we see it cool? Yeah, I used to do a ton of overhead extensions. I love them Seated and standing easy bar extensions straight bar extensions. There's all videos in the on YouTube doing that shit kind of a lot of weight And nowadays I barely do it at all For two reasons I get lots of long head activation from backwork and to I'm actually I've lost a significant amount of mobility as I've aged And so I can no longer really get back here to do meaningful work. So I'm gonna probably step out a little bit I like to step away from the rack with a exercise and so I'll have a good perch on my feet lean over and kind of crank these out One two three pretend these are testicles Yeah Yeah, that is an exercise people do I can't stand this stupid rope. I do get a good burn I will say that I get a good burn, but I can distinctly tell I'm activating very few of my fastest Which motor units because it's just the pulling This way instead of pushing and the fact that it's the rope that makes it real hard at the top really easy at the bottom It just spares a lot of the disruption that I like to see in tries to flex your sizes But but this is an exercise a lot of people really really like so definitely give it some thought if you do do it Try to get that deep stretch of that range of motion. It's gonna hook you up really well Yeah See a little bit of a pump yeah, yeah, I'll be like Sam Sue looking no time Younger and more red It's more hair It's the hair that's gonna do it for me. Wait wait wait wait Does Sam ever do that? I would I do it all the time. I need to kind of wait a second to see how like triceps recover in a few minutes But honestly, I've already pretty erect right now But apart of me thinks I might need one more set to really finish him off Okay back to rope push downs, you know say two things about this one is and has not thought through this whatsoever And that would be mean thing to say probably not true, but it's funny maybe The other thing is sometimes after doing a certain number of sets of several exercises at the end you realize one of those exercises connected much better It was just a really good feeling and if it's nominal easy to set that exercise up again and you feel like you know I haven't hit my like triceps volume that I wanted for the session. I can use a little bit more stimulus a little bit more pump I'm definitely in a recover. Let me go back and just do another set or two or three of an exercise through that session That really felt good and if you're like Sam and you kind of yellow your sessions Which is the kind of pick exercises sort of on the fly based on feel it's exactly how you're supposed to be doing it You can never can tell what's gonna feel amazing neckdate if you do more form periodization like we do at RP I never everything planned out and then it's just plus or minus how many sets you do But if you're like Sam and you're kind of vibing then once you catch a good vibe Stick with a good vibe and so he had a plan to go overhead that route went really well But then he was like you know what I can do a little bit more Push down work and I think that's gonna kick it and I think that's really smart So let's get the the set done like he did and finish the triceps part. Let me get him biceps Sam I saw she wrote I So I'm thinking 55s vibrates one side all in a row Sit here and hold it and since I've got straps that's not gonna completely tax my whole system Five and the other five five five five five five five this you know as many as a reasonable I'll say as many as reasonable literally is no definition at all I have no idea what the constraints of reason are here But Sam's gonna do a whole bunch. So I'll do a whole bunch too I'm not gonna do the 55. That's for god damn sure, but I'll do a little bit of something let's get to it You know I haven't trained arms all by themselves in a while and Having an arm pump biceps and triceps at the same time it's just biobius I like the fact that Sam's using straps. I'm using versing groups. They're better than straps and everything's evil the way Give it a shot link in the description That way it's not difficult to hold the dumbbells But because you're never letting go of a dumbbell functions is own counterweight If you just dropped a dumbbell and just did this you kind of like can't leave her over it be really weird So by having one dumbbell in the hand all the time it works super super well This isn't a terrible exercise And the negatives is that the exercise has the highest force production at the top The lowest at the bottom So it's actually very suboptimal force curve-wise for hypertrophy you want something like an inclined curl behind the back cable curl Or a lying curl that's gonna get a huge force at the stretch Smaller forces the contraction But it doesn't mean it's worthless. It's quite a decent exercise and by just doing five at a time each time getting pretty close to failure You really are approaching failure like three times in one set which is really good because you get a ton of work And so by resting one side while the other works you really get to crank that total volume total number of approaches to failure Ton you to wave your hair out of your head all the fun stuff that causes muscle growth All right second exercise for biceps is a concentration curl. Let's see how sam does them Honestly, this is pretty much the exact same thing that I was just doing You know my vice my hand staying at this angle a whole curl But it's wished the kicker is that with these I get to help myself on the last five because I'm gonna reach a point where I can only get it to like right here And sure if I kept trying to just do this micro Rom maybe I get a little bit out of it, but I don't think so you know so by the time I get to hear I think I'm pretty much exhausted my own strength with just this system But I can still use my other arm pull that dumbbell all the way to the top and then let go and then I'm just wearing my biceps down every time in a good way Oh Cool so this is Standard concentration curls followed by eccentric accentuated loading which basically you help yourself in the concentric and then right of the eccentric real real smart Gonna cause a lot of growth the sam did say that the bottom here is not gonna do much It's actually gonna do a ton length and partials are super effective, but that doesn't mean that the Full concentric with assistance plus the accentuated eccentric isn't also a fall-awaited train. This is painful as Let's get into it Oh Just a quick tidbit here one thing you can experiment with is the mental hunselman style version of this So you don't hang over yourself like this you actually come back which gives you more tension at that length in position Holy shit that hurts You Sam Should have lashed out like that Sam I'm really sorry You know it's just a war in that line set of a bitch Johnson If you get that reference your old Get a plan I've got a plan for this one. I'm talking I'm talking superset and I'm talking drop set I think Sam's who would should be a professional wrestler. What do you guys think? He kind of sounds like Macherman Randy Savage every now and I'm talking superset brothers. I'm talking drop set cocaine that's just not good there But it's true so 50 pound dumbbell curls regular alternating nothing fancy and the whole purpose of him is really kind of just a burnout You know trying to wreck my biceps in a good way and then once I'm pretty much at a bath failure And it really just like well fatigued put the weights down whip the straps off and grab this 55 pound straper and then do some squeezing reps Cool I'm not a strong assam so I'm gonna try to pick some lighter weights But I will try to accentuate that eccentric control a little bit more. Oh I got a beyond brand wait wait wait Sure Show time Ugh Yo Oh man, that hits triceps, check, forms, why not check, biceps, palm it, Sam, silo, whatever that gift is that people post. That was fun. Guys, every single workout that you see out there, let's go in hard, let's give it a shot. Let's not do it in both of all wobbly shit. Give it a try, especially as a younger lifter. Specialty as an intermediate lifter. You try it a bunch of stuff. If you can pick up just one exercise from what we've done here from Sam Silo, put it in your little bag of tricks, use it regularly. It's a huge win. If you pick nothing from here that you like, it's still a huge win because they can say, well, I try it all this stuff. I don't love it. Now you can focus your offensive on what you do love. And if there's a few exercises or even more that you can get from this major winning. Guys, super fun to try other people's workouts, probably do you do a little bit more of that in the future. And Sam Silo, it's great. Give him a follow. Honestly, it's sub-signant, that impressive. Wink, he needs all the follows he can get. I've been Dr. Mike, give me a follow-to. Oh, one last thing before we leave. See you next time.

For that recovery department, a lot of fucking antibiotics, all right. I feel like I have twice the power I channel the twins. Hey folks, what's up? I'm a trend twin. Yeah, that's right. Magicly transformed via outfitting. We tried to do a tattoo that did work. Anyway, trend twins workout. We're gonna train back. I'm gonna critique it on a modified little bit. We're gonna say what's good, what's bad, what's ugly, and how to get jacked. Three, two, one. Well, trend. Go to the, get a die-balk-up pump, get in and out. In and out. I don't know. Not in and out, but God damn your fat. Good volume. A lot of super-scenting. Cause we wanna get a quick fucking pump to get that in here and go fuel it. With the micro dose of calories. How are you, I don't know. Was that a weed reference? Is he did this? For that recovery department? Oh, I'm fucking antibiotics. All right. Pulled-outs. The technique looks really good, big stretch. I'm not sure about sets and reps. We'll probably do about four sets here. 10 to 20 reps each one. For me, the reason I'm gonna do four sets is because I'm trying to prioritize a little bit more back with, then I am thickness. My back is pretty thick already. Not a little bit of factor for me. They do do a lot of rolling later in this workout. So I'm gonna try to bump up the volume of the pull downs. The rows won't be as high volume to get a little bit more of what I need for back. So, yep, let's get into it and do some pull downs. I'm really trying to just get the vibe of the trend twins in this workout. And that means careful, meticulous, moderated and safe. And so what I'm gonna do on pull downs here is warm up, sorry, with a hundred pounds for a set of about 50. Really get the blood flowing, really get the muscles nice and warm, connective tissues warm to be safe and ready to prime that nervous system for heavier work sets. So, calm, cool, and collected, exactly like our favorite trend twins. I'm a trend, I love a trend. I love a trend. Ah! You can't help but notice what Pokemon can do that I've like had to do this on your hand. What the char's are? Look, I don't want to. 10 years old, I don't know what the f*** Pokemon are. Is that when you collect the bottle caps or whatever? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Ah. A little strange starting with pull downs. Scott, we just do pull ups and stud. Damn it. Dang it, trend twins. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right, here's a question for you guys. Why do so few people in the visible part of the fitness industry? Do pull ups consistently? Pull ups are incredible. And when you're heavier, they're really incredible because they're like a vertical version of heavy rose. As soon as you get in a remotely pretend jack, you start doing pull downs. Because maybe you saw your favorite pros doing pull downs because your favorite pros don't do pull ups. Probably for a few reasons. One, if you don't have good technique on pull ups, it does not fund for your shoulders. And so a lot of people are like pull ups don't work for my shoulders. Just like a lot of people say squats are bad for your knees because they're doing squats. But I think there's another factor. I don't mean to get personal. But I'm glad you've got good at pull ups. I can do like, I don't know, with good technique. Last week I did, I did 13 pull ups, 13. And I had 15 pounds hanging off me. So I can do like 15 pull ups. That creates. But I think a lot of folks who are used to putting piles and piles of weight on the ship realize that just their body weight they can do sets of eight to twelve pull ups with good technique. And that humbles the federal and they just don't want any part of that. And so that like that, I'm going to do pull downs with a whole stack. So when you weigh 260 pull downs with a whole stack are possible. But pull ups are still hard and kind of embarrassing. I honestly think that's why people don't do pull ups a lot. So maybe I'm off-case. What do you guys think? All right, what would the trend friends do? Mmm. Oh yeah, that's heavy. I'm so sure you're afraid of mine coming in. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So the music choice was interesting. Very tech talk. Uh, I think I'm going broccoli hair underneath my bandana. So yeah, you guys, it looks like the trend friends are doing roll to shrug superset. An interesting choice definitely a good way to really kill the traps. I get it ton of trap training for my shoulder work, which I do a lot of. So when I'm going to do is modify the exercise and kick you guys. Some really cool clever shit we're going to be doing cambered bar rows. I'm going to want to try and twins and I'm going to superset that to regular rows. Same bar. I just flipped the bar so that it's flat. And then I do a couple more reps of regular rows. With that lets us do is get a couple more reps at that stretch. After I can no longer do any good technique reps with a full contraction. Basically it's a length and partial preprogrammed in. Let's hope the spirit of trend is with us. With its protective, mothering arms. Let's go work out. Cambered bar rows for these cambered bar rows. You guys like that superset? One and a half reps. That row supersets are real tough. Holy shit. It's strange. In this outfit. I feel like I have twice the power. But of course I channel the twins. Holy shit. Roads are tough. With the trend twins are tougher. Alright. Machine rows. And some posing. They look great. I'm just acting crazy to... And should it deter you guys from taking steroids? So nobody will ever be bigger than me. Okay. Was he high on mirror? Why don't I have that set? Or is that just how he looks? Hey. He's a good micie. No wait. You can crisp. Is that his name? Chris the other one? Trend friends, you guys are the goats. Machine rows. Two sets on here. And then, Morchin Atticans will want to. And shit. I'll even hit a backdrop line. I'm gonna shit. I'll even hit a backdrop line. I normally do more but like, you know, and Syracuse here. J-K. That was awesome. First set. Of two. I got 15 reps. I'm gonna try to get 12 on the next one. It didn't warm up. Backs already warm. But rest a little bit. I'll get 12. My body is going to learn. A little bit better how to move here more efficiently. I haven't done these in months and months and months. So, if you're a little trippy, it's also a third exercise. So, pretty well cooked. Take a little break. You guys will notice by the way, full ultra deep stretch. Use that chest support. At the top, you can come up off your support. Really crunch your back. Which is something you typically don't get with other pulling exercises. And then at the bottom. Round over. Round your shoulders. Pull out your elbows. Get a huge momentary stretch at the bottom. This machine is actually leveraged to stretch you. For an arm and a little. Get you that big back. 15. What's next? Last back exercise for today is... Now keep your arm straight as you can. Don't bend your elbow. So, we should. Whoa, you're supposed to not bend your elbow. That's insane. What about holding? You're going to let all of your lap roll across your rib cage. Just like that. Now squeeze. Don't bend the elbow. Oh yeah. Huh. Activate through here. If I had a young man touching me and saying, activate through here. Let's work out. Be a lot more fun. Just say don't have that. Max, you technically a young man aren't you. Yeah. What's the shy little yeah? We'll break him out. Open. Up. I don't know. Let's do this. Except I'm going to modify it because your boys aren't that shit. So, the trend twins last back exercise is kind of a one arm... A straight arm lap pull down like this. Otherwise known as a lap prayer, but it's a one arm. And so my principle of being a lazy piece of shit is any you could do with one arm at a time. You can probably do with two arms at a time. Save double the time and still get a great stimulus. So what I'm going to do is I've modified this movement into a two arm movement. It's the same movement except with two arms. And as you'll notice, I positioned the free motion attachments inside so that just as this movement describes in their own video, I'm going to be coming out to the side a little bit. It's going to kind of look like Nordic skiing. I'm going to do some sets here. What I might do is one big ass my rep set. And just knock out maybe like 40 total reps of this with many rest breaks. Just to breathe for a few seconds and retie in my my versus. Actually, I don't even know if I need those. Yeah, let's get it popping. And what we want here is a big stretch at the top. Nice peak contraction at the bottom. Get those latches where you pop it out. Cool. Oh, okay. Okay, cool. Let's do it. Oh, 30. Hello, YouTube. I am what happens when both trend twins combine. I guess in age also. Hmm. Anyway, the takeaways are this man. The specific movements you do are a lot of personal preference stuff. And there are distinct debates. But you can modify almost any movement into something that feels really good for you. As long as you treat each set seriously and get pretty close to failure. As long as you do numerous sets to really get that volume pumped in there. And week to week try to progress in load. You're good to go. So trend twins back workout. There's not a terrible workout. Uh, and you know, I'm not a terrible person. Not no one's going to believe that. I'm still a piece of shit. The trend twins are awesome. I've been Dr. Mike and I'm now cool in pseudo Italian. But whatever the trend trends are. See you guys next time. I'm a good guy. You're a good guy. I'm a good guy. I'm a good guy. I'm a good guy.

There were filming a video here. Can you not? Did I mention it was unbelievable? I know when somebody's about to say you. Oh, oh, oh. Folks, the RP Strength Summer Sale is upon us. We've got tons of savings out of our apps and a bunch of digital products. Click in the link down below in the description. Let's get started with today's video. You people. Kind of told us that you want to grow Siri Hall. I hate the whole idea. I'm just going to be frank with you right now. Everyone's watching me. Talk to a cell phone camera. I'm at the Croger in Bright Michigan, which is the greatest Croger of all time. And I'm going shopping. Let's go shopping. Let's go shopping. First on my list is going to be veggies. I either get like nine. Peanut shaped foods are one long peanut shaped food. Yeah. I'm a numbers kind of guy. Two cumbersome amazing. I like to eat them straight. Which now we need an actual functional food that denights body and soul. Broccoli Slough. Goes into my beef and rice and turkey. Meals that you guys may be a ceiling, a chairble. And I don't teach you this in American culinary school folks. It's the only reason I'm getting organic. It's because that's actually the only one they have at the store. Next up is fruit. A lot of lifters don't eat fruit for somebody's in it. I can never tell why. Pineapple chunks. Because I haven't finished any money. It's five dollars for the ship. It's ridiculous. It's such a life. Also, I have about 50 different kinds of autism. So I need the chunks to be perfectly pure and clean and chopped up. And if there's any gooey stuff, I'm out. So pineapple, stope. This is for like a day and a half. Two days worth of food just for reference. I don't actually shop. I do my buttlers do the shopping and the cooking. And the usually baking videos. But here I am. And I just want to let you guys know what the reference amounts for. Like how many how much I'm buying. Because it really is just like two days of food. This is not like a week of food or something like that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We out here, baby. You know what I'm saying? Who knows? I'm not drunk right now. How could you tell? Ground turkey. It is a scientific fact that turkeys love to be ground up and eaten by humans. 93 seven is really good. And this gives you 20 grams of protein for 8 grams of fat zero grams. Carb is of course me does not have any kind of carbs that really count for anything. That being the case. What I like to do when I make ground turkey is I like to get kind of sort of Brown it in a saucepan. Saucepan is that what you call it? Saucepan. I did in fact attend and graduate from one of Francis premier culinary academies. And but typically it'll have some kind of like fat congealed in the bottom. I'll pour the fat out and sometimes if I'm really awful don't judge me for this or Judge me bucket. I will drain the fat and what run water through the turkey and drain that again. And that probably gets rid of about half of that. And so 20 grams of protein and four grams of fat like damn that's pretty lean. So 93 seven brown turkey, especially if you rinse it through works really well. So next up is going to be diet bread. There are two reasons I get diet bread. One is it gives you that bread feel with like a super tiny fraction of the calories. The other reason is that my wife Dr. Crystal loves the diet bread. But specifically I'm so used to buying a for her that I'll just buy it anyway. I don't know who the fuck. Aunt Millie is but that bitch makes amazing bread. It's diet. It's bread. It's got everything you need. It ends up being that if you do all the calculation. Each slice is just 40 calories. Which is really dope. Well, Aunt Millies, if you guys want an endorsement, you just got it. Here, let's do a quick beer analysis. My favorite part of it is that it's long and hard and black. It reminds me of my friend Jamal. God, he was great. He was there, whatever I needed him. And sometimes when I didn't. You would think I would have to be an absolutely crazy person to buy potato chips. Why the hell would I ever do that? I'm going to fitness or what up because your boy. Cares about his health. Only thing touching this beautiful body is big shit. Baked lays are made by God himself. The crispy, the crunchy. This is my favorite flavor of sour cream and cheddar cheese. So good. Two grams of protein. Three and a half grams of fitness is crazy. 20 grams of carbs. One, hey, you got a gram of fiber in this motherfucker. And we're well on our way. So, uh, yeah. They're awesome. And look, the hell are you supposed to eat when you're high in animal marijuana on the weekends? The urinary friend's laying out. Random side note. I hate salsa. And here's the thing. The only reason I hate it is because of my clinical grade autism. That makes most textures and flavors and mouthfeels awful. I don't hate it for any logical reason. I think salsa is beautiful and they get super nutritious. I think in many cases it's really healthy. And, uh, I think people look like they're having a lot of fun eating it. I wish I was one of those people. I want to choose a flavor. I just don't have that much time. Good thing about me is any flavor will do. You'll never ever see me by this because I don't do all with caffeine. To be completely honest, I have a lot of energy as a person. A lot of energy as it is. If I get a lot of caffeine, I kind of just like laser focus and get fucking weird. Ooh, orange change green. Hell yeah. I love orange change green because it's amazing. You just put a little doll up in that and your water on everything tastes like paradise. And also the beans are so sophisticated the big one. There you go. It's called red pop. For two reasons. One, pop is what we call soda and Michigan. That's right. Deal with it. And red because it's red. Is this a strawberry? Or cherry. So it's never can tell. You don't know what it is. What is it? It's a hybrid. It's a hybrid. It's a red berry. It's just red. It would taste like a taste red. It's amazing. And it's diet. It's zero sugar. This is nectar. Don't ever buy this unless you want to die addicted. And I may be the only person at the store ever buying the shit. I like it a lot. I drink a lot of diet soda. Why? Two reasons. Number one. Diet soda's delicious. Number two. It is basically neutral for your health. That's it. I know a lot of people ask me why drink so much diet soda. Because it's a liquid, it's fizzy and feels nice to drink. That's it. That's the whole story. You guys. They sell weed at the store. It's just here. Oh, it's deal weed. This is amazing. It makes everything taste great. Put it on my rice and meat. I put it on my pasta and meat. I put it on my own meat. Ice cream. Cookies. Serial. Dill. Sprinkle it in. Fuck it unbelievable. Chef Mike told you. Check. Pure protein bars. I have no public or private affiliation with the brand. However, 21 grams of protein. 15 grams of that carbs and less than five grams of fat per bar. They're tiny. They're edible. And they're convenious. We need a protein bar. You don't want to have a party in your mouth. All these delicious new protein bar flavors. Fuck that. Pure protein. Every time dependable, it's awesome. It's nutritious. And I don't think they really have a whole lot of sugar alcohol just for grams, which is really not a lot per bar. So if you get the Hershey Squirts from eating too many protein bars, you can have you or Hershey Squirts eating these. And they do really kind of come out look at the same. Makes sense. I'm going to go off off the reservation and tell you about two things. One is some shit. Maybe you shouldn't be getting. Two is about some shit I'm about to get because it's awesome. But I wasn't planning on it. So James, how? Blue Raspberry. Now, offense to the smartweight corporation. I'm sure they have great stuff. And I'm 100% for consumer choice. So you should be able to buy this if you want. But it has zero fat, cool, zero protein, cool. And 34 grams of carbs of which 32 are sugars. And it's first ingredient is water and second ingredient is high fructose corn syrup. But don't worry, citric acid is third and fourth is propylene glycol. Just what kids need. You guys, this is sugar water. As no redeeming nutritional value other than sugar. If you like to drink it, that's totally cool. But you might as well get some vitamin. We get real orange juice. Don't you worry. I'm not about to reach for that. I'm about to reach for. Ooh, ooh, crystal. Ooh, there's so many choices. Oh, girl. Ha ha ha ha ha. Why was it ever in contention? I'm going to get two things here. One is a minute made zero sugar, mango passion. Why is it called passion? Because I literally make love to it. Because it's the tastiest thing in the fucking world. And it has five calories per serving, which is basically zero. Pineapple. I've been looking for pineapple drink that's zero sugar for like my entire life. As I love pineapple drinks and there are always a thousand grams of carbs. But to the power of minute-made and corporate synthesizing processes, we can have it for only five calories per serving unbelievable. Did I mention it was unbelievable? If you guys have ever seen the collab with a gentleman, the sports scientist, a PhD named Dr. Pack who you shouldn't be following on social media, especially Instagram and YouTube, then you know that I like my men. Light and I like them fit. I love them Greek. Oh my god. How you know the Greeks put out the invented sex. There's something maybe the Indian is doing with the Commissature. My history's easy. I just know the Greeks love male and male action. And they have 12 grams of protein, and man grams of carbs and zero grams of fat in the evening. As a final meal, three of these bad boys, plus strawberry cheesecake. I'm gonna pack if you're watching this. You can pour your strawberries over my cheesecake any time. It's still funnier. Not so much anymore. Now, this is what we really came here for. If you don't have card master milk, I feel bad for you, son. I've got probably more than 99 problems if you were to tabulate all of them by category. But having a low carb, ultra high protein, super low calorie, delicious milk is not one of them. 11 grams of protein, three grams of carbs, zero grams of fat, and a taste like milk, seriously, Crober. Why do you have to be so goddamn good? This goes in cereal. This goes on to brownies. This goes right down the throat. It's amazing. You know, holy shit. We got a new player in town. High protein dessert, protein pints, chocolate, 30 grams of complete protein per pint. And that carbs are going to look like about 50, 18 grams of fat. That's a decent amount of fat, but that's a ton of protein. I'm gonna try it. Yeah, what's up? What's up? Protein pints incorporated, Grand Rapids Michigan. Yeah, look. I am supporting the economy. But seriously, Hillotop was already good. They have this new thing called mixins, where they mix in delicious deliciousness and every bite. And this container, for example, has 20 grams of protein. It has 18 grams of fat, which is not that much in the grand scheme. And around about 70 grams of carbs, when you tabulate everything, actually, considerably less. I take that back. Maybe like 60. And it's just like basically half of a Ben and Jerry's pint, but gives you, I think, 75% of the taste and texture. It's just amazing. Halo top. I love your shit. I hate it all the time. Nobody pays me to do it. My butt is just bringing it over. And then I eat it. It's unbelievable. Every single mixins flavor I've tried so far is great. It's just God shit. I can't believe it. One more iteration on this. And you'll just taste better than regular ice cream. And then we'll all have cured ourselves. A deal, obesity, epidemic, that ravages us so. What's up, are you? We're actually filming a... No, no, yeah, no, probably. I don't know. You're good. We're doing like a... What I buy or whatever kind of thing. And that's got the video guy. And he's recording the ice cream labels and stuff. Don't worry. He's at all man. Well, I've got everything we need as the British might have said if they were all chimney sweeps as I know. I have the pro coach Jo Jeffrey says is my only impression of Londoners and everyone in England and Britain generally. How does they say? Yeah. Got everything we need. And it's been real. I don't know. What do you guys think? Gross Rehalves kind of fucking weird. The camera on my cart. Everyone's looking at me all the goddamn time. I have nothing to clever to say. And yeah, Tans, the question of is this really what you eat? Yeah, it's typical offseason diet. I guess we have a lot of rice at home. We have rice. We have some olive oil. This isn't everything, but it's a pretty decent sampling of foods that I either consistently eat. Eat only when I'm on a mask, gaining phase. I just fots with every now and again. But the real reason I come to the store is, hey, the reason I come to the store is to meet petite Asian women. You got a man? Yeah, Mary. Well, who married to? A Jew. Oh. That was nice. She's your husband's wisely. And I'll see you guys next time.

Oh, he camera. I can't. How long have you been here? It's me, Dr. Mike. We're a Renaissance Fridization. I represent so many other companies, she was just gets boring. By the way, in a sense, this video is brought to you by the RP Diet Coach app. So check that out. It'll do your night for you. It'll tell you what to eat, when it'll plant on all your meals. You still get to pick the foods, but it guides you on all the macros. It'll message you when it's time to eat. It really is like having a back coach in your pocket. So if you're into like hardcore results driven diet stuff, it's the shit. You're trying to like eating one meal a day of fuck all and getting zero results. Don't download it. In any case, today we are going to learn how to do coils for the coils. Bye. It says barbell curls on my list of things to do. I'm going to demonstrate this with an easy bar because the principles are exactly transferable. The only caveat, I say caveat, but I know I'm not Latin. Is that you have to make sure your wrists and elbows are okay with doing a straight bar. But if they're not an easy bar can come in super handy, so that being said, world's longest intro, shut up, Mike. Let's get to the first tip. To make sure you heal your biceps better, you have to choose the appropriate grip. The answer on here is that totally up to individual preference. You're looking for a few things. You're looking for a grip that is comfortable for your elbows, comfortable for your shoulders, and in which you can really feel the biceps working. For some people, a wider grip works really well. For some people, a closer grip works really well. There are no wrong answers here. You just have to make sure your peak in the grip that works best for you at that time. So it's totally fine to do like a few months of close grip. Head a burn out of it, switch the wide grip, and any easy bar becomes two variations. Now, if wide or close, just never works for you. It hurts your elbows, hurts your shoulders, never feel your biceps. Then don't bother with the grip that doesn't work. Next tip for you guys to play around, or just use to play around with tips of your day job, is to figure out if you like to curl more straight up and down, or more in an arching fashion. Again, there's no correct answer here. You just how you get the best feel in your biceps. So straight up and down, sometimes these are called drag curls, and a few other things. I don't know if you curl them drag, if you know what I mean. So what you'll do is you'll kind of curl just like this. You'll curl down. The bar kind of travels in the moral access straight line. And if you feel your biceps ton, this is great. This is a great exercise for people that tend to feel like they're front delts, are way too involved in an arch curl, and they're like, I can't feel my biceps, sometimes that works well for them. The other alternative, sometimes it's going to take a little bit of a wider stance. If you're skinny enough to do this, you can pin your elbows and your hips, and then you arc the entire motion looks like a U shape, and then it really can stimulate the biceps as she load. There's no guarantee that one of those will work better than the other. Try both, see how you feel. Best case scenario, they both are winners in their own separate ways, and then you just have two variations. I'm going to individual exercise. Sometimes people just really don't like one of the other. Let me know in the comments which one of these has worked best for you. What to do with the elbows? A couple different camps on the internet for this. Some people say you should keep your elbows pinned to your sides, and thus the curl will look something like this. All those don't really move much. A bit of an interesting range of motion here. It can work, work super great. For some people, it can really isolate the biceps and get a great mind muscle connection. Other folks like to let the elbows roam more freely and curl sort of to the max slash-face area. So they're curl like this, and then slowies center down. Notice my elbows do move. You'll get some people saying that the whole non, if your elbows move like that, using your shoulders and not your biceps, but it turns out your biceps are actually a shoulder flexor. That's level one thinking. It's totally valid. Level two thinking, just above or below, depending on how you conceptualize these things, is the fact that bicep flexion at the shoulder in this position is not remotely a prime mover, so yes, your front belts are still involved, and the forces on the bicep are not very high up here, so it doesn't actually add a whole lot of stimulus. Totally valid. Check this shit out. Level three. Level three tells us through lots of tronair, and this is a little Jared Feather type of technique, is that if you curl like this and you get a ton out of it, that's totally fine and great. I'm not dogging on this method. But if you curl all the way up to the face, it can allow you to unload the movement, which gives you a little breaky break at the top, which turns every single curl rep into kind of a myorap situation, so you curl all the way up big squeeze, that squeeze at the top doesn't stimulate a lot of muscle growth, but it can enhance the my muscle connection, and you go from squeezing at the top to peeing fully introducing the eccentric in a slow fashion, and that sets your muscles up for an incredible myorap muscle connection, and also because it lets you take a little break at the top, you can add a crappler of reps that are all very close to failure, towards the tail end of the set. Again, there is no 100% right way to do this. Both options work, they can just be too variations you use, or you can use whichever one you prefer at the time, or one of these just totally doesn't work for you, and the other works great. Try them both before you write them off, they can both be super duper. This video is not an instructional guide for how to do bicep curls. We actually have that video if you search it through our pee. We have a few of them. This is a targeting the muscle series video, assuming you already do the basics well, to get you to that next level. This video is targeted at you the viewer that's like, look, I'm doing this exercise right. I think, but I fucking know a few of my bicep, I don't know if the fuck is going on, help. Don't worry, we have heard your call for help, and we're answering. So assuming you're not doing stupid bullshit like swinging around, you could still be doing your curls a little too fast on the eccentric. And it makes sense of super tempting. I'm tempted with it all the fucking time. If you're on rep number 12 of 14 reps, and you curl up, no cheating like normal momentum, it's not really tempting to fucking painfully over three to five seconds control the eccentric. And then do another rep, fuck that. I'm trying to get up here, and I'm trying to be like, bam, and get up again, so you can get the fuck out, stop doing these stupid reps, go home and rethink my life. But as I am rethinking my life, I'm not growing nearly as much as if I had considered because I don't really feel the bicep's much, getting that fucking nasty eccentric. So treat your curls to a little bit of anti-ego juice, patented, RP product, forget about how much weight is on the bar. Put enough weight on the bar, but it's super fucking light. Embarrassingly light. You jump crush, walk sin, and she's like, I might die, and you're like, weak. And you're like, yeah, but I love you. Don't take advice from me on how to talk to girls. You probably don't already, and that's for the best. Here's the deal, light weight, normal curl. Five normal curl, and a five fucking eccentric eccentric. Oh my God, awful. If I was doing this with weight, I'd quit right on camera. It can make a big difference. It can let you feel the volume. Fuck out of your biceps. I've trained lots of people in person with this method. People who said, I don't get a lot out of the curl in biceps. And after about the fourth month of slow eccentric, they look at me, and I'm like, are you feeling your biceps? And they're like, stop crying, and wipe that weakness juice off your face. You've got big arms to grow. It works really well. Give it a shot. My reps. What the fuck does that attack me? I know. It is a training modality. However, if you have trouble feeling your biceps, a lot of times, it's because at the end of a set, it gets really tough. And you finally start feeling your biceps. And then the set ends. And it is over. And you look around. You see, you jump crosswalk by, and you're like, and she pretends not to see you and you're like, okay, just, just me and me again. However, if you really want to feel your biceps more, try my reps. Which means after you do like, good set of 15 to 20, put the weight down. It's great to have this, I actually, this exact setup. We have a bench, because if you put the curls all the way down to the ground, it gets just fucking annoying, tired and for the lower back, etc. Put it down here, shake it out, rest like three to five seconds, three to five long breaths. Did the shaggone again? Pump out another, very close to 50 seconds. Whatever your RLR is for that week, let's say two reps from fail. Let's say you get like six curls or something. After six, I put it down. Holy shit. Almost every one of those fuck my biceps up, because I was already close to failure. Another three to five seconds, and I go again. Same idea. How many of these to do? Start out with two or three my reps, which means one set of 15 to 20, and either one or two sets, just like that with three to five seconds. That'll cook you. Next week, add another one, add another one, add another one, as recovery allows. That way you can get to like week four or five of your plan before deliniting. You can have one set that starts the whole shit off, and then like six sets afterwards of five to ten repetitions each, all my fucking God. It keeps your biceps close to failure, for like 30 fucking reps. It's brutal. It will cook your ass. You'll finally get big arms. You'll come up to that fucking gym crush again. You're like, hey, stay see. I'll fuck up with that shit. You see, like, oh my god. Rob. We'll just say your name's Rob for the purpose of this. You like, yeah, what do you want to do about it? She's like, I want to have such a good job. Those through some two-stop a day. You're in her fucking head spins, and you're in baby. I'll say it in this check. Get all the love. See you guys next time. Thank you.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Anastonspirization. I have a question for you. How good should your food taste? If you're into fitness and you have a mind for weight control from making sure you don't get too skinny or too fat at any one point in time. How good should your food taste? This is a very pertinent question because how good food is, how tasty it is, hugely determines how much you weigh from eating it. Because a food doesn't taste very good. You eat much less of it in most cases, or rather you are prone to eat less of it. And if food is really, really fucking amazing and tastes amazing, you are more likely to eat more of it. The biggest underlying cause of the global obesity epidemic of modernity is that food is really fucking tasty and really cheap. Food is tastier than has ever been before and is cheaper relative to time spent working and thus income than it has ever been before. So we're in a situation of hyper palatable environments and thus if you just ate all the food you thought was tasty until you were full, well, gee, you might end up really, really out of shape. So you have to answer the question of how good should the average food that I eat taste? It is up to me to pick that food. How do I do it best? Four points in this regard. First, on average, in general, your food should taste good enough that you check a couple of boxes. First box is that you can meet enough of it to meet the nutritional needs of the phase that you're in. So if your food is super, super bland, you hate eating it. You're trying to maintain a new high body weight after massing and you just lose weight week after week because you can't stuff yourself enough of this. Stuff yourself enough of this awful food to get enough calories. Your food needs to be tastier. Second, you make sure you want to make sure that you don't eat so much of your food that it's too much for the phase that you're in. If you're in a fat loss phase, then you don't get to eat as much food. If all of your food is tasty, the temptation to eat too much of it is a really, really high. Thus, the probability that you will not lose as much fat as you could because your calories do high incrementally goes up. No good. Lastly, food is a big part of human enjoyment and you should look to eat food that is tasty enough that you do get some pleasure out of it, but not so much pleasure that you end up overeating like crazy. So that's a really big deal. More specifically, let's go phase by phase. In a muscle gain phase where you're trying to gain weight and thus muscle, aka bulking phase, massing phase, bulker. I don't know what culture started that. Some Europeans are like, um, Dr. Mike, you're doing a bulker. I'm like, what? Other people have, or fat loss phase called cutters. I'm doing a cutter. Another guy, I remember eating a form who was like, I'm doing a shredder phase. And I'm like, like, shredder from the teenage mental energy turtles. No, that's a smiley avatar. I'm just being a dick. In any case, as you gain weight over time, your hunger tends to fall. Your body will fight you and be like, bro, why are we gaining weight? This is fucking insane. You will get less and less hungry. So in order for you to continue to eat the needed food and actually higher levels of food because you have to, uh, make sure you're caught for your increasing body weight, increasing thermogenic activity from gaining weight. You're sort of in a situation where you are eating, you need to eat more food than ever before, but you're the least hungry for food that you've ever been than ever before. So what you have to do is adjust the tastiness of that food and ratchet it up. If you have taste of your food, a lot of this you can do with the same macros through seasonings and spices and cooking methods, tons of healthy snacks. And if you cheat meals I'm now and again, can make sure your food is so tasty that you get enough calories and you actually don't burn out of your mass in phase. That whole thing where like people do clean massing with just oatmeal, broccoli and chicken is fucking insane. Or at the very least, just a good way to be miserable for a longer portion of your life than you'd ever want to be. Number three. In the maintenance phase, you could have a certain average level of food tastiness that makes it so much better. That makes it so that you have fun with food, but also don't gain a lose weight, but you can also eat periodic. Streaks of more bland food to get your weight to drop a little bit and periodic streaks. Let's say Friday Saturday of much more tasty fun food with your friends. Gain a little bit of weight and in the course of the average week or two weeks, those two roughly even out. It's your choice which one you want to do. Just make sure that your weekly average is relatively stable. And if it's not, you got to eat some bland or foods for longer, cool it on the cheat foods or if it's dropping too fast, you have to eat some taste of your foods in order to make sure it doesn't drop as fast. Lastly, in the fat loss phase, as the fat loss phase gets an earlier, as your diet fatigue accumulates over the course of weeks and weeks and months of dieting, you have to progressively eat counterintuitively, blender and blender foods because remember, trying to keep your pleasure from food. Your pleasure from food in this midline level. Good pleasure from food, but not so much that I'm tempted to eat too much or suffer psychologically because the food is amazing, but I only get a little tiny taste of it. When you get into your tail end of a fat loss phase in your heart of hearts, you're going to want taste to your food. But what you need is blender food. So you are a logical person with a forebrain and an ability to plan for the future. So plan to eat blender foods and you're just going to have a great time through your diet. Here's the kicker. As soon as your fat loss diet is over and you begin the maintenance phase, make sure you continue to eat those very same bland foods for at least a week after diet is over, but just raise the calories to maintenance calories. At the end of that week, you're going to be like, man, they're actually pretty hard to eat this much food when it's bland. I'm not super hungry or starving. I could eat some tasty foods, but I'm really recovering pretty well from this diet, fatigue. When you're able to say that, you can introduce slowly but surely a few taste your taste to your items such that as the maintenance phase proceeds, your food tasteiness that eating goes up. And your body weight stays leveled the entire time so that you're not redoing or undoing rather the fat loss that you experience during your fat loss phase. Folks, thank you so much for tuning in. If you have any questions, please post them below. If you want advanced material and super insightful looks and demy training and other people's training, behind a teeny tiny paywall, then you can get us in our members area on YouTube. That's a really quick link that you can probably click on right now on your screen. And if you want to go for the big upsell, there's the team full rom form where you can be on a team with myself and Jared Feather and tons of other people. Get your technique, shoot in, get your videos analyzed, get your training and your diet all sorted out. Huge 24-7 Q&A forum. Hopefully we'll see you there. If not, see you on YouTube and we'll see you next time.

PFOB's Dr. Right here for Renaissance Periodization, and for your nightly report to the scourge that is overshadowing our great nation today is shoulder impingement. It is coming for the elderly for children and yes even for athletic populations as well. Is anyone safe? Stay tuned right now. What is the deal with shoulder impingement? And really, are you going to die from it? Hmm. Let's find out. So first, before discussing all of the stuff around shoulder impingement, we should really try to define it. I find that a lot of the conversation on the internet about shoulder impingement kind of just assumes people know what it is. It really does sound pretty scary. And then once you realize what it is, maybe it doesn't sound as scary. Defining terms is absolutely the first critical thing to establish in any productive discussion. So here we go. Definition is when the tendons of your rotator cuff musculature rub up on the acromion that sits just above them. There are a few other structures in there such as bursels, sacks that can get in the mix and get some of that rubbing going. The rubbing is usually benign as a matter of fact by design. It's okay that if it happens, but a lot of rubbing specifically with high forces impinged on those structures are imparted on them rather. If the rubbing goes from this to that, it happens repeatedly over and over. You can develop an inflammatory cycle, inflammation occurs at the acromion and at those other structural components. And then inflammation can go and turn into pain. Once it turns into pain, you're going to notice that the pain usually comes a lot of times with all shoulder movements, but especially with shoulder movements that go where your arm is higher overhead. If you keep at it and say whatever shoulder pain is normal, I don't know why you would say that, but let's see you did. Eventually the continual rubbing that is already deleterious to the structures can cause what is termed as macro damage. Like you can actually see, okay, well, there's where that part was supposed to be, but the really the connective tissues have been rubbed pretty raw. And then if that occurs, there's actually something to heal other than the inflammation to bring down. And then you're going to have spend some time in some pain and you're going to have to spend some time healing those structures, which the pain and the annoyance and the weird movement can hang around for some time if you just continue to go in and make the situation worse. So that's shoulder impingement. I've seen a lot of people think shoulder impingements, other things. People think like, oh, there's a canner of stuck in there and you're impinging that nerve. That's not remotely what shoulder impingement is. It's just two structures rubbing on each other and the rubbing gets to be a bit too much. And I like Friday night when you've had a few and you're rubbing the next day you're like, oh, and your partner's like, oh, I'm just getting you doing this and home by yourself. All right. So what causes shoulder impingement? Technically speaking, any kind of shoulder movement that causes the acromion to rub up on the rotator cuff tendons can cause shoulder impingement. Technically, the impingement is when the tendons are impinged in the acromion for vice versa. However, there is a probability to what causes it, what kind of movement causes it and the most high probability movement is a movement that goes overhead puts your humorous above parallel, especially if it's angled backwards forward as not as high of a risk. And especially if you internally rotate your humorous at the same time. Does this look like an upright road to anyone? Sure, shit does. So that position especially in folks that have a design of the shoulder bones that makes the rubbing more likely is the likelyest thing to cause that impingement to potentially potentially. But just the movement itself is usually not enough. Chronic movement over time, multiple times a week, each time it causes discomfort. That's the kind of thing that is the biggest factor. So if you just move right here right now by yourself and rotate your humor old. Hey, that hurts. We had it feels weird. You're not going to get impingement doing that. But if you do five sets of upright rows Monday, Wednesday, Friday and it starts to feel real weird and it can be impingible here. But you don't care and you keep going, then the probability to get shoulder impingement actually starts to begin. That's how the inflammatory cycle begins. If you nick something or rub a little bit too hard, that then you just keep going, that's how you develop the syndrome, shoulder impingement syndrome itself. It is a syndrome because it's just like there's just a lot of inflammation going on there. It's not a disease. That contagious. No, that crazy stuff. So okay, fine. We understand the definition. We understand what causes it. Cool. How do we prevent shoulder impingement or a better way to view prevention is decrease significantly the probability of it occur. As we can't really prevent, technically speaking with a hundred percent certainty anything. But we can absolutely decrease probability. So first, most people just won't get shoulder impingement in normal training. Olympic weight lifters enter this position all the time. shoulder impingement for them is very rare. It's just not something. You're like, oh yeah, you don't want to quit lifter. You're for sure getting shoulder impingement. That's not even close to the true. Which means upright rows and super arm laterals are totally fine for most people until otherwise indicated. Now, most people who do get shoulder impingement before they get it can tell that their shoulder joints are not comfortable during overhead movement. Probably the vast majority of people that get shoulder impingement in the gym setting are folks that cannot discriminate between proper burn style and tension style muscle pain and actual joints rubbing up on each other pain. To be honest, that's like almost everyone whose recreationally indifitness has been training for the first six months or a year. And oftentimes many people even much after that. Like your client who's a 55 year old woman has started training you with you four months ago and you train her over the internet. When she's doing upright rows, she kind of expects it to hurt and if it hurts her shoulder joint, she just might be like, oh, that's what working out is and it turns out that she should have detected it was her shoulder. Do you want her to not the side-delt muscle or the trap muscle and then backed off and made some kind of change? It doesn't sneak up on you in most cases. shoulder impingement can sneak up on you, but that is highly unlikely. You do not have to be paranoid. You're doing upright rows just to hear and you're like, man, I hope I don't wake up tomorrow with shoulder impingement. That's very unlike. But if you're doing upright rows to hear, you're like, ow, ow, my joint, ow, my joint, rack. Take out your RP training app and go, that felt great. I joined its felt great. Your programs you six sets next week and you just keep crushing it. That's how you're most likely going to get shoulder impingement, which takes us to our best preventative measures. And I have four of them for you today, I think. Yeah. First, don't do any exercises that make your shoulder in the joint, feel painful or weird. Like if there's some kind of weird clicking and snapping, if it hurts at the same time or feels like you're grinding joint to joint, stop doing that movement. There are so many ways to train your shoulders. We got lateral raises from every angle, upright rows from every angle, face pull from every angle, cables, machines, oh my god, it just like dozens and dozens of shoulder movements, you were almost certainly fine one or two that works well for you. Huge, huge thing. So if you're just doing some kind of upright row that you found out through the internet was really cool, but it's really, really fucking up your joints and you're like, well, it's what it takes to grow, stop doing that. You're at risk for shoulder impingement, precipitously falls. Next, if you want to try something like upright rows up to the face or super-romed laterals where you go way over your head, these are fundamentally healthy, totally awesome movements that are great for muscular development. But they're putting your shoulder in a loaded situation in a position where it's not used to, so you should want to ease in. If you're going to do super-romed laterals, take very light weights first and do those for a few sessions or a few weeks until you get the hang of it and there's no weird pain, then you can go up and load, or even better start going up a little bit higher than parallel. Next, work out, do the same thing, confirmed, feels great. Now I'm going up a bit higher. Two workouts in a row, I go up that high, everything feels great. Now I go up all the way and then everything's totally good. Don't just jump in, look at the 20s and be like, okay, I do this. It's a 25 for regular laterals. 20s for super-romed laterals, boom, let's do tons of sets and reps. That huge shock in the new range of motion, a combination of new range of motion, and very heavy loading is not something you want to push into your body if you want to keep the risk relatively low of shoulder impingement syndrome. Number three, use good technique which in part means controlling the centric and use loads that you can handle for at least 10 or even better 15 plus repetitions per set, especially in the first set or early sets when you're fresh, or higher in most cases, which means if you're doing sets of five or sets of eight of really heavy upright rows or lateral raises, why? Almost certainly you don't get your best growth. Then and even if you did, you have to consider the glantahumeral joint and all of the other joints in the shoulder, God, Jesus, there's no way to say this, I thought a scare tactic, but it's just not the toughest joint in the body. There's a lot of stuff you can do to your knees. You can squat 800 pounds, your knees are probably going to be fine. To injure your knees, you got to go doing some weird shit, like jump on one leg off a fucking building or get tackled and football, run around, jump early high. The shoulders are a bit finicky. Today just are, there's a lot going on. It's really easy to create a huge moment arm on a tiny joint. That's a thing, so give yourself the long term view and try to do lighter reps. Now here's a thing. Lighter load sets of 10 plus 15 plus 20 plus reps per set will burn your shoulders off of your body. It is probably my view for most people a better way to go about hypertrophy for the delts than going heavy and it has that extra unbelievable benefit of really reducing your probability of injury risk. If you're coming up a lot of rolls like this and falling back down and you're scooting up really hard and falling back down, stop doing that. Go up under control, pause at the top, and slowly milk that descent. That means all the structures don't move super dynamically, and there's more of a chance they're not going to slide up against each other in a way that you might not like. Yes, it's bad for the ego, but it's great for two things. One is reduced injury risk, which is amazing. That's why you're watching this video by the way. And two, it actually makes your gains better. It would be one thing if I was like, look, reduce your loads and you won't get us good of gains, but it's worth the injury risk. That could be a valid argument. We don't even have to make it. This is better for both things. It just costs you two things really. You go hit from having to use the 15s instead of the 25s on lateral raises and two fucking pain because high rep shoulders are going to have you like trying to lean on something and get the acid out. Yeah, help people are going to try to help you in the jam and like, are you okay? Let me get you yeah, okay, just call the police. The cops get there. You're still freaking out. You get tazed, thrown in jail. That's happened to me after somewhere higher up shoulder workouts. It's a really cost to be the boss. Number four, if you decide to start putting in movements that go overhead, right? And pull the humor as high in shoulder training, please ease into that as far as volume is concerned. Here's what I mean by that. If you program upright rows or high upright rows into your program for the first time in a long time or in forever, do not do five sets of upright rows in your first session. But it's actually a really good way to get impingement well on its way. You get that inflammatory cycle rolling three sessions later. You got you be diagnosed with an impingement syndrome because it took you three separate workouts of way too much volume to get there. However, remember the body is resilient. And if you move in a certain way within its ability to adapt, the next time it gets better at handling stress. So if you're really just trying to do upright rows for the first time ever pulling a nice and high, start with a set or two of them. That's almost certainly not going to give you shoulder impingement syndrome. Couple days later, your trained shoulders twice a week, you do two or three sets. Couple days later, I mean, if you'll find you do three or four, couple days later you do four or five and then boom, you're into that awesome volume zone and you're getting your rate growth. The real good way to get shoulder impingement or increase this probability rather is to like, say, oh, I want to do upright rows and just blast the shit five, six, seven sets. And then yeah, like you could wake up the next day, you'd be like, fuck my shoulder cut hurts. No shit. You don't ever want to do a ton of anything right off the bat, easing in is a huge deal. Now, let's say it's late for you. You like the prevention talk that I just gave, but you're like, fuck man, I already have fucking shoulder impingement. So for me, prevention is off the table. You have for next time, I hear you. What do I do now? How do I get treatment? First of all, I am not a medical doctor. So consider all of this as just friendly advice from someone on the internet. I do have a PhD in sport physiology. That's not on the medical side. That's on the performance enhancement side. However, before we go see doctors, there are things we can do ourselves. For example, first, just backing off the volume and load is a big factor. I've talked to a ton of people or having shoulder problems and I'm like, okay, did you do back off on the shoulder training? Well, you're trying to find a work around, but still smashing it, bro. Okay, you're a fucking idiot. Don't do that. Back away, your shoulders will shrivel off your body. Your body's unbelievable. It may be tending the gains. It's made. It's a very good at gaining the gains back. If it loses any, spend a couple of weeks of very little shoulder training, heal up and then you'll wrap back in no problem in in two months. From now, you'll have the biggest shoulders you've ever had. As opposed to in two months, still not being able to train them right and causing even more damage over time by going through the impingement and just fucking up more shit. Next, before you wrap back up into real working weights and volumes, make sure that pretty much all of the discomfort has gone. There is something you can do in the interim though. And that's very light, often unloaded movements that take you through that range of motion and as you feel a bit better, every two or three days you do some of those. So you hurt your shoulder. It's impingement. You're like, okay, fuck, I can't do this. You're going to need more. Stop all shoulder training. For the next few days or weeks, just after the shoulder feel a little bit better, it will with rest. Try to just move your arms through that range of motion. For as many reps until either burns a lot or you can feel it kind of like getting nasty again. Okay, stop. Way to couple more days. Try two sets of that way to couple more days. Over time, those those movements that you're doing are really just rehab that body weight or very lot dumbbell or very light bar movements is just getting that motion again. The inflammatory cycle starts to fall. You hit it again. It rises a little bit but a lot of healing comes through and then it goes back again, rises a little back again after a few days or a few weeks. You're going to be like, dude, my shoulder feel a hundred percent. That is when you start with one set of upright rows in the next workout at an actual decent weight close to failure, then two, then three, then et cetera. Don't just go, okay, I feel great. Five sets of upright rows. That is almost guaranteed to fuck you up again. I've seen that about 900,000 times. Here are things not to do and people do this all the time. Do not get a shoulder pain situation and go, okay, I'll just take non-steroidal anti-inflammatories. I'd be profiting stuff like that. Don't mask the pain with NSAIDs and said absolutely do lower the inflammatory cycle. But if there's actually any kind of macro damage there already, as soon as you're off NSAIDs, it's going to come back hardcore. Another problem with NSAIDs is while they do lower the inflammatory cycle, they do lower the potential for that actual tissue to undergo true healing, true reconstitution, true remodeling. They actually steer you away from that. It's kind of like a short term fix. So when you are training just for bodybuilding, you don't have the Olympics coming up in two weeks. Don't use NSAIDs to mask pain. There's a very, very, very bad idea. Feel the shit as you feel it and let that pain be a guide towards easing you into some rehab work and then easing you into some good work without, if you mask it, you're going to go, I feel great. Boom, and then you do even more damage and then it's even worse, then you're even more NSAIDs. It's not a cycle you want to be in. But also, don't just ice your shit after training and then go back and train hard every other day. I watched an entire team of Olympic weightlifters more or less most of the team put two massive ice bags on their shoulders after every session. Why? If you've got worlds coming up, hey, ice away. You need to suppress all the inflammation until you get through real championships when you're metal and then go home and fall apart like Mr. Potatohead. Then you heal after a few months and you go back in. But folks, the people I'm speaking to in this video of you, you might be a professional bodybuilder, but it's unlikely you might want to be one eventually which means you need to take care of yourself or more likely your recreational list of the just wants the fucking look jacked and lean and you know what I'm saying? Say what up to some ladies and like, well, stop. You know, I don't know. I healthy dolls and she's like, I love healthy dolls. You know what that's it? She's a guest. My biggest fat I show you. Yeah, shit girl. But in any case, you want to take care of yourself. I sing in anti-inflammatory, suppress the very healing processes to make you temporarily feel okay. What part of that sounds like a good idea if you want your shoulders to actually heal real hard training and real successful athletes. In most cases, do not rely on recovery adaptive modalities such as NSAID, such as ICE. They actually did a bit of work out familiar with a really directly or almost directly. There, I'll keep the specifics out of this, but there was a very serious sports center. Tons of amazing athletes at it and they established a recovery center in there and it was locally. I spasped and rast and he got some nutrition and there was heat pads and those, those, uh, normal tech pants, the ones that they push the fluid out of your legs and what they've done, they did a few level of layers of statistical analysis and they realized that typically the worst athletes were the ones that used the recovery center the most. Another way to see it's not known. That doesn't mean that the recovery center made the athletes worse. But another way to see it is the best athletes were healthy. The best athletes didn't need to go use the ice and whatever, which means if you want to be a good athlete thinking long term, not like, okay, how do I get my shoulder to calm down so I can train it tomorrow and thinking long term of how do I get the situation to really heal so that I can ramp back up in a few weeks to get amazing shoulder gains once again because that healthy actually healthy, not masked is what's going to take you all the way. Now if it doesn't, if you've done all the recommendations here and you're shoulder still bothering you, I would seek a consult with a licensed sports medicine doctor or anyone in the allied health field, either if it's in person or through an internet call, whatever it is, gets an actual medical attention but using these tips, you can help yourself a lot and you can help and discourage that is just quite frankly destroying communities. Children used to run in the streets, they used to play all ages and races. Now what they're huddled in their homes, afraid of children, pinching, I say no more and if you're with me, hit that like button or some YouTube shit. I'll see you guys next time.

There are so many variations of pull-ups. Why would you use all of them? Maybe not at once. But can you use them strategically? And will I tell you how and why to use them? And when? Yes, let's go do it right now. Folks, I'm going to try to cover 15 variations of pull-ups. To hit you guys are real holistic look at the landscape. To figure out what the pull-up variations are for when they should be used, what their beneficial uses are and maybe what their limitations are. Maybe some stuff they don't do that people think they do. So we're going to get right from the top of this list. These are not in order of importance. They're not in order of the fact that each and every single one of these has a time in a place. Folks, the RP Strength Summer Sale is upon us. We've got tons of savings on all of our apps and a bunch of digital products. Click in the link down below in the description. Let's get started with today's video. The first style of pull-up we are going to show is the wide grip pull-up. It's just a classic grandpa did it. Dad did it. He even had a union job on his real American. Like you'll never be you gen max the editor-in-boy. It's the current generation called. The next one is you. Yeah, one of those generations. Why grip pull-ups are totally cool? They have a bit of a downside. They don't allow either your biceps, your rear delts, or the musculature of your back, including your lats to get a very deep stretch. By design, because you're so out-wide that the deep stretch can't possibly occur. So they're probably not like the greatest pull-up variant of all time. And a lot of people aren't in love with them because they tend to kind of irritate the shoulder joint. However, try them. They're an amazing variant if you just want to give it a shot. Sometimes you don't have pull-ups, why grip pull-ups could totally be the answer to spice up your workout routine as long as they're feeling good on your shoulders and everything else is totally fine. Next up is the medium grip over-hand pull-up. It is the pull-up. It is the workhorse of the pull-ups. It's generally very comfortable for almost everyone. It's very well tolerated. If you have to default, this is your pull-up. It hits a lot of the forearm flexors, and it's the biceps-decently. It's the rear delts really well, and it hits the mat super well. If you're going to start doing pull-ups, especially if you're doing pull-ups weighted, or doing some kind of partner assistance, these are probably the pull-ups you want to start with. And then you can broaden your horizons at another point to get to all the different variations. This next pull-up is a little rare, and it's not for everyone. It is the narrow grip pull-up. The narrow grip pull-up has a variety of grips that you can use, and it's always going to be over-hand. But it's by definition going to be inside of your shoulder width. It can feel a little strange. However, it really prioritizes the rear delts a ton, because it allows them to get into that stretch at the very top. Many people think this is an awkward movement, but after using it for a little while, they tend to like it. And for some people, it hits right off the bat. Same dynamics as with all the other pull-ups. We'll talk about this in a bit, but there's different heights you can pull to, just make sure you're controlling that eccentric. If you're going to try narrow pull-ups from the first time, warm up with them, don't just jump into them. Can it feel a little bit awkward? You can do a lot of medium grip regular pull-ups over-hand, till you're blue in the face and get a huge back and a huge delts, and a huge forearm flexors. But it's just going to get stale after a while. And because for a lot of people wide grip pull-ups just aren't the answer to the shoulder joints, sometimes especially if your wrists can take it and if you're using Versa grips, the narrow pull-up can do a really, really good work. So give it a shot. The parallel pull-up is also known as the neutral grip pull-up. I don't know, is this Switzerland-Sumship? Why the fuck isn't called neutral? Who the hell knows? The parallel grip pull-up is an awesome movement, especially because it lets you track your elbows in front of your body. I was going to say, show what it was, I wasn't. And it really puts a lot of tension on the lats. So if you really want to hammer your lats instead of your overall back, the parallel grip pull-up is a really, really good idea to try. A lot of times you tend to be very strong in this movement. So if you've been experimenting with thinking about putting some weight on a weight belt to do weighted pull-ups which will get too later, then parallel pull-ups could be the thing that you jump off on, and get the most reps with the most weight that you ever could. I've been called underhanded before, mostly because I'm a liar and a fraud, but that brings me to my next point to the underhand pull-up. Is an incredible tool in your arsenal. It does tend to hit the biceps a little bit more, and especially if you do it with a slightly closer grip, you can be an awesome combination of arm and back work. Also, because it rotates your lats in, it pulls on them a bunch, and it's actually an awesome movement for lats and rear delts, and biceps all the same time. Another thing is you can be very strong with this movement. Careful at the very bottom, because the tension can get kind of crazy as your lats are being pulled out, definitely warm up and don't you dare cheat this movement. When you do the underhand pull-up, you go to a full stretch dead hang. That's how you get the most out of the movement, not the least. Most people doing the underhand will do a pull-up, we'll demonstrate later, a total bullshit for a pull-up that hardly works. Don't do that full range of motion all the way through. Here's another thing. These pull-ups are not for everyone. A lot of the time, wide grip pull-ups are a no-go for people's shoulders. For most people, especially when they get used to it, it's totally fine. Underhand pull-ups, especially if you're a meteor, more jacked king or queen, it starts to be an internal or sorry external wrist rotating problem. We try to supernate and your fingers just stop going. Then at the very bottom, you can actually cause some pain in your wrists, elbows or shoulders depending on what you join the sides and take the heat in the underhand pull-up. A lot of times, if you get an underhand setup that's somewhere between neutral and the S-Lash Parallel, or underhand, maybe a 45 degrees, that's really money. So if you can't do these on a straight bar, don't worry you're not doing anything wrong. A lot of people can't do them. No love lost. There are plenty of other pull-up variations that you can use. This next grouping of pull-up variations, you could do with any of the grips. But this grouping is going to be about how high you pull-up. And the first pull-up variation here is the sternum pull-up variation. That's right. Every time you come up, you touch your sternum, which is to say right below your chest to the bar, and then slowly control all the way down. These are incredibly effective, but really, really hard. If you're lighter or very strong for your bodyweight, these can be amazing. If you're just getting into pull-ups, you're not super light, you're not super strong yet. These are going to be a no-go. If you're using a bunch of weight already for normal pull-ups, 45 or more, and you want a really cool variation, and it's a little bit different. It's a bit more of the mid back. You're going to want to try these because they are awesome. And if those girls are the gym or even guys, and you want to flex, do you want a couple reps of sternum pull-ups? So the people that know, they know. Maybe the uglies are going to be on full blast. If sternum pull-ups are a bit too tough for you, you can challenge yourself in a slightly lower pulling all the way to your clavicles. Pull-ups pull to the clavicles are really, really tough. Not quite as hard as sternum pull-ups, but you're missing about, for me, this is 12 inches, am I right? They are way harder than regular pull-ups. If you can do 10 strict clavicle pull-ups with your own bodyweight, you are non-sense, super-hear-alove-it-strong. These are really challenging. They can be done with any kind of grip, and they are super effective. So if you're training with calistening equipment, you're training on a park, you're training at the zoo, wherever you do shit like this. If you either don't want to put a weight belt on, or your gym doesn't have one, doing sternum pull-ups, and or clavicle pull-ups, is an amazing way to progress in pull-ups, and then later be able to do way more pull-ups to regular heights, which we'll talk about next, because these are way, way, way challenging. As usual, as soon as you touch the top, start controlling that eccentric right from the get-go all the way through, you get maximum benefit. Next is the standard height to which most people do a pull-up or should, anyway, it is the chin. The chin is great because you can even touch the bar with your chin if you want for that extra standardization, or just approximate it, no big deal. This is a pull-up that's challenging. It's standardized, so you could count reps really easy, or RPI-berter-fi-appard-over-you-track-your-wraps, and it is insanely effective, and the good news is, because you get much of the benefit of exercise for muscle growth from that stretch, anyway, pull-up to the chin are just as effective, as the ones to the clavicle and the sternum, and potentially even more so. So if you can only do chin pull-ups, no big deal, you're doing probably one of the best kinds of pull-ups, but there are. Next up is the partial pull-up, and the bottom end part is the part that grows the most muscle in pull-ups. The bottom end part is also really, really tough in many cases, and a lot of people just kind of want to stay in the mid range. Go all the way down to a dead hang, hold for a second, and then come up. Typically, to where the bar is roughly high level, or just above your head, that way it's the bottom half of the pull-up, but it's standardized every single time. These you could do on their own if you're not yet strong enough to do a full pull-up to the chin, no big deal, or excellent tool. You could do them even if you're strong enough, after you've done multiple sets of pull-ups to the chin, or pull-ups to the clavicle or to the sternum, now that you're more tired, you can still do partials, and bonus round if you're really jack-strong king or queen, and even a court gesture I might add, what, at a many cents? What you can do is do conventional pull-ups, let's say, to the chin, or to the clavicle or to the sternum, and as soon as you're done with those, literally missing no beat, or just brushing for 10 seconds, then you do as many bottom end partials as you can, each set ends up being a super set. That means that you're taking the muscles really, really close to failure. When they're at their most length and position, that's going to cause a lot of muscle growth. If you really want bonus points, you're just out there mugging people and being a calisthenics master slash god slash VIP person, for whom they don't have a club room in the back, you have your own club type, Chris Area level. What you can do is the ultimate pull-up bodyweight set, which is when. You do as many pull-ups as you can to the sternum. You do as many pull-ups as you can to the clavicle, with either no rest or small amount of rest, or even normal rest, and then you do as many pull-ups as you can to the chin and bend. You do as many pull-ups as you can to the top of your head or your eyes, that's like four sets of pull-ups, all of them accommodating, increasingly more exposing about length and position. You're going to have such big lats afterwards, that you're clubbed that you go to your own club for your own shit. You won't be able to go any more because you'd be wider than the door to your own club. A problem I've never had because I don't go to clubs and have no friends. Uh, more pull-ups. Weighted pull-ups. Most of the weight of pull-ups comes from the demons that you carry around with you since childhood. But if that's not enough, what you can do is add weight, typically, with a dip belt. You can't throw out a dumbbell and hook your legs into it. I don't love that because then you have to spend a lot of mental bandwidth, making sure to keep your legs closed. Back with my younger days when I was a young woman, I couldn't keep my legs closed at all. I don't love the dumbbell and the legs thing. You can do it if you want. Another thing is if you have a weightlifting belt, the powerlifting belt just loosen it up, put it in the most loose notch, thread a dumbbell into the front and you're good to go. Then it doesn't move or shake, that's a good idea. But ideally a dip belt is awesome. And here's the thing fellas, if your gym doesn't have a dip belt, I have this crazy and lock you're going to love. It's going to be super confusing. You can go on Amazon and get one of them shit for like $20. And I know you have $20. Fucker, you go out to eat, just don't do that one night. And now you got a dip belt coming in through Amazon. Thanks Jeff Bezos. But on a serious note, weighted pull-ups are goated and they're amazing. Why? Because at some point you can do so many pull-ups that it's just like sets of 15 and 20, you might actually get your best pumps. And you might get a really good variation stimulus just going heavier. Another thing is this, in order to make progress, you can absolutely periodize reps. But that gets boring at some point. You're doing 15 reps one week, 15 and a half the next. And a rep is a big jump for pull-ups. So sometimes you can go on smaller increments and use weight, even if you're not super strong. And what I'm saying here is this, if your maximum ability to do pull-ups is like eight pull-ups, you can still do sets of five or sets of six with weight. And here's my biggest point of weighted pull-ups. A lot of people think weighted pull-ups are like, well, I either get a 25 or a 45 or eight, 45s and I start doing a shit. Absolutely not. The best way to do pull-ups is like you do any other progressive loaded movement, which means the first time you do weighted pull-ups if you're doing it right. It's a very good idea to just get the weight belt, make sure no one sees you doing this, because it's embarrassing. Put a two and a half pounder in that mod. And all of a sudden it's like, well, this is kind of ridiculous, isn't it? No, it's not. Because next week you put another two and a half on, next week another, and next week another. And after a few weeks, using 10 pounds, there's never this crazy shock, the movement and hammock doesn't change. And all of a sudden you're actually doing weighted pull-ups. And if you could only do five to ten pull-ups regular, and you're like, I have no idea how I'm ever going to do weighted pull-ups every time I try to put the 25 on it, and you can do like two. The problem is you're just not progressing and periodizing in a really decent way. You start with two and a half, you keep loaded them ships on you, go to a five, seven and a half, ten, and so on and so forth. After a few months, you are confidently doing 15 pounds for sets of six. Now you're about ready to do the 25s for something meaningful. Weighted pull-ups are awesome, you small increments. That's the big unlock. Weighted pull-ups are awesome. And they work. But there's also a way to do negative weighted pull-ups, aka assisted pull-ups. Assisted pull-ups are amazing if you have that machine. And they're amazing for people of two kinds. One, folks that just aren't strong enough relative to their body weight yet to do a lot of pull-ups. If you can do a maximum of four pull-ups or something like that, per set with your own body weight, she's it's kind of harder to train for hypertrophy when hypertrophy rep ranges five cents or more in most cases. But with assisted pull-ups, you can put 40 or 60 pounds or even 100 pounds right in the stack. And then you can do sets of eight, 12, 15, and more pull-ups get a ton of volume, a ton of stimulus, and over time, use a little bit less weight and a little bit less weight. And a little bit less weight. We're eventually, you try your hand at regular pull-ups again. Now, instead of doing sets of two to four reps for unweighted pull-ups or for regular pull-ups without the assistance machine. Now you can do sets of six sets of eight sets of ten, you're well on your weight. You just unlock your weight to regular pull-ups using assisted pull-ups. A lot of people ask me when they see me in a suit. Like, hey, doctrera, good day guys, with weird head for YouTube. I'm like, yeah, why? What's up? It's going on. Like, how do I get better at pull-ups? My usual answer is assisted pull-ups. They get you into the right-rep range, fried purtrophy. They build fucking lats, big biceps, big rear delts. You take those big muscles to regular pull-ups in all of a sudden, you're a king. That's just the first way you use them, the second way to use them. Use if you already big and strong, but you're fatigued, and you want variation and reparate. For me, I'll do weighted pull-ups in many workouts. In the same workout, I'll do a few sets of unweighted pull-ups, but now I'm tired. And they go right to the assisted pull-up machine and do multiple sets of higher reps, sets of 15. After four sets of pull-ups, I can't do 15 reps of even unweighted pull-ups, but I can sure shoot you 15 reps. If I have a hundred pounds of resistance, added to me instead of subtracted. So assisted pull-ups are huge for everyone in their amazing. And by one last tip for assisted pull-ups, is really focused on the mind muscle connection. It's been shown time and again in the research, that if you focus too much on the mind muscle connection, you can actually reduce the neural drive to the target muscles. That's no good. Pull-ups are often so hard, you need to keep all of your band with open for just try and really hard with good technique. Don't think about the muscles, just think about moving. Assisted pull-ups, the world is your oyster. You can choose anything you want in the select-rice stack. That's an opportunity not to go for ego shit, but an opportunity to really lock in and feel your lats opening up all the way through your biceps ear reared-outs, then assisted pull-ups become an awesome chiseling tool to make it even better at pull-ups, getting even bigger back, and finally getting that ass laid. I think you have a problem. I already know what it is. You don't have an assisted pull-up machine, and you don't have $3,500 to purchase a machine, bring it into your home gym. But I know what you do have for rents. I've read about them on the internet. Other people have them. And if you have a friend, they can help you with our next variation of pull-ups, which is the partner assisted pull-up. Yeah, that's a little weird looking. Yes, there's going to be a lot of their face and kind of your butthole, but that's fun, and that's what friends are for. The best way to do assisted pull-ups with a partner is the following. We know from really good science, there's a slight chance, although pretty decent, what I would say, that the lower eccentric face, causes us a little bit more muscle growth for less fatigue, than the concentric raising phase in a pull-up. So what we're going to do is your partner is going to grab underneath your feet. Don't cross your feet, just put your feet directly up behind you. Your partner is going to grab right on your shoelaces, take a big old with that ass, and is going to help you all the way up to the top, and then on the way down, they're going to keep their hands in position, but they're going to unload by maybe 20 or 30 pounds of resistance. So we're talking about maybe 60 pounds on the way up, and then 20 or 30 pounds on the way down. 60 pounds on the way up, 20 or 30 on the way down. That means not only are they assisting you to do more pull-up reps, but they are also giving you an accentuated eccentric load, which has some support and literature to grow even more muscle and strength. So if you can do a lot of pull-ups, you can do this at the end of the set. If you can do a lot of pull-ups, you can do this at his own set, after a bunch of sets of weighted pull-ups or unweighted pull-ups, or if you can't do a lot of pull-ups, this is a great way for you to be able to get some really good reps, some really good eccentric exposure, and the best thing of all, some good closeness with your friend. Plurl, you can also ask random strangers to do this in the gym, but that doesn't typically work out so well from experience. Frank, I'm sorry, can we still be friends? You might run into a problem with partner assisted pull-ups. You got no partner, everyone at the gym already knows you smell, so when you make eye contact for partner assisted, they just all pretend that no one exists. No worries, you can do an eccentric only pull-up. These are tough. These are especially good if you're really trying to master pull-up technique, and you aren't strong enough yet, or light enough yet to be able to do real pull-ups by yourself. No shame in the game. Personally, I don't even know how shame deals like. I only wear clothes because the government says they'll take me to jail if I go naked in public. That completely aside, here's how you do these. You get a nice tall box. You put it a little bit behind the pull-up attachment at your gym. And then you come all the way up. And I said tall box, I meant tall. You set up the box that you're full adult height, the box is close to your chin area. So boom, you have the bar right here. And then, as it's done in the old time, you move these with some modifications and not rope this time. What you do is you step forward gently, and then you ride the eccentric down off of that tall box that gives you that huge eccentric loading, you want maximum control. Don't just fall right at down. And if you really want a lot of them, we'll try to go really slow, because you have to step all the way back up onto the box, walk around and step up and do it again. You can't do such a ten of the shit. It's going to drive you wild. Sets of two or three at a time with good rest, but here's the thing. Because you got all the way up there, make time count. I'm talking about six, eight, 10 seconds riding that eccentric, especially right from the top. Right from the top, you lock in and go slow, slow, slow, slow, slow, slow, slow, slow, right in the middle is going to be really tough. Really go slow all the way down. It's going to be an amazing movement. If you can do G, 10, 12 seconds eccentric like that, after a few months of practicing, you might realize that, hey, you can finally do some pull-ups. So this trick, you put in to your, I want to do a first pull-up or first couple of pull-ups arsenal. It's going to work out really, really well. You can do it. Band assisted pull-ups are next. I'm not in love with fees. I like them. I meet them every couple of weekends, what all my other tech scrolling doesn't get me the people I want, be in touch with. I'll have watch a movie with them. Maybe a hege or a beach hair in there, but nothing like a terrible connection. Why? Because the bands make the pull-up really easy at the bottom and really hard at the top, that's the opposite of the force curve you want from maximum growth. However, if you don't have an assisted pull-up machine, if you don't have any friends to help you on the partner assisted pull-ups, if you don't have a high box, we're just don't feel like doing 12-sehny centrics, band assisted pull-ups are totally fine. Really control that eccentric at the very top to get the most out of it when it's the hardest. At the very bottom, use the band to kind of rebound out and go faster, catch some wind, come all the way up, and then really control the eccentric. You're probably the best way to do this. These you could do conventional for normal sets and reps. The best way to do the band, there's two ways. A good way and a fun way. The good way is to take the band, loop it around the pull-up bar, and take your foot and step right down into it. Then you move your other foot into it at the same time, and you're riding, you're good to go. The fun way is to step one foot in at first, and then instead of stepping the other foot in, you slide the band over and let it zip right into your testicles. And if you're a lady, that might also feel fun. Then I'm not sure what you do after that, probably cry. The last pull-up variation we saved for last because it is the least. It sucks. This isn't what to do, it's what you're not to do. In its mid-range bro pull-ups, here's why you should do these. You're a coward, so you can't admit the fact that you're just not strong enough to do an impressive number of pull-ups, but you also have a giant over and flated ego. So you want people to understand that you can do pull-ups. So you jump up on the bar, you get to right where the pull-ups are easier, somewhere in that mid-range, even close to the top and up here. You huff and puff and make a lot of noise. You can even use these with weight to prove to people that you're too big of an egotistical idiot to take the weight off, but also you have a teeny tiny little fragile ego so that you need to weight so that people understand that you're strong. You can do these pull-ups anytime, it gyms across America. You'll be swimming in a sea of compatriots because damn everyone trains like this. If you want to impress muscle mommy, however, or Chad Lyftor, weightlifter guy who has first-segrips, weightlifting shoes, and he's all kidded out, you'll never do it like this. So if you want to be a real man or woman, you're going to do pull-ups full range because you want maximum benefits, and your ego is something you leave at the door when you go to the gym. And when you pick it up, make sure you find the you're labeled ego because if you pick up someone else's ego, and it just gets kind of weird, I guess. Folks, a last tip here is pull-up training is mostly about training your forearm flexors, brachialis, brachialis, brachialis, brachialis, biceps, et cetera. It's about training your rear delts, and it's about training all the muscular share of your back. Your forearms, your grip can be trained by itself, and you don't want to let it interfere with your pull-up training. If you're feeling on pull-ups, you feel weak on pull-ups because you're on your fingertips, you're not doing justice to all of the other muscles. There are two good solutions to this problem. One is chalk, I love chalk, I eat the shit, put it under my eyelids, a whole thing. Get a lot of chalk going, rub the chalk on the bar. You guys like this. You can 100% get a ton of a chalk. It's awesome. The problem of chalk is it doesn't travel well, and a lot of gym owners are pretty upset with you if you like make chalk dust for everyone in the high-border giant of girl, let's coughing in the corner. Versa grips are incredible. Straps are cool, but if you kind of try to strap in, and you're doing it and pull-ups, you're doing it high, it ends up being the delusional as soon as you go, they're not go at it at all. Versa grips loop, loop, lock-in, and then you can just fingertips hold them, you get full transduction of power. It's been shown time and time again in studies. That if you don't have a good grip on something when you're pulling it, your muskier would share forepulling, not just the grip. Experiences less activation and less growth, but if you're locked in, even if it's not under your own power, you can 100% just do more and get more of a result. Versa grips, sure we have a code somewhere, there's a link in the description, no doubt, get them shits because they are unbeleivable, not just for pull-ups, for first-listed pull-ups, pull-downs, all the delts stuff, all the hamstring work you want, they're amazing, check them out. Folks, I've spent a lot of my time pulling on things. Yes, you guessed it, the male, general anatomy, my own, in fact. Many of you are not going to be able to replicate my exact lead because you don't have access to micro-pinsors and a microscopy device. Me, I'm a dedicated man. For you, pull-ups, you now know a bunch of ways to do them, you can mix and match them, and you have the ultimate arsenal to become like pull-up kinger queen to get an enormous back, and it's just going to be the new way you live. You're going to ask everyone a server, the car dealership, guy, hey how many pull-ups can you do? Here's a tip. As soon as they even start answering, like yeah cool, I can do 22, just cut people off. You don't need to hear what they say, it's been all about you this entire time. What's that? You've got to go do you shit? See you next time for the next video.

Anything that reduces Dom's check the song is probably going to reduce your gains. So anti-inflammatories, taking in high doses, shut down that inflammation process that's triggered during your workout to some extent. They reduce it. That means your muscles are like, hey, we trained. She'll be grow. They look to inflammation inflammation. Cool it today. Yeah, you grow a little bit, but not too much. Vitamin C over here says stop. And vitamin C is a good enough to be growing. Well, the f*** fine. I won't grow as much muscle. And that's physiology. That's why I got fired from being a professor. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. And I have good news. And I have bad news. Scott, good news first. Sure. Good news. I feel pretty good today, guys. Nice. Bad news. There are drugs. And over the counter supplements you could be taking right now. It could be costing you gains. Oh, all of my Judaism felt that. Ah, my gains. No. It's a real thing. And even healthy supplements can do this as well. And you don't have to speculate about which drugs and supplements can be costing you gains. Because your boy did some research. I sat on the toilet and scrolled on Twitter. Scott, that's research, right? Sure. Yes. Hey, I was on the toilet for a long time. I did a lot of scrolling. No, I didn't wash my hands. Scott, washing hands every time after you poop. A good idea in a modern society that understands germ theory and politeness or outdated nonsense. And you're just losing it. And you don't have to do it every time. Because Jesus. Yeah. I mean, you waste soap. You waste water. For killed the environment. Drives your hands out. How many reasons not to wash your hands? It's preach. Captain planet doesn't want you. He's a hero. How is he supposed to take pollution back to zero if you're stealing all the water to wash your hands with after you poop in any case? There are just over 10 supplements. Slash drugs, which are not exotic. And many people take regularly to have no idea or interfering with their gains at a molecular level that cause real world less muscle than you could have otherwise had. We're going to look each one. And I'm going to give you some actual advice. It's not just going to be a scare video of, oh, oh, I'm going to say, hey, what is the compound? How much of it do you have to take to be in the kind of danger zone situation for getting some gains wiped off the table? Not muscle gains. These compounds almost never actually reduce your muscle size. But if you are training with the intention of gaining muscle, they can make the gains come slower and less gains. That's a big problem. So to put this by analogy, if we use money in income as an analogy, oh, Judaism, then it's not like this thing takes money out of your bank account and drains your savings. Oh, Scott, the Shenzhenian-Depanic mode, the mere suggestion that something could do that. When it does, is it lowers your monthly income. You work in hard for that income, baby. You are here to insets and reps. You need high protein meals. But the amount of income still positive. The amount of gains still positive. But way less positive in some cases, especially if you have like all these at the same time. Do not try that at home. I would actually say don't try it anywhere. But if you do try it observable hospital setting, ideally in an ICU. All right. Let's look at some of these. I have a whole list. I've checked a twice. Everyone on here is naughty and nice. Scott, what do you think about Santa Claus when he looks over his list? And he's having one of those like philosopher days. The night before Christmas. And he's like, everyone's some combination of naughty and nice. Yeah. Like, if I was saying I'd just be looking for the naughty list, if you know what I'm saying. Let's see, I'm Scott, the video guy. I'm Santa Claus. I haven't packed any gifts. I've packed rubbers. Yeah. And I'm going only two houses of females of both legal consenting reproductive age that happen to be a simultaneous combination of profoundly attractive and with a very tilted moral compass. Yeah. Who wants the nice list, do you know? I could just like, fuck about you. Back and not care. Santa's here. Back, shimmery blows up. You got bricks orbiting you. That's like the cool way man, but down the chimney. That's right. And foolish girl. I will show you. Power. All right. Let's do the video, right? Scott. Let's do the video. All right. So guys, I must say this first one and you're going to be like, hey, I've taken it before vitamin C and vitamin E, especially in combination, form very powerful anti-oxidant pair, which is incredible for your health. But this is a string that's going to run through pretty much this entire conversation. So let me frame it for you. Think of a string, non-kitter. Inflammation can be good and bad. There are, this is way over simplifying, but there's the kernel of truth here is really valuable. So if you just think of this as this is a little oversimplified, but it's still a lot of truth and it's going to be super, super helpful. There is a bad type of inflammation that is two things. Systemic, it's all around. Everything is not going to inflame your blood vessels, your joints, your neural tissue, all that stuff. And chronic. Unabating systemic inflammation that happens for days and days and days and weeks and weeks and months and months is a bad for pretty much every single body system. And does not get you jacked. A cute short-term inflammation in specific tissues is healing promoting and rearchitecture promoting and growth promoting. When you get delayed onset muscle soreness, that is a very local to the muscle-trained type of inflammation that you do not want to fuss with because that inflammation brings in all of those cool macrophages and parts of the immune system that actually upgrade your shit and make you more jacked. So anti-inflammatories, taking in high doses, especially before during or after your workout, within about three to six hours in each direction, more like three, sometimes like six. Shot down that inflammation process that's triggered during your workout to some extent, they reduce it. Matt means your muscles are like, hey, we trained. She'll be grow and they look to inflammation inflammation like, nah, cool it today. Yeah, you grow a little bit but not too much. Vitamin C over here says stop and vitamin C is like, you better not be growing. Motherfucker. You know what? You just, you just call me that word. Vitamin C is like, what are you going to do about it? And you're like, I'll, I'll straight up and then vitamin E comes up. He's like, what are you going to do? What? You're like, I was too, you got, damn it. Fine. I won't grow as much muscle. And that's physiology. Vitamin C and E, via that pathway I just described, can shut down your local muscular inflammation too much if you take them around workouts and that might cost you gains. So what are we talking about here? We are talking about a thousand milligrams plus per day of vitamin C and 400 I use plus of vitamin E, especially if you take it daily for weeks, especially if you take it around the workout, can meaningfully reduce your gains. But if you avoid very high doses for weeks and or if you take smaller doses and or you stay away from three to six hours around the workout in both directions before and after, definitely during, then you're probably going to pay no downsides and still benefit massively from the incredible health effects of vitamin C and E. So an almost none of this here is just don't take this stuff. Just don't put it in really high doses chronically for weeks around your workout window is like a really big deal. Next, and a seedle system, otherwise known as NAC, Scott, you're down with NAC. Yeah, you know, and I'm an early 90s with some fun rap music. You can't sing out loud anymore because a lot of words real bad. It is a new collytic. So if you have an abunch of snot, you can take some of it and it cuts it down a little bit from colds and stuff. It is an antioxidant and check this out. It reduces Dom's delayed onset muscle sonus. Anything that reduces Dom's check this out. That is not just training at a higher frequency or getting used to higher volumes or eating and sleeping, is probably going to reduce your gains. Dom's is the canary in the coal mine for gains and the canary flies in. You have like a electric fancening canary is like, it's probably small's delicious as after a while the canary is like fried chicken, but the canary's dead. So NAC, because of those antioxidants and effects, anything more than about two grams per day of NAC chronically, especially if around workout windows will cost you gains. So if you want to take it, take it in the morning, far from the workout. Let's say is hypothetically midday, take it in the evening, far from the midday workout or take it on rest days when you don't work out and you get some combination of the benefits and very, very few of the downsides. Another one, our next one is Sircumin. Good, that's how you say that, Scott? Sircumin, maybe. Turmeric has it in there. Scott, did you know that I thought it was too maryc for a while? There's no like other than R in the middle? I have here's still a few a lot of people say that. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's like, nobody says for brewery, everyone says February. Yeah, yeah. So Turmeric to me is one of two things. Amalachule that is basically if you scale up a lot of the molecule, you get a 37 year old Los Angeles resident Caucasian woman is instantiated because she's like, oh my god, herbs are like everything. I mean, like you say in a lot of the, oh yeah, I don't know about sack, but like now like corporations, you guys know the rest. But if you have too much Turmeric extracting, you get a lot of succumin in there. What you're going to have is a lot of anti-inflammatory effect, which is awesome and joint pain relief and a whole reduced soreness that's hitting that acute inflammatory intracellular pathway that is causative of muscle growth. We don't want that. More than two grams a day of circumnaudes, Scott like, hey Francis, what's got you glum today? I went to the doctor. Have got circumnaudes. I can't even sit down. Scott, you've, you've never had hemorrhides having. I actually have not, shockingly, suffering all the other things. God would. I don't know what those are really. I know they just come out your bum hole. Yep, that's about where my expertise and hemorrhides stops. If you have more than two grams of circumnaudes daily, yeah, you may not be growing as much and so avoid pre-imposed work out and ideally take in the evening and you're probably good to go even at high doses. So this is one of these where you move away from the workout window and you're totally good to go. Here's an interesting fact. A lot of supplements that people take. Scott, this won't probably make sense to you. Guys, one of the reasons I talked to Scott is one of our best friends I like talked to. But also one of the reasons I talked to Scott. He's a normal person. He's not like some kind of weird in-cell lifter culture guy. So I had to like, any normal idea about how the normal works. I like parse through Scott really quick. Scott, glad I'm your in-exy into the normal world. Yeah, like, end up like going to jail for a bunch of crimes. It all like his connection to the normal world is this guy. Everyone's like, I get it. That's why. Okay. So Scott, have you ever felt this vibe that people who are like doing health shit will stack all their health shit? Like they'll have a pre-workout, bunch of vitamins and minerals and powders. They'll go work out and then they'll have a bunch of those after and they're like, I did health today. And like, way fewer number of people will work out at some point of the day. But then either way in the morning or way in the evening will also eat pills. They just tend to cluster it all into like health times. That's why like gyms cell-like shakes and stuff afterwards, you know? Yeah, you do all your health and then you move on. And then you go and have 18 beers in a hot dog. Yeah. So that's one of the things that gets people in trouble with this. Because they're like, well, yeah, my pre-workout has a bunch of antioxidants in it. You're like, oh, it's not how that works. So stuff should be split apart. So the workout window is for carbs and protein and not much else. Of course stimulants beforehand, if you like, but none of the other stuff and here's the problem. Some, especially more natural type pre-workouts have a lot of the stuff in it. And it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, they work in the sense that like, you'll have these things and I've heard literal people say this. But yeah, I have like my pre-workout, my post-workout stuff and I'm like, just like, don't get so anymore and you're like, okay, that's actually not good because you're describing the pathway by which you are shutting down muscle growth or greatly reducing. Next is Resilvera Troll, which got a lot of hype is going to anti-aging supplement back and they doesn't do a whole lot of that does some, but it does promote cardiovascular health. It is a very strong antioxidant, any more than 250 milligrams per day, chronically with training with training, which a lot of people take for because it has some cardiovascular training adaptations that it does is going to cost you muscle growth. So if you start having it pre-imposed work out, push it to evenings or rest days and avoid it during bulking phases, you're probably in a pretty good spot. Cursatin, similar to her as a very troll and it's kind of target demographic, it's an antioxidant, it doesn't mean you support. It has energy booster marketing, it's not so clear that it boosts energy maybe by a little bit. Anything about over a thousand milligrams per day, especially per workout window, especially chronically, can meaningfully reduce muscle growth. And so non-training times is when you should take it and if you can take a slightly lower dose that'll probably be beneficial for your games. So maybe when you're on a fat loss phase or maintenance phase, you can take more of it for some of its health benefits. But when you're on a blocking phase and you're really trying to grow muscle, reducing or eliminating some of these supplements and drugs might be a really good idea. Next up is metformin. Now there's a bit of controversy because at least one direct study I'm familiar with shows that metformin does not cause failure to gain muscle and any dose. It's just a liver-specific effect that it has on the mTOR pathway that causes muscle growth that reduces it in the liver but maybe not everywhere else. Although just to be rather safe and sorry, there is a probability that metformin does cause a less muscle gain. It is a blood glucose control drug. It is probably an effective, though very mild anti-aging therapy, a slowing therapy. It helps with insulin sensitization and anything more than about two milligrams to go to good God that would be nothing. Anything more than about two thousand milligrams of it per day is going to have potentially some kind of muscle lowering effect as far as gains go. If you avoid it around sessions then it's really not a big problem. The thing is like 2000 milligrams of metformin is like you're really diabetic for sure. A lot of people who take metformin are either predi-bedic or just not diabetic and they're doing it as a prophylactic. And then usually a thousand milligrams per day is totally fine. And if you take those in the morning and the evening and you train not just directly after even if you train directly after it's just not a big deal. So metformin is not a huge one. Burberry is a natural glucose disposal agonist which metformin is an artificial one. It lowers glucose. It improves blood lipids so it's pretty healthy thing to take. But if you're taking more than a thousand milligrams per day, total especially around your work out you could be running into these same kinds of problems of lack of muscle growth. So again, it's a best idea to take it far from the workout three to six hours in each direction away from your workout. And ideally consider taking less of it or not much of it if you're in a bulking phase dedicated to try to gain muscle. Next one is alpha-lopoic acid, otherwise known as ALA. Again, it's an antioxidant, common theme. It's an insulin sensitizer so it's very good for you. It also is helpful for neuropathy support. This actually makes your nervous system tissue including brain tissue more healthy which is really really good. But if you're going over 600 milligrams per day especially per workout, you're going to run into some problems with muscle growth not a ton but just a little bit. So again, taking it out of the workout window and reducing the dosage maybe not a 300 milligrams is something that's going to make a lot of sense for basically taking that gains problem and reducing it functionally to zero. So let me make this a really really clear. At 600 milligrams around the workout, like just before just after, it's going to have some notable, though, small effect on gains. If you take that 600 and you move it to outside of the workout, the effect on gains becomes barely measurable. If you take that down to 300 milligrams, it becomes basically there's no effect on gains. So that's really really good news, you guys, because it's not like, well, 300, you know, a way out of the workout still causes 50% of the lack of muscle gains that you would if you had 600 in the workout not even close. So that's good news. You can manage these things mostly just by moving them away from the workout and going from like the highest possible dose down to just something average dose. And then you're really in the in the clear, which is why in the great sort of grand population, we don't see massive effects of these things reducing muscle gains because most people aren't doing them close to the workout and they're not doing a high dose. But a lot of people are, which is why you should probably hear about this and stay tuned for more of this video because we monetize somehow. Scott, is that true that watch time makes us more money? Yeah, who knows what I'll do next, fellas. Then I'll then I'll then I'll entertain this. That's more more to come. All right. Next, this one kind of hit me out of thin arrows. I was like, holy shit. This one's in a lot of pre-workouts you guys. Green tea, catechins. Green tea extract is a fat oxidizer, which is cool. It liberates fat for burning if you're going to be burning it has cardin metabolic health benefits, which is awesome, but it's also a pretty strong antioxidant. And that's where we get into the problems. Now, you got to be in that 500 to 800 milligram plus per day range, especially peri workout to really hit muscle growth. And anything over 800 milligrams per day actually livers raises your liver damage risks substantially. That's a shit load of gritty catechins. But there's not a shit load of anything. You didn't think people would actually put in a supplements that someone hasn't tried to put in a pre-workout. Scott, you ever see the doses in some shit and pre-workouts and you're like, how is this legal? Yeah, for sure. There are many pre-workouts, so the typical dosing range for caffeine is like a pep in your step. Doses 50 to 100 milligrams. A real like holy shit. You're going to wake up as 100 to 200 milligrams. And top end safe daily exposure for many people is 1000 milligrams. And then you go over that and you're going to be having a rough time. There are numerous pre-workouts that in the recommended two scoops per serving, like one serving, is in the five to 600 milligram range for caffeine. Scott, what happened to you if you took that at like 4 p.m. and then worked out? Be awake for like the next week or some shit like that. Yeah. So green tea catechins, people love to pixie dust those with high doses into their pre-workouts. They get to brag about how healthy it is. And that's not wrong, but it does interfere with muscle growth or some extent. So avoiding taking a pre-postworkout is really just all you need to do. If you take it other times today, it's super, super awesome for you. But again, green tea catechins are often found in pre-workout products. So this is a good opportunity to look through your pre-workout to see what the hell is in it that could actually be giving you great workouts. But for less of a purpose, less stimulative, not so awesome. Imagine a situation where like you took a drug that extended your ability to have intercourse with your friend of whatever genders currently politically corrected joke about. And the problem, the downside was that it made every single stroke like one third as pleasurable. Scott, would you make that trade off? Are you tired of having a little bit of sex for a lot of pleasure? Well, yeah, Mr. that's a real big problem for me. My old gal Lucy says I could be stroking away till sundown if she'd have her way. Well, guess what kid you can have the penis size of 5000 nilogram serving. Cool. Cool. It'll make me a stud sort of Billy and it'll make you last but you'll hate sex because it's just going to be tiring at that point. Scott, we need to work on that market and copy. Damn. That's six whole minutes. Just getting fellas six hours for me, your boys out here just crushing it. Yeah. Hi, name did you hear that joke? That did not get hurt down here. Yeah, green tea catacons next super common drug. Maybe the most common one on this list. I'd be profan, aka Adville, pain relief inflammation control. And if now here's the good news. 400 to 800 milligrams of ibuprofen is usually like a solid dose to get that headache to go away. Get the sore elbow to go away. 1200 milligrams plus per day for weeks or an acute bout of 1200 milligrams around the workout window, absolutely blunt muscle hypertrophy. You get less growth. So if you're going to have to take it take it three to six hours away from lifting and ideally just not in that workout window and on rest days if needed. Here's the thing. I'd be profan to something you take for like acute or semi chronic like several days long problems. So I mean, if your head hurts now, either suck it up and go train with a headache and hopefully the headache goes away and training which a ton of times it does. Or you just like take the ibuprofen 800 migs. It'll do something for you. It's not quite enough to really have per muscle growth. You go to it. You go do your training. I'll talk about more and a bit how these real world when you need them drugs are to be taken and how little effect this makes in the end. But, but there are many, many athletes. You know athletes that just like eat, addville like a f***ing candy, right? Yeah. Like all the time. And they're like, yeah, whatever. I literally know tons of people who's joins us out from lifetime of shitty technique and EOLifting that they will take like a thousand milligrams of ibuprofen before and after training in order to just train, just get through training and not be super sore after. That's the problem. That's a big big problem because you will not gain as much muscle that way if you're doing that. Very related drug is an approximate. Again, pain relief. It's a long lasting anti-inflammatory. It has a long half life. So anything north of about 500 milligrams per day chronically is going to make you gain less. So this is one of these things that if you have to take the prox and for something, that's something that's probably bad enough that your gains need to take a like a backseat. So if you're on high dose neprox and for a while, just to treat some kind of really nasty inflammation you have, how would they switching legit switching to maintenance training? Just basically strength training low volume heavier weight for those few weeks. If you can, if your body's okay and it's some inflammation somewhere else you're treating. So if you're clear to train by your doctor, train for maintenance and eat for maintenance when you're on to prox and because the weight of prox and worse is always in your bloodstream. It's a long half life. It never really lets up on the interfering with gains thing. And so if you're at those doses that matter 500 milligrams per day plus, yeah, and training for gains might not be like the best thing to do with your time at that time. Next up is Dick Lofenack. Scott, if your last name was Dick Lofenack, how many times would you get punched in the face in middle school? Hey, Dick Lofenack, wham. Also known as Voltaren, which is a much better way to say it. I suppose it's super potent pain reliever, but it's a massive antinflanatory. And it only 150 milligrams per day, it can absolutely zap some of your gains, especially if taken peri workout. So avoid taking around workouts. And again, if you're taking Voltaren, you know, there's going to be a situation where you have to think of like, what is my health concern and is it really worth it for me to try to get some maximum hypertrophy going now? And I think Voltaren has a gel. So it's like local, then it's not a big problem, but if it's an orally administered or anything else like that, if it's systemic, it might not be a great time. High dose aspirin is our next drug, because for about like, you know, 80 milligrams of aspirin is actually cardio-protective, but we're talking about 650 milligrams plus per dose every six to eight hours. Like a real solid anti-inflammatory dosing will absolutely interfere with growth just about as much as the other anti-inflammatories like ibuprofen, nepox, and et cetera. So those again, avoid around training for sure. Try to keep the doses reasonable as you can, in addition to that, but also try to figure out is this the time in my life these next few weeks, while I need high dose aspirin that I'm really just kind of trying to get jacked. Because here's what I'm trying to say, guys, if you have some kind of condition which like for a week, you know, some kind of some ship, like let's say you, I don't know, you like we're in a work accident and you snap one of your fingers back or some shit. It's really inflamed. And the doctors look at it, they're like, look, construction is healing, I mean, these fine, you're just the inflammation's going to kind of while and it's going to really annoy you, just like take like four or five day course of a combination of like, I don't know, an approximate aspirin assumption like that. Just as an example, those four or five days, we just just take them off of training or do de-load so that you cannot have to just like work like a dog for way fewer gains. That's what I want you guys to get out of this video mostly is to be like, look, if I have to take a lot of these drugs pretty seriously for a real medical condition, maybe it's just not the time for me to try to train as much as possible and try to gain muscle because that muscle gain situation might not be there for me. And the last thing are last drug is acedaminophen, aka Tylenol, aka Envyungor, it kingdom, pericetemol, well, pericetemol, you tell people to see it in menifend and like Australian, and they look at you like you're stupid. And then they say pericetemol, and Scott, you know what I tell them when I do when they use words and English that I don't understand, they'll say, frightened me. Not to tell you what, brother, we may well be in male Bernoulli, but you see across the horizon there across the sea, they're like, I don't reckon I do. Well, that there is United States, nuclear powered aircraft carrier, battle group, son, god damn it. Unless you want, unless you're trying to get this Australian country to be our fifth first state of art, great United States, boy, you better start using terms we like, like acedaminophen, god damn it. Typically I'm a squirted to jail after that. Tylenol's don't, man, it helps with pain relief, fever reduction. If you're real sick, you take it four grams per day because you take a thousand milligrams doses a few times per day is absolutely going to suppress exercise and do muscle protein, synthesis, a directly confirmed by studies at this dosage. So pre and post work out, you want to avoid it. And again, it's that whole thing of it's for taking a Tylenol for something pretty serious for a few days in a row at high doses. It's just not the time to go hard on the gym. Here's a real tricky thing. In a young man, high dose anti-inflammatories, suppress muscle growth substantially from training. In older men, people in their 50, 60s, 70s, in some of them, in many of them, moderate dose anti-inflammatories, increase hypertrophy. How? Because in older men, sometimes they have poor health and chronic elevated systemic inflammation. So when you bring down this chronic elevated systemic inflammation, it's anti-muscle growth and anti-good health for you effects reduce and thus you're actually freed up to grow more muscle and usual. It's not that local inflammation that we're stopping it's the systemic stuff. But since young adults have very little of it, they just take the hit straight to the face and it reduces their muscle growth. So if you're an older individual and you are taking some kind of vitamin C and E supplement to keep your systemic inflammation lower, that might actually be enhancing your gains. But if you're younger and individual and you're taking like four or five of these at the same time, that's where you start paying the cost to gain. Now check this out. Rapping it up. If you take much lower doses of these drugs and substances that we talked about, like a third of the top end dose, you're probably fine and there's almost no reason to worry about muscle gain loss. Muscle gain loss. Yeah, set it right. If you don't dose the shit pre-imposed work out, you're probably fine. Even if it is at a pretty high dose. If you take these things for a few days here and there to treat acute medical problems, like your two thirds and you need to take some Tylenol. So your tooth doesn't hurt until you go to the dentist, then he fixes your tooth five days later. Then you're totally fine if you want to train through that process. But honestly, you're also totally fine to take a few days off of a few maintenance just strength training days in the gym, reduce some fatigue, fix all your underlying problems, get back into the gym, and start ramping back up into high volumes to get even better gains. That is my sincere recommendation. But if you take these things consistently at high doses within the workout window, perfect example is lots of pre-workouts have a load of every vitamin for no good reason. And also a ton of re-inticatechins and then you're well on your way in, you know, you had that bump shoulder or see you take a couple of ad bills before every training session. That right there could be costing you substantial fraction of your gains. Not of muscle you've already built. But of the muscle you'll never see that you couldn't have built because all of your results are not as good as they could be as far as gains are concerned. If that's you definitely think about avoiding that, it's how the huge deal because you'll still make gains, but it's something to think about because your gains could have been better. And another really quick way to make your gains even better is to track and program your nutrition to get enough protein, carbs and calories throughout at least four evenly spaced meals per day to get yourself as jacked as possible in the way you could do that. Using the RP Diet Coach app, there's a link in the description, it's all over the app store, it's an app I use every single day, it's an app I had a big hand in designing as a matter of fact. Just tells me what I can't eat, but it gets me shreddy, Kruegerd and jacked, sitting. Anyway, you guys do memes better than I do. Go do memes by yourself, scroll through Instagram, pointly salute at a screen, think about why you don't have any real-life friends, but then don't worry more screen scrolling will probably fix that somehow. I've been Dr. Mike and I'll see you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. Let's talk about eight of some of the most common mistakes in that lost dieting. You don't want to make a meal, you don't want your clients to make a meal, you don't want your friends to make them. Let's talk about them, talk about why the mistakes and just be sure to note them and avoid them. Number one, these aren't necessarily an order of how common they are, but they're all pretty fucking common. Massive, upfront, deficit. Right. Yeah, it's fun to do a crazy diet and not eat hardly anything, except massive deficits upfront, wildly increase the diet fatigue and cause the rest of the diet to be pure hell. Your ultra-hungry, ultra-sleep-up-rived, ultra-cravy, ultra-week because you nasty cut in that deficit early. In addition, for those of us who are not as used to dieting or for those of us who still have probability of falling off the wagon, a huge deficit upfront is kind of like a weater class in college, like biochem. Most people will just fail because they probably shouldn't be in the major. We don't want that to be the thing with dieting. We want most people to succeed. So we don't want a crazy deficit upfront, just a nice, normal deficit, something that lets you lose between half a percent or a percent of your body per week, not of this 2% per week bullshit. Big mistake. Next one, number two, people who don't set a weight or duration goal. It's totally fine to say I'm gonna do this diet, I'm gonna do a good deficit for 10 or 12 weeks. Amazing. It's also fine to be like, I'm gonna lose 20 pounds. I think it's gonna take me about 12 to 14 weeks, plus or minus, but as soon as I lose 20 pounds, I'm done, I go to maintenance phase, I let all that diafeteague heal and then I go again or I live in maintenance. If you don't have a weight or duration goal, how the fuck do you know when to stop? And how do you know when to prevent yourself from going so far that you get in that crazy rebound and get super fat again? It's tough. Also, if you don't have a duration or a goal, you won't have, I've sort of turned before the light at the end of the tunnel effect. Where if you're on pound 15, you've lost 15 pounds out of the 20, and it's getting that you wanted, if getting really, really hard to lose weight and really psychologically burn some, you can always look at the light at the end of the tunnel and be like, mother fucker, I'm only five fucking pounds away from this shit. Let's get this fucking money. Let's do it right. But if you've lost 15 pounds and you come to work tired to hungry and your boss's like, Jim, you're looking good, how much more weight you have to lose? You're like, I don't know. He's like, Jesus Christ, but keeps you up every day. You're fucking kidding me? How do you even motivate yourself? Mm-hmm, right? If you are in a really tough situation which you will get into and almost every fat loss that I towards the end, having an end is such an amazing motivating thing, be it in two weeks I'm done or be it in five pounds I'm done. You don't wanna push that aside and be like, I had never fucking hands bro. It doesn't work out well for almost everyone. Really easy to get, demotivated and really easy to get, to losing for so long, we're losing so much weight that your body's mechanisms that bring you back up, get really fired up and overwhelm you and then you lost 20 pounds regain 10, that sucks, you don't wanna be in that perspective. This is such a big deal the way an duration goal that in the RP diet coach app, what you could be using now for 15 bucks a month, whatever it costs and great diet coaching or pocket, but you play too much. In the app, we have distinct duration and weight loss combination goals to say, okay, I wanna lose X, I wanna lose 10 pounds and eight weeks, I would lose 14 pounds and 12 weeks, whatever. You tell us and we tell you how difficult it's gonna be, right? Because you don't wanna bite off more than you can chew. And one thing we have had requests for in the app by a few people not too many is like, is there a mode where I just start dieting and there's no duration or there's no weight goal and we're just like, well, like, our software engineers could make that update in like 10 minutes, but like, why? That's crazy. You don't wanna go down a never-ending diet alley. It's a bad idea. And people do it, they do it all the time, don't do it. Don't just start a diet, know when the diet is coming to an end, so you can do a good job, checklist, and switch to me. Point number three, people make mistakes, is free meals, cheat meals, or free days, or cheat days are in most cases, a fucking stupid idea, because what they do is allow you to eat just enough tasty food to get your really fucking craving more and then it cuts it off and goes back to suffering. If you're gonna suffer, just fucking dig in, just dig in and do it, and then after a while, you're eating mostly bland diet foods anyway, you kind of forget how the good stuff tastes. That's a fucking good thing, okay? I'm gonna make a real shitty shitty shitty fucking analogy. I'm sorry, it advanced at this offense, you've done the last actually pretty decent analogy on the logical structure. If you decide for some strange reason, this mostly applies to the gentleman as female sexuality is both complex and it ludes me entirely. If you decide to have a no-wink period for like two weeks, okay, two weeks, no-winking. Your body's like, I'm gonna pay $1,000. Don't you go down there touching yourself. Hey, sweet, what are you gonna do? Are you gonna just try to like work in school and sleep and shower and lift into your normal shit? And just try to just not think about the shit, or are you gonna like look at porn daily or every three days, I get 15 minutes to look at porn, but I don't jack off. What are you nuts? You're just making a shit 50 times difficult for yourself and honestly, bro, that's the way cheap meals work in most cases. Are there people who have a cheap meal or a cheap day? They don't go overboard on it and then they're just satisfied and then they go along, yes, but those people are quite rare compared to the most of us that a cheap meal or a cheap day just throws us the fuck off our plan. Lastly, it's really, really tough to have a cheap meal or a cheap day, especially in which you don't eat so many fucking calories over your maintenance, that you actually erase some of the progress that you've made for days and days and days beforehand. I've seen people do a cheat. Once every five days, three to five days, one meal meal, go to all you can eat per day, and erase almost all of the deficit that they've had for five days before. How the fuck? Well, if you're fucking starving to death, eating 3,000 calories in a Chinese buffet in one sitting is actually quite reasonable. Many people can do it. I fucking done it before. Sabotage tons of stuff, mewn. What the hell, man? Only one and every 20 of my meals is a cheat meal. Yeah, but if the cheat's that bad, it erases a shit, whatever the deficit, it's a bad idea. It's a bad idea and almost all the cases. Don't do it. You know, insert joke about how that relates to porn here. Yeah, yeah. All right, so, save if you want tasty foods, fucking sweet. So do we all. Save the shit for maintenance, right? Those are fat loss, do your fat loss. Minimal or no cheating. First half of your maintenance phase for several weeks for sure, no cheating, because it's too much and it'll just rebound you. When your body feels really good, your mind feels really solid. You've had tons of clean food for a few weeks. You feel like you're super good. Half some cookies, half some pizza, half some whatever. You'll have a few slices of your like, all that was really great. You won't rebound like crazy and everything will be wonderful. So yes, cheat foods and all that stuff is amazing. It's the fucking roof. This is joy of life, but don't do it during a diet because it sabotages you like crazy. Fourth mistake, cutting out carbs right away should have been mistaken number one because it's so fucking common. But again, these are not a gorge or if I'm common they are. Cutting out carbs right away is really sweet because it instantly drops your body water and your body weight by a shitload of weight five sometimes 10 pounds. And it is a great for that initial inspiration. The problem is after that your weight loss starts to go real slow, a pound or two per week and that can be demotivating. If you don't cut your carbs right away you just impose a deficit. It's a pound or two every week. And you're like, hey, hell yeah, like I'm still going at it. You don't have to wonder what the fuck you did wrong after three weeks of the diet when the diet stops working. So yeah, I keep it works for me for a little while, but then it doesn't, I don't know. I keep it works the entire time. It's just the body water flux that you detect as working but it's just really, if you start eating carbs again, it unworks itself when you gain 10 pounds in the same few days. So cutting carbs right away is not a great idea because you need carbohydrates to fill you up. They're very filling, especially fruits and veggies. They give you tons of energy to use your brain and your body throughout the day. Cutting out carbs is also bad for athletic performance, is bad for muscle retention. So it's a good idea to keep the carbs in and not slash them right away. Because again, the only benefit of slash in carbs right away in most cases is, it's, it's, it was a lot of weight at first, water weight and then I don't know. I don't know what happens after that, but everyone's always like, oh, I lose tons of weight on keto for how many weeks, like, well, I have first cup and then what? I just fall off the way. Now, that's not to say, the low carb diets are bad. You can do a low carb diet, but you expect the watery loss to be a watery loss. You don't get super jazzed up a lot of, oh my god, I lost five pounds this week. Who knows what'll happen next week? Two pounds. Oh fuck. Yeah, you should've seen that one coming. Number five, not enough protein and or weights. A lot of people will do a fat loss diet, but it's really a weight loss diet or a tissue loss diet, because they don't eat sufficient protein. They don't train hard with weights and train hard meat even mean two times a week, full body weight training and anything above. You're winning in that book. Some people just don't train with weights at all. So they'll do a diet and they'll do some yoga or Pilates or not even, they'll just do some jogging. And then after a few months, people are like, oh my god, Cindy, you look like you're, are you okay? Are you sick? I'm like, what the fuck man, I just lost 15 pounds. Like, oh, is that because you're sick? No god damn it, I'm doing a diet. Oh, I see. Is that special diet because you're sick? No, if I didn't get any, I'm sick. Which because if you lose a bunch of muscle empaths at the same time, you look sick. If you don't want that. So if you train with weights and you eat plenty of protein, instead of just getting smaller and more pathetic looking, you get leaner and more fucking Superman looking. So when that bitch at work says some shit to you, it'd better be the right thing. Like, hey, Susie, I heard that you were like, you do more of these, you heard what? She's like, please, I have a family. Exactly, you human. It's got, give me a fireball. I'm a man. Even if he doesn't do it, it'll be funny. All right. Number six mistake is over or underhyping meal frequency. You got two, three types of people. Normal people that eat anywhere between several meals and multiple meals through the day, and they're totally good with it. And they don't think it's magical and it's just a way to get in food and high protein feeding and plenty of energy. And that's great. And you got people in the other side that are eating like nine meals a day or eight meals a day and stoking the metabolic fire, even though that's total fucking bullshit. The ruining their lives, this many meals of the day, and it's not sustainable and then up burning out. You don't need to eat 17 fucking times a day, anything between three and six times a day is totally great. On the other hand, don't you worry. I did not forget you people, I said it. Intermittent fasters. But intermittent fasting is a totally fine way to die it. It's just one of the many effective strategies to present a colorux deficit and if it works for you, amazing. The overhyping is the part where they're like, anything more than one meal per day is like evolutionarily not optimal and it doesn't promote autophagy. Yeah, yeah, that word makes me sound smart. I have this new phygia, rogan up so I sort of know with that word maybe means. And they'll just talk everyone that effucking within a mile of ear shot they will tell about how intermittent fasting's amazing, one meal a day or two meals a day and they'll tell you about their fucking plan. Nobody ever asked you mother fucker like, would I like do 16 to it shut the fuck up? Well, fuck again out of my face. Eat your meals. If it's a few meals, that's okay. If it's many meals, that's okay. meal frequency is just not important to your results in most cases, especially at the extremes. It choose whatever is sustainable for you and you're fucking golden. You don't have to try to convert everyone to eating 18 times a day, you're eating once every other day. And it's by the way, you guys know, I was just called the siren from the myths or like the Greek myth to siren is like a female that makes them kind of wailing sounds, the driver's sailors in stain and then they crash their ships or something like that. The scientists research this recently and they actually found out that almost all the sirens in the Greek islands in their Mediterranean turned out to just be really intense intermittent fasting advocates. And the sailors just went nuts. Eat one meal a day, auto-faggy, this thing. I was like, oh, fuck! I guess they didn't have 9 millimeters back then. But if they did, you could shoot yourself faster. Honestly, if you had a sniper rifle, you could be like, what do you want to be a day, huh? And that shit. Am I saying that we should be sniper rifling creatures from 2,500 years ago that are sirens that are talking about one meal a day as being the best? Yes, I am. Yes, I am, and I'm going to be on record for that shit. In any case, eat your fucking meals, don't worry too much. Because here's the thing, a lot of people get so invested into one of these two strategies. They don't even see that they could have things differently. Like I've had people be like, hey man, I can't diet on vacation. Okay, I understand it's family friends fun. They can't, I don't know. I need to eat my six meals a day, and I'm vacation only able to eat four, so what's even the point? What the fuck? You'll be just fine. No, no, no, no, no, no. I need to stoichi metabolic fire. I need to cut some protein feedings, otherwise, an absolute bullshit. And you know, other people that, you know, they'll be on a good diet, things will be working, and they'll come to you as your coach, and they'll say, hey, listen, it's guy at work says, if I'm eating more than one meal a day, I'm just like a really rocky metabolism and it's bad for longevity also to start. Get the fuck out of my face. That's a whole bunch of bullshit. 7th mistake. This is a crazy one. This is one I wouldn't know it was a mistake, unless we had tons of clients at RP, we actually have our huge client forum on Facebook. It's over a thousand of our past and current clients. It's called the RP clients group. You may be able to actually get in there, and just submit your invitation. And a lot of people there ask in questions for the first time in their diet in career. And this question kept coming up so much. We put it in our how-to diet documents when you get an RP diet. It's actually, if you download the RP diet coach app, it's in the FAQ and here it is. We tell you when you begin a diet that is totally okay for you to continue to do the following things. Chugam have any amount of caffeine that you deem is appropriate, and have any amount of diet so that you deem is appropriate. People seem to always think that you have to cut out gum. That's right, gum chewing, caffeine, and diet soda. And a couple of other things, they're condiments sometimes like mustard and shit like that, they get all crazy about. Totally understandable. Why? Because a lot of people who are starting fat loss diets are doing fat loss diets, here are a bunch of share from other people that are doing fat loss diets, and a bunch of people are carrying this mythology that diets and clients are the same thing. But if you want to fucking now, stay cleanser, fucking body, whatever year, and to Hollywood do too many drugs, sure. You can cut out gum caffeine diet soda in the rest of your life for a few weeks and then cut out the other end cleans. You can't actually do that because cleanser also fucking bullshit don't do anything. Why do people think that cutting out gum caffeine and diet soda are diet enhancers? Because they're looking at it from a more realistic sense, instead of a physiological sense. So more realistic perspective is a diet is a cleansing time. Normally I do the things I like. Now I get into the Spartan lifestyle where it's not things I like. And that's true as far as the food goes, but they say, okay, so then for sure I can't have all the other things I like including gum caffeine and diet soda. But gum doesn't have any fucking calories. Caffeine burns fat and keeps your hunger and check. And diet soda, even if it doesn't have caffeine, it's just the harmless drink that is nice and that doesn't affect anything at all. No, you don't have to remove these things from it, and if you keep them in your diet, your diet can be that much more enjoyable and sustainable. So I want anyone to tell you that you can't have these things. And if they're telling you, hey listen, you really shouldn't be having gum in a diet make sure that while they're telling you this, you're taking out strips of gum and putting in your mouth as a child. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. You want some gum? That usually gets people to go away. But then afterwards you're like, ow. Do you guys ever swallow your gum? It's got, is that a good idea to do? You're an expert on gum swallowing. No, it's a good topic. You're a spinger. It can get caught in your sphincter and that's all the medicine I've ever needed to know. Lastly, point no. I couldn't keep it down for that, but that's because I have gum in my sphincter, cough, have it out again. Lastly, and this is a huge problem in many diets, beginner diets, fat loss diets, all kinds of diets, no interest in or understanding of maintenance strategies. The huge thing with fat loss diets is this. The vast majority of people that will ever do a fat loss diet will rebound out of it and gain back almost all or all the way to even more weight than they lost. Predictable, scientifically established for a generation now. In order to prevent us from happening, you need to understand that at the end of a fat loss diet, your body is in a very precarious position. All of the hormones and neural patterns and everything that try to make you regain the weight are maximum, your diet fatigue, put another weight. Is really high in your chance of rebounding is crazy. What you need is a dedicated dieting phase, I know, again, still, it's annoying. Call to maintenance phase, that slowly reintroduces more and more healthy food, then the slowly reintroduces some junk food and does this all while allowing your metabolism and your physical activity to keep up to pace, so that you get down from 280 and then you bump up a little body, water, 180, 5 to 180, and then maintenance phase lasts at least two thirds as long as your fat loss diet did. Maybe, and long, at the end of that process, you only weigh 180 to 185. You've kept almost all of your weight off, except now because you took that maintenance phase without having regained all the weight, your body hits a new settling point and it's thinking, you know, everything's fine here. I'm not starving, Steph. Your hunger goes back, relatively to normal. Your energy levels are super high. You are ready to live life at balance without eating a slice of pizza and blowing up or you're ready to diet again and lose even more fat. That maintenance phase is humongous. It's super important and a lot of people just have a really myopic or really short perspective where they go, okay, I just need to get to here and then I'm good. Fat loss diet and then it's over. Uh-uh, fat loss diet and then maintenance. You have to cap it with a maintenance, okay? It's a stupid analogy for this one. Yeah, if you work in like a germ lab and you're doing research on super fucking infectious diseases, with the fucking hood and all the fucking machines and you're covered in the fucking biohazard suit, you don't just stop working at 5pm and close up the germ vial and then you're gonna see you guys later. You just walk out with your biohazard suit, take it off with just your random hands, wipe your face and your eyes and fuck off. No, you do a really intense protocol that may take some time. You clean the suit, gets cleaned with you in it. Then the suit gets peeled, you get peeled out of it by other people still in hazmat suits and then they clean the fuck out of you and then they test you for infection and then you pass. And then you go, you know that's so stupid but I'm done working for today. Why can't I just fuck off? Because bad things will happen if you do that. You need a protocol to make sure that after you are done with the germ research, you have a phase of time in which you are prepared to go out into the world. Just the same way after a fat loss diet, you gotta be ready for the next thing, including living life and balance, and you can't do that unless you've had a dedicated maintenance phase. You don't have to do a maintenance phase. You can just balloon back up to the old way you used to be like everybody else. Because you don't want to do that. You're gonna heat all these mornings, not make these mistakes. And if you have some of that's making these mistakes, hey, shoot em' a link to this video. And maybe they'll watch it. Two things will happen. One, they'll get educated, not make mistakes. And two, the algorithm will give us more money. And then I can buy yet another Lamborghini. And the collection's getting large. But after a big enough collection, you start to be proud of it. And after my first two or three Lambo, those are good stuff. I sort of lost some wind in my sales. But after the 19th and 20th Lambo, it feels like a really complete stamp collection. Now I just want every Lambo ever made. That's right. See you guys next time.

I was trying to be nice when we started this video. I can't scot the video guy. I can't do it. This was supposed to be comedic and I'm just pissed. Hey, I'm Dr. Mike Hussertel, creator of the RPI Perchopee app and a professor of sport and exercise science, leaving college in the Bronx. In New York City, in the United States, on-planet Earth and I am willing to be critiquing comedically. I hope the Captain Marvel workout got brie-larsening to Unreal shape for her movie role Ask Captain Marvel. Let's do it. She sure does a lot of stuff. She better, she better re-trained her pretty heart. Re-came to me and good news was as we had nine months. So, nine months? That's long enough for another thing. I'm just gonna quit while I'm ahead. Behind. I will say nine months is a really long time. You can make serious changes in body composition in nine months, which is really really awesome. The sky's really lucky to have had her for that long. We wanted to get that foundational strength and movements established and that's really the best. Oh my god. Typically, when women do hip thrusts, you don't touch their bodies needlessly, you do not mount them needlessly as if in a nude position and they sure shit don't need 18 plates on each side. Most of those are tens, by the way. This is a terrible exercise choice for glute hypertrophy. Lute's typically benefit almost all muscles, training at a deep stretch. Something like a front foot elevated lunges ten times the exercise that this is. And when you do exercise, you do it with weights that are light enough that the person can do them themselves, but you have to go over them and help them awkwardly, I don't know what this is. This is weird. Help. So, we need her to be super resilient, super strong so that she can overhead lunges are cool. But it's a skill builder for overhead lunging. And unless you're trying to get good at that, which you're not, let me tell you what you're trying to do as a superhero movie character. You are trying to get juicy glutes and quads and hamstrings so people go damn because that's what your job is, you're an actor. You're not really superhero. I know it sounds crazy. And thus, just barbell lunges with a bar in your back would be superior because you don't have to do any shoulder stabilization. You can use more load that quickly gets to your glutes and stimulates them instead of having a balance of whole bunch and get good at balancing for no reason at all. And here she is pushing a Jeep impressive, I will say, but also pushing a vehicle only contract the muscles while they're shortening. It's called a concentric muscle action. And concentric muscle actions by themselves seem to not provide nearly as much muscle growth, which is probably the vast majority of the reason you're training in Hollywood because eccentric actions are much more powerful for muscle growth, pushing something is concentric only. This is a poor use of fatigue management in a training program. I just would never do this. And I knew in the movie by talking to the stunt coordinator, what was really going to be presented to her. So I wanted to give her all of the tools possible to get through this thing and really nail it and feel confident. I just I will say it is absolutely nice that he is trying to get her to general movement competency so she doesn't get hurt shut down production. It's nice that he's getting coordinated with the person who does the choreography. But I will say that just doing more traditional hypertrophy exercises like you'll find that are hypertrophy in any case, those work really well and they also provide probably even better resiliency because they are asking you to go through extreme ranges of motion. So it's a very nice notion and I really like where he's coming from in this. The exercise selection so far, not ideal. I use it before the workout and after before because I can get adjustments down my spine and then afterwards it's more for recovery. All right. So foam rolling doesn't adjust your spine. It just makes you feel nice. But if that works to get you more confident about your workout, that's pretty good. The foam roller does not help you recover in any way shape or form. That is entirely illusory. This was supposed to be comedic and I'm just pissed. All right, next step we're going to do the world's greatest stretch. This is great for the hips, mobility, I guess the upper back, hamstrings, he's going to step out and he's going to drop that inside. Why would you name that the world's greatest stretch? Fuck. It's just a stretch. It's a great stretch. The world's greatest stretch. You see someone else doing another stretch? I don't know. I'm clearly have not been able to do the truth. And they're like, what? Do this. It's the world's best. All right, for the next section in the activation, the muscles that are supporting the spine, especially for squatting or hip hinge or anything. These kind of things. I want to make sure that they're turned on before we act. A little bit. You guys know what really fires up the spine to get ready for squats, squats with a lightweight. There is no better warmup than the warmup with lighter weight and higher up to the exercise you're actually doing. It checks every single box and still others like it saves time and is direct technique warmup to whatever it is you're doing. I don't have to change my technique. Feel for this versus squatting or whatever afterwards. If I just warm up with squatting, generally that is the best possible with the squatting. This is total fluff. It's a total waste of time. I don't recommend you do it. Hey, so standard Hollywood trainer circa 2023. Glute training begins with hip thrusts. Hip thrusts are not a very good glute exercise. They miss the stretched position of the glute. And better exercises exist like a sumo squat. The sumo deficit that lift definitely any kind of lung especially front foot elevated lung, genus myth machine, that would crush it. This is not ideal. We're going to use it here to activate some of the stabilizer muscles around the shoulder. Why would you want to activate stabilizer muscles around the shoulder? What is the point of my idea? Is sounds cool? I don't even know how long we are into this video. We've not done any exercising yet. Where's the should I pay you for my other fucker? Devon's a big guy and if he's sweating from two pound weights, trust me, he's going to be plenty for you guys. That hurt my soul to hear. You can sweat by turning up the heat in your car. That won't actually get you in shape. And by the way, when you're 270 pound person, you sweat no matter what you do. So I don't know what that's an argument for. Is Devon being challenged? No, no, he's not. Luckily this is a warmup. You should hope you're sweating in a warmup. That's not a fucking right. My head. One more activation exercise here. This is full. Thank all my God. I thought he was going to brazenly in a responsible and introduce actual exercise. I would have honestly called the CDC if I had a scene if just ripping that poor man right into a brutal workout with only two pointless activation exercise. I was trying to be nice when we started this video. I can't scot the video guy. I can't do it. What we're trying to do is prime the nervous system. Get the body flowing. I love priming the nervous system. But only second to getting the body flowing. Which if I was a professor of sport and exercise science, I probably know with f*** nonsense. I don't even know what that means. Floating where? If your body is flowing, you need to pick parts of it up and reattach it to yourself because that's really bad. Ah, folks go to school. Stay in school. That's all I'm going to say. What I want to do is go ahead and show you some progressions on this landmine. We're going to put 25 pounds on the bar, which is nice and easy. But go ahead and find your movement and figure out how this is supposed to be. Great advice on warming up. I love it. Start light and warm up later. Totally great. I got to cut this gentleman his dick. Please push the hips all the way through. It's really good that they elevated that thing on a platform. Who the f*** knows what would happen if you reached all the way down another three inches? More muscle growth and strength than ability you say nonsense. Spinal injury and death. Grab the end of the bar. That's going to keep it. Ah. So here's how this works. More sports science you may have not wanted to know. The grabbing of the end of a bar is profoundly difficult because it is a very thick handle and you have to two finger grab it and you can't even get good finger overlaps somehow. So you are going to be limited in almost every case unless you are georiatrically weak. No offense. Buy your grip and you will not produce a robust stimulus for your glutes which by the way your glutes are much stronger than your grip could ever be. It's not even funny. This is not a good exercise. This is a movement that looks like it trains glutes to the untrained eye. In reality it's a form exercise. Would you do that shit at home anyway right? What the hell is poor now before? Alright the next one for our secondary exercise is a horizontal push. If you need to you can step through. Step through. Push yourself back up. That was good. That's a good exercise to do if you are not strong enough to do four-ing emotion push-ups. We are totally cool if you are not. We are all coming from somewhere. Now we have got an exercise that is isometric push-up that holds and it lets find out if this is worth on a while. The next progression we worked on with Breed to get her into a point where she could actually do push-ups. She came in not being able to do push-ups. This is good. I am curious. Bring the elbows back, take your chest, about two to three inches off the ground and then drop. Start back over. So you do eccentric control until the most hypertrophic muscle growth part of the movement at the very bottom of the stretch and that's when you reduce the tension. I don't get it. Dynamic push-up, draping some chains over her hips. I think these chains are about 20 pounds of weight. Okay so now we have video of her doing it. The chains are cool. Grab a fine way to add load. Not the best way to add load because it makes the push-up harder at the top and easier at the bottom. The way muscle growth actually works is you want it harder at the bottom. It is easier at the top which a push-up is already leveraged to have you do. So the chains are actually not a great choice. A better choice would be to have her wear a little backpack or to just him finally get an excuse to stand next to her and be in physical contact. Take a plate, put it right under her shoulder blades, hold it therefore her gently as she does the full range of motion. Second thing, what the fuck is that stupid blue pad therefore except to limit the range of motion? So the stretch on the muscle isn't as good, so the hypertrophy results are not as good. So from pex or not as jacks we have less of an easy time believing that she isn't in fact a super heroine. Can we go ahead and show you guys a finisher that we did with B. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. Zi P F. E. Of course, if you put your pencil down, this is gonna be as tough as it is. Pointless. Upt right row. We're going to do we're going to do a snatch, push press, into a bin over row. Back into a snatch. We're going to move these as quickly as we can. So, an overarching critique here with a lot of these videos this one for sure is that there seems to be kind of a mystery as about what it was in the gym to accomplish. If I have somebody from Hollywood approaching me, I want to know what they want their physique to look like for the role, because that's why we're training. exercise and every rep and every set and every structure of the program will be designed to actually train the target muscle optimally so that you look exactly like what you're supposed to look like. This has a lot of elements of like general fitness, kind of pop fitness, aerobics, class stuff, just cool from looking around with weights, but if you're being paid in an order and amount of money to get someone cheap for an unbelievably important role, there will also make them an indoor and modern money. You just kind of, you can do better. This is just really random stuff, guy. This is the state of celebrity workouts nowadays. Random, fluff, nonsense. You guys are being ripped off. Brewered out five days a week with me pretty much the whole nine months. She worked her ass off to get into shape for this movie and really, really proud of her. She got pound for pound as strong as any guy that I know and that's saying something that's really fantastic. She got pound for pound as strong as any guy you know. Well I know a lot of girls that are pound for pound, we stronger than her and a ton of guys as well. Sir, you don't go enough strong guys. Can I use stronger pound for pound than her? I quit my **** job. That was a training video with no training in it. It was just one warm up the whole time. No hate. The train on the video, I'm sure is great. We all have plenty of me. Same weird shit on the internet. I mean, Jesus Christ, you know, the push-up was sort of good. This is so much goddamn fluff. Oh God. Two out of ten.

Go and do the challenging things that actually get you to your goal. Not just random challenging shit. Half of these workout videos just random nonsense that's hard. Hey, I'm Dr. Mike Isrertel for Renaissance Pyrrdisation and I'm the creator of the RPI Purchave App. I'm a professor of exercise and sports science. Leave me in college on the Bronx. And I'll be looking at a workout video today of Mr. Henry Caval. I think it's Caval, that's how I say it and he's training for the Witcher. Let's put some sports science criticism in and by the way, it's all jokes and all banter. No offense meant. Let's get it started. By the way, I've seen every single episode of the Witcher. My wife and I loved it. Hi, everyone. I'm Henry Caval and I play the surprise. You know, I wake up every day and I tell myself I'm the straightest man that's ever been born. And it's all f***ed lies. Henry Caval, my god. My god, man. I don't even know what my name is. Swoon. In the United States, it's programmed. In the North, it kingdom. It's regime. I word. How fancy this is. My train of Dave Reenzy. Dave looks like he trains, bro. Maybe this will finally be good. And really with all this, not working is doing the key foundation movement. We're going to incorporate as a Romanian. That guy's not British with the f***er's going on. He's doing a four second negative with this. And then a two second pause at the bottom. Oh far, I like it. Checking all the boxes. No key here is just maximizing time under tension. So he's able to fatigue the muscles more, but not overstresses nervous system. And it's a dream. What they're talking about is the level of systemic fatigue and exercise and poses. And the stiff-legged aka Romanian dead lifting thing. It's one of the most fatigue exercises you can do. If you really wanted to train the glutes and ham, there's a bunch of exercises like leg curls and lunges. You could do to get just as much hypertrophic effect, muscle growth. And not nearly as much fatigue. So curious, but as an aside, me being really panicked. I have not utilized a hip circle above his knees. So basically with incorporating that, he's activating his glute medius and really keeping the glutes activated and fired the whole time. That's cool. Mind you, if you're doing it with a stiff knee, you end up mostly train the hamstrings just a little bit the glutes. But whatever, good stuff. Keep your core tight, thanks man's health. So the next exercise we're utilizing here is the hyper extension. Two back to back hamstring exercises. And both of them hip hinge eccentric heavy, summer down and see. Me being pedantic has technique actually looks very good. When it comes to the posterior chain and the kind of stunts I have to do, anything which is based upon one leg movement where a knee can have a bad injury. If you don't have that big video, it's engaged or that posterior chain, this stuff is what saves me. This exercise is good for making you generally strong and will reduce your general injury risk if you are a stunt person. The logic there specifically wasn't that great. But gee was so far we've done a few of these the best video in a while that I've seen for a celebrity training. Pauzing at the top for two seconds is cool. Unfortunately, it's the least muscle growth prone position of the entire movement. So you're wasting a lot of energy. It can help you get a better mind muscle connection with your goods. But again, this is mostly hamstring exercise anyways. I digress. Who will bleakest time? Muscle you almost certainly never need to train. With this, especially this helps with one endurance when I have to do a fight scene over and over and over again with a sword. If I'm using the real sword real weighted sword, it's very heavy and requires lots of endurance to do. If you really wanted to train for endurance with a sword, you would instead use something that has gravitational weight, which means a dumbbell that you can grip like this. And then you can do lots of movements like this. To build up endurance, you can hold it out for a while. That's really good. You can hold it at multiple different positions. That's really good. And you can actually do dynamic work with a progressively heavier dumbbell or for longer periods of time. And then eventually, that makes you really good at lifting the sword. Using a cable machine with this baffles, the fucking imagination. Man's health says, keep your hands directly in front of the middle of your chest. Uh, good for what? I don't know. This movement can be made in every way better by making a dynamic stepping forward. And then rocking back from here all the way to the end and slow and controlled with lots of weight for sets of 10 to 20 reps. You will get bigger all sorts of core muscles and your ability to swing a sword will improve. By you swinging weight around instead of just fucking standing there. It's really did start off. Good. So far, that's so great. For more challenge, do this in a kneeling stance. Why would it be more challenging? Because you physically can't use your feet to grip on the floor, making you weaker in the exercise without actually challenging you? Yes. Guys, listen. Ah, do not go to the gym to get a challenge. You can challenge yourself anywhere. Do your taxes. That's hard. Challenges should have a purpose. You want to challenge to make you more mobile. You want to challenge to make you stronger. You want to challenge to make you grow more muscle. Figure out how you want to challenge yourself and go and do the challenging things that actually get you to your goal. Not just random challenging shit. Half of these can work out videos. Just random nonsense. It's hard. Shoulders. Finally. They relevant muscle group. Here is a variation of side laterals and front raises. Each repetition is actually three repetitions. He's starting out in a traditional side lateral for the first rep. Then he's coming a little further for the floor for the next one. Everyone gets fancy all the time. Why don't they use Hollywood trainers just to fucking base exercise. It works better than everything. It's a fine exercise. Needlessly complex. I would like a lift or to focus on one or two movements at a time. Probably just one. And when finished with one movement, go on to the next. And there's a reason for that. That way you can really groove in on doing an excellent job on two fronts. Technique and effort. But if you have to do things that are really complicated, you spend more mental bandwidth thinking about what my next step is. Not as much mental bandwidth on how good my technique is and how hard I'm working. Which is really the whole point of being in the gym. This really helps with the sword fighting aspect. A sword is typically very, very heavy. It's very true what Henry saying. You want absolutely the strongest side delts in front delts you can have with sword fighting and rear delts too. The best way to do that would be simple exercises like lateral raises and G even overhead presses upright rows. But this is fancy, little too fancy. This exercise we're performing here is going to be a dumbbell curl alternating from a static hole. Yeah, for the sword work in particular, again, it's what this really helps with is my forearms. Folks, static holes are gigantic. Waste of your time unless you're trying to get good at static holes. Try to build muscle for a Hollywood roll. You're much better off doing dynamic movements. Probably with both arms at the same time. You can even alternate them, but the static hole is just a good way to waste energy. If you want to get really good at static holding something heavy, so you used to holding a sword, it's probably good to just do that by yourself with a heavy dumbbell and take reps at a time of 20 seconds or 30 until you put it down weight. Another 20 seconds pick it up and do it. That would be better than poisoning a perfectly effective bicep exercise by putting static holes into it. If you have a particularly powerful horse, whether it be a stallion or anything else, Henry Cavalaut of Horse, I go romance novel in real life. Good advice for men's health. Pinkies up, try to fight their shrock at the waist, really backwards very good. Alright, everyone. Well, that's it. And what we've shown you. I give this a seven out of ten. The detraction points are from the needless complexity. And sometimes just downright poor exercise choice with the whole static holds situation. But the way that they did the glute ham raise, the Romanian deadlift, the curls were okay minus the static hold, the lateral raises were fine, minus the complexity. Indicates to me that there's something going on that's effective and that's very good. That's the first thing. The second thing is... Man, Henry Cavalaut really did explain that everyone is their own person and needs train on their own time and have their own goals and I compared to others, which I think is really great. And again, it tells me only one thing. Henry Cavalaut is my dream, man. I've been Dr. Mike and I'll see you guys next time. Thank you.

Vamptover Rose with 20-pound dumbbells by the side of your beach house in St. F*** Arts is not going to get you the mentality of a Navy seal and I know that sounds crazy. I'm Dr. Mike Isrottel, creator of the RP-Hyperchography app and professor of exercise and sports science at Lehman College and I want to take a look at Michael B. Jordan's workout plan that keeps him in OAS such a stunning shake. Michael B. Jordan, if you're watching this, two things. Hello and also... hello. Anyway, let's get to it. Same parts of course. I'm gonna use the most important thing. Do a little fasty cardio. Do a little workout. Fasty cardio is a fine way to do things. It's exactly as effective as fed-state cardio, so it's not magic. Just to call that out, but if fasty cardio is totally fine, so like being a fool with a full body workout and looking at the body, your core and low legs. Upper body, core and lower legs. The upper leg is entirely missing from this workout. I assume it's only to workout on calves and yeah, calves. Huh, alright. Especially with me all these injury over the years. This is an award with just like, really these keeps my joints. Being underwater does reduce the load on the joints almost 100%, which is cool. And if you are, if your knees hurt, ankles hurt, getting some swimming in is good, I will say one warning about swimming. If you're trying to use swimming for weight loss, don't. Because in swimming, we see something called the cold water effect whereby if you are merged in swimming in a pool, even if you're exercising, even if your heart rate is up, afterwards, only with swimming because of the cold water effect, you get way hungrier than normal. And then it's much harder to keep a low calorie diet to get yourself in safe shirt. I don't do some fat loss and weight loss. I probably would include better cardio than swimming, like anything else. But you look lean enough to me here. So lean enough for me to look at. I'll see myself out. Dom Bell Circuit, you already know this is going to be a terrible workout. I'll do 10 sets. So at 10, and work over there. So we're set as 10, second set as 9, 10, 9, 8, yeah. So that's a fine way to do things because your body accumulates fatigue and the training has to get easier. You're going to be strongest and most able to do higher reps when you're fresh and that will degrade. So it's great way to accommodate. And we'll say that the 10, 9, 8, 7, etc. etc. a linear scale doesn't accommodate how your body actually fatigues. Your body tends to fatigue a lot at first and then much less later. So with this kind of situation, you're going to have to really be easy on the first couple of sets, which is that idea because you're just pissing away energy while you're most fresh, should be going hard at first. So I prefer more of something like a 10, 8, 6, 5, 4, 4, 4 or something like that. But I'm just being a picky asshole. Oh wait, I'm a professor sports science. That's my job. Dom Bell Curls. I mean, that's just great for conditioning, you know, for explosion. Dom Bell Curls not good for conditioning or explosion. It is good for making your biceps bigger, which is arguably much more important than you want those two things. His technique is fine. He could have his elbows up a little in front of him a little forward or stretch them back even further. That's kind of this awkward double elbow bend. He's got going on. It's like he's faking the curl. I'm not saying he is just kind of looks clearly the way it's really light. That's good, I guess. You know, arms usually are one of the stronger parts of of your body. So the biceps are one of the weakest muscles in your body. They are not one of the strongest parts of your body. Almost every muscle is stronger than your biceps. If you can curl more than you can leg press or deadlift or pull up or roar or anything else, you have a problem. It's really easy for me to do though. He said it's easy for me to do the bicep curls because it's one of the strongest muscles of the body. Hey, I got a suggestion. And guys, this is all them good faith. It's all for fun. It's all comedy. Use more weight, more the f***er. Use the 20 saying the f***er is easier. I hear it. You know, doing overhead, dumbbell press and I'll show the press is our arm. So that's a push press because he's using leg drive. It's a cool movement. You know, you can do more reps and more load. It's not the best movement for muscle growth because you're using a lot of leg drive and stuff and that tends to fatigue you more. But for overall calorie burning and fitness, a fine choice. Men's health says, you know, warning, keep your abs tight. Don't arch your back. There's nothing wrong with arching your back on the shoulder press at all. Competitive lifters have done it for generations. And if you stay too upright, it actually makes it a much more awkward movement. So to the people at man's health, but don't actually lift weights. Thank you so much. I'm kidding. I've been working so much. So on his bent row technique, he's going up quickly, which is nice. But he's also going down quickly. If you want more muscle growth, you're going to go down more slowly in under control and really get a deep stretch at the bottom. That'll grow more muscle. It'll be more challenging for you, but you're working out to get a challenge because you want the best results. So don't rush. So the transform myself physically and mentally was was the goal, you know, a training with veterans from the army, from Navy SEALs. Folks, I'm going to say this a couple more times over the duration of this series. When you're training to play a Navy SEAL, you absolutely can transform yourself externally, physically, to look like a Navy SEAL. Not terribly difficult. Navy SEAL is just guys and pretty good shape externally. Your mentality will not approach that of a Navy SEAL. That is impossible to do for two reasons. One, most of us do not have the genetics to be mentally as hard as the Navy SEAL. I post almost none of us have that. And secondly, you have to do Navy SEAL training to get that shit. I'll see you at Buzzmell. Doing some literally bent over rows with 20 pound dumbbells by the side of your beach house and faint. It's not going to get you the mentality of a Navy SEAL. And I know that sounds crazy. Hollywood just act. Motherf***er. Act is pretend. It's got to be doing a little mini-circuit and a dumbbells. So far we've trained. Buy steps? To some extent, triceps? Front delts? Traps? And the back? No chest yet? No side delts? No abs? Don't sure those are coming. And no legs at all. We'll see what's happening next. Both land is definitely something that I really really enjoyed doing. It really allows me to let out a lot of aggression. It's really good to let out a lot of aggression. You know what I'm saying? When I'm vacationing in my private villa in St. Bart's, your boy's got that crazy aggression. You're like, I'm out in these streets. And by streets, I mean my own beach house and paradise. That being the case, the medicine ball slam is a very good tool for developing the athletic ability to contract your entire anterior chain. All the way from your arms down to your front of your calves. And especially with the hip flexors and the abs, the problem is it's a very bad way to grow your abs to make them all six packy and sexy because it skips the eccentric, the length and component, which almost every other ab exercise, the normal stuff like leg lifts and crunches and machine abs, that they do so well, this skips entirely. So medicine ball slam is for as much work as you're putting into it. Unless you're a specific kind of athlete and a specific power generating phase of their training is just not the best way to train for pretty much the only thing that Michael B. Jordan would want to train for, which is appearance. Valeroves, that aerobics is a lot of fun also because it is for a lot of robot. For the 500th time, battle ropes is one of the stupid exercises ever invented. It trains almost nothing. It trains the aerobic and possibly glycolidic ability to use your biceps triceps shoulders and back a little bit, not the real four-injure motion to grow minimal amount of muscle. Battle ropes makes you better at doing this. Which is actually not terrible, I'm not sure if you're training for something like boxing, not terrible, but again, Michael B. Jordan's not a real boxer either. I know, it's crazy. 40 seconds, that minute and a half that you're going all out, it really, you really feel that work. You can tell Michael B. Jordan has dick to say about any of that. He's like, yeah, 40 seconds, minute, shit. Valeroves, minute and a half. You'll watch this. You won't watch me work. minute 55 up in this. Oh, me like, no, no, shut up, ever lived. Two minutes, everyone, we're overshadowed. Are you serious, bro? That's how we roll. There's all the shit, apart streets. You know, just cooling down and resting your mind. I think it's extremely I love the eastern theme song they got planned in the background. It just, in case you were confused, is where meditation comes from. The east. Damn, look at that fly ass suit. Scott's video, you got to include this scene. Shit is on fire, bro. Why don't I dress like Michael B. Jordan? I will say he never actually did train his chest and he trained all of his muscles with a tiny amount of volume. So overall, if you do this workout, you're trying to look like Michael B. Jordan, you will be insanely disappointed. I have a better workout. Save up your money for a while. Why a while? Get you a plane ticket to St. Bart. That should just dope his hell. St. Bart, 9.5 out of 10. Might be Jordan's workout. Three out of 10. Do you guys next time?

You read a new study and you change your whole training style and facts Until a new article drops and you change it again. Oh, yes. This is so goddamn true. Here's a thing One study in a time says almost nothing all the studies together and physiological anatomical rationale that you've known for like a hundred years And how it works in the real world on yourself for other people for their coaches so on and so forth That whole thing is evidence-based training in its super valid if you are changing your shit every other week Based on a new study your hashtag science based and not actually science based and there's a huge Hey folks doctor right here for our peace strength. I'm a former professor of exercise and sports science competitive bodybuilder Brazilian students who grabler and some wad of a kind of fake authority on things revolving or I'm lifting but I know of a real authority an original a God a Titan know not Darwin not Einstein mister Dom Mazzetti who I learned so much from as a child That now we're gonna go back and check out real Pro science insights and see how scientific they are and how insightful they are three two one Daddy Science based lifting is a scam by big science to get you to do more science and less Lifting the whole reason we started lifting is because we were bullied for being nerds facts I'll be close to home continue please we didn't go to the gym to stay nerds we go to the gym so we can bully other No Oh my god That is a photo Yikes you tell me all you have to do to feel better about myself is make someone feel worse about themselves Where do I sign up now these nerds that's trying to pull confessed on honest if I were a nerd I wouldn't be teaching my bullies how to get bigger than me. I'd be tricking them into being smaller by reading Good news here the bullies pretty much never do science based lifting The nerds gravitate to science based lifting so if you do science based lifting and advocate it on the internet Like Mr. Jeff Nipper does the nerds get more jacked and we are able to defend themselves more from the bullies and The bullies typically are like anti science based lifting because honestly they're just dumber and Science has always been confusing because they were dumber when they were younger too And so actually if you do science based lifting and you promulgated on the internet You're beefing up the nerds and it doesn't really help the bullies because quite frankly That don't do the reading and the science thing all that well and they're proud of it too Man Scott you ever look at some of the elaborate setups like the science science he lifting has and you're like Number one I don't want to set that up. I'm too f***ing lazy number two is like it's so awkward That you spend more of your time trying to figure out how you're gonna strap into the grips than actually lifting the Way All that this is gonna be sick Oh, this stretch is Increased dude Dead engagement You nicely had another one of these over here though you read a new study and you change your whole training style Facts An identity until a new article drops contradicting it. I need to change it again Okay, so this is so goddamn true. Here's the thing Science based lifting isn't just reading PubMed studies or abstracts or titles Let's be honest everyone's just reading the title and then changing your training based on doing that Now lots of people do that. They're not doing it right Science based lifting means the Integrate real studies into physiological and anatomical understanding into practical experience that you have with yourself Into the wisdom other coaches and athletes have also shared all together in one big group of Insighton when that group has a few more studies in it it has to Basically check the box of well, what is my own personal experience? What is the physiological rationale how do other athletes respond in only then is an intelligent to really upgrade your training? So the Dom is under some 100% valid shit here a lot of people do change their training sometimes every week based on the new study That is not science based lifting obviously Dom is a comedian hilarious shit, but like for real for real there's a great of truth There were some people do change the shit all the time and then the yell you yell about in the comments to you look well This is the same base haven't you seen that one recent study one study in a time says almost nothing Everything all the studies together and physiological anatomical rationale that we've known for like a hundred years And how it works in the real world on yourself on your athletes for other people for their coaches So on and so forth that whole thing is evidence based training in its super valid and so if a new study comes out You pretty much never go up that's what I'm doing. It's interesting Let's see if a few more studies can replicate the study and then I'll change my training on the margins To reflect this new discovery of reality if you are changing your shit every other week based on a new study You're hashtag science based and not actually science based and there's a huge difference Lengthen pausels. It you mean half reps. He's no doubt he really trying to rebrand half reps First of all yes second of all length and personal There's specific kind of half rep. It's the length and part a lot of bros won't do length and partials because they hurt a lot They stretch you bros don't do that shit bros do medium range Parts just like right in the middle here or top and partials so they can use a lot of weight the two wrongest kind of Parts that you can do so yeah bottom and partials length and partials really are scientifically valid and really will make you jacked But yeah bros can't take credit for that one because you've been doing it wrong. Oh But it's still harder half. Yeah, but it's still half which means the job is not done It's right we need to do it work I love it if you spend as much time lifting all the weight as you did figure it out how to lift half it you've been twice as big Math somehow words these science based nodes have to speak to your truth like some science justice warrior Why do you care so much? Why would you want to help me get bigger than you is It is really is doggy dog out there isn't it like if I see you at the gym making games Those could be my games, you know that's really the thing Scott. I think I think we have fundamental like philosophical Economic point if someone has a lot of money and you take it you have a lot of money But you can't take anyone's games can you Or can you because you want to be right and need to be wrong because if I get bigger doing it wrong That means the exercising the problem you want and there was no amount of science They can make up for your shitty genetics or lack of work at the fact I say I think science based lifters have more work ethic than non science based lifters Mostly because they're just more conscientious people that succeed in everything including school and work in life Science based lifting question. What's the most amount of weight? You can move the least amount of distance He most important question for you go lifting pull so motifying down It's racked a lot of attention grabs some chalk Stop around yes, okay get everybody looking at you. Yes, you also have to do the thing back in the day We used to wear a powerful equipment these super super tight suits that would the straps would pull you down and kind of cave you over So you did before dead of thing was you would raise your arms to kind of get the straps to kind of sag back a little bit and give you some relief Scott I've seen Natural lifter and that natural good God unequipped lifters with just singlets on or just t-shirts do the strap pull as a Practice for summa Your cos playing nothing you're doing is real But a sure shit gets people looking at you and a Dom says people looking at you. I was gonna say it's half the battle But is it really I think it's probably most of the battle Your max for you grab the ball over under okay Facts Dom is very flexible and has an excellent super sumo setup This is really good stuff. I can even get into this position Boom sumo is like dunking on an eight foot rim but swear it's 10 feet the joke's amazing But let's clear something up every single person that is a problem with pulling sumo is Making an excuse for why someone pulled sumo more than they could pull in any style including sumo I might add yeah, I mean I could deadlift 800 I just want to do that weird sumo shit Shut the f-op no you can't you're making excuse after excuse after you've got I don't know if you were around for There's there was a meme going around it and by meme I mean like something people said until it wasn't funny and then until it really wasn't funny until people forgot about it But they still said it it was like sumo lifters eat ass Do you remember that one? That's for the best and it was like all over the internet like 2015 and there's two parts of it I didn't understand one is the hate on sumo which is nonsense The other is what the f- is wrong with eating ass folks They're still more video to come but if you want an extended version of this video tons of other Alternarity content tons of training logs are member section is amazing give it a click show up subscribe It's not a ton of money. It's great value. All right back to the video speak in a cheat-in cheat Curls do not use the fixed bars fixed bars are the equivalent of adult braces use a barbell not only to establish a six-foot blast radius Yes, but to take the ball for someone who's using it So they have no choice but to watch you curl and say you've done Like how he side eyes the guy the best is when you have like eight people Will it wanting to use a power act and you got a guy and they're doing like just curls and you're like You could have just taken that barbell out of the rack who'd have been great plenty of barbells got to be that guy personal trainers are the biggest train on society Truth I'd apply to more personal trainers than anyone care stood man Personal training is food stamps for fat people why are you trying to help people who won't help themselves Let me tell you something for you is about hate yourself until you build a burning drive But overcompensy for everything in your life using the gym You know Scott there are people who are unaware that they actually feel this way that will get really pissed and comments sections Like there'll be like someone's like I'm using those epic to lose weight They're like you're not earning it man. You're like how you could be okay Do you need a hug is there something unernd in life that you're struggling with you? Real talk though personal training is phenomenal because it helps people who just don't know much or don't have the requisite motivation to really get after it outsourced that and get an amazing shape personal training is amazing. However There is a subcategory of client of personal training which I'm not a big fan of all of her respect It's a tiny fraction of these clients are real and you might have had them form clients that expect the personal trainer To somehow give them every ounce of their motivation and so they bring Zero motivation or interest to the equation. I've had clients who 12 weeks into a program Don't know how to lift at all because they're actively trying not to remember anything you say They want you to just tell them up down move like this move like that go go go go They do it and as soon as they're done They're just they're brain erases all of that data They want zero ownership over their lifting and you're saying like what about when they go a vacation? They just don't lift what about when you're out of town? They don't lift and as soon as you're out of their lives They don't lift there is like a type of person who wants nothing to do with lifting other than a trainer Make in them do it here's the problem you can't make someone do something They don't actively really want to do it when the wake it's heavy and the wake it's hard and the reps get really high People quit these people quit way before any of that So even though you are having them do the movements in the gym They suck at the movements because they're never tried to learn imagine every Every single squats that you do is really kind of your first set ever because you just never bothered to learn and You're barely trying these are the kinds of people that will tell their friends like oh, I can't Gain any muscle or I can't lose any weight and then do you train like I train three times with a trainer? Shut up Betsy I've seen you train with your trainer. It's mostly your trainer doing the work and you just have a Code of excuses if you're attitude as soon as you walk in to the gym is oh I just have to survive this until I can get the god of here You're not gonna make your best gains by a long chat and guess who you have to blame for that Amirir the mirror is the problem go look at it and blame the physical mirror itself this cannot be taught It has to be learned Musselups assure it looks impressive but trust me nobody cares as much as you wish they did Musselups don't actually take that much muscle or strength It's mostly just technique and podcast about senior retention. Yes Yes My god Scott he hit a real demographic with that What you want to do is do odd lift that no one else does so that you don't have to compare yourself to anyone else And find out that you're not that strong you get really good at some weird strange as a terror glyphs You establish those as the core lifts for functional human health and you 100% do heat Ice Crasston techniques the all that shit bands and you you have a discount code for natural supplements You're that guy Mike I bet you can't match me because I can do a Turkish get up with the 75 pounds for 13 reps Does that make you the world's strongest man? That good or the strongest man of all time I don't Small you are the easy read is actually fun fact the strongest part about Musselup is the strength it takes to die a virgin It does take strength um no offense all of respect When really skinny people ask you how many dips or pull-ups you can do I typically answer with shot up Because what they're trying to do is get to a conclusion where they can do more of those things than you But if I can come up to you pick you up with one arm and throw you throw window He didn't really give a shit house strong for your way you are Motherfucker and if I'm being quite serious I'm just no good at pull-ups and dips on embarrassed and I'm really just flashing up So you're watching it. This is the RP hypertrophy app removes all uncertainty and makes the training process Precisely defined choose your pre-made workout plan from dozens available of the app plug in your weights and the app takes care of the rest For months of productive training ready look on the link in the description of this video to get started When that gave me Jim he was some potential red flags to keep an eye out for what he said he doesn't go bad 90 eventually because it's bad for you shoulders This dude doesn't eat pussy and he makes you shower before sex Joe seed man. He's talking about you When someone says you don't need to hit arms directly because you hit them and chest him back I'm gonna beat down to this one someone says you don't need to hit arms directly It means they have dog shit small arm genetics and they abandon the idea of training arms Let's see what Tom has to say these are conspiracy theorists who think training buys and tries is a plot by big arm At the game you spend more time in the gym Bro if my arms go from just blinking I would still hit arms every day Yes, you think the only reason I lift is to grow up. I lift so don't feel so empty side And the ultimate way to fix the emptiness is to have bigger arms guys There is no question in the universe to which big arms is not at least a big part of the answer Probably wrong in the comments people who use a smith machine as a leg race I actually don't understand this at all. I've seen this dozens of times the smith machine leg press It's a dog shit angle you're insanely unstable Scott how much do you trust that your feet aren't gonna slip from a f***ing barbell? What the f*** leg it's gonna split your shit open and crack your asshole open all that? It's just like going way out of your way for just a by no means clear benefit at all I just don't get it. Maybe I'm in the wrong. Maybe it could work somehow But I gotta be honest man if you're doing this you're spending so much effort on balance If you're not training close to the failure or you're not using any kind of heavy load or any combination of the tune straight up You look like a pig What exactly is wrong with getting pegged folks? There's still more video to come He cheated on this exercise. He means he's training for free trip to the by Hey How is it really free? Really you pay in other ways damn dude. What's up with that girl Scott are you seeing that? What up baby is that is that photo shop or Yeah Look shoppy It is definitely like Emirates business class she's sitting Who's up you spot Okay, crap doing that folks Domazetti is the person you can learn real shit from yeah You can come on this channel learn science and lifting and how to get better shape But it is it gonna teach you how to be a man Then it's not what we claim on this channel and it is absolutely not gonna happen Do you want to learn philosophical shit and how to deal with adult situations? I actually have another channel just it's called just Mike Ezra tell and it's about progress in AI and thinking It's also gonna teach you brainyship, but will it teach you to be a grown man and how to really be alpha in the gym and the best way possible No But does Domazetti's content teach you that arguably that's the only thing it teaches you and arguably That's the only thing you ever need to learn folks Domazetti is something you need to check out ASAP I would recommend the following stop everything you're doing quit your job watch all of his content that he's ever put out and then reconsider Rearchitecting your entire life based exclusively on that content sounds good Awesome folks I've been Dr. Mike and I'll see you Next No, who are we gonna rate Domazetti Domazetti gets no infinity out of negative infinity because I even math Good enough for me good enough for you guys Domazetti gets a rating of a pimpe out of boss out of ten Think about that And I'll see you next time All right that was really fun. I feel dominant I don't know that's true this video here though might have some interesting things for you go click on it See you next time

Rep started taking 21 milligrams a test a week when I started. That's the max dose you can get prescribed from a doctor. It was like two months in the taking it and like a sauce from a full of 15 hundred total tests. 200 milligrams your body typically produces about 75 and if you want to be superman, it's like 125. Is it high? Yeah, 200's real high. Would I describe 200 milligrams of test a week as testosterone replacement therapy? Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for the RP Strength channel. I have all sorts of accolades which are going to sound impressive as soon as they say them. And because you're going to be impressed, you're going to continue to watch this video. I don't know if any of that is true. Anyway, for Professor Competitive Body Molder, Brazil Institute's who black belt and the person who looks okay today, I looked in the mirror and I was like, yeah, that's not bad. It's not bad. Somebody who never has to do that. Somebody who looks in the mirror all times and is a flawless guardian angel of society is Alex, you bank. He might know things about how to train. He is a phenomenal body. Let's take a look at some of his training videos. See if he can sniff out a little bit of wisdom. Make some perverted jokes at the expense of every gender. And while maintaining some level of decency, though no guarantees, leave with some knowledge and some laughs. And Scott isn't last with friends the reason why you and I started this channel. Yes, sweetie. Now we started to get rich. Right, getting rich, which Alex you bank has plenty of that. Let's find out how much money he has. Three, two, one. Let's count Alexy, thanks money. I've been known for being one of the aesthetic guys. Not the biggest guy, but my frame has always been known for being pretty aesthetic. It's true. He looks great. What does it mean to be aesthetic? It means you generally have a physique that falls a few basic rules. One is you have a waist that's substantially smaller than your upper back. You have very pronounced capat shoulders and you have large muscular arms. Dorito shape, nice shoulders and arms. And that really is the beginning of the aesthetic conversation. A profound upper chest, a billowing upper back, the exact kind of taper you have, or your abs all lined up. Those are smaller parts. But generally the Dorito upside down pyramid shape, but to big ass shoulders and arms, that gets you while anyway. Alexy, think looks like he has plenty of that. And is filming in a gym that has a young law poster. Scott is that like his place or just some gym that really likes young law a lot. I literally have no idea. I would you. You're 40 years older than these pieces. Yes. Okay. I feel like my physique has been one that maybe is more aesthetic than others. Obviously Scott, have you ever heard a low key flex like that before? It's been told to me that my physique is more aesthetic than other people's like who? Alex, like me? Max, the editor boy, please please put that personally. Max, and I took that personally. Please choose Alexy Banks best photograph that you can find and put it up against my worst to show how superior I really am. One of the guttons you know the ones. It comes down to a variety of things such as genetics, genetics, my man. I will well in our way. Beautiful. Anytime people with phenomenal bodies don't recognize genetics, it's at least missing and at times disingenuous for them to think that like I just instantiate it all this. This is good stuff. I like it's like my muscle insertions, but one of the things that I know for a fact is that I absolutely love training and always have trained harder and more frequently my chest, my back, and my shoulders, which I feel like are the three most important muscle groups when it comes to building an overall aesthetic physique. I'm always saying that two of five arms is smallest his. And just man, maybe you say your boy is out here with guided videos on exercise techniques and a program that evolves to better suit your needs the longer you use the app. All you have to do is follow the plan right on your phone and get the gains. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. So in this video I'm going to go over what I have done over the last eight years of training to grow my chest, my back, and my delts. Prioritizing incline movements over anything. So doing a lot of incline dumbbell bench, I think anywhere from like I think a 30 degree incline is probably best. It doesn't have to be an insane incline. In fact, I think if you go too high, you can probably hurt it because it's more anterior, delt, and chest at all. Here Alex means hurt not on a physical hurt way. He just means won't optimally develop your upper chest. It's totally true that anything really above like a 15 degree incline starts to hit the upper pecs a lot. And 30 to 45 in even to 60 degrees is all no wrong answers for the upper pecs, especially if you take a proper arch. We typically arch our backs to create stability, pull our shoulder blades back to create shoulder enhancement for health and injury risk. And then we go to it from that. So I arch on everything. I retract and everything. And so to me a 30 degree incline is actually a substantially lower to feel for my pecs than maybe I'll go to a 45 or something. But 30 is a okay, especially with a technique that he's doing. If you're having while 10 quality sets of chest every week, you're going to grow. It's probably true that for almost everyone there going to grow from 10 quality sets of chest per week, are they going to grow the most? Probably not. Or more people going to grow more from 15 quality sets than 10? Yes, almost certainly. Scott, I forgot to tell you what I did this past weekend. Okay. Thank you. My wife and I were at, we were controlling around the world, you know, how we do. And we were in Istanbul, Turkey. And we were in the business class lounge of Turkish Airlines. By the way, Scott, Rojo, the best business class experience and a lounge I've ever had. They make fresh grilled meats for you, Scott. Think about that. And I do have to say that I did not represent the United States of America so well. I got into a screaming match with the employees at the lounge. Typical American. But here's the thing. I was like, hey, you come here. Come over here. Hey, I want something to drink. I'm going to thirsty. And he's like, oh, you want to, how you say from Philadelphia? Yeah, I want to find what if I'm not? Because Turkey, everything. I think it's giving you guys stand out. But every other day, what do you have, except for generationally great people, arguably some of the best looking people on the planet. And and also the greatest wrestling of all time, run it a whole empire. But you ever been the guackies of 51st, the best. Anyway. And they were like, sir, can you just get to the point? When I was like, I need a beverage. And so they brought me champagne. I swine in that shit away. They brought me wine. The best wine. I was a cool way from me. And they're like, sir, what do you want? Is this so hard for me to get a drink that is all the proper ratios of every single one of the electrolytes and tastes good and is incredibly cheap in one packet later. Any amount of fluid I combine it with hydrates me for the best optimal performance of recovery. And they're like, sir, this is a business class lounge. Yeah, you know, it's not, it's not element headquarters, element link and description by now. And they're like, I honestly, sir, I, we really have tried to accommodate you. But and as soon as they said, but I was like, hey, honey, how flights here? I've come walked off. They begged for me to come back. But I won't let's say get out of them. Whoa, you, you guys see that reflexive annoyance? What does Scott, what is that? This is just come out of Philadelphia. It's in New Yorkers every now and again, just like the spontaneous like anyway, elements free. Now, back is a little bit more intricate in my opinion in training chest because there's a lot of different ways of angles that you can kind of go around hitting it. The three ways that I like focusing on training back is one. It's going to be obviously your typical pull down. So he says back training he focuses on pull downs, heavy rows, and one arm lat focused movement. That is absolutely totally fine. What I would say for everyone else to try is light rows. So machine rows sets of 20 cable rows sets of 20. I think they're awesome. And I would also like a piece of folks to try pull ups, pull ups and assisted pull ups have this incredible ability to stretch in a centrically load your lats in a way that pull downs don't because they have a bit of a frictional coefficient going on, especially regular pull ups, especially for somebody like Alex who works into this with a little bit of weight hanging off their waist, especially if it's abs or all? I don't know where am I? If you have pull ups in the arsenal, they are going to be like pull downs except with heavier resistance and to more eccentric load. And that means that they're probably going to be ultra ultra effective. And Alex isn't like enormous, he's not like 250 pounds, hopefully his joints feel okay with pull ups. And if they don't, if he just doesn't love the exercise, no big deal, God bless him. But for you guys out there, don't you go think of there's something magical about pull downs and heavy rows and one arm lat focused movements. All of them have their place, but they can also be replaced by lighter rows and actual pull ups and stuff like that. And the one arm stuff is optional though very much great. It's not a magic thing. It's just one other way to do the thing. I think picking a really heavy, growing movement that you can focus on progressive overload similar to the bench. Okay, so you can focus on progressive overload with every single thing you have in the gym. If it's a dumbbell, you can't add weight to you can add reps that's actually progressive overload. If it's any cable machine, if it's lunges, if it's barbells, it doesn't matter progressive overload, you can overload anything. I'm I'm hearing a bit of this idea which I've heard a lot is that you know, well, the core lifts, rows and presses stuff, they're great for progressive overload. No, whatever, quite explains why that's the case. You can get strong in them faster because there's a technique component, but that doesn't mean the muscles getting any better of a workout. It does buy a little bit, but not a lot. And I think people just really like to get strong on the big movements because they get a little bit of ego about it, which is cool. But you can progressively overload absolutely everything you do in the gym. So I would not look at the gym as progressive overload exercises like barbells and stuff and then just like extra volume exercises. You should be progressing every single thing. Now let's talk about his technique on bent rows. It's good. It's good. It's very difficult to catalog progression if you're kind of swinging up and down a little bit like he is. It's possible, but difficult. And I would say another thing, you want the lats and the pulling muscle back to have maximum range of motion. I would say for a flex bar guy like Alex, you take your hips and you get in a deep stiff like a deadlift position so you can almost touch the rows to the ground at the bottom. And then as you come up, you can arch your back and lift your chest up to get that little click and lock at the top without being limited by how much you can pull from the bottom. So you go all the way down for a big stretch and I'm all the way up to 45 degrees and that combines the best of both very deep stretch rows and not being limited by that deep stretch to get more of your ability to touch your tummy at the top by coming up to 45 degrees. I think that's really good. So his technique here is good but for it to be great he'd have to pull like she whiz probably a plate off each side and get an even better workout which is awesome because it's less fatigue, less injury risk for better workouts if you use really meticulous technique. Training your delts first off, I think you do not have to do a dedicated pressing movement because if you are bench pressing consistently, your front delts still gonna grow. It's a lateral head is the one that's gonna make you have that rounded shoulder look that from the front, like someone looks at you and you have like boulder shoulders. That's the lateral head you tripped back. Bringing that through lateral movements such as lateral raises. My favorite lateral raise variations is gonna be a chest supported lateral raise when my chest is supported it on an incline bench so that I'm not swinging and I'm just focusing on raising my shoulders and really targeting that side out as much as possible with good form. You can do standing lateral raises, you can do seated lateral raises. Yeah, I mean look the number of lateral raise variation, more or more at a time, two arms at a time, different range variations just below parallel parallel super-rum all the way above overhead. There's just never run out of them. Just a lateral raise seated standing incline, you can do till you're blue in the face. Combine that with a fra, a cable dual cross machine from free motion, or even just a regular rack, you had all the cable set up you want. Combine with barbell upright rows, barbell front raises. I mean you can do shoulders three four times a week and months on and never run on a variation and you have to to get your biggest shoulders. I got my testosterone results back. Okay, Jeff, Jeff, was his name Alex? Is it everyone actually? Alex you bank is no longer drug free, announcement. Let's hear it. Now I know, what was it? Four, five months ago, I decided to start taking testosterone replacement therapy because I'm testing it to sleep pretty low for a minute so I decided to hop on one four for my health and my well-being, obviously that was met with quite a bit of critique which I understand 20, 20, or really getting on to your team. Oh boy, so he got a lot of criticism for getting on TRT as a 24 year old. He said he felt not so great in his test levels or multiple times confirmed as low. That, those two things you don't feel your best in your test levels are lower, instant candidacy for TRT. So already there's no problem. Second thing people like, say you're 24. Well, you know, I don't have enough testing my body. How the, because my age helping me, it is true that when you're younger you probably don't have lower tests, but if you're younger and have lower tests that you've been doing shit for you on the test front, why wouldn't you replace it? And also 24, I mean, I typically say that you can consider if legal in your area not unethical and you're not cheating at sport with it and you're doing it with the supervision of a doctor, you can consider special sports supplements, steroids, TRT, et cetera, when you're about 25 and no younger. And so he's being 24, that's not that far off. It's not crazy. Again, if he was 18 and he chemically demonstrated a need for TRT, it would be just as ethical for him to take TRT as any other time. As a matter of fact, if you're 13 and your puberty response isn't starting properly because you don't make enough tests, straight up give you steroids for that source shit. Nobody considers it unethical. So if he really does have low testosterone, it's totally fine for me doing TRT. Guys, remember folks like Chris Bumstedt by the time they were 24 or running on, can tons of shit to take in all kinds of steroids and tons of bodybuilders do that. I guess those people Scott and his DMs would probably find that upsetting as well, hot ups. Now, the reality is a lot of folks in the comments that really have an abad time all by themselves. They just don't get to talk shit to anyone under their face and so they do it on the internet. But I think personally, my professional opinion is that 24 years old with demonstrated low testosterone TRT is a better idea than not TRT. If you guys remember, I started taking two one of the programs that passed a week when I started, which grades a lot of other people said was too high of a dose. Two hundred milligrams of replacement testosterone. So your body typically produces, that's per week, okay? 200. Your body typically produces about 75. And if you want to be superman, it's like 125. And if you count the extra weight because the sippy and eight or an antheid ester is partly clip on the testosterone, does weigh something and it gets into those milligrams, what you're looking at 200 is more like the 150 to 175 equivalent to the 75 to 125 high test equivalent. So is it high? Yeah, 200's real high. Would I describe 200 milligrams of test a week? Has testosterone replacement therapy? Well here's how you do it. You get the blood work for a few weeks after you start maybe about six weeks after. And if your typical test was, you know, 300 nanograms per deciliter and with a TRT of 125 milligrams a week, could have been in the high 900's or low thousands, which is the highest on average human ranges. But then with 200, if you're scoring in the 1500 testosterone, guys remember the normal range is like something like 300 to something like a thousand. If you're out here in 1500 land, then it is actually too much. So we can't tell if 200 is too much for Alex because everyone's body processes and responds to testosterone a little bit differently. Starting at 200 is a very high. If you start a very high and you're like, as is too much, you can always go down. And if you start there and everything's great and your blood work is great and you feel great, your energy is great, et cetera. Then like, just a link particularly wrong with 200, how would you just probably start it like, you know, somewhere between 150 for replacement therapy. You want to get saucy? Well, since sports TRT is a number between two and 300 nigs per week, these won't as way, mass not really true TRT is not just replacing its augmenting. I got no problem with augmenting these call a call a speed of speed. And I agree now, 100% that was too hot because I got my testosterone results back three months ago, whatever. It was like two months in the taking it and my testosterone results were way too hot and it came back like 15 hundred total tests. It's kind of everything this video before. No. How do I guess 1500? You're just, you know, you're the man, my your the man, you're great, my your smarter than everyone else. Is that what you want to hear? Nope. I was hoping you'd get to something else. Let's try this again. Scott, is it because of my massive cock that I was able to guess this? Say, please say. Did you say prove it? Yeah. Yeah. Let's get that camera turned around. Do you know I'm not wearing pants today? Folks, there's still more video ahead. However, a fuller, longer, thicker, thainier and less rated version of this exact video is available in our member section. Give that a click, check it out. There's tons of other goodies, teeny price, massive benefit, and that's the video. So I brought my nose from that to 160 milligrams. Scott, you like that. He couldn't just quite get down there. He's like, how much can I still take? It's still going off. Hmm, but it's crazy, but still going to just. Just got my testosterone results back. We are at now and 932. And 932 is great. 932 is wonderful. In between 900 to 1000 is like peak male shit. And because Alex was able to accomplish his incredible physique on much less testosterone, ostensibly, man, I remember the excited. What's going to happen to him with this much? I think it's just going to be unbelievable. All right, folks, remember the important things in life, having amazing aesthetics. Being a sharp, reasonable young man like Alex, you bank major respect to him. I hope he pertains and even is more psychotic. TRT fueled physique. And also the fact that Philadelphia's our kind peoples, never to be tested. Or else what are you going to fuck with? See you guys next time. You're mud. I don't know that outro will make a lot of sense of the read thing. It's like way far away with the Billy guy. I think. Read try. And the third thing I want you do is get you a producer like Scott of video guy who you record a whole outrody gang mags you. Dan wasn't good enough, Mike. People won't get the jokes. I don't even know what to do anymore. This show is run off to all the guys. This will be our last episode ever. We're never coming back. Don't tune in next week. There is no more RP channel. I've been Dr. Mike and I'll never see you again. Cool? Yeah. All right, that was fun. I feel you banked. I don't know. Folks, I don't always practice these. No, I never practice them. Want something that I also didn't practice that could be fun. This video right here might be wacky. See you guys next time.

Most people can do that. In fact, I would damn guarantee I'm stronger than you. Probably in Russia than you. I would actually recommend most of you people's songs. You people. What the f***? Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Prisation. The creator of the RPI Perchuvy app and a professor of sport and exercise science at Leem and College in the Bronx in New York City in Manhattan in the world. And guess who else lives in that world? Mr. Andretate. Successful professional kickboxer. Successful semi-professional person who, I think, sells sex workers or something like that. I'm not sure I'm a controversy. But I do know he's in the Manus Fear and I also sometimes identify his mail. Let's review his workouts and see if his advice is up to Master. S***. Seven days a week, no rest days. It's actually a bad idea. Your body needs rest and recovery. It's when it actually does most of its growth. I would recommend that the most advanced folks that are seeking the highest levels of adaptation to their physique's and muscularity train at most six days a week. But most folks would get the best results training somewhere between four and five days a week. So seven days a week is generally a bad idea. Well, a lot of people are not sure. I'm so sorry. Oh, no more. I haven't read them. I haven't read them. I haven't read them. They, there's a term for this in the hypertrophy training literature and it's called junk volume. It's doing lots of reps, but each rep is so profound that easy and you never really get very close to failure. So none of the parts of your muscle that really grow the most, the fast-witch motor units they're called, they never really activate much. And so you spend a lot of time doing this. You accumulate plenty of fatigue in his case. Not even that many things. So easy, but you don't get a huge stimulus. If he did 30 total repetitions, but each one of them was very, very heavy and very hard and was done in a very controlled cadence with a deep stretch, he could get all of the benefits and more of his workout with that spending. I don't know how long doing this takes a long time to do a thousand reps. Tates Prison Beast Mode. God, it's everything I ever wanted out of workout. In that jail cell, I had no access to a gym, I had no access to any kind of workout equipment who was just me, in a jail cell with you, who was a director of totally numb out as long as I could hold them out for and then that dropped to the ground and was a push up and had the time. Every single day you train, you woke up at the point and we slowed it in to point and we got the training. I'm a misery against psychology. The thousand trillion pushups and nail clattles are what I heard. That's just don't go to jail and you won't have to do that kind of stuff. Every single day. What is your excuse? Ah, what is your excuse stuff? Look, training every single day is not a good idea again. Six days a week, four days, five days is better, but sure makes for good memes. And what else is? Enderate other than a good meme. I don't know. Welcome to the Tate Fitness Course. There's a Tate Fitness Course. I'm unbelievable. Now this fitness course has a very unique angle to it. And the angle to this course is staying in shape. Having a good physique, growing your strength in this little time as possible. Sounds really good. This is not going to be one of those courses that talks about, f***ing, this muscle, that muscle, eat this, eat that. There's nothing with actual content to information. Just hard core stuff. This tendon, this joint. There's like, I don't know any of that stuff. And I don't actually know things. I just want results. I'm uninterested in all of that shame. Even when I was a professional fighter, I was completely uninterested in all of those things. Almost all professional fighters are. I can assure you. Even as a world champion, I was uninterested. I believed in hard work and dedication. I don't understand how hard work and dedication are antithetical to knowing what you're doing. I'm supposed to be from mental band with this small enough, that's one or the other. And I believe in this muscle, that muscle, that muscle, that muscle, that muscle, that muscle. So looking for a fitness course is going to sit there, talk about a whole bunch of f***ing science. Science. And garbage. garbage. Yeah. And go buy another one. F***ing another one. No, wait, wait. Go buy another one. Hey guys, if you really liked that, what you might really like extra is our extended edition of this video. And I'm actually a lot of our videos occur in our member section. Hit that join button and you will be whisked away into a portal of magic and by magic I mean extended video additions are what you just saw. This is my fit to teach items to stay in shape. And the reason where my f***ing bedroom. My f***ing bedroom. His bedroom looks nice. You could take away the civil rights of at least 20, 15 year old Romanian sex workers there, I imagine. Have you get canceled? If you want to go to the gym and train for three or four hours a day, that's fine. Idiot. But I know a whole bunch of people who dedicate their personality to being a gym rat and having a good physique. But they don't have anything else. Okay. Apparently the other hours of the day, the three or four hours of the day is all of them and they don't have anything else. They just sit around and play video games or at the time, fine. What do you do with the rest of your time, Mr. Andrew Tate and Friends of yours? Okay, yeah, you're a shape. So. Nobody cares, right? Unless you're making money, I don't see the point that it can get back much time to it. Okay, that's a fair play. You gotta know what you're getting out of the gym and you can actually get a great physique if you have a minimal, list of, you know, intelligent pieces of equipment that you're using in an intelligent way. Let's find out if intelligent supplies here. Well, you need our two mats. Two mats? I bet you don't even need those, but we'll get to that, Miss Suckers. You need a bar, which you can pick up for 10 bucks. And you don't even need a lot of weight. I'm a strong guy. Really? In fact, I would damn guarantee I'm stronger than you. I'm likely. And I use 30 kilos of weight. Okay. Dope. Max. The mats are all for you. The mats are for your fools. Because I don't know if you're flooring into my mind, but I'm f***ing expensive. Yeah. The target demographic that buys these things probably does not have expensive flooring. But it's nice that he is expecting them to get richer over time. I'll still adhering to his work out routine, because they have all the time the world to get rich and import people against their will from various countries forcing them to have sex. But whatever else you do for money, I don't mind business. Or, you know, do other kind of entrepreneurial activities. Then you get the bar. Now, this is gonna look easy. Maybe because it is. I'm kidding. I don't even know what it is yet. But I promise you it's not. Promise received. So, I would actually recommend most of you people start. You people, what the f***? With 20 kilos. This is 30 kilos. The reason we do these two standard exercises is a lot of graphic and view of f*** rational. You're a seep. No. Those are such cool graphics. I liked that he didn't. Not really like science. And shit. But like he's got science graphics. Every muscle over the body. Your legs, your abs, shoulders, your chest, your arms. Everything's gonna be done with these two exercises. Really? So you start here. Burpee. Back. Lift it up. Over your head. Camera guy. We're doing. That's one. We're gonna do 25 of them. Okay, so a burpee supersetded to a knot. Athletic, clean and press. Does work a lot of the muscles of your body. Well, it's probably mostly cardio workout and doesn't really get you very jacked or very strong. If you're very out of shape and you want to become sort of skinny and have some muscle like entertainment, then that's fine thing to do. That's 25. So we can tell them about breath. We're probably better shaped than you. Probably better shaped than you. I love the advertising. This is a quite direct. You suck. What you could be like me if you did this? In fact, you're doing 30 kilos. Most of you won't be able to do that. So you can start 10 kilos, maybe 20 kilos. I like the progressive element that respect. Then 25 jumps. And aim with these jumps. They don't look pretty. So your knees up high. So. Either way more efficient ways of training whatever the f*** the jumps train than doing the jumps. And way less taxing on your joints and connective dishes. So. Almost anything else. Well, I do them. I'm attracting my hands up. Let's just, uh. Let me guess. From your kickboxing days, just good old muscle memory. Old fighting habit. Wow, how do I know that? This is great for his demographic because everyone and his demographic thinks they fight even though they don't. So again, they had f*** always keep my hands up rather than just f***ing. Because you know, like I've seen a couple of entertainment videos. I've kind of like a K1 fighter. Yeah. Yeah. If you're sitting there going, well, why burpees take? Which muscle does my dismiss maximum mean by f***ing shut up? Now that shit matters. Damn, they're not f***ing bodybuilders. You know, science keeps. You try to have a good physique. Good physique means you're building the body in a specific way. Which means your body builder now. And if you want to have the best physique, then you want to know what you're actually training. Which means you're a science geek. It turns out if you want a certain appearance, you are actually encouraged to think about it a little bit. And try to pay. I don't know what this has to do with making money. B*** by the way, for the record. Almost everyone who does this will not have a good physique. Andrew Tate did not get a good physique. Doing this, he got it training for years and years and years in combat sport and having generally good genetics comparable calorie intake to his expenditure and moves around a lot. That's it. My personal experience. Girls don't find a whole body builder shit attractive. Drew, they find money attractive and they also find the potential that you will sell them down the river and they'll never have homes again attractive too much. It's too much I'll back off. Let me tell you guys about the RP Hiperchography app. With over 28 preset programs already in the app, you can choose to make your own. You can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs exactly as they were written by a personal. This app programs everything for you. Exercises weights sets reps frequency, the whole thing. After every single workout and every single week, the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now you're pretty interested in the app? Download the RP Hiperchography app today. These dudes who do that bodybuilding shit. It's gay. Very good way to make a critique that has no substance at all. It's just call it a name. I'm in. How the f*** around changing weights? Changing weights. That's for science geeks. So what we're basically looking to do is three exercises in one set. I like that his facial expression during this video was like he was woken up at three in the morning and told to film this in prompt too. He's like this. Go on my f***ing face, bro. Why now you son? I'm up. So 10. Oh that's the worst technique I've ever seen. God damn I wasn't ready for that shit. Don't folks don't hide in your app right now. Open up into them, get your elbows up and out. That will train your shoulders like it's supposed to. It looks like he's dying in there. My lead to make these jokes a Jewish workout. He just like recorollet the bill. I. It's $100 for breakfast. I. The stock portfolio came back and you had less return than you want. I. All day. I'm here all day. Terrible. awful. And he's using his legs too. I don't know why he's trying to make it easier for a shoulders. Maybe he doesn't want jack shoulders. Adam. If I saw him doing this at the gym and you pointed him out, I didn't know who he was and you're like does that person know what he's doing? I would say no. No he does not. Straight away, change your grip. Straight away, mate. No f***ing wait for it. Just moving stuff around. I would make a critique but that would be filed under science and nerd and gay. Oh shit, that was so f***ing athletic. You guys ever seen some shit like that? That's world championship. I throw it up to change my grip. We're not comfortable with that. You can hold it and change it slowly. My hand in our reverse. Guess what the advantages of reversing your hands. You get to lift any slightly less comfortable position or accomplishing nothing on net balance. Now I'll change grip back to the original grip. Ah. So once again I throw it. Oh. I've seen more athletic catches in my life. And back again. Between those three exercises, that is all I use to stay in prestige this will condition. Yeah. Oh, think he looks exactly like he's in pristine physical condition. He's like a guy that like is tall and skinny and just like smokes a lot of cigarettes and drinks and sometimes hits the gym and you're like, yeah, Frank, he exists. Androate is probably great for hustler advice. How to pick out cigars and advice on how to take people who previously had genuine life trajectories and hopes and dreams for themselves and imprison them against their will at use them for sex. Other than that, I wouldn't go to him for work out advice because while it's not terribly wrong, you can do better almost anywhere. Anyway, if you're interested in your life, please don't beat me up. But um... 4 on 10. 4 to 10. 4 to 10. That's it. Don't cancel us. See you guys next time.

Boyle Boys isn't needlessly fancy and there's a lot of weird movement that isn't actually hard but looks cool which I think is really like how you train people on Hollywood. Hey, I'm Dr. Mike Isertel. I am the creator of the RP-Hitperturvy app and I'm Professor of Sport and Exercise Science Leeman College in the Bronx and I am going to critique the Batman workout. Comedically, let's get started. Hi, I'm Magnus Ligbach. The founder of the Magnus Method. This is my first time on Greta Thunberg. Look, get me in the face when I tell you this thine, my method is called what's a clever name. Magnus method, that sound fairy, I slandered a good love his valour sweatsuit too. I should have spireship. Let's find out what he knows about training. Wait, hold on. So the suit is a prop. Now, how heavy could it be? They wanted core stability for an action roll. I thought it would just be like get a big arms and big chest in a big back. Oddly utilitarian workout. Okay, let's get started. So we're going to start with a Sorry. That's not been a conflict. I assume it's a stand-in and also looks profoundly European in the best repossible. So the dumbbell front squat is probably one of the worst possible movements for leg hypertrophy and I can explain why using science. Holding a dumbbell on a front squat position is profoundly uncomfortable as evidenced by the profound discomfort that person is in right now with a dumbbell on their neck. You know, they have barbells for that sort of thing and they go behind your neck and it feels 10 times more comfortable and you can use more weight. He is correct that the core stability comes before the legs, but that is another way of saying that the limiting factor for this exercise is core stability preventing your legs from getting as good of a workout as they can. And you have minimum load on the spine. minimum load on the spine is good. If you want a fucking weak spine, we are in the gym too load the spine so it can become strong. And I'm never saying look, we want maximum load to the legs. While having minimum load to the spine, you have machines for that. It's called leg press. Also a belt squat and actually completely unloads your spine. This doesn't even completely unload your spine. By the way, probably the muscle that's most fatigued in this juncture is the bicep because it's so responsibility is to continue to do this motion so the dumbbell doesn't roll out. Our next exercise is a deadlift. What I love about the deadlift is that it will work your posterior chain and give you boost of both testosterone and idea one. So the deadlift is a great exercise for overall mass building especially in your back and upper back and stuff like that. The thing is for cosmetic effect for Hollywood actors. To remember, I know it's crazy but they don't actually have to be strong. People who can deadlift a ton are often kind of ghosts where they look super strong but then they pick up 600 pounds and you're like how because the spinal rectum muscles are muscles you don't see even, you know, unless you have a really tight t-shirt iron or something like that. So the deadlift doesn't fact boost your testosterone, IGF1. The thing is those are transient hormone increases. They increase really quickly and drop back down. It's a tiny amount. As far as area under the curve for the rest of the day it's essentially meaningless. We can corroborate that is meaningless in at least two ways. One direct literature on if such spikes of hormones actually correlate with growth from training has come out and it says that they don't. And the other problem with that is the real reason those things spike especially the IGF1 and growth hormone that spike around heavy compound movements is because growth hormone is many roles in your body and will them is a fuel liberator. It actually wants to put more fuel into your bloodstream so your working muscles get to use it. Its increase is doing that here and it's not burning fat and it's not building muscle. For growth hormone to do that it needs to be elevated for a long period of time like it is during sleep. But fall asleep while you're deadlifting. You could wake up and pain. Okay, our next thing. I don't know what a drop it is. Curiosity overwhelms me. This is an old kung fu exercise. Oh, it's a kung fu exercise. That makes sense. You know Batman as a martial artist. It's a lateral range. Fort Frost 2. Otherwise known as a kung fu drop set. Wait. Kyaaah! Because I think I was going to be that fast. Oh my, I take all of that back. Did you guys see that swim shit he did? So. Oh. All right. Now as an exercise of sports scientists, I can assure you the swim weird swim part does absolutely nothing to progress your goals. Nor does it teach you kung fu or make you better at fighting. But God damn it looks good. I'm doing it tomorrow at my gym because I need to have this. Must have exercise. So our next exercise is a squat to a kick. It's a great move to work legs and also open the kids flexors and balance. So Hunter's going to drop this. This is getting wacky. I don't know why we're in the gym anymore. Uh, was it to get in shape for a Hollywood role or to learn how to kick a bag? Some combination of both. That's also working your fast trick muscle fibers if you do it. It's close enough. So G was it's not actually working your fast twitch muscle fibers if you're doing it explosively. It is utilizing them. But because they do not meet great resistance, especially on the eccentric, it's not stimulating much hypertrophy in them. Uh, watch this. I'm going to work my fast twitch muscle fibers already. See how fast I did that? I actually has fast twitch muscle fibers. I think there was nothing resisting me really. So I'm not going to get jacked forms. Just catching flies. But I have caught a lot of flies in my day. Hey, hey, hey, hey, what's the amount you look? So our last exercise today is a lateral hollow rock. That sounds like some shit and mane that's haunted. Don't go to lateral, all wrong. Why not? There's ghosts there. This works your entire core. You're not really bending the spine. If you're not bending the spine, you're not working your entire core. Because you see the majority of the backside of your core exclusively exists to help resist spine bending. The front of your core exists mostly to bend in the spine. So in this exercise, we largely contract the core isometrically, which means muscle contraction has occurred, but not a lot of movement happens. And as actually isometric contractions are the least likely to cause muscle growth out of concentric, eccentric, and isometric contraction. So this is a profound, least possible, one of the least possible effective exercises for your abs. But boy oh boy, is it needlessly fancy? And there's a lot of weird movement that isn't actually hard, but looks cool. Which I think is really like how you train people on Hollywood apparently. So you guys just witnessed a typical day from the Batman program that I did with Ben Affick on Justice League. Obviously, there's more days in the program, but this is something you guys could do twice a week. And it's really going to help you with flexibility and leg strength. Not going to help you with flexibility unless you can't do a bodyweight squat, which they really kind of didn't either that. I cut his death. The to be fair, they only really did one movement that pushes your leg strength a lot. And that was the front squat thing with a dumbbell and that could be done with a barbell on your back with hundreds of more pounds. And would be way more effective and also less inconvenient. All right, Scott, the video guy says, I need to rate these workouts and give an overall impression. I would say that the on-range of motion, it was pretty good. I would say on exercise selection, as far as how stimulative the exercises are, how fatigued the exercises are, how efficiently the exercise use of time gets us to our goals. We should be striving for and how closely the exercise actually needs the whole program needs as far as I can tell to objectively targeting the goals we want for superhero Hollywood training. I'd give this one a solid 5 out of 10. I've out of 10. Some things it does really well and everywhere else it's major major gaps. All right, I've been Dr. Mike and I'll see you guys.

This is a pr... Haustrous choice for this movement. Only... ...la! Ah, this man is paid by Hollywood people. Hey folks, I'm Dr. Mike Isertel. I may exercise in sports science professor at Leeman College in the Bronx in New York City in the United States on planet Earth in the solar system in, uh, I forget which arm of the Milky Way galaxy. And... I'm also a competitive bodybuilder. And the creator of the RPI Purchipy app. And... Today I'm going to look at Bradley Cooper's training for his seminal role in American Cypher. I'm moving it. I really, really like. Let's find out how much science there is and spread the science away from the... ...not science. This is a term for that. It's called BS. I'm Jason Wallace. I'm a trainer in Los Angeles and I get actors ready for Jason Hello. My handsome. What am I saying? I mean it. And we literally have to sit down and figure out what the characteristics are of that role. The variables involved meaning like are they going to be in the desert? Or are they going to be... What? The next skill. You're going to train someone differently because they're going to be in the desert? Does that mean like more unstable training for sleeping on sand? Ah! My brain! They're going to be carrying heavy weight, you know, an extra... ...except of being carrying heavy weight and exoskeleton. You mean like a fucking prop that isn't actually heavy? And how fizzle is the role. But I like how when they said it was a physical role, he zoomed in on a woman in a blue dress, just kind of just jazzing. So physical, watch me move my hips. Believe or not? What we're doing is really helping these guys with character building. I want to enforce that kid. I want them to feel... What we're doing is really helping these guys with character building. When you are training for a acting role, there is scarcely anything inside of a well-air conditioned, Los Angeles private training studio for celebrities is going to help you get into the role of being like a superhero, or a sniper and combat. Anything remotely of that nature, your job's sir is to just get people to look a certain way, and maybe be able to physically perform stunts and other things. But generally a wake, competent, adult humans without any severe injuries can do that second part. The first part is really just all about looks. I want them to feel super free of any type of psychological like hindrances. Psychological like hindrances are such a bad thing. Bradley Cooper came to me through John Cresdenski and he got this big role who 125 pounds military guy, highly respected and decorated. Bradley Cooper, 185 pounds wet, novice, never trained. Okay, so far I'm so old the us senior needs to gain weight. The first eight weeks that we were doing two days. I mean we had a lot. Two a day training to gain weight, curious. Very advanced. Well, I don't want to see what he's doing here. I decided that this was the move, the trap bar deadlift, that we were going to pretty much make the foundation of everything. Okay, so the trap bar deadlift at a off of blocks is a movement that comes close to being the worst possible exercise you can do for putting on lots of muscle safely. Why? It trains so much of the body at the same time that there's no specific muscle it pushes to its limits and thus elicits a lot of muscle growth. The leverage position you're in is to be able to lift the most weight that you possibly can with your body. So in order to stimulate a lot of your muscles so diffusely as to not stimulate any of them really well, you need to impose the maximum amount of spinal loading. And that just seems like a risk reward ratio that doesn't make any fucking sense. In addition to that, by doing only partial reps at the top end of the movement, you were avoiding entirely the deep, painful stretch at the bottom of almost every exercise that causes the most muscle growth. This is a posturist choice for this movement. Holy, la! This man is paid by Hollywood people. There's two variables here that I can play with and that is the range of motion. Yes, you're playing with it wrong. It's safe. And we started a high position. We started a light. Starting in a low position is not unsafe. It just feels it because you're weak. As I see him progressing, it better. We can take those down so we got Bradley really strong. Alright, this could have been worse. He could have just done partial deadlift the entire time. Although really he is doing partial's the entire time. As I still see that it's elevated, Bradley did do the partial deadlift in the movie. I do remember that, as his character. And I've scoffed it at that and I continue to scoff at it now. So it's good that he lowered the range of motion but he would be better off just starting him very deep range of motion. It would have provided more of a muscle growth stimulus so that he could gain more actual muscle and less other stuff that we're not interested in getting. We actually ended up towards the end of it lifting little over 425 pounds. Or 25, that's good. From an elevated position, I don't know how elevated it was. It's good. It's not amazing but that the three cheers for Bradley Cooper and trainer. That's very impressive. You cannot fake the way 400 pounds feels when you lift it off the ground. Good news, it didn't lift it off the ground in the movie or in the scene. Who says shit like this? He would come in in the morning, 6am. He would train for an hour or a half. He would go home and recover. He would come back. We'd do a lot of the volume training and the afternoon. He'll as the first training for if the volume training, less of guys. I could call myself an expert on muscle growth and that would be accurate. That's me being cocky. The volume training or training the muscles with this efficient stimulus in order to get them to grow, is the onlyest type of training that you need to put on muscle size for a Hollywood role. And the other training you're doing is interfering with that. If you go at home and recovering for the actual important workout later, you could just start it with the important workout and recover the rest of the day and make plenty of food and gain all that weight. He didn't need to get ripped. He needed to get big. And that's a big difference. Not a big difference. The training is almost exactly the same. The diet is the difference. There's no way in how that guy was going to eat as many calories as he needed to put that kind of mass on. So we had to drink the calories. So I just progressed it week by week to take the calorie intake week one at start of 2000. I think somebody like Bradley Cooper size probably eats more than 2000 calories anyway. So it was a deficit week one week two, 2500 calories. It's probably more like maintenance for him week three at 3000 is probably a slight surplus. Week four at 3500 is a very good surplus. He should have just been doing that the entire time. And week five, but 4000 is probably just putting out a lot of fat and not much more muscle than 3,500 would. That's my best guess. Week six, 4,500 to just make you feel like shit and get even fatter. Amazing. Okay, so we got a little bit of insight on mostly just the partial deadlift that was happening there with the hex bar. Terrible movement for hypertrophy. Maybe one of the worst. I did lower the range of motion in the end and I was starting to feel it. And he said picking up 400 pounds off the ground which never happened once. I don't know much about the training plan because the training plan was never displayed just said volume work. The diet was funky. I just want Hollywood people to know that there are like infinitely more qualified people. And not to take anything away from the gentleman that is the trainer. I'm sure he has great success in his all and Hollywood chip like that. But folks go to school and learn things. Please watch our videos. Watch anyone's videos. Learn stuff. 4 out of 10 out of the kindness of my heart for that workout scene. American Cypher is great. I'll see you guys next time.

Feel pretty good today for legs. Got your good workout. Hey Chris, what's a workout? Oh, that's right. You're Canadian. I've never met a single Canadian who's a bad person. No way Greg just doesn't exist. All right guys, I'm here with Greg to set fire! Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. I'm a professor of exercise and sports science. The co-creator of RPI, Perchv app, link in the description. If you want to download by the app. Any Lamborghinis and my botlers refuse to buy them with their own money. I know, it's rude. Today, I'm going to be trying to increase my Lamborghini fund by critiquing very gingerly, very gently. And with all the best positive intentions, Mr. C. Bum's leg workout. Let's see what this leg workout looks. A few weeks leading up to his Mr. Olympia debut. debut Jesus Christ is fifth debut at the Mr. Olympia where he is crowned a champion for the fifth time. Huge congratulations to C. Bum. Let's look at his leg training. Let's see if he can science leading crap out of it. And learn a few things, huh? Do you guys want to go on a magical journey with me? And not the kind that you get into my unmarked man. Just where you sit and you watch your television screen. We all get to judge C. Bum together. As he lives his life in a state of perfection and we're all envious. Yeah, let's do it. You're going to start off with quality sensors, as always. I'm not trying to rewrite anything new. I'm trying to hit any records that's for the name sure right now. It's a really good idea. Not to try a lot of weird new stuff, especially hit any crazy PRs when you're prepping for a show. You just kind of want to keep your strength roughly stable. I'm going to also say in my personal opinion, especially with some of the pharmaceutical preparations that folks like this take into a show, we find yourself considerably stronger and more capable all the way up to even several weeks before the show. So I think it's okay to hit PRs, but they have to be really, really tiny ones. And ideally, PRs on reps are not on load. If you train really hard, you will conserve all of your muscle and step on stage really well. If you train extracts, you might build one percent more muscle and you usually would in that phase, or even 5% more muscle, which in the grand scheme is like less than 1% total muscle added to your body, but your probability of injury and excessively high fatigue that leads to a poor look at the show or not making the show at all multiplies considerably. So on a trade-offs is just not worth it. So it's one of these things that's like, is it a good idea to talk to girls, try to get to know them and go on dates? Yes. If you are at an international airport and you're trying to run on to a flight while Godzilla is destroying the city behind you, is that a good time to slow down and talk to the girl next to you? Probably not. It's all about trade-offs. Godzilla. What a fun time. I dropped some weight, so I'm officially under 250 now, which made me a lot like a pound and I could feel it in my body as tired. And I'm getting drier, so I'm starting to protect my joints a little bit more and not hurt myself. But... Ooh, what's up, primed leg curl? A great machine. And he's using it properly because he has most of the weight at the top, which as far as my understanding of leverage is concerned, means that he's going to be experiencing a lot less force at the top of the movement than at the bottom, force bias towards the deep stretch. Is now... I'll see, seemingly scientifically proven to be superior, so this is great. Well, actually, I take that back. I just saw that he had more weight on the bottom hook, or maybe that's not the case. I'd have to see a zoom dot version to be sure, but looks like he's choosing either an even force curve or a force curve that even peaks at the very top. I'm not a big fan of. Yeah, JK, I take that all back. It looks like he has most of the load in the middle peg, which as you can see, the middle peg creates the biggest lever arm and respect to gravity at the very top of the movement, close to lockout. And then all the way at the bottom, it actually sagged down to where it's roughly in parallel with the connector junction, the original point of rotation. And there's almost no load being imposed on that, maybe just a little bit on that other 45. But as you get closer and closer to lockout, gravity becomes more and more influential due to vectoring. And so this actually is probably not ideal. Again, I just want to preface all of the critiques here with all the respect in the world of C-Bomb. I think it's a phenomenon, lastly, I think he looks essentially like the perfect man. And that's exactly why he's a five-time classic physique, Mr. Olympia. But we can all do a little bit better. And there are some insights here and there that could maybe improve almost anyone's physique. And if you ever get too bogged down in the idea that, well, why don't you look like that, Mike Slash seems to work for him. I'd ask you to consider the fact that let's take champions from the 60s and 50s in the 40s. Some of these guys looked not even as good on drugs as today modern natural bodygovers look. And you ask why, there's a lot of reasons. One of them is the fact that we know more about how to train more properly. And we know more about recovery, nutrition, etc. So if you say like the champions cannot be wrong, the champions have to have a hundred percent of exactly what works for them. It's unlikely to be the case. And it's possible that even some lowly form of such as myself can make apt critiques on the margins, which could improve someone's training a little bit. So all of my critiques of Mr. C-Bomb here are not critiques of like, more on should I or next? Should I say it's pressed right, is shit, Vulcan 88 clear? The guys won 5 Olympias. Genetics or stellar. His work ethic or stellar. It actually seems like a super super nice guy in general. And what he's training, how he's training is generally very effective in works very well. That doesn't mean we can't learn from examining everyone's training, including my own, as to how things could be done better. So just the toughest that further, very mean sounding critiques on my part. The three sets. And then when I felt like really like, my most connection was like belt through the set. I was just doing the lockout portion to really squeeze up into my upper quad and hip. Making sure I'm just getting a really tight contraction and I would do that for like five reps. The tight contraction seems to be a scientific inquiry, who wildly overrated. So emphasizing the deep stretch seems to be like a good idea for net growth. Emphasizing the peak contraction seems to interact comparisons and science. Not result as much growth as either forage motion or emphasizing that bottom stretch position. It could be, Chris could be on something. In this particular context, for this particular body, this could be a net benefit situation or net marginal benefit compared to other ways of training. But I'm skeptical about that. Get yours now. Like press squat press, whatever you want to call this. Again, filling it up into my hip, right here, super deep into my quad. When I rack it at A-RF's, rest-pause, 10-15 second rest, go get in the failure just to get even more than 12 reps out of it. It's got idea, my reps work great. So it's not bad technique at all. If I was critiquing here, what I would love to see is Chris, maybe put on some weightlifting shoes to get extra heel support and thus increases incommodility. If that's a limiting factor for him, just in case, I recommend that to most people. Then to slide his feet as low on the platform as he possibly can, while his heels are still producing as much power as possible and still in contact with the platform. So he's a feeder up in the middle top side of the platform. I'd love to see them as low as possible. And that would allow him to have less degree of hip flexion. You train a lot of glutes and lower back, leg pressing like this. But you want to train quads, which means you want as much knee flexion as possible. So if you take your foot and you lower it on the platform, you get more knee flexion in that way you get a better quads stimulus now. The downside of that, so to speak, is that you don't, you can't use as much weight as you normally would. Chris is using all the weight in the gym, so not a problem for him. If he would used to use less weight, he would have to spend less time putting plates onto an off the machine. So that's actually independently for teaking. And it's also that position is just overall less stressed through your body, less forced, and probably better for all your joints. So something definitely to consider if you're training like press like this in your own spare time with your workout routine. Damn, his calves look sweet. That's like eight calves and that motherf***er. How does that work? I will say the control is very good. I would love to see a bigger return motion. Obviously, you guys know how we do on this channel. But the fact that he's not locking out of the top means that he's some eating lactate metabolites and that'll absolutely cause a decent amount of growth. And in addition to that, he's not doing kind of crazy explosive pulse reps. He seems to be doing relatively slow eccentric controlled concentrics. Just awesome, especially at this time in his prep, because as he gets closer and closer to looking your best, your probability of injury does tend to go up and he's controlling the weight very well. I would like to see him pause at the bottom. If you slow down towards the bottom and pause, take a second and then come up not only does it suddenly even more metabolites, it burns the shit out of your quads. It's really quite terrible. But also, it reduces the amount of force that occurs from the transition, the transition from eccentric to concentric. That phase, technically, is called a amortization phase, especially if you're doing plyometrics. But the more plyometric light movements look, the quicker the amortization phases, the higher the peak forces are. This is from direct force platform testing that I've actually conducted myself in the past. So the absolute highest amount of force in a squat, for example, is seen bar non with essentially everyone that we've ever tested in the bottom of the squat in that little peak. That's super high force when you hit the bottom and come back up. That's a good thing because that maximum force of the stretch grows a shitload of muscle. But it's also a bad thing in context because close to a show, that's the absolute highest peak force you'll ever supply to the body at that point. And it is when the tissues are stretched maximally, those two things added together means a probability of injury is though very low still in an absolute sense in a relative sense as much higher than it could be. So especially when if someone has Chris Bum said strength, especially if he can overcome any stimulus deficiencies by just doing a few more reps or one or two more sets of this movement, I would love to see him slow down to a full pause at the bottom and then come back up. I think that could be a really good thing. I like to do this Bell Squad at least once a week, depending on what I'm doing in my hamster or quadale do it on either day. And in my spine got a little bit crush of doing overhead press. On this thing was like two and a half plates. I kind of overarge a little bit too much in my back like hyper extended. I've definitely done that a bunch on a red press. So it was a little sore and this is honestly pulled in the opposite direction. So another reason I'm doing that, fix my back, it's some fucking big old meat sticks for legs. The Bell Squad is a superior form of exercise for the quadriceps and I'll tell you why. There is a term in sport science called Axial fatigue. It is the fatigue that isn't posed on you when you have weights pushing down on your spine. If your spine gets compressed, the increases amount of Axial fatigue is not a bad thing, but it'll cost you because it's very dependently fatiguing. That means that first Axial fatigue contributes lots of systemic fatigues. So if you do a lot of heavy squatting versus leg pressing, you're going to get a lot more fatigued out of the squatting because it involves all the muscles and stabilize the spine and that's especially fatigued to the whole system. In addition to that, it severely saps your energy to do more things than are axially loading. For example, good mornings or stuff like a deadlift or bent overrobes. If you cook yourself with quad movements like squats and front squats, for example, that are actually fatiguing within the total Axial fatigue a lot meant you have for a week, which is a theoretical number everyone has just might not know it. You can't do as much to flag a deadlifting and as much Bat-Royal, a Bat-Royal and as much good morning, as you normally would, so then you're paying a trade-off in the other direction of like, well, my back training is not going to be as great because I used my back too much for leg training. Again, barbell squatting and Smith machine squatting is incredible in context, but a huge advantage of the belt squat is that because the belt is positioned to the very bottom of your spine and almost all the force transduces through your hips and below, you've essentially avoid Axial fatigue altogether. The stimulus to fatigue ratio of belt squats, if you do them especially, can be just straight up in my view some of the highest around. It's not true for everyone, but for many people I believe the SFR of belt squats can be superior in most cases, on average, to many other leg exercises. So if this isn't a leg exercise you've used before, I would highly encourage you to try it. Let's see how to see about me using this and see if we can give any pointers to get your hands a little bit closer towards neurotic perfectionism that results in bigger muscles, but no one wants to be your friend because you're an asshole and you have no friends and you're alone all the time. Sometimes you cry about it, but sometimes it's not even anyone to cry to, so I even put on the act. Just keep that rage inside and just f***ing just f***ing. Hey guys, if you want more uncut raw, unedited, too hot to share on YouTube version of this, then consider joining our membership for this channel and you get all the crazy stuff plus a lot more educational content every single week. See you there. That's really good depth. That's really really good depth and I'm here for 100%. This is great. The cadence is awesome, control in the way down, control in the way up, and a gentle pause at the bottom. This is a plus work. If I didn't know anything about lifting, I would look at this exercise. It asked you asked me what muscles are training. I'd be like, the hamstrings and you'd be like, why? I'm doing look at them shit, man. Well, f***ing hamstrings got hamstrings. He's got a little mini hamstring under his hamstring. You can see from the side of the f***ing, I didn't see that shit in an anime class. Guess that's what happens when you went a bunch of Olympias. Just grow different muscles. What you got now is he was pausing and now he's not pausing anymore because I think it's just getting really tough and pausing is really hard. That's my suspicion. That's why I stopped pausing sometimes. A little of this that because I'm like f***ing that, I didn't get out of here. I encourage you guys that if you start to set with pauses, continue to pause all the way through. Will that allow you to get more reps? No, fewer reps, but it'll maximize the stimulus and minimize the 15. Ooh, Smith machine squats. Holy crap, that's deep. I like it. So he's going full depth. He's not quite locking out, which means the tension stays in the quads, which as an argument just from tension is not sense because if you lock out the tension goes away when you unlock and go back down, the tension comes back. The total time you can get over the course of the set because you get the extra rest breaks, still the same amount of tension. However, when you fail to lock out, you can sequestrate more metabolites in your quads. They don't have a chance to lead. That metabolite sequestration causes them metabolites directly to sunny, to much higher levels and those have been shown scientifically to actually cause growth pathways to activate. So if you can get the crazy crazy quadburn by not quite locking out, it isn't the best strategy in the world. It isn't the only strategy in the world, but it's a great strategy in order to maximize muscle hypertrophy. So I'm like in seeing him do it here. The only downside is brutal is f**k because you're like, I like the idea of squatting all the way down to super great depth, coming back up, locking out and getting a quick mental break from the pain before I go again. But if you don't lock out at the top, it's like, nah, fam, you just continue to be in the pain and blows dick, but it's worth it. Like many things that revolve the penis and blowing it. I think if when you're doing it, it's like, oh, this sucks. But then after your friends were like, hey, that was great. Here's a hundred bucks and a cab fair. Go home. rethink your life. We're just doing it again. The next weekend. That's what I say. What? Scott, is this the good girl, a bad girl machine? Good girl machine because it forces you to close your legs against resistance. So if there's a sociological resistance, later, and closing your legs, like, got the porous, the gaze, daisy, heard you were DTF. And she's like, nah, when she closes her legs, the sociology, the situation, because, you know, the guy hitting on you, Mr. Popular, any big man on campus, you're like, I don't know. I kind of want to open my legs. But at the same time, I'm like, I want to be, what's that term? Scott's video guy, chast. Right? I was going to say if your name is chastity, no offense. This is just a joke. There's a very high probability that you are anything other than chast. In my experience. Being purely theoretical, I've never seen or talked at woman. But anyway, these are adductor focused exercises and they're quite good. If you need adductor development, I will say from most people, I think, those exercises, not necessary. And could actually be overkill on how much it exposed their adductors. If these people, especially go really deep with good foot position, where there are knees, slide out as they go really deep on hacksquats, leg presses, especially lunges and definitely squats of all kinds. So adductor work here, I don't think is really necessary. It's like deadlifting, doing bent-over rows and doing stiff leg at answer good morning. And then also being like, I think I need more work for my lower back. It's like, do you? Maybe not. Maybe you do. So we do flexion rows for the lower back. Sometimes if you need extra volume, C-bomb was doing adductor machines. So in his context, I'm sure he's intelligent enough to determine if like the adductor is a little midi factor. If they're not healing on time and interfering with his workouts, I'm sure he'd stop doing this. So it's just a very good movement in context. If you're doing these, I actually recommend something a little bit different than when he's doing's almost the same. But I would recommend is a very slow eccentric, obviously, for the good reasons of hypertrophy maximizing stimulus to fatigue ratio and reducing the probability of injury. But not only that, but slow eccentric's as well as deep pauses, and pause for two seconds at the bottom, trying to get a little lower each time, actually not only strengthens and bullet proofs to some extent to your adductor's from injury. And there's a very not fun muscles to get hurt. And it's also a little finicky adductor's are pretty prone to injury. Kind of like hamstrings. I'm not only adding in the just pulling and like god damn it, not only is that the case with that kind of work where you're going as deep as you can and then holding at the bottom for a second, but not holding in a position, just holding and then allowing the weight to pull you out even a little more. So you do a whole rep, go slow, at the bottom, hold for two seconds, which means you just put in a position and then gently let the weight pull you apart. Every rep you're going to get a little deeper, it's actually excellent mobility slash flexibility work for the adductor's. The more flexible your adductor's can be, the less the learning factor, there will be on squats and leg presses and lunges, the more they'll potentially the growth of the rest of your leg and it's ball our growth for the adductor's itself. It's both better for growth and better flexibility, a highly encouraging to give that some thought. Hey, Chris, what's a workout? Oh, that's right, you're Canadian. In the great United States where bald eagles are technically in charge, I believe. It's a workout, but in Toronto, it's a workout. And that's pretty cool, actually. I've never met a single Canadian who's a bad person. No way Greg just said exists. All right, guys, I'm here with Greg to set up. All right, folks, that was really fun. I had a great time watching Seabump Train Legs. My mind was stimulated and even my distal anatomy was stimulated. If you're an anatomy fan, figure out what that means in your spare time. Grating a Mr. Olympia is very difficult. Because it's just better than all of us. So I'm not creating a music which to me is a 12 out of 10. It's revolutionary. It's changing the structure of our support. Literally, structure, make about it. But this training I would give, any .5 out of 10. Great on the basics. Great on the control. Foundations, awesome. The arrangement of the exercises, awesome. That 1.5 or 2 points missing there is just little nuances, little splitting hairs kind of stuff that would love to see. Slowly, centrics, more pauses, a bit more control. And really, it's just about it. Otherwise, it's great. So I would say great, but not perfect, unlike his physique, which is actually perfect. And hopefully we'll have an opportunity to look at more videos like this in the future where I criticize people that look 50 times better than me and try not to throw up from wild hypocrisy. See you guys next time. Well, if you guys like this video, YouTube thinks you like this one and we tend to agree so give it a click and let the fun continue.

Start off with squats for your legs. A new jewel for Hollywood. Andy here's going to show us some good squat technique. I've never asked you for much God. Just this once. Let things go well. F***. F***. F***. F***. F***. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Anastonspirodization. And the creator of the RPI Purgeur Fiat and a professor of exercise and sports science at Lehman College in the Bronx. And today, Chris Pratt is on the menu. Oh no, I saw that a little wrong. In any case, we're going to see what his training looks like and maybe even what his diet looks like and use our crazy RPI expertise to see if he is awesome. Me or Kim Kardashian. Let's get into it. I have a good time. Duffy Gavre. Looks really jacked. First observation. Second of all, Duffy is not a real name. What's your real name, sir? Mike Bob Jim Eric. Duffy is a last name. Maybe. I'm kidding. It's a fine names, sir. Let's find out what you know. CrossFit coach and trainer. CrossFit coach and trainer. That could either be really good or really bad. I wonder. That worked a lot for Marvel. Some of the slubbries I've trained in three grads. Hit. Who we strained Brad Pitt? I've done things with Brad Pitt's picture that you could call training because they're physical. There's a lot of sweating, a lot of having a puffing. My forms are pumped. I have a lot of guilt. Toby McGuire. Toby McGuire. Delicious. Straight. Aren't I? Canning Tatum. Channing Jesus. All this dreamboat express. Duffy. You have a real name, sir. I'm jealous of it. And you. Chris Hemsworth. Chris Hemsworth. Oh my. Lord. This is, this is guy is like, I got. He's just got the dream job. That's what the fuck I'm doing with my life sitting in a fucking YouTube studio. Damn it. Oh, the joy hasn't. Scarlet Johansson. Scarlet Johansson can stay. You feel me? Even though I'm on my gay vibe right now. Black widow or whatever. Sure. He could be any color you want. Chris Brad. Today I'm with you. Alright, Chris Pat finally. The person we're talking about. When I started training Chris regarding to Gallic. He had just come off a roll where he got the tickle of the out of shape. Oh yeah, those Chris Pat pictures are him out of shape. No, when I see them and he's like kind of confidently showing it off. I think in a study is like, I'm a fucking multimillionaire famous person. All of you who gives a shit. Could you imagine coming up Chris Brad? Like man, you look like shit. Like yes, I'll just buy you out so you never say that again. Got it. Okay, I guess you're in my life now. His transformation on his effort is huge. He's a dedicated guy. Dedication and look at those pictures. My God. I think one of the misconceptions about how to love his train is that it's different than how you would train. I wonder how those misconceptions come to be when a fucking men's health puts up celebrity training videos that are pure nonsense. But when you think about it, a lot of people in the gym actually also train in a purely nonsensical style. So, Duffy may be correct on both grounds. I guess it's true to say that just like regular people, some of them train like total shit, and some of them train quite well. Let's find out where Chris Brad is on that very short spectrum. Dr. Z's getting in shape has to do with going in Boston, Yasin, general. So I'm going to take you through a quick full body workout for the getting shaped like Chris and other eyeless actor. Duffy's like, I don't like being on camera. Get it out of my face. I'll just say minimally what I have to, and I'm not going to smile about it either. Dope, that was a real squat. Start off with squats for your legs. Unusual for Hollywood. Almost two effective, two direct. And here's going to show us some good squat techniques. Okay, he's a cross for coach. I'm expecting these to be good squats. I've never asked you for much God. Just this once. Let things go well. In that. We want to keep your chest up. Get your butt down. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Duffy. My man. Keep the back nice and straight. That's about as perfect as they come. Yeah. Ladies. There's no better way to improve your legs or rear. Very important to get your hip up under you and completely open it to top of the beach or have. Check. Check. Big green fat check mark. Amazing. Next. So my favorite back exercise for building thickness in my clients is one on dumbbell rows. So any is going to show you how to. Right. It's done. Duffy tip. Use as much weight as you can handle. This is very not Hollywood. This is awesome. And the technique is great. Big stretch at the bottom. Control the centric on the weight of the bottom. Touching your ribs at the very top. Oh, man. Duffy tip. Keep back straight and stick butt out. Again, agreed on all counts. This is just good old hardcore. Great technique lifting to get jacked. Damn. No wonder Chris Pratt is an amazing shape. His trainer is the f***ing man. His trainer and my job is to be a guy. He said my job is to be a guy. I thought for a second he said as a trainer. It's my job to be a guy. I can't. Now we're going to do bicep curls with bar. Yeah. Barbell bicep curls. I f*** love it. Hardcore awesome classic movement. Works super well. Amazing. This is great. Probably the single most efficient way to build arms. That guy's arms are pretty big too. So another great exercise is the dumbbell flies. Very old school. We've got a perfect example of dumbbell flies. The dumbbell fly looks great. She's controlling the eccentric. Nice and slow. Low pause at the bottom. Excellent. No critiques. Now we're going to do some bench press. Which is about as good as you get for a building chest. Bensh press is one of the best exercises for chest growth. Pause. If you don't like it if it hurts your shoulders or whatever, it's not the only exercise that goes to chest really well. There's tons of others. But if you can get a big peck pump and a big peck stretch and your shoulders and elbows feel okay. Barbell benching. Barbell benching is amazing. And it built the proponderance of my peck size. Do you guys have a walk around the mall or something going out to eat? You just have to check on your peck to make sure this still there. I can't just do that. I can't do it. I'm good. I'm good. It's a bad dream. Like a nightmare. Oh no. And they're gone. I start crying. I wake up crying. Every other day. Alright folks. If you liked that video, you might like the extended edition with all the nasty stuff we can't say on YouTube. Cut in. The member section is yours for that. Give it some thought and maybe you can join. Also works there. Look at that. He's touching all the way down. It's as if Duffy actually knows things. Amazing. Hollywood. You should be training with Duffy. If you're not, you should be training with Duffy. Do you have another trainer? Fire them? Go to Duffy. Your trainer's pretty good and you love him. Pink slip and his locker. Your fired Duffy's my man. The fun delts. Try it. And you're going to. Wait wait. What's your trainer's name? It's Duffy now. Do you have perfect technique? Because that's what you know. This is excellent technique. You'll notice these retracting shoulder blades. He's lifting his chest up. He's slowly controlling the weight for a nice pause. Right at the actual chest itself for a deep stretch. And then he's returning in an athletic way all the way to full lock out. This is wonderful stuff. These folks are really, really lucky to have Mr. Duffy as a trainer. And it says Duffy tip. Do not bounce bar on chest. Perfect. Why no bounce? One is you're needlessly causing traumatic stress to your tissue. And two, debouncing makes it easier. You want it harder at the bottom. I'm not easier. You want to use muscular power instead of. Reflex action. So now we're going to go over the ab mat. Sit up. You just want to bring your back. Go down far enough. You don't want your butt to come off the floor. And then back up. That's great. The ab mat sit up allows you to get into a great degree of Expinal extension. This stretches the abs. Put them in a mechanically deseptant Tages, but also very muscle growth promoting position. And then you can curl back in. Get the full range of motion. This is an excellent exercise. And for most folks that just want to get in great shape. This is kind of all you need for abs. This is awesome stuff. There's not a single exercise here yet, which is not a great exercise. These are all great exercises. All taught very, very well. And if you want to copy someone's training in Hollywood, Chris Pratt's demand because Mr. Duffy isn't his corner. And then down. Oh man, they're holding at the top two. And control the eccentric. Music to my ears. That's one version of a full body workout. The important thing is less the workout. And more about what you bring to the workout. You're really a desire to just put it again. Bringing your A game. Dope. Although the workout is important, Mr. Duffy just takes for granted that he knows things and isn't the f*** idiot like most other Hollywood trainers. Want to look like an A-list actor. Then you got to show up and you got to train hard. If you're easy, everybody's made sure. Again. F-H-1. Thank you for still existing. Alright. This is actually Chris Pratt doing the one I'm wrote. I suppose Duffy perfected for him. Not bad. I would like to see a little bit more eccentric control. But otherwise, very good. Okay? Those are the world's worst pull-ups. Duffy, where are you at? Your boy's f***ing up. No full stretch. No reliable range of motion. Just not a whole lot for the back to be doing here. I would like to see assistant pull-ups are pulled-out and if Mr. Chris Pratt's not strong enough to do some real actual pull-ups. Actual real pull-ups, the good kind. You stretch all the way down. Big stretch at the bottom. Let everything loose and then come all the way up. Getting your chin roughly around the bar. Even up higher if you want. Oh wow. This is a news clip. Pumping up. Chris Pratt does push-ups at the gas station. There you go. Those are terrible push-ups in the mid-range of motion. I have no idea why he's doing them. Somebody drugged test that man and it's not for steroids. For psychoactive drugs like mushrooms or acid. Maybe even like day three of meth. Sometimes you just gotta get a f***ing pump though. It must be really weird being a Hollywood celebrity. Because like, everyone kind of knows you. Like, the guy back there is probably a f***ing Chris Pratt. Aren't you? I hated the f***ing guardians movie. I hate what you do with the script. I don't write the script. Hey, shout-up on f***ing talk. And you listen anyway. What you should have done is told that one green girl. You know, this has to be a daily occurrence. In the view of work with Chris, you mentioned at the beginning of the interview that he was a little on the heavier side when you first met him. First of all, I can hear a f***ing mid-Lens accent from England any f***ing day of the week. A country. And it... When you started actually treating him and what went his fitness levels like and how did you go about improving them? When he did zero to 30, I think he dropped down. I think he dropped probably 30 pounds or so. 30 pounds is a lot. Poor that role. And that's his hard work. You know, we cleaned up diet. We got him on the intermittent fasting hours. You know what I'm fasting works just fine? We have a few videos on how to optimize it if you'd like to click through. It's cool. It's not going to be ideal for preserving muscle perspective because your body likes to feed relatively often on protein in order to well have protein in its muscles. But not the worst thing in the world. So I did something called intermittent fasting. And I ate from noon to about 6pm. That was my window to eat. New into 6pm is a curious time when to which to put your feeding window unless you're going to sleep early. Why? Because typically you can fall asleep better if your stomach is full of food. Especially in a hypocoloric fat loss diet. So if you go to bed at like normal even time, which is generally clear or sort of 11pm, it's 5 hours without eating. That's right when you start to get really hungry and how the fuck are you supposed to go to sleep. I would prefer the intermittent fasting. Feeding window to be from something like, you know, G4 to 10pm or something like that. And what did I eat in that time? What did you eat? Mr. Chris Pratt. Pretty much just healthy boring stuff. Healthy boring stuff. Some fucking honesty on Hollywood. There was a lot of chicken breasts. There was a lot of lean protein. A lot of vegetables. I might have like corn tortillas with some eggs. A lot of avocado. Good clean healthy fats. Tons of coffee. Black. Lots of coffee. You're not a big diet. You want the energy. You want the focus. You want the appetite suppression. Coffee is great. I like it cowboy. You know, I drink with coffee black. Yes. Yes. There are many ways to be like a cowboy. One minor one is to drink black coffee. Do I copways or don't for that I suppose. Since he was playing a seal, you know, it was very important to what I call being combat shape. Interesting. Let's listen in. You have the movie look in, you know, ripped up and shade. But we live. The seals were on the go so much where we don't have a gym everywhere we go. Accurate. You know, a lot of times we only have a set of dumbbells. And there's times where we don't have that. But you can use the find a place to do pull ups. You can always find a place to do squats. You can always find a place to do pushups. You know, and so that's really what we adopted for this training. It's kind of interesting. You know, typical special forces operators don't look like Arnold Schwarzenegger so Vester Stallone. Those are more like bodybuilder looks. They actually look like fit and healthy men. And they're often like pretty lean. Though sometimes not super lean. They have some muscle, but not a ton of muscle. They're endurance capabilities are really high. They can sprint really fast. They can jump. They can do pull ups and pushups and stuff. That they're really the thing they're paid to do the most is put your side on target and pull the trigger really fast. And then re-analyze the situation and do that over and over again. The fitness is a little bit secondary and they're absolutely not being judged in that physique. So when the movies have like action stars with pop delts and bicep veins, you know, no offense. But he's still looking at the f***ers. Like this, not what a special forces operator typically looks like. Real operators are typically quite a bit shorter. Usually way something like 180 pounds instead of like 240. And they don't look exceptional externally, but when shit gets popping, they're going to kill you. Did you actually work on his psychology in order to make that a replica essentially of what a seal would go through? And working on this psychology pretends psychology is an actor. You can't get hard enough like a seal unless you go actually seeing live combat after you successfully pass bud straining. Let's see what this gentleman has to say. And then yeah, we have those conversations of you know, really like, hey, we don't have to do this. We get to do this. Like this is something we get to do. That's a really good point. You don't have to do this. You get to do this. Working out is a technically a leisure activity. It is entirely voluntary. And if you're having trouble motivating yourself to work out, understand that it is a privilege. You get to enhance your health and your quality of life and your appearance by doing something that also enhances your psychology and your pain tolerance and makes you happier at the end of it. So don't try to push yourself towards working out. Think of what working out really is. And it'll pull you towards it. You'll want to do it. There is no avoiding hard training if you want to grow. But if you want to grow the most, your training needs to be hard and smart. RP hypertrophy app will make sure you're progressing on track, monitoring and adjusting your workout at all times. So for all that work you're doing, you can be sure you're getting the best results. When I was a, Oh, f*** man's health. On Avengers and he had so many superheroes together, they all had private chefs and I was like, hey, let me get some of that. And so I got into him's words chef who could be kangaroo. What the f***? That's awesome. Kangaroo doesn't taste that good by the way. After two days, I mean, look, my arms are half the size of his. I can't believe that I would eat five cheese burgers for lunch. Oh my god, that's a lot. Holy f***. He got fat the old fashioned way just from overeating. Now I lived in like a constant state of, oh god, for a good sick of eating so much. And that was happiness at that time. And now it's the exact opposite. It is nice. Eating junk food is very pleasant. We have to recognize that fact. So I can't say I was happy doing that, but now happiness is eating clean and getting lean and stuff. Now eating is boring, but the times between eating, I feel great. Whereas before eating was fun, but the times between, I feel like crap. Yeah, f*** that. The first transformation of my body to become starlose, was the hardest because I had the furthest to go. I was about 200 pounds and never. Oh my god, he was almost 300 pounds. Holy shit. That's a tough journey. He said something interesting. The first transformation into starlode was the toughest. And then after that, much easier, the first time you lose a ton of weight or put on a ton of muscle will be the most difficult. And if you ever gain some weight back or lose some muscle, getting back to your previously attained state is a way way easier. So if you've been fit before, but you've kind of slacked recently, don't think it's going to be as hard to get back your fitness as it was to get it. It's going to be much easier. So get back in the gym right now and get on it. Uh-oh, cheat meal. Periodically, you got to treat yourself with a cheat meal. Don't do that. Cheat meals are stupid. And I have a whole lot to say about it on this channel and on the videos. If you just search my last name, is Rital, and cheat meal, you'll get at least a few videos saying how it's not a good idea in the context of a fat loss phase. So once your fat loss phase is over, and you've achieved your goal, cheat meals go lower. But until you've done what you need to do in that phase, 8 to 12 weeks long, a fat loss dieting with hardcore training, cheating is just going to set you back, and it's going to make plugging back into the diet harder, because you're going to just want to cheat more after you get that first little sniff. Bad news. And so for me, it's deserves, man. I go to my mother-in-law's house for Sunday, family dinner, and I just go crazy on the desserts. And that's everything for me. Yeah, if you go crazy on that stuff, you can game like a pound of body fat in a day. And if you lose a pound of body fat in a week, you can see how one cheat meal a week, even. Cheat meal. Cheat meal. Cheat go crazy with desserts. Can really set you back. And I do about seven days worth of damage. Accurate. Amazing. And I take about seven days to pay that off and end. Get right into it. Oh. Seven days of damage. Seven days to get back into the groove, and then damage again. All right. That was interesting. So on the diet stuff, totally fine. Again, two things. Intermittent fasting is not ideal. If you want to make it more ideal, you move the window up closer to the evening. Maybe have a few protein shakes or protein only snacks through the day. That's even better. So the diet's okay. The training as far as Chris was demonstrating some of the videos out of the deal, but as far as Duffy has instructed, phenomenal, wonderful Duffy. For now, has our best trainer we've ever had on the celebrity. Hollywood workout reviews so far in that title will remain his until on the last somebody does better. So on the training. Hey. 9 out of 10. 4.56 out of 4.98. Make sense to that. See you guys next time.

This is fake. This is real? Scott this picture. This is filtered to show. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for the RP Strength channel as always. I am a former, super, heavyweight, professor of exercise and sports science. A current holder of a belt that's a little bit darker than brown in Brazilian jujitsu. Yes, yes, it's a black belt. Yes, what could I? That is real jujitsu. Scott, what else is cool about me that I can brag to people? Yeah, balding for your old man with no hope. Let's, oh fucking. Okay. Wait. Yep. That'll get back to you. Okay, back to you. Yes, thank you, Scott. The video guy. Scott, the video guy actually has a lot in common with a person that we are doing a video about today. He has a full head of hair and he is generally very attractive. And women actually speak to him without people paying them off the forehand. All things that are true for Mr. Scott, the video guy and a Mr. David Lade, who exactly to his last name, must be getting laid a lot because he's got like 80 abs and 50 cheekbones and all the good stuff that we want to learn about. So let's dig in to one of the OG YouTube fitness influencers who are around and what maybe is a fan of his, see men is that too soon to say in the