 ready to sign this interview. Andrey Andromusov – Andrey Andromusov – Andrey Andromusov – Andrey Andromusov – Andrey Andromusov – Andrey Andromusov – Andrey Andromusov – Andrey Andromusov – Andrey Andromusov – I'm telling you why it's really necessary. I just understood why. Because there is a studio called Beauty and the studio of manicure. Because my target audience used to be girls who actively use beauty services. And it just happened that it would be cool. There is a studio of manicure and a studio of beauty. You sell your beauty to the girls you love. There is a lot of meaning in beauty. I understand that it is a rebus and it is very difficult to tell. Many marketers, when they see me, say that I am not a seller at all. Yes, it's not a logotype of KFC. It will be very difficult to become a popular, so to speak. But there, besides beauty, save your time. Yes, it's a basic watch. Yes, it's nice to spend time at home. It's nice to spend time at home. You really want to spend time at home. I was just crazy when I opened this business. I just broke up between the house and the business. I didn't know where to put them in my 24 hours a day. Either there or there. And I just realized that I really needed the help to leave the business. It is important that someone helps at home. People order her when they sell apartments before the sale. For example, there are moms who have three or four or five children. They order a general selection once a year. It's not a target audience. I understand. And the one who said that at the beginning. Yes, yes, yes. If there is a support that is normal, it is not needed at all. It is not needed at all. Yes. I have a question for you. What can a girl stop when she understands that it is great that someone came and took money to delegate this task, to take off herself? What can be the confirmation of a girl? I can do it myself. I love to clean myself. Maybe someone will take me away from my job? Maybe not someone will take me away from my job. I can't let someone in my house. That's right. It's a problem of people. I noticed that these people have no team. They have no idea how to do it all by themselves. And someone will do it on the contrary. There will be stories when a girl tells me that she wants to order a gift from me. She says that she wants to make a gift and she will order it. It is not normal for her. It is not normal for her. Yes. I have put money in myself to order a gift from you. It happens. But the trend for the management is long gone. If the owners washed their clothes by hand, now there are washing machines. Now there is so much progress that you need to move the washing machine to a dry machine. You don't even need to weigh the things. It just dried up and you got it. If you don't want to take it apart, you just got a bunch of it and took it to the wardrobe. You don't spend as much time as you can. I don't like what you like. What's the difference? If you are at home, I understand that I am like a company owner. It's just a fact. The trend is that people are free to do things in the right way. I came to Krasnodar. I thought, what can I do? I can clean up well. I can do a lot of things. Why do I do it for free? I am just like that. I will do it for free. At least for some money. I found a couple of clients and just started to go to the orders and earn money. I don't remember how much money I had. Was it easy to create it? It was easy to go with other people. But when I stopped going, I started to go to other places. There were interesting processes. It was not difficult for me to take a help object, explain how to do it. It was difficult for me to manage the process. I sell it, and people do it. It was possible. So, the 100% of the process was done by the people? Of course. Because it's not enough to warm up the candidates. They can't say, I will go there and tomorrow I will just take the help object. You need to solve this question as soon as possible. The client says, I am waiting for you, but you don't have any. So, you are going very quickly and you are going to do it yourself. It's not difficult to wash the floor, 23 floors, 3 floors, it's not difficult at all. But it's a completely different price, because it happens at the same price. The price is the same, the scale is different. You see the scale and it becomes more interesting. Because when you come to the apartment you cleaned for 1.5 hours, it's the same, and when you see the scale, it's different. When you realize that there are almost no whole houses, you can make a cleaning of construction companies, because the last trick after construction is when the client who bought the apartment comes in, how do you think, with the level of development of the common good condition of people, will people delegate this task more? Yes. I think so. Because we are now looking at the whole system that we are living in. We are now striving for capitalism and outsourcing. And in our time, to do something with your own hands, to learn something new, it's not quite relevant at all. In Soviet times, what were you doing with your own hands? You built a house, you did everything. And now you are just doing the things you like, which you really enjoy, you don't burn out, you earn money, you make use of society, getting money for it. But now you can pay for another person who already knows how to do it. Why learn from it? But it's the same as what I'm going to do with my own hands. So you get a communication, you can communicate, you can give a team. You have to be able to accept help and give. That is, rather than like that, I would even say so. The first class hero will learn to learn comedy. Wash your windows at home. Why? Why? When there are specially trained people who like it, and there are people who really like it, they are really enjoying it. They never change my window to a surgery. Never, yes. Here too. So. How do you feel about this transformation of the businessman, is it difficult, close, or is it attractive and interesting? Different. Do you feel that it is inevitable, no matter how it is perceived? Well, it's not inevitable if you really want it. So if you are attracted to the scale, you will be in this transformation, even if it hurts in some places? Yes. Even if you need to refuse in some places, it would seem to you that it is expensive for you. Even if it costs a lot of money. But it costs. So that you would like to advise those businessmen who have played in the industry and want to go to another level. Do they need my advice? Well, those of them who need it, who are looking for it. I will take it to the consultation. I would like to advise them. I don't know, they don't give advice when they are not asked. But if people really want to go to another level, then they can communicate. So they can stop them, they don't understand what they are doing. They can just individually analyze a specific person, right? It's not that you can analyze, you can understand the reasons why it happens. Just analyze certain practices, and a person will look at what he was looking at. Today, tomorrow, he will look at it in a completely different way. And he will start to get it, and in ease, without further ado.