 these are these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these these And you also felt something, right? Everyone does not get to the note, it is a little bit between the notes, and the float is there, and there is a drape. And then we thought about something, I wonder why? And it became quite obvious that this perception is made by beliefs regarding what are the right notes. Well, as always. Because the note is a kind of program in which it hits or does not hit. If it does not hit this note in this program, then it is not. In the Bolshevik, it is always related to something. What is the Bolshevik? There is an original, and there is a Bolshevik. If there was no original, then the Bolshevik would have been a Bolshevik. And there was no Bolshevik? Yes, everyone creates, as you think. If we did not know the note at all, it would not be inside. We would have listened to these guys as a singer-songwriter. Well, just sounds. Because we know how to feel correctly, we can feel wrong. And this can, accordingly, cause a loss. Here is such an observation. This is not a call to not know the note, but to not idealize some patterns of the state of the notes of the rest of the human beings. Thank you.