 Hello there, it's Chad Wesley Smith, the date, June 23rd, also known as day one of the Juggernaut AI bench only program. Also, going on a diet, going to become a snatched bitch, because you might not be able to tell from this video, but your boy is fat AF right now, but also weak AF. Which is a bad combination, which is a bad combination. As many times in my life, I have been fat AF, but was strong AF to match it. So, yeah, just, you know, take some videos here and come along from the ride, because I can't have the high school football players being like, oh, Coach Smith, do you still lift weights? So, yeah. Gonna have to at least get a strong bench. Squat and deadlift, probably not so much, because my lower body's too fucked up for the And it's like, and it's like, and it's like, and it's like, and it's like, kind of too hard for really what I'm interested in. You know, once, once you've been at the mountaintop of squatting nearly a thousand pounds, squatting like 500 or 600, it's just doesn't really, doesn't really get the juices flowing. And just kind of not worth it for my low back and knee these days to do that work. But, yeah, bench only program. Let's see how it goes. So, right now, I think I can bench like 190 kilos is what I have my max in at, and that was based off, I did 150 for eight a week ago before we went to Montana. So, 10 weeks, I think 210 kilos would be a good number for me. That's what I benched in the garage gym competition, like almost three years ago. At this point, that's the heaviest I've done. In the, using it very loosely, relatively recent history. All right, day one of bench only program in the books. Pretty much hour on the dot of work. Bench, photo press, lat pulldowns, face pulls, pushdown, tricep pushdowns, and some curls. So, yeah, let's try and get sort of strong-ish again. All right. Hey, everybody. What's up? Chad here for Juggernaut, Juggernaut AI. Taking you through, I'm on week four, day three. So, the last day of this kind of first main block of our bench only program. So, I've just been working my way through this. You know, as I've talked about on here before, like, if I don't have something to compete in and really specifically train for, which is just not something that's part of my life at this point, I do find it very hard to train hard. And, and do, and be focused on, on my training. You know, because it's kind of once you've been on the mountaintop of near thousand pound squats and pro strongman and that type of thing. Doing the other stuff feels a little mundane to me. But, um, yeah, I, I coach high school football and a couple, probably a month or so ago had one of the high school guys like, so, uh, coach Smith, like, do you still lift weights? I was like, well, shit, you know, we can't be having kids ask that. And I mean, I did look insulted. Uh, I was like, I still, you know, bench probably like four 15 or so. So I started this program out, uh, setting my max at 190 kilos, 419 pounds. Uh, just been plugging away at it. Uh, that might've been a little bit inflated at the start, but, uh, today I'll do a heavy single, uh, you know, supposed to be one at eight, uh, eight and a half RPE. Maybe if I feel good to go a little bit heavier, cause I got a, I deloid next week. And then, uh, just kind of show you the work that I've been doing here on the bench only program. And as always videos here on the juggernaut train systems channel are brought to you by the juggernaut AI app, uh, where you can get all kinds of different training, uh, powerlifting and power building strongman bench only, uh, jugger cube, which is a program that I've used really successfully throughout my powerlifting career, uh, all kinds of great stuff and more stuff to come. So check out the link down in the description or visit juggernaut AI.app and you can get yourself a two week free trial. So thanks for coming, uh, into my garage with me here and let's do some bench press. This is the most exciting set here. Empty bar. So when I'm going through like, you know, the first set, empty bar set, a lot of times I do 20, 30 reps and just kind of all, all, all different stuff. You know, close grip out to the widest grip, skull crusher type of stuff. Just trying to get a little bit, uh, blood flowing and, uh, good ranges of motion. And normally I like to use bumper plates so it looks more impressively girthy, but, uh, this will be more official, official today with competition plates. And I'm sure people are like, Oh my God, Chad, you're using a suicide grip. You're going to die. I don't know. I've been doing this a long time. It's not that hard to hold onto the bar. My elbows and wrists feel better if I hold it that way. So if I die in this session today, I guess you told me so. Congratulations. When you're setting up, trying to set your upper back position, real kind of easy way to help that out is to use the rack to kind of wedge yourself down into position. Smooth dismount. Instructional coming soon. Just plugging away over here. Sometimes sexy street walker pops in. I don't mean it like that. She was taking a walk on the streets. Pops in to be my spotter. On this program, I'm on the three day a week bench only. So every day, three Friday for me, you do a single. I think I did 177 the first week, 182 the second week, 187 last week. And then today, hopefully somewhere between 90 and 95. But, you know, just kind of got to take what the day gives. That's for the thumbnail. So I've been using this OVR performance velocity tracker, which obviously you're like, well, Chad, do you guys have smart barbell? Yes, we do. But I use this at the high school that I coach because smart barbell would not be practical to use with 80 kids and trying to have, you know, 10 iPads set up or something in there. And they can't have their phones while they're training. So we have one of these on every rack. So I figured since they were using that, I wanted to use it before we started using that with them just to get a feel for it. So on these type of days, you know, trying to do a single at eight, eight and a half, I can use the feedback from the velocity to kind of help guide the warmups and then help my weight selection as we go. Explosive. Explosive. Wrist wrap's pretty much the only equipment that ever goes on now. I don't think I've worn a knee sleeve for three years. A chill sleeve all the time now, a free sleeve. I don't think when I was, if I wore my belt at all recently, I mean, it'd be months. But probably get a good five pounds out of these. So Monday, day one of week four was definitely the strongest feeling day I've had. I did 175 for a triple there pretty easily, maybe an 8.5 RPE with that. So I wouldn't say so far today that I'm feeling quite as explosive as that, but it's feeling fine. I mean, I gotta do at least 190 because you all are here to watch. So last warmup set here. Last week, my top set was 87.5 at 0.26. So this is 85. Hopefully it's faster than 0.26. If it's not, I guess that this would be my single today and that would be wildly disappointing. But I'm going to do better than that. 0.35. 90 to 95 was what I came in thinking. So how about right in the middle? This is a greens mix, electrolytes, creatines, dianabol, anadrol. No, just the greens mix and the creatine and the electrolytes. Make sure you get good wrist wrap. You gotta get it up on the back of your hand as much as you can. Pretty much as high as they'll let you because you're trying to stop it from making your wrist bend back too much. Sexy spotter. One, two. Yeah, Wednesday is the day two. Dynamic effort. I benched at 140 for eight triples on Wednesday with 45 seconds rest. And that one, you know, I'll have the velocity thing going and just have Marissa yell the speed at me every rep. So I'm trying to beat it every time. My butt probably came off the bench a little bit there, but I don't see no judges here in the garage except the thousands and thousands on the internet. But that's the advantage of having a real big butt. Sometimes you can't really tell if it came off. Yeah, so last week 187.5 at 0.26. Today 192.5 at 0.26. So that's good. That's a good number for today. 135 for four sets of six. And then the fifth set is supposed to be an AMRAP. So TBD on that one. So the way that the bench-only program is set up, you know, there's two to five-day-a-week options. And it is truly bench-only. You know, there's no squatting and deadlifting on the bench-only program. Though so many people seem to be confused about that. And want squatting and deadlifting on bench-only. But we will have some options like that coming soon. And some bench emphasis, squat emphasis, deadlift emphasis type of programs. But the day one of my three-day-a-week program is set up a lot in how I trained bench press when Josh Bryant coached me for a couple meets. Which is up to, like right now, is the top triple for these past four weeks. And then with increasing number of back-down sets. All at a flat intensity. So first week I did like 160 for a triple. And then, which is a pretty easy triple. And then I did 150 for five sets of four. With one-minute rest in between. And then the next week I went up to six sets of four with 150. Then seven sets of four. Then this past Monday I did 175 for triple. And then 150 for eight sets of four. With one-minute rest in between. And, you know, accumulating a lot of fatigue along the way with that. So next week I have a deload. And then when I come back from the deload. Then the back-down work is going to start to decrease as we go from week to week. And all the fitness that I built up with a real high. You know, eight sets of four back-downs. That fitness will start to be able to reveal itself as the fatigue starts to decay into testing at the end. So I'm hoping, you know, a deload. Four more weeks of work. And then like a one-week taper. I hope at the bench like 210 for that. And 210 is the most I've benched. I did that in 2022 for a garage gym competition. You know, so maybe I would go for 211 and try and beat that. And that I suppose would be my post-powerlifting PR. Probably not. I think I could still bench over 500 in like 2019 when I was competing real hard in jiu-jitsu. But at this stage of life, over 210, I'd be pretty happy with that. And maybe then the high school kids won't ask, Coach Smith, do you still lift weights? F*** out of here, kids. F*** out of here. It was 14. These close-grip ones I've been doing a little bit more team full-rommy. They probably wouldn't do close-grip bench. They'd do inverted Smith machine skill crushers or something. But same idea. So each of these days, it gives a variation to address different weak points. Monday I do the competition bench and then Spoto Press for mid-range. Wednesdays is the speed bench and competition bench. Feed up bench for off the chest and then today it's close grip for the lockout. So a lot of bench pressing but when all you do is bench you can do a lot of it. Like bench really responds to frequency and to volume so and it's like how hard can a bench press workout really be? Like even the hardest bench workout is still not near as hard as like a moderate squat workout or deadlift workout. Ugh! I feel like I just got kicked by a horse. You'll notice when you watch a lot of these videos of Marissa's training how helpful I am taking the plates off. Well plate princess over here. Caw-caw! Pigeon boys. If you get a pigeon boys reference post it down in the comments. I have no capacity to push myself hard in an accessory exercise and I don't enjoy the pump. It does in fact not feel like coming. If that's what coming felt like I would be extremely celibate. So thanks everybody for watching today. Hopefully you enjoyed my bench only training. I'll have some more updates as I get into the second block of this. Just casual over here. I did over a thousand. It's boring but it's part of my life. So if you're interested in the bench only training. It's hard to do them at the same time. If you're interested in bench only training, powerlifting, power building, strongman, jugger cube, any of the great stuff we have on the Juggernaut AI app. You can head down to the link in the description and get a two week free trial. If you enjoyed the video make sure you like, subscribe, all that good stuff. Thanks for watching.