 Hey, everybody, what's up? Chad Wessley-Smith here for Juggernaut Training Systems, and today I'm going to be continuing our How, Why, When series, talking about when you use different exercise variations, how to do them, why to do them, when to use them to make your squat bench and deadlift stronger. Today, I'm going to be talking about the box deadlift. As always, videos here on the Juggernaut Training Systems channel are brought to you by the Juggernaut AI app. So if you want training that's totally customized for you, looking at your gender, age, height, weight, strength, experience, where you miss your lifts, all that type of stuff, get a two-week free trial of the Juggernaut AI app, and it takes all those things into consideration to make a totally customized program for you that adapts to your feedback. So you can visit the link down in the description or go to juggernautai.app for that two-week free trial. Alright, so the box deadlift is a deadlift variation, more of an accessory type exercise, but that was taught to me by Mikhail Koklyov and Boris Cheko at a seminar that we hosted with them back in 2014, I think maybe 2015, but let's say 10-ish years ago, they were out here doing a seminar tour and they showed us this exercise and it made a great impact on my own deadlift training and a lot of the guys that I coached. So the box deadlift is really an RDL variation that gives you a tactile cue of a box or bench or something pressing up against your calves to help you create a very vertical shin angle and maximize the tension that you create in your hamstrings while really learning how to hinge and create that kind of ideal deadlift position. So how do we do it? I've got Playa Box here. Make sure you've got something braced up against it. I got a kettlebell sitting on the ground behind it so it doesn't slide back. You can use a bench. There used to be a device called a vert pole that you could use. You could set up a bar low in the rack and have your calves pressed up against that. Lots of ways to do it. One's not really better than the others. But what we want to do is stand so we can press our calves back against it and create a vertical or even negative shin angle in doing an RDL. So I'm pressing my calves back. It's going to be this high hip position. And as I do my RDL, I've got to keep my calves in constant contact with the box. And if I was to allow my calves to come off of the box, that's going to be kind of failing to do the exercise correctly. So it's got to be that constant contact. I'm going to be pushing my knees back, almost leaning back against it a little bit. And you're going to get way, way more tension in your hamstring by doing it this way. For someone like me who struggled with their deadlift position, a common problem for people of advanced size. This was a great exercise for me to learn what it really felt like to load the hamstrings to hinge better. So the execution of the exercise is pretty simple. You're just keeping your calves pressed into the box, pressed against the bench, throughout the entirety of the movement. Now this means you might not be able to go all the way down to the floor. When I would do these, I would also not fully lock out. So I'm moving from kind of 90% lock out to as much tension as I could tolerate at the bottom of the lift. So that's how you do it. Now why would you use this exercise? If you struggle with your deadlift start position, if you struggle with understanding how to hinge, those are going to be great reasons to do this exercise if you have relatively weak hamstrings. Another famous Russian powerlifter, Konstantin Konstantinovsky once told me that he thought I could deadlift 400 kilos. I just needed better technique and more leg bicep. Leg bicep is what Russians call hamstrings. And this, even though I didn't end up deadlifting 400 kilos, this is definitely an exercise that helped me increase my leg bicep strength and kind of get more at a less. Because you have the constant feedback of the calves pressing into the box or bench, maybe right now you're doing RDLs with let's say 405 for sets of 6. But you start doing a box deadlift and maybe that becomes 315 for sets of 6. But your hamstrings are actually feeling a lot more sore and a lot more worked from that. It's because when you're doing regular RDLs right now, your knee might move forward a little bit. You might lose a little bit of that hamstring tension and not realize it as you're going because you're just thinking about the heavy ass weight in your hands. But this, giving you that constant feedback, is going to keep your technique really strict and help you get more at a less. So if you are using this as an accessory exercise or on a secondary deadlifting day, you're not getting really unnecessary fatigue, especially neural fatigue and kind of peripheral fatigue in your hands, your lats, all that stuff. You're just putting all the work onto your hamstrings, really where you're trying to focus it. So when would you use this exercise in your training? It can be used at any part of the training. So when you move through the different phases of the training, moving from hypertrophy to strength to peaking, the box deadlift is really just going to become a secondary tertiary, like a supporting accessory exercise at that point. So you're probably doing some competition deadlift, maybe 4 or 5 sets of that. And then you're coming back with 2, 3, 4 sets of box deadlifts, typically in like a 5 to 10, maybe up to 12 rep range. So it's not a great exercise to do really low reps on what your box deadlift max is. No one cares. So make sure you're using the exercise for what it's intended for, just to build up your hamstring strength for you to understand how to hinge better and how to load your hamstrings. So now you know how to do it, why to do it, when to do it. That's the box deadlift brought to you by me via, no, either via. Anyways, from Makael Koklyov, one of my favorite powerlifters ever, one of my favorite strength athletes ever. Don't let me sell him short as only a powerlifter. He's a great weightlifter and strongman competitor as well. And one of the all time great powerlifting coaches, Boris Sheko, they brought that to us at a seminar out here again about 10 years ago. So hopefully you'll implement this exercise in your training, get something useful from it. And if you enjoyed it, you could, it's an exercise on the Juggernaut AI app. So if you've got weak hamstrings, weak midrange in the deadlift, it's probably going to program it for you anyways. So go check that out with a two week free trial at the link down in the description. Like the video, subscribe to the channel. Thanks for watching.