 Hey, everybody, what's up? Chad Welsley Smith here for Juggernaut Training Systems. And today, we're going to be talking to you about some of our favorite deadlift accessory exercises, maybe some that you haven't been including in your training. So, as always, videos here on this channel are brought to you by the Juggernaut AI app. So, the Juggernaut AI app is going to take into account your sex, height, weight, strength, how long you've been training, when your meat is, how much do you sleep, are you trying to gain weight, lose weight, what are your weak points in the lifts, a lot more factors, and create a totally customized program for you that grows and adapts with your feedback. So, go ahead and check it out. Two-week free trial at the link down in the description or at juggernautai.app. All right. So, the first deadlift accessory that I want to talk about is one that's going to really help with your back health. And if you're like me, if you're like Marissa, if you're like so many other people out there, you've experienced some amount of back pain from training the deadlift. And it's not that there's anything inherently wrong with the deadlift. You know, we always talk about the kind of the big definition of injury is a tissue's inability to adapt to load, which I know is kind of this big catch-all answer. But what I see with the power lifters that I've coached and people that I consult with and people using the Juggernaut AI app, where pain comes about most often for them is that they have really developed abilities in one area, lumbar extension, as well as hip external rotation and then avoiding trunk rotation, because they have no capacity to the other side of that lumbar flexion, hip internal rotation and inducing trunk rotation. When that does happen, whether it's the bar twisting on them a little bit, whether it's, you know, picking their kid up out of a car seat or, you know, just bending over to tie their shoes and that back pain starts to exist, it's because of that lack of capacity to the other side of things. So that the training, you know, oftentimes becomes overly specific and you do need specific training, of course, to become the strongest power lifter that you want to be. But you also need to be able to train in a long sustainable manner. So developing some capacity to the other side of things is going to be really beneficial to you. And something that's helped me out a lot in, you know, one of my most shared videos called Exercise That Keep My Back Feeling Good. This is the first one. It is a staggered rotational dumbbell RDL. You can also do it with a kettlebell. All right, so the staggered dumbbell rotational RDL, big name, simple-ish exercise is going to expose you to a couple of these different moving patterns. You're going to get some flexion in it and some rotation and some hip internal rotation, all in one thing. This is a great exercise to use as an accessory or as a warmup. So if you're currently struggling with some back pain, maybe this is a great, this is going to be an effective warmup exercise for you. And then once you get better at it and can load it more heavily, it could become an accessory exercise. So I'm going to go into a staggered stance, what some people would call a B stance. So my right toe is lined up with my left heel. I got kind of a soft knee on this front foot. And then I'm hinging at the hip as I turn and really kind of reach this dumbbell down. So I'm making sure on my front foot to not let it, the weight turn out. So I have to keep a little bit of internal rotation on this front hip. I'm creating internal rotation on the back hip. I'm rotating and I'm flexing my spine at the bottom of it. So it's not an RDL where I'm, you know, big chest head up the whole time and doing this because then I'm not going to be able to create any, any rotation. Extension and rotation are kind of enemies of each other. So I'm letting myself around as I turn and kind of look back, just look back at it. Yeah. So that's the staggered rotational dumbbell RDL. You can do that with a kettlebell as well, but that's going to give you exposure to all three of those movement patterns that so much of other power lifting training doesn't give you access to. So we're getting some lumbar flexion, we're getting some hip internal rotation, and we're getting some trunk rotation and developing some capacity and that's going to help you stay healthier so you can train harder for longer. All right. So the next deadlift accessory we want to talk about is a very popular movement, GHRs, glute ham raises, but we want to talk to you about how to do them the right way because maybe you've been doing them wrong and get the most out of them because what a lot of people do is they turn the glute ham raise into really another low back exercise and an extension exercise, but you already are getting so much of that in your deadlift variations that if you want to train your hamstrings and glutes harder, it takes a couple little details to get the most out of the GHR. And this was something that was taught to us by our great friend, Paid Boca Fuso, who's an awesome physical therapist, Physio, as they call him, Downanda. And she's an IPF lifter for Australia. She helped Marissa out with a lot of back pain and helped me out as well and we've learned a ton from her. So Paid gave us a cue that was really helpful for us when she was teaching Marissa how to do GHRs the right way, the first time around. She was using a lot more technical jargon talking about which way to rotate the pelvis and all the different stuff. And Marissa's kind of like, I don't know what you're talking about. What do you mean? And then she explained this hip position that we're trying to achieve on this and a lot of other exercises as if you're trying to pee in your own mouth, gross, but memorable cue. So what we're trying to do is create that hip position for Marissa where she's not in this big extension, but she's using her abs to kind of tuck her pelvis underneath her as if she was going to pee in her own mouth and maintaining that position, ribs down, hip rotated, chin tucked a little bit. And when you do this, it is so much harder to do these movements and you feel them so much more in your hamstrings. Like normally, how many GHRs if you're just the old way of doing them, could you do? Yeah. And these are like, maybe you have to start at doing just the negatives or do band assisted, or you do the negative, you have a partner help you back to the top. But it's such a small detail of your hip position that makes it so much more challenging. Because if you're throwing your head back and your shoulders are back and you're getting into a bunch of extension, your erectors are going to help pull you up to the top of a GHR. And the same thing goes for a back raise 45 degree back raise, but queuing this more neutral hip position or hips tucked underneath you, ribs down, chin tucked. So you're staying a little bit rounded. It makes your hamstrings have to work so, so, so much harder. So it just takes those little bit little bit of details and you get so much more out of the GHR, chin down, ribs tucked, hip tucked under and trying to maintain that rounded position on the way up. Yeah. And like one, two reps, and Marissa is already feeling like your hamstrings are going to cramp up. Say you're pretty strong hamstrings pretty strong, but those little detail changes make such a big difference in the GHR are going to help you get a lot more out of this kind of classic powerlifting sort of staple accessory exercise for the deadlift, but fix your hip position, fix your rib and head position. It's going to make it way more challenging, help you get more at a less with it. All right, so the last exercise we want to talk about in this video is the Penlay Row. Now that we've got the door back closed and not exposed to the elements anymore, because if you can't tell from my nipples, it's an extremely brisk winter day here in California. It's like 43 degrees outside, which I'm not prepared for. Penlay Row is a great movement. If you're struggling with tightness off the floor, like you have lacking tension in your lats, because it's going to teach you to turn your lats on right away, create that tension and just kind of be more forceful off of the ground. So Penlay Row is like a bent over barbell row, but you're going from a dead stop every time. This is for name for the late Glenn Penlay. So just kind of from your deadlift stance and grip, trying to get your back parallel to the ground. You're having to take big air in. So don't let this turn into a momentum exercise where you're heaving your back up as you do it. You want to keep your back parallel to the ground, flex your abs, turn your lats from zero all the way on, make that strict powerful row. Penlay Row is going to help you build more tension, build more strength off the floor, especially if you're lacking the kind of technical understanding of how to get tight off the floor. Penlay Row can help you learn it. So hopefully you learned something about these three deadlift accessory movements. Maybe the things that you aren't including in your training or that you are, but they just need a little bit of a tweak. So if you enjoyed the video, like, subscribe to the channel, and don't forget to check out that two week free trial of the Juggernaut AI app at the link down in the description or at juggernautai.app.