 Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad. Schad maybe bicep tendonitis typically the the simplest way to mitigate that is going to be by changing your range of motion and a great tool for that can be a bench block if you don't have boards but really anything to to reduce the range of motion and be able to do it in a bit of a progressive way so with the bench block like this one has two different heights so marissa shows her full range of motion in the bench press but she seemed to have some sort of reduced range of motion already but and we could further reduce that range of motion with the block press and this is the one board variation so if that reduces your pain for the day awesome if that's not getting the job done you can go to the two board variation and then if you need more than that three board four board yeah depending on what you have access to if you can use two by fours awesome you could use a rolled up towel you could use a half foam roller or a full foam roller you know airx pads lots of different options you just want to have some way that it's consistent and you're reducing the range of motion by that and if and if you're early stage of rehab and if you've used the rehab options in the app you've seen this where we go like five board four board three board two board one board back down to the chest over a course of six weeks and that's just a great way to give you graded exposure back to the movement you're trying to do if you need to press from pins that can also be a good way to reduce range of motion because doing some kind of bench press variation is going to be better for your long-term progress than you know just taking the bench off completely uh you can get in the dumbbell pressing variations palms in a lot of times is going to be more beneficial for you so that's the next point of how you can manipulate these exercises is by changing your grip so if your shoulders bothering you and you are typically a wide grip bench presser maybe you just need to move your grip in for the day and this is going to be a lot of just kind of trial and error seeing how you feel in the warm-up that if normally your middle finger on the rings and that hurts but pinkies on the rings feels a little bit better okay maybe that's good enough maybe you need to move a little bit inside the rings as well again or if you have the option to change your grip position entirely into a palms in bench press what if you have like a neutral grip bar a cadillac swiss bar you know all the different brands out there that can be a great option for you you can do dumbbell pressing variations with your palms in and be able to manipulate it that way or and this is a lot of times more for elbow pain or wrist pain if you can have access to something like this fat grips which just clamp onto the bar that's going to be something that i think we'll find will alleviate a lot of elbow stress i find this with my jiu-jitsu guys and mma guys because they're doing so much gripping that a lot of times they have kind of ulnar nerve issues in here but if they use the fat grips that tends to alleviate that problem i mean more girth never hurts other way that you can manipulate your bench press training is by changing the tempo so if bringing the bar down quickly is bothering whatever's whatever's causing you pain that day see how it feels to bring it down slower uh maybe you need to press slower maybe you need to have a little bit longer pause for the day this is also all going to tie in to probably manipulating the load that you're using of course if you're using a slow eccentric and long pause you're not going to be able to go as heavy that's probably likely to not be as painful for whatever injury you're dealing with but these are all just kind of different levers that you can pull to work around the injury for that day so we can change the range of motion we can change your grip with hand position the girth of the grip we can change the tempo of the exercises you know if you're dealing with elbow or shoulder pain throwing a slingshot on or doing reverse bands from the top of the rack can be an effective way for you to reduce the load in your most vulnerable position as you're most likely experiencing pain with the bar right on your chest so those are all ways that we can work around injuries for the bench press and help you make progress towards your goals without having to take a step back because you're just so stubborn and sticking exactly to the plan so be wise be disciplined make these small adjustments if you enjoyed this video like subscribe to the channel and don't forget to check out the two-week free trial of the juggernaut AI app the link down in the description or by visiting juggernaut AI.app thanks for watching