 Hey everybody. What's up. Chad Wessie Smith here for Juggernaut. Hey everybody. What's up. Chad Wessie Smith here for Juggernaut Training System and Juggernaut AI joined by my lovely assistant Marisa Indo. And today we're going to be teaching you how to bench press. So if you're a beginner, you're new to lifting, not quite sure where to start. Let's help you start on the right foot and with proper bench press technique. So as always here on the Juggernaut Training System channel. Our videos are brought to you by the Juggernaut AI app. So whether you're a beginner, advanced, Big, short, tall, light, heavy, young, old, older, weak. Keep listing possibilities here. We've got them all covered because it looks at all of those factors, gender, age, height, weight, strength, experience, where you miss your lifts. Are you trying to gain weight, lose weight? How's your sleep? How's your stress? All that stuff to create a custom program for you that keeps adapting to your feedback. So check it out with a two-week free trial at the link down in the description or at juggernautai.app. All right, let's learn how to bench press. A good bench press starts with a good setup and a good setup starts with your feet. All right, so where do you put your feet to bench press? You want to get pressure in your feet. Very common to see people new to the bench press and their legs are kind of out dangling. I coach a lot of high schoolers and their legs are flailing all over the place. We call it, you know, they're benching with happy feet. We don't want to do that. We want to create a stable base to press from. That stable base starts at the feet. So as Marissa lays down on the bench, only thinking about the feet right now, we want her feet to be directly under or slightly behind her knees. All right, if you are very long-legged, which you are, babe, but if you are very long-legged, your feet might need to go a little bit out in front and very wide. But we want pressure in your feet. So as you push into the ground, it's giving you some energy back into the body. Now, if you go to set up in this position and it's really hard for you to get your feet, you know, even underneath your knees, let alone slightly behind it, you might benefit from doing an exercise called a couch stretch. So a couch stretch is like a rear foot elevated split squat or what some people would call a Bulgarian split squat. But I don't call it that because the Bulgarians never did those. But you're just sitting down at the bottom of this rear foot elevated split squat. So your back foot is elevated on a bench or as the name implies, a couch. And you're sitting as low as you can, pushing your butt back towards your heel, feeling that deep stretch in your quad and your hip flexor, holding that 30 seconds to a minute each side. And that's going to help you improve your setup position. Now, how do we set our upper back? The next key component of a great set of a great setup. What we want to do here is we're trying to pinch our shoulder blades to create a stable base to press from. So you could have a training partner put their fingers between your shoulder blades and then just kind of pinch it. Or if you were to imagine a pencil sitting vertically between your shoulder blades and you're trying to hold that pencil in with the shoulder blades, that's the position we're trying to create as Marissa lays down to bench. So feet are planted right underneath, slightly behind the knee. Shoulder blades are pinched together. As you become more comfortable with this position, you're going to get a little bit higher up onto your traps. All right. But just any pinching together of the shoulder blades is going to accentuate the natural arch of your low back. Everyone, except if you have like an extreme lordosis, has an arch to their back. So when you set up to bench, it's totally fine. It is actually good to remain having that arch in your back. Are there videos you'll see of people bench pressing online with these extreme arches and they look like a bow and arrow set up on the bench press? Certainly. Is that what you want to do as a person watching this how to bench press beginner bench press tutorial video? No, but you should have some slight arch in your back because that's the way that your back is shaped. And then pinching your shoulder blades together and slightly accentuating that arch is actually going to help keep your shoulders healthier. So F the haters if they comment on your video and, oh, put your back flat on the bench. That's not how your back is shaped. Your back should not be flush against the bench as you go to set up the bench press. So we're pinching the shoulder blades together, squeezing the pencil between your shoulder blades as we set up. Next up is our grip. How wide should your grip be? And while I would love to get, you know, a ruler, maybe a protractor, a compass out here, that's not going to be quite necessary. A simple way to start finding your bench grip width is if you put the tip of your thumb right here on the line where the smooth meets the knurling, you stretch your thumb out as far as you can. We're going to go, say, one thumb length from the smooth. So one fully outstretched thumb from the smooth part of the bar. That's going to be a good starting point for most people. If you feel like you have particularly long arms, maybe you're going to go a thumb and a half, maybe even two thumbs, particularly short arms. Maybe you could go a half a thumb. But let's start at one thumb length from the smooth as our starting point for our grip width. Now, as Marissa unracks the bar, we want to have the bar set pretty high so you're not having to do like a half or a quarter rep to get it out of there. If you are in a situation like that where you don't have a bench that adjusts that much, get a spotter to help you lift it off. We also have another video about how to spot the bench press. Excellent. We'll put that in as well. So the spotter is going to help on Marissa's one, two, three. And you want the bar to be right over your shoulders. There should be a point where it feels maybe not weightless, but as light as it can be. When you unrack, you don't want the bar over your eyes. In fact, when you set up, Marissa is set up with the bar right over her eyes. And then when we unrack it, it's going to come to straight over her shoulders. That's going to make sure that we don't hit the rack during the bench and we're putting ourselves in a strong position. Next up, breathing. We want to take a big breath in when we have the bar held out at arm's length. And we're trying to breathe into our chest, make our chest rise up. And we're going to hold that breath through the entire rep. Go ahead and do one. Very common piece of advice you might get from a commercial gym personal trainer or, you know, your uncle who used to bench 400 pounds when he played high school football. He didn't really. He just tells you that story. That you should breathe out while you're bench pressing. You don't want to do that. When you're moving the bar, you're applying force and we don't want to relax as we're applying force. We're taking that big breath in at the start. And we're holding it through the whole rep. And then you can breathe in again. So when you have the bar locked out at the top, but while the bar is coming down and going back up, you want to hold your breath in. Now, where should the bar touch on your chest? This is, you know, kind of a component of a couple different things. Arm length, grip width, shoulder width are all going to play a role here. But since we're just focused on the basics right now, we're taking our one thumb from the smooth grip. Your bar is probably going to touch right about your nipple line. That's right. Nipple line. I'm used to coaching a lot of high schoolers, so that would get a good giggle right now. And it still does. Yes. Even from you. I wonder why. This is how you want to move the bar down under control. Probably about a two count on the way down. One, two. Quick pause. And then pressing it up as explosively as you can. When you grab the bar, some people would use what's called a suicide grip, where they're not putting their thumb around the bar. When you're brand new to bench pressing, don't do that. Watch videos of me bench pressing. I don't put my thumb around the bar. That's from some shoulder and elbow situations. I've done this a lot. But I'm not worried about dropping the bar on my face. If you're watching this video because you're brand new to bench pressing, I wouldn't be worried about dropping the bar on your face either. But I'd be more worried about it than I am for myself. So wrap your thumb around the bar and squeeze the bar hard in your hand. You want to try and keep a relatively straight wrist. We don't want our wrists bent back with the bar in our hand. We don't want to be so straight that it almost feels like the bar is going to fall out on your forearm, like towards the soft underbelly of your forearm. We want to have the bar stacked over our wrist. All right. So as we go through our full checklist here, feet are planted firm on the ground, full foot on the ground with it slightly behind your knee. Use the couch stretch if you need to to get in a good position there. Our upper back shoulder blades squeezed together. Grip width. One thumb length from the smooth. You're going to get a lift off from your training partner. One, two, three. Bringing the bar out over your shoulders. Big breath in. Controlled on the way down. One, two. Quick pause. Bar touching at the nipple line. Driving it up. Resetting your air at the top. One, two. Quick pause. Press. Resetting your air at the top. And that's the basics of the bench press. Not too much to it. We want to create a strong, stable position with a good setup, which starts at the feet. You know, don't be extreme in your grip when you're just starting out. Not going to be extremely wide. Not going to be extremely close. One to two thumb lengths from the smooth is going to be a good place to start. Make sure we're taking a big breath in. Holding that air through the entirety of the rep. So when the bar is moving, you don't want to be breathing out. We're holding our air in the whole time there. Move the bar with control, like a two to three count on the way down. A short pause. It'll just be like a beat on the chest. A half second. Press up explosively from there. All of those are going to help you get a great start to bench pressing if you're brand new to it. Just keep your shoulder blades safe. Don't let people telling you on Instagram that your back should be totally flat. Deter you from having the slight natural curve that exists in your low back. And then slightly accentuating that with a tight upper back position. Shoulder blades pulled together, which is going to make a little bit more of an arch, but is actually going to keep your shoulders healthier. So hopefully you learned something about how to bench press today. If you like this video, press the thumbs up, subscribe to the channel, and don't forget about that two-week free trial of the Juggernaut AI app, which you can get down at the link in our description or by visiting juggernautai.app. Thanks for watching.