 Hey everybody, what is up, Chad Westley-Smith here for Juggernaut training systems, and I'm joined by my lovely magician's assistant, Marisa Inda. And today we are gonna be talking to you about safety squat bar, how to do them, why to do them, and when to do them in your training. But before that, as always, the videos here on the Juggernaut Training Systems channel are brought to you by the Juggernaut AI app. Huge new update, just came out, 2.5, with all kind of great new stuff. So now is the best time to go visit juggernautai.app and get a two-week free trial for a totally customized program that grows, changes, and adapts to your feedback. Alright, so part of your training on the Juggernaut AI app may be the safety squat bar. So, how do you do it? Luckily for you, safety squat bar is, you know, from about here down, exactly the same as regular squatting, maybe even a little bit simpler. And it's gonna be a little bit simpler because of the slight camber to the safety squat bar. And this is a Rep Fitness safety squat bar, great one, one of my favorites that I've used. And that slight camber is gonna put the weight a little bit in front of your body, and kind of give you a bit of a counterbalance, similarly to a front squat, but without the awkward ways that you might have to hold the front squat. So it's a very natural position for you to just put your hands on the handle. So pretty much everything about safety squat bar is the same as a regular squat from a breathing bracing standpoint. Foot positioning, you know, big toe pressure, knees and hips together, all that stuff that you can see in dozens, maybe hundreds, of other Juggernaut Training Systems YouTube videos. The only thing to note is that when you're doing the safety squat bar, because of that slight camber, you want to avoid pushing up or pulling down on the handles, all right? You want to let the bar stay as neutral as possible. So you might have to squeeze the handles hard, but if you push up or pull down on the handles, you're gonna kind of change the leverage of the weight and sort of take away some of the function that you might be using this bar for, to address specific weak points. So this little bit of camber to the bar is what's going to make the safety squat bar my favorite, really the only specialty bar that I ever tend to recommend for the squat. And because of that camber and the way that it positions your upper back, it's going to really help you avoid or train against your upper back getting rounded over in the squat. So if you feel like you lose upper back position, if you get pushed forward in the squat and start looking like this as you go, losing the upper back position, not just your hips rising faster than your shoulders, then the safety squat bar can be a great option for you. The other roles that it's going to play is if your shoulders, elbows, wrists are beat up from a particularly low bar squatting, then the safety squat bar is going to be a great option because it's going to take all the stress away in those situations. That also makes it a great option for hypertrophy training or any kind of high bench press frequency or volume phase. We'll talk about that a bit more. And the safety squat bar is going to be great for athletes if they have shoulder problems, even if they don't have shoulder problems, because as I mentioned, it tends to be a much more natural squat pattern than a high bar, low bar barbell back squat because of the slight camber and the counterbalance that that creates. So how to do it? Simple, just like a regular squat. Just don't push up or pull down on the handles. You're going to have to really actively engage your upper back so you can learn to keep that stable and tall throughout the squat. Why to do it? If you're rounding over in the squat, you need to build up that upper back strength. Or if you're struggling with arm pain, elbow pain, shoulder pain from low bar squatting particularly. Or for athletes, the barbell back squat isn't part of their competition. So non-barbell sport athletes. This can be a great option if it's simpler for them to learn, if it's easier for them to execute. You can also use the safety squat bar, of course, just for variation, for variation's sake a little bit to avoid adaptive resistance. Now, when do you want to do the safety squat bar? You can use it in any phase of training. In a hypertrophy phase, this could be the primary squat variation that you're using because it's loaded very similar to a high bar squat or a front squat, but much simpler to execute from a technical standpoint than a front squat and going to allow you to go heavier than a front squat would typically. If you're bench pressing a lot frequently or having arm pain during those higher volume phases, then the safety squat bar is going to be a great way for you to not have your squat and bench training interfere with each other. And then during a hypertrophy or strength phase, it's going to be a great secondary option to address the weak point of rounding over a little bit if you're kind of on the weaker quads side of things. As long as you're forcing yourself to stay upright with the safety squat bar, you could let the safety squat turn into like this real squat morning, rounded over, lift it with your back type of move. And if you're already a stronger back relative to leg strength, quad strength, specifically squatter, then that's probably not going to be a great option for you. But if you elevate your heels, push your knees forward, force yourself to keep an upright torso and really stress your quads with it, then it can be really useful for you in hypertrophy or strength phases. And then finally, in peaking, safety squat bars, main role in peaking would be kind of as a fatigue management tool to avoid your arms feeling too beat up to interfere with your bench press. So if you're someone like I've been in the past where your elbows or shoulders are killing you, maybe, you know, ulna nerve type of issues, the inside of the elbow, from heavy bench pressing and heavy low bar squatting as you get closer to a powerlifting competition, then maybe make your secondary squat day each week. The safety squat bar, just, you know, keep in mind at that point, while it is a squat and it's very similar to high bar and low bar squatting, it's not quite the same. So when we're in a peaking phase and we're looking to develop technical prowess in our competition lifts, you're making a little bit of a trade-off for arm health and still getting good, similar squat stimulus. But if you don't have the arm pain, I'd rather someone be doing, you know, two-time-a-week competition squatting or a comp squat and a high bar squat is going to be a little bit similar, but we're really splitting hairs at that point. So hopefully now you know a little bit better how to do the safety squat bar, why to use them in your training, and when to use them in your training. If you enjoyed this video, like, a little thumbs up down there, subscribe to the channel, and remember to check out a two-week free trial of the Juggernaut AI app down at the link in the description below. You're going to get all the benefits of our new 2.5 update.