 sr, пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут пут app takes all that into account and creates a custom program for you that continually adapts and changes with your feedback. So you can get the smartest program for you with a two-week free trial down at the link in the description or at juggernautai.app. So we've talked specificity, overload, fatigue management, stimulus recovery adaptation, variation, and phase potentiation. And now we conclude with the principle of individual differences. So while all of those previous six principles, you know, they universally apply and make effective programs, how will they get applied all comes down to principle number seven, individual differences, because what is overload for you and what is overload for me and what is overload for your little brother and your mom and everyone else is a little bit different. And same idea of how we're going to need fatigue management and what SRA is going to mean in terms of frequency and exercise selection with variation and how long of phases we need. That's all going to change with these factors that I'm about to talk about. So we're going to look at inter and intra individual differences. So differences between me and you and differences between you now, you maybe three years from now, five years from now, 10 years from now, when you're, you know, 20 weeks out from a meet versus when you're six weeks out from a meet. Because when we're talking about ideal, optimal, dare I say, as close as you can come to perfect programming, all of those things need to be taken into account. So I've done about 250 seminars all around the world, teaching people how to squat, bench, and deadlift better. And one of the most common questions that I would get that is something like, how many days a week should I squat? And I got to the point where I essentially refuse to answer that question in the way that the asker was hoping that I would, because I'm sure that they wanted me to say two times a week is the best or three times a week is the best. But I would be doing a disservice to that person asking the question and to you, the loyal juggernaut training systems, YouTube viewer, by giving such a reductionist answer as that, because one time could be the best, six times could be the best. There could be all these different factors in between. And individual differences are what help us understand the why between all of those answers and how they could be justified. So things that are going to make a big difference here from person to person. And this is going to determine, you know, how much volume you're likely to need to improve your MEV, minimum effective volume, how much volume you're likely able to recover from your MRV, maximum recoverable volume, you know, how heavy and hard does your training need to be, the principle of overload, how frequent does your training need to be, SRA, you know, the degree of variation that you need in your training and the length of different phases. So how much hypertrophy, how long should your hypertrophy phase be? And then how much in the proportion of phases, how much hypertrophy versus strength versus peaking do you need? Individual differences helps us understand all of that. So going through kind of the basic ones. So sex, men versus women, women can typically handle more volume than men. They're typically going to need a little bit more frequent training. And, you know, all of these, I know I'm painting with a broad brush and all this stuff. So men are getting more stimulus from their training because of the hormonal effects of testosterone. So along with that, you know, men are probably taller. They're likely heavier with more muscle and probably lifting a heavier weight. All of those things are also going to mean that they probably can't tolerate quite as much training, but just on a purely hormonal level, the presence of testosterone is going to make the training more stimulating. So you're going to need to do a little bit less of it and likely able to recover from a little bit less of it. And fiber type is going to have a bit to do with that as well. The more fast twitch you are, the more stimulating and fatiguing the training is probably going to be. You're also probably lifting heavier weights because you're, you're more fast twitch. So sex is going to be a big consideration. Height of the lifter, weight of the lifter, a taller lifter is doing more work per rep. They're moving the bar farther than a shorter lifter. So kind of extreme example here, if we had, you know, the mountain and Sergey Fedysenko, you know, six foot nine and four foot nine, both doing the deadlift, Thor is probably moving the bar the entire height of Sergey, even though they're both like top, top in their world, relative weight class lifters. So he's just doing a lot more work per rep. So he's not going to need to do as many reps and probably not going to be able to recover from the same, you know, workload in terms of like sets times reps, the just, if they were doing identical sets times reps with their relative intensities, Thor is going to be doing way more work. So he's not going to need to do as much work. Body weight's also going to be considered here, and this is kind of normalizing for muscularity, but typically a heavier lifter is not going to be able to tolerate as much work as a lighter lifter. Now you could have a much more advanced lighter weight class lifter and a very, you know, high body fat percentage, newer, heavier lifter. So that's going to cancel out a little bit, but everything else being equal. And that's, again, all these statements is pretty much everything else is equal besides this one, one factor. The heavier lifter isn't going to be able to tolerate as much training or probably quite as frequent of training. They might also be taller, all those things. How strong the lifter is. So this is, you know, an absolute load that they're lifting. 700 pounds is more fatiguing than 500 pounds, which is more fatiguing than 300 pounds. Even if those were the same relative intensity, that was, you know, 85% for each of those lifters, the absolute load is going to carry a little bit more fatigue with it. As that lifter gets stronger, they're also probably closer to their career peak. Their proximity to career peak needs to be accounted for when looking at individual differences. The closer you are to your peak, probably the lower volume that you're going to be able to recover from, but kind of relatively higher volume, you might need to actually improve because you've done so much work. And that one's a little bit trickier because as you go, you know, very early in your training, you don't need much training to improve because, you know, when you're doing three sets, but you used to be doing zero sets, well, you're doing way, way more work. So early on in the training, you're not going to need that much work. And then it's going to increase and how much work you do. And then as you become really, really advanced and super strong, that's going to start to tail off because all of the work you're doing then is so stimulating. So, so those numbers are going to come back down. Let's say when I was squatting 950 to 1000 pounds, you know, getting ready for that kind of stuff, those workouts, if I'm in there doing 850 for four, one set of 850 for four is like really, really stimulating. So I'm not going to be able to do, you know, four or five sets of the really high workload compared to even, you know, 10 years prior to that for me when I was maybe doing 550 for a similar type of workout. So that, that one changes a little bit as well as your work capacity, your ability to tolerate work very early on in the training career when you're far away from your career peak and you're low on the experience and this, you know, strength and experience are going to be tied together pretty, pretty tightly. You're going to have a low work capacity. So you're not going to be able to do that much work just because you don't have the kind of special endurance for it within a given session. So as that increases, as you go from beginner to intermediate, to, you know, advanced and then into very advanced and, you know, it's, it's hard to put strict definitions on what it means to be beginner, intermediate and advanced, but I'd say beginner lifter is going to be somewhere between like six months to two or three years of serious weight training, intermediate, probably three to maybe six or seven years advanced, you know, seven to 12 years, very advanced, 12 years and beyond. You know, there's huge ranges that we could get into. And when I say serious weight training, like I came into powerlifting while I'd been doing powerlifting for four months before my first powerlifting meet, but I'd been doing very serious strength training, you know, since I, for nine years prior to that. So I, sometimes I would say that I was a intermediate lifter with advanced abilities. You know, I was new to powerlifting and powerlifting specific training. I squat 800 pounds of my first powerlifting meet, but I'd been doing a lot of serious strength training, even though it wasn't strictly powerlifting. So if you're wondering, okay, am I beginner, intermediate, advanced, and you're coming from a serious strength training background in bodybuilding or sport performance and powerlifting or wrestling or shot put or something like that, even though you might be new to formal powerlifting, you know, you're certainly not a beginner. So that's, that's something to consider as well. Then there's all these different lifestyle factors that you need to consider as well. And the lifestyle factors are going to be a big deal for, you know, both your inter and intra individual differences. So, so differences between, you know, if you're a coach, uh, differences between the athletes you, you train, or if you're watching this to help with your own training differences between you at different stages in your life, you know, when you're 22 or let's take age out of it, but just, you know, let's say you're a student, say you're 21 years old, you know, during the summer, your intra individual difference of how much stress you're under during the summer and how that's going to affect your recovery capacity and how much workload you need and are able to recover from, it's going to be a lot different, you know, when you're just relaxing, going to the beach, you know, lifting in the morning, going to the beach in the afternoon during the summer versus, you know, when you're in finals week of school and you've got all this stress going on, you're not going to be able to tolerate and recover from nearly as much training in those high stress periods. So as your seasons of life kind of ebb and flow through those, maybe, you know, more stressful times at work, you newborn kids, you know, whatever it is, you need to consider how much stress you're under and the more stress you are is going to, in a weird way, kind of cause you to need more training because of a bad hormonal situation. That's not going to give you as good a response to the training you're doing, but not allow you to recover from as much training. So it's going to move up your MEV and down your MRV, which can create some, you know, trickier issues. And I'd check out our videos on undulating periodization and fatigue management on that. So as we're looking at that, you know, those lifestyle factors, diet, are you trying to gain weight or lose weight? If you're eating in a deficit, you're not going to be able to recover as well, but you don't have the anabolic effects of more calories. So you might actually need to do a little bit more training to retain your gains. What's your sleep like? As you sleep worse, you are getting worse recovery and worse adaptations from the training. So you actually have to do a little bit more training, but you can't do as much training because you're not recovering as well. So again, MEV and MRV are moving closer together. So that might be a trend that you'd notice with those lifestyle factors like stress, diet, and sleep. So all of this stuff with individual differences is really to sum up that the training that I need and the training that you need is not the same. You know, we're looking at sex, strength, height, weight, experience, lifestyle factors. You know, there's a lot of other little small things along with it. All of it's kind of either moving MEV up or down and MRV up or down. It's creating more need for frequency or less need for frequency. So this is kind of just the tip of the iceberg of the individual differences stuff. And you can dive in a lot deeper in the book, Scientific Principles of Strength Training, co-authored by myself, the famous Dr. Mike Isertel and the less famous, but still a great guy, Dr. James Hoffman. So I'd go check that out and understand more about the interrelationship between all of these individual differences. But hopefully this gave you a good start on how to apply this principle, principle number seven in the Scientific Principles of Strength Training to your training or athletes that you work with. Or if you watch this and you're like, oh my God, I'm so confused. How much training am I supposed to do, Chad? I have an answer for you. And the Juggernaut AI app will have many answers for you. So you can go check that out for a two-week free trial at the link down in the description. And it's going to take all of these individual differences and use that to determine how much volume you need. A little bit higher MEV, a little bit lower MRV changes based on your feedback, how you're feeling. Those numbers are going to keep adapting to you and your program will be ever changing and improving for your needs. So if you enjoyed this video, like it, subscribe to the channel, maybe share it with a friend, maybe don't share it with an enemy because you need to stay stronger than them. So they can't have this information, but hopefully you enjoyed it. Thanks for watching. Subscribe to the channel, download the Juggernaut AI app, all that good stuff. Thank you.