 jchnet, jchnetic notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes notes helping me to get ready and to accomplish my goals. I'm super happy with another great accomplishment that I was able to get this past weekend competing in Florida. I was fighting the Pan American Championship and I was able to get my fourth Pan American title as a black belt. So I'm super stoked, super happy and excited for the next goals. I never felt so strong in my life. I feel that my body is bulletproof. I'm able to push hard without getting any injuries. The cardio is good. And especially because this tournament in Florida, I usually fight as a middleweight. And this time I decided to go up a weight class. And then I didn't feel much of the difference. Even though I was fighting guys that I already used to competing on their weight, I gained a little weight and I was feeling stronger. No problem fighting with the heavier guys. My next one is going to be in Brazil. I'm super excited for that one. I got invited to compete the BGJ Stars, which I'm going to be fighting only legends of our sport. And I can't wait to step on the mats again and do what I like to do. So that's it, guys. Before we look at Ottavio's training, make sure to subscribe to the channel, hit the like button, go down to the link in the description, and get yourself our free Basics of BGJ Strength and Edition e-book. And check out the BJJ Strength and Edition AI system. So Ottavio last weekend wins his fourth title. Great showing. Two submissions, two victories by points there in the medium heavyweight division, competing up one class from his normal middle heavyweight as he prepares for next month's heavyweight Grand Prix at BJJ Stars. So he's right back to the hard work, and we're into a new phase of training for him. We finished up his last phase, you may have seen, where he was doing more max strength and power, like single output jumps and that type of stuff. Now we're looking more at explosive strength and alactic capacity. So how many times, how well can he repeat those explosive efforts? So he starts off his training today with some dynamic effort bench pressing. For you powerlifting fans of this channel, yes, that's like a west side thing. Notice it's for someone who's not doing powerlifting. What a concept. That's kind of not that great for powerlifting. But for athletes who need to become more powerful, yeah, can be very effective. So he does eight triples in the bench press with 80 kilos. Ottavio's best bench press is probably about 120, 125 kilos. We don't actually test that because, well, it doesn't matter that much. It's just a weight that he can, you know, a fairly heavy weight that he can move fast. So he does eight triple short rest periods there in the bench press, then keeps some general strength training in on the barbell row and belt squat. And then we get into our alactic capacity circuit. So this is short maximum output, less than six seconds, ideally, of work. Some of them might go slightly over with very short rest periods, just 10 seconds rest. This week we're doing six sets of each exercise. Next week it'll be eight sets. The week after that it'll be 10 sets. Then we'll taper in to BJJ Stars for him. So you see the movements he's using today. Depth push-ups. We have a couple new isometric exercises that we're doing, and then the twisting med ball slams. Earlier in the week he had some explosive rope climbing exercises, isometric push-ups with real high force output, kettlebell squat jumps, and barbell twists. So we're staying, covering all those movement categories of, you know, pressing, pulling, twisting, jumping, all the good stuff that makes good athletes. You don't have to get overly fancy with it. But I'm trying to get a little bit more creative. For someone like Ottavio, it's so high level, we do need more SPP, special physical preparation type of exercises. And if you've trained Jiu-Jitsu, you know that there's huge isometric components to Jiu-Jitsu. Positions where super high tension, but you're not actually going anywhere. You're exerting a ton of force, but it's not concentric, it's not eccentric, it's isometric. So we're recreating that for Ottavio today with two different movements. One is to simulate like a high crotch single leg takedown. So he's extending through the hip, through the low back, the legs, and, you know, having to keep the isometric tension in the arm as he extends up for five seconds as hard as he can. Switches sides, ten seconds rest, then goes up to the other side. Three sets on each side, six sets total. Next week we'll bump it up to eight, week after that to ten. Then we use another isometric exercise, just a single arm row. Rowing movements, pulling movements, single arm, double arm, vertical, horizontal, every kind of playing is very important to Jiu-Jitsu's success. So here he's doing a single arm isometric row. You know, there's going to be so many of those moments where they're fighting for grips. Who can hold their grip the longest? Who can hold their grip the strongest? So we're helping develop that for Ottavio as he gets ready for the BJJ Stars. And then depending on what happens with COVID and everything, maybe IBJJF Worlds in December. So hopefully you learned something from Ottavio's training today. Congrats to him on bringing home his fourth Pan Am title last week. Learn more. Get the free e-book. Subscribe to the channel. Check out Juggernaut AI Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Strengthening Edition system to get a totally customized program for you that continues to adapt and grow with you. Tell it how many days a week you want to train, how experienced you are lifting weights, when your tournament is, and it customizes the program totally for you. And it keeps growing and I'm there to help. So thanks for watching. Subscribe to the channel. See you next time. See you next time. Bye.