iovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviovioviov Yeah, we're still deciding which division I'm going to be in, you know, but yeah, excited for being in the competition again. So in a typical week, you're here strength and conditioning with me two times, one extra strength and conditioning at home, and about how much jiu-jitsu are you training each week? Well, jiu-jitsu every day at night, you know, do at least one session per day, some days twice, and over here twice, three times, right? Three times a week with the training, twice here, one at home, and to summarize, I think like two exercises per day, you know, either a low-base cardio in the morning with jiu-jitsu or conditioning here with jiu-jitsu tonight as well, and seven days a week. Sundays, I do the conditioning, that's my kind of rest day, just do one training in the morning, but try to stay active seven days a week. But I've been doing this for being active like six days a week with hard training for the last, you know, 22 years, so it's kind of part of my routine, you know? Yeah, that's a pretty good routine, 22 years. And obviously, you have some times in jiu-jitsu, easier training, or you just beat me up, and then other times with better guys and harder training with them. But, so we're in the last phase of training for Felipe now, so we're focused more on power and speed. You know, we let the jiu-jitsu be his conditioning and make him in shape for jiu-jitsu, and then he's doing some bike riding and stuff on his own. But in the weight room, we really just focus on being healthy, being powerful, and then letting the rest of his training kind of take care of itself. So, let's have a good session. Thanks, coach. Appreciate it. Furao is a ferret, right? Ferret, yeah. Not many of, I'm trying to think of... Furao sounds nicer, right? It does sound nicer. I'm trying to think of nicknames that you guys, like, Brazilian guy nicknames that are like, oh, that's like a tough name. We got the, you know, cheeks. Very rare. The ferret. Yeah. We'll go after nicknames to make fun of them. Yeah. What is Pew Pew? Tweety Bird. Tweety Bird? Yeah. All right. So, this exercise is something that, actually, my physical therapist had been helping me with to improve rotation. But just teaching them to engage the hamstring and then to control lumbar rotation, slow your movement down a little bit. Like, no momentum in the sit-up. It's, obviously, in jujitsu, there's just so many tough positions, like, positions that if you showed it to a physical therapist or a chiropractor or something, they'd be looking at you crazy. Yeah. Deep flexion with rotation. But, you know, your joints are there for your body to move. So, we want to be able to just control those positions as best we can. So, this exercise, the active foot split squat with the polyph hold. Been really liking a lot of these active foot exercises. You know, just because sports, most sports, they're played on the balls of your feet. And a lot of weight room stuff is focused on being on the full foot. So, just giving this active foot where he's having to hold the heel off the ground and propriocept. But, it's got some good qualities to it. And then, polyph press, polyph hold. Always a useful variation to keep the low back and hips healthy. And then, you know, we can just kill two birds with one stone here. So, Professor, as you said that you've been, you know, training for 22 years. What are some things that you do that you think help you stay so consistent and disciplined? I'm always very, I was trying through the career. I was always, you know, disciplined with the training itself. You know, trying to pay attention to my body. You know, how my body reacts to the training. And, you know, do conditioning, do, you know, stretching. And then, at some point, I stopped doing stretching. And when I was young, I couldn't afford to do less things. But, I think, right now I'm 36 years old. And, after 30 years old, I started paying attention a lot more on recovery. And things that, you know, would make me stay longer performing at the highest level. And pay attention on things that help us recover in smart training, you know. I think sometimes we train so much for so many years. And you think our body will never get tired, never get old. And that's, if you don't pay attention to that, I think that's when injury starts to happen. I mean, in jiu-jitsu and sports with contact, you can be one day that you're not focused on the training. It can be a bad day. You can have an injury. You know, I think as a combination of, for now, for example, is a good recovery. And, always, when you train, stay focused on the training, you know. I think that's the very important thing. Pay attention to your body movements. And always focus. And, I feel like most of the time when I get injured, it was time that I was not focused, maybe relaxed, not doing 100%. And, your body tweaks here and there. So, I think that will be one of the most important things, you know. There's another well-known jiu-jitsu guy nicknamed Pupu as well, right? There's a few. Yeah. I mean, that's why you're... There's a jiu-jitsu guy in Arizona. Okay. That's what I thought. It's two. Yeah. Two brothers. Is one of them just Piu, and the other one Piu-Piu? So, Grandmaster Piu, Master Piu, and Piu-Jun. Grandmaster Piu. That sounds more like a rapper name. And, so you have a lot that you're balancing. You run, now, two schools on two schools. You're teaching the students at the school. You're coaching many professional MMA fighters. You have your own training. You have your family and your twins. What are some things that you think help keep your balance in life to be able to do all those? Well, we have to structure and prioritize things, right? For me, I prioritize my training. So, I never miss training. If I have to, for example, schedule a meeting or schedule a time that I'm going to play with my kids, I always try to go around my training days or my training times. If you know me well, I always try and I never miss training. That's the number one thing for me. And I try my best to keep that. When we say that he never misses training, there was a time about a year ago that there was fires happening, and Professor Felipe had to evacuate from his house. And there's the guys who were staying at a hotel, right? Yeah. And they were just out driving around. His twins at the time maybe just turned three years old. Yeah. And, you know, the kids are sleeping in the car, and I get a message. Coach, can I come train right now? My kids just fell asleep. So, then he comes, and the kids are asleep in the car, and he comes to train. He says, I have one hour. And probably at 59 minutes into that one hour, he gets a message, kids are awake. And, yeah, so even if his house may literally be burning down, he will not miss training. I think what most people do, like, let's say, training is never a big priority for anybody, you know, for normal people. And if they're busy on the day, if they have to do other things, the first thing they skip is the training. Oh, I'll train later. I'll do this now. Oh, I have to go to grocery. I'll train later. And for me, I do the other way around, you know. Okay, my training are these times. Everything else goes in between. And I try to do that to keep the consistency, keep the body strong, and keep the training. It's like the lifestyle, you know. So, what we're doing with the, we call it a bounce press, using the pad press. Started doing that in shot put. It's like a very popular thing for shot putters to do. And then I do it with football players. Sports, jiu-jitsu, football, shot put, whatever it is. It's about moving heavy shit fast, you know, being more powerful. Not about just moving a weight slow the way that you could in power lifting. Who do you think is the best jiu-jitsu of all MMA guys? Now, I mean, Neiman's one of the best. Neiman's one of the best. Neiman is now a knockout artist. Yeah, yeah. Of all times, you know, so many good guys, huh? That's crazy. Yeah. Number one, but Damian Maier. Jacare. Jacare. So, I really like this exercise a lot for jiu-jitsu guys, because there's so much of that one-handed explosive pulling in jiu-jitsu, whether you're breaking a grip, you know, collar drag, arm drag. It's very good, specific movement. Right. So, we've known each other for, I think, almost 12 years now. And as I look back at the training that we used to do with you guys 10, 11, 12 years ago, compared to what we do now, I think it's quite a bit different. And there's a lot of things that I would change about what we did back then. But you've had this very long career of doing jiu-jitsu, about 23 years, right? Uh-huh. And now at 14, how many years is a black belt? Uh, 15. 15 years is a black belt? 16, yeah. 16 years, yeah. So, of course, four, you know, so you're getting ready for your fourth degree? I'm already fourth degree, and I'll get fifth degree in another three years, yeah. So, you know, most people watching this, they're probably white belts, blue belts. But if you could go back and give advice to white belts or blue belts, or you have white belts and blue belts, so many at the school, and give them advice about this part of the training, strength and conditioning part of training, or advice to you when you were younger, what would that be? Yeah, I think, like, for example, this, to have a complementary training between jiu-jitsu and, like, strength and conditioning with, you know, well, with a coach like you that understands what's going on, what we need, it's very important. I talk to people all the time, I wish I would have done this training when I was in my 20s, you know, when I was competing at the highest level. I think I would have done much better, like, as far as performance, you know, I'm happy with the results that I had in my career, but now comparing, like, myself now with 36 years old and myself with 26 years old, I think today I would beat myself 10 years ago, you know, because with experience, I guess everything in life, you get experience on things, you start learning better how to train better, how to train smart, but definitely the strength and conditioning training to support the body, to minimize injury, to make you strong, to make you reach the best as you're capable. I think it's important to have this balance, especially for, you know, guys who want to train, like, five, six days a week, you want to keep competing and do, you know, serious work. But even a person who trains jiu-jitsu for lifestyle and wants to, you know, do jiu-jitsu forever, it's important to build a building, build a structure of your body so you can handle training, you know, especially after 30, 35, 40 years old. So Professor Furao is the king of the iron neck. He likes to train the iron neck hard and then let people like me try and get him in a choke and then fail. Just so when I finish, my arms burn out and I can't finish the choke and then he go, hey coach, you see that? Iron neck. Iron neck. Iron neck. I don't want to miss that one. How did the rack? It's a competitive planking kind of thing. It's plank. I just racked. Wrestling jiu-jitsu at once. There's so much where the guys in jiu-jitsu, they're having to have, you know, stability in strange positions. So we've done stuff like plank and pull the sled with the rope. And then I just figured I'll make it a more competitive head-to-head. So it's from high plank, each person holding one side of the ring and trying to pull the other person off their base. For me, it's just pure entertainment. Well, actually, Professor Marka is a plank battle expert. As soon as he watched for one second, you know, you guys just do it like this. This is the best technique. This is wrong. You should do it the other way. Come back. There's so many and very prominent people in jiu-jitsu who they never lift weights or they never do any extra strength and conditioning. They think just jiu-jitsu is enough training. What do you think about that approach? I think, like, if you ask me anybody that question 20 years ago, I think the majority of people was not combining training strength and conditioning in jiu-jitsu. It was mostly jiu-jitsu training. But with the evolution of the sport, as any sport nowadays, I think all jiu-jitsu practitioners, they are better athletes. You know, everybody's training better. You know, the resource for information with the internet is much easier nowadays. And with the evolution, you know, now if a person is a full-time athlete of jiu-jitsu, for example, not doing strength and conditioning, I don't think it would be applicable for this phase right now of the sport. You know, I think everybody's so athletic. People who don't do any type of physical training, I think they are missing something. They'll be behind. Obviously, there are some guys that are super talented. And they can kind of overlap over, you know, fulfill that gap with the big talent. But, you know, that will be like 1%, I mean, a very small percent of people that would do. But even, like, thinking about long term, you know, I think it's important to have the training for longevity on the jiu-jitsu career, you know. And right here now, live on YouTube, do you want to give Coach Shedd his purple belt for everyone? Okay. That's coming soon. That's coming soon. All right, Professor. Thank you, Coach. I appreciate it. Thank you so much. It was actually harder than others. What can I do? Well, it's hard, yeah. Because I figured I'd just be so much heavier. Well, there's the one thing that I can beat. I'll like that. I'm already done. I'm done. I'm done. All right. All right.