 apororio, comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer comer You can leave all that part in blocking me. Oh, sorry. You get a two week free trial, the juggernaut AI app, the link down in our description. Check out our new 2.5 update with new program, tons of new features, improvements of our volume landmarks, all that good stuff. You get the smartest program for you customized by gender, age, height, weight, strength, experience, your weak points, all that good stuff. So again, link down in the description or juggernaut AI.app and the juggernaut AI app. If you're struggling with certain parts of your bench press, may prescribe you board presses. Let's learn why. So the board press is an exercise, you know, became very, very popular for equipped powerlifters. And they were a lot of times using that, yes, to overload their lockout, but also to help break in their shirt. You know, depending on how much weight was on the bar, might need a four board to touch. And then a three board as it got heavier and a two board and a one board and a bunch of silly stuff for guys who wore these very man pushup bra type of things. But if we're just using the board press to build your lockout strength, pretty simple. You want to keep it as much like your regular bench press as possible. And you want to avoid leveraging the board or, you know, making a different touch point or a different rhythm to the bench press. So here we're using a bench block. They have a couple different versions of this one. We'll do a one board height or a two board height. If you train alone or just with one spotter, great option because it attaches to the bar, really simple. So it would be possible for Marissa to like just touch the corner of the block to her chest. And if you weren't already thinking this in the comments, well, doesn't she already have a built-in board press? Yeah, they're called boobs. So you want to have the whole block touch the chest evenly. Don't just tap one side to the other. You don't want to, you know, get into like kind of a heaving sync and launch with the board that some people will do. If you have actual two by fours going and people hold them at the angle, the angle can become inconsistent. As you hold the board up higher and higher, you're changing the touch point with that or you're causing the person to have to flatten it. And then maybe you're getting a little boost out of that. So don't become a great board presser for the sake of being great at board press. Use it like any other variation to build the competitive exercise. So not too many, you know, tips really for the technique of the board press relative to bench press technique and tons of videos here on the channel that you can learn about regular bench press technique with it. So why would you want to do the board press? Board press is going to be an exercise that helps you build your lockout as the main thing. So, you know, doing a close grip variation of board pressing is going to kind of give you the best of both worlds there. You're going to really overload the weight and with that little bit closer position. So very challenging exercise for the triceps. If in a regular close grip bench press, you maybe lose a little bit of shoulder position at the bottom and close grip causes you some shoulder pain, then throwing a one or two board in there is going to be beneficial. You're also going to get an overloading benefit from it with a regular grip. You're going to be able to bench heavier with a one, two, probably three board press than you can off of the chest. As you get into really high boards, four board, five board, very possible that you actually can't do as much weight because, you know, then it's just all triceps. There's not as much musculature involved in the lift. They can also be a great option for injury workaround rehab settings. A lot of times I've done with people with like pec strains, bicep tendonitis, they're struggling and it's painful with the bar on their chest. So we use descending height boards over a number of weeks, like a five board press, four board, three board, two board, one board back to the chest to reintroduce them to that full range of motion pressing, allow them to get a lot of stimulus, a lot of similar stimulus, and typically pair that with reverse band pressing or slingshot bench press to keep the full range at lighter weight and then get the heavier weights off the boards. So they keep that strength stimulus in the bench press. So, you know, we can do it building tricep strength, overloading, getting you used to the feel of a heavier weight or in rehab injury workaround settings. Maybe it's just a one day thing. You know, I coach high school football and if we've got a player coming in, I'll coach my shoulders feeling a little off from, from practice today. You know, I'm trying not to just be like, Oh, well don't bench press today if everyone else is bench pressing, but maybe they'll do a two board press and feel fine doing that because it's, you know, most typically when the bar is on the chest and in the deepest stretch position, that's when people are going to experience pain, pec, shoulder, bicep, tendon, elbow, whatever it is. And for the day, throwing, you know, one, two, three board on there allows them to keep moving forward and keep progressing, doing the next most productive thing. Now, when would you want to use a board press in your training? It could be used at any phase of training. During hypertrophy training, it's going to be a good option, particularly close grip board pressing because that little bit reduced range of motion isn't going to be quite as fatiguing. So it'll lend itself to higher volume, higher frequency in a strength block. It's going to be a great option to address that lockout weak point. Again, close grip or regular grip. In hypertrophy, also you can get into some fun kind of challenge type of things with different board press stuff. Joe DeFranco, who was a great inspiration in the creating of juggernaut training systems. It's one of my first YouTube videos, a pilgrimage. It was like a religious pilgrimage for me driving down the New Jersey turnpike to visit him. And they would do this thing, I think they called tricep death. And it was a close grip and they'd go one board off the chest for five reps, then one board, then two board, then three board, then four board, all without racking it. And, you know, so you're getting this set of 20, 25 reps and with a weight that was maybe more like your 10 rep max, you know, and that can have some, some benefit and, and hypertrophy plus it's just kind of fun. And that's what we're really here to do. And then in peaking, it's going to have the same benefits of, of building, building the lockout. It's also going to, the overload benefits are going to become a little bit more prominent there. The mechanical overload benefits that is allowing you to use a heavier weight by reducing the range of motion and preparing your nervous system and kind of psyche for those heavier weights that you're trying to lift in competition. So technique looks pretty much the same. Just make sure you're not leveraging the board in some weird way to become a great board presser rather than using the board press to become a great bench presser. Why to use it? Build the lockout, reduce shoulder pain issues around that, and prepare your body for heavier weights with a mechanical overload and the psychological benefit of that. And then when to use it, it can be used throughout any phase, a little bit different role in each phase, but hopefully now, you know a little bit more about how to use the board press in your training. If you're interested in getting the smartest program for you, visit the link down in our description and get a two week free trial of the juggernaut AI app, or you could just visit juggernaut AI.app and check that out. Again, customizes everything for you. For example, on the bench press, it's looking at, are you weak off the chest, weak in the mid range, weak in the lockout, and now you know, well, you're going to get board presses if you're weak in the lockout. So thanks for watching. Please like the video, subscribe to the channel, and we'll see you next time.