

=== FILE: Box Deadlift Tutorial： Stronger Hamstrings, Better Deadlift [6tccLhGrq94].txt ===

 Hey, everybody, what's up? Chad Wessley-Smith here for Juggernaut Training Systems, and today I'm going to be continuing our How, Why, When series, talking about when you use different exercise variations, how to do them, why to do them, when to use them to make your squat bench and deadlift stronger. Today, I'm going to be talking about the box deadlift. As always, videos here on the Juggernaut Training Systems channel are brought to you by the Juggernaut AI app. So if you want training that's totally customized for you, looking at your gender, age, height, weight, strength, experience, where you miss your lifts, all that type of stuff, get a two-week free trial of the Juggernaut AI app, and it takes all those things into consideration to make a totally customized program for you that adapts to your feedback. So you can visit the link down in the description or go to juggernautai.app for that two-week free trial. Alright, so the box deadlift is a deadlift variation, more of an accessory type exercise, but that was taught to me by Mikhail Koklyov and Boris Cheko at a seminar that we hosted with them back in 2014, I think maybe 2015, but let's say 10-ish years ago, they were out here doing a seminar tour and they showed us this exercise and it made a great impact on my own deadlift training and a lot of the guys that I coached. So the box deadlift is really an RDL variation that gives you a tactile cue of a box or bench or something pressing up against your calves to help you create a very vertical shin angle and maximize the tension that you create in your hamstrings while really learning how to hinge and create that kind of ideal deadlift position. So how do we do it? I've got Playa Box here. Make sure you've got something braced up against it. I got a kettlebell sitting on the ground behind it so it doesn't slide back. You can use a bench. There used to be a device called a vert pole that you could use. You could set up a bar low in the rack and have your calves pressed up against that. Lots of ways to do it. One's not really better than the others. But what we want to do is stand so we can press our calves back against it and create a vertical or even negative shin angle in doing an RDL. So I'm pressing my calves back. It's going to be this high hip position. And as I do my RDL, I've got to keep my calves in constant contact with the box. And if I was to allow my calves to come off of the box, that's going to be kind of failing to do the exercise correctly. So it's got to be that constant contact. I'm going to be pushing my knees back, almost leaning back against it a little bit. And you're going to get way, way more tension in your hamstring by doing it this way. For someone like me who struggled with their deadlift position, a common problem for people of advanced size. This was a great exercise for me to learn what it really felt like to load the hamstrings to hinge better. So the execution of the exercise is pretty simple. You're just keeping your calves pressed into the box, pressed against the bench, throughout the entirety of the movement. Now this means you might not be able to go all the way down to the floor. When I would do these, I would also not fully lock out. So I'm moving from kind of 90% lock out to as much tension as I could tolerate at the bottom of the lift. So that's how you do it. Now why would you use this exercise? If you struggle with your deadlift start position, if you struggle with understanding how to hinge, those are going to be great reasons to do this exercise if you have relatively weak hamstrings. Another famous Russian powerlifter, Konstantin Konstantinovsky once told me that he thought I could deadlift 400 kilos. I just needed better technique and more leg bicep. Leg bicep is what Russians call hamstrings. And this, even though I didn't end up deadlifting 400 kilos, this is definitely an exercise that helped me increase my leg bicep strength and kind of get more at a less. Because you have the constant feedback of the calves pressing into the box or bench, maybe right now you're doing RDLs with let's say 405 for sets of 6. But you start doing a box deadlift and maybe that becomes 315 for sets of 6. But your hamstrings are actually feeling a lot more sore and a lot more worked from that. It's because when you're doing regular RDLs right now, your knee might move forward a little bit. You might lose a little bit of that hamstring tension and not realize it as you're going because you're just thinking about the heavy ass weight in your hands. But this, giving you that constant feedback, is going to keep your technique really strict and help you get more at a less. So if you are using this as an accessory exercise or on a secondary deadlifting day, you're not getting really unnecessary fatigue, especially neural fatigue and kind of peripheral fatigue in your hands, your lats, all that stuff. You're just putting all the work onto your hamstrings, really where you're trying to focus it. So when would you use this exercise in your training? It can be used at any part of the training. So when you move through the different phases of the training, moving from hypertrophy to strength to peaking, the box deadlift is really just going to become a secondary tertiary, like a supporting accessory exercise at that point. So you're probably doing some competition deadlift, maybe 4 or 5 sets of that. And then you're coming back with 2, 3, 4 sets of box deadlifts, typically in like a 5 to 10, maybe up to 12 rep range. So it's not a great exercise to do really low reps on what your box deadlift max is. No one cares. So make sure you're using the exercise for what it's intended for, just to build up your hamstring strength for you to understand how to hinge better and how to load your hamstrings. So now you know how to do it, why to do it, when to do it. That's the box deadlift brought to you by me via, no, either via. Anyways, from Makael Koklyov, one of my favorite powerlifters ever, one of my favorite strength athletes ever. Don't let me sell him short as only a powerlifter. He's a great weightlifter and strongman competitor as well. And one of the all time great powerlifting coaches, Boris Sheko, they brought that to us at a seminar out here again about 10 years ago. So hopefully you'll implement this exercise in your training, get something useful from it. And if you enjoyed it, you could, it's an exercise on the Juggernaut AI app. So if you've got weak hamstrings, weak midrange in the deadlift, it's probably going to program it for you anyways. So go check that out with a two week free trial at the link down in the description. Like the video, subscribe to the channel. Thanks for watching.

=== FILE: Deadlift Accessories You’re Probably Doing Wrong [J_jG69EXmkA].txt ===

 Hey, everybody, what's up? Chad Welsley Smith here for Juggernaut Training Systems. And today, we're going to be talking to you about some of our favorite deadlift accessory exercises, maybe some that you haven't been including in your training. So, as always, videos here on this channel are brought to you by the Juggernaut AI app. So, the Juggernaut AI app is going to take into account your sex, height, weight, strength, how long you've been training, when your meat is, how much do you sleep, are you trying to gain weight, lose weight, what are your weak points in the lifts, a lot more factors, and create a totally customized program for you that grows and adapts with your feedback. So, go ahead and check it out. Two-week free trial at the link down in the description or at juggernautai.app. All right. So, the first deadlift accessory that I want to talk about is one that's going to really help with your back health. And if you're like me, if you're like Marissa, if you're like so many other people out there, you've experienced some amount of back pain from training the deadlift. And it's not that there's anything inherently wrong with the deadlift. You know, we always talk about the kind of the big definition of injury is a tissue's inability to adapt to load, which I know is kind of this big catch-all answer. But what I see with the power lifters that I've coached and people that I consult with and people using the Juggernaut AI app, where pain comes about most often for them is that they have really developed abilities in one area, lumbar extension, as well as hip external rotation and then avoiding trunk rotation, because they have no capacity to the other side of that lumbar flexion, hip internal rotation and inducing trunk rotation. When that does happen, whether it's the bar twisting on them a little bit, whether it's, you know, picking their kid up out of a car seat or, you know, just bending over to tie their shoes and that back pain starts to exist, it's because of that lack of capacity to the other side of things. So that the training, you know, oftentimes becomes overly specific and you do need specific training, of course, to become the strongest power lifter that you want to be. But you also need to be able to train in a long sustainable manner. So developing some capacity to the other side of things is going to be really beneficial to you. And something that's helped me out a lot in, you know, one of my most shared videos called Exercise That Keep My Back Feeling Good. This is the first one. It is a staggered rotational dumbbell RDL. You can also do it with a kettlebell. All right, so the staggered dumbbell rotational RDL, big name, simple-ish exercise is going to expose you to a couple of these different moving patterns. You're going to get some flexion in it and some rotation and some hip internal rotation, all in one thing. This is a great exercise to use as an accessory or as a warmup. So if you're currently struggling with some back pain, maybe this is a great, this is going to be an effective warmup exercise for you. And then once you get better at it and can load it more heavily, it could become an accessory exercise. So I'm going to go into a staggered stance, what some people would call a B stance. So my right toe is lined up with my left heel. I got kind of a soft knee on this front foot. And then I'm hinging at the hip as I turn and really kind of reach this dumbbell down. So I'm making sure on my front foot to not let it, the weight turn out. So I have to keep a little bit of internal rotation on this front hip. I'm creating internal rotation on the back hip. I'm rotating and I'm flexing my spine at the bottom of it. So it's not an RDL where I'm, you know, big chest head up the whole time and doing this because then I'm not going to be able to create any, any rotation. Extension and rotation are kind of enemies of each other. So I'm letting myself around as I turn and kind of look back, just look back at it. Yeah. So that's the staggered rotational dumbbell RDL. You can do that with a kettlebell as well, but that's going to give you exposure to all three of those movement patterns that so much of other power lifting training doesn't give you access to. So we're getting some lumbar flexion, we're getting some hip internal rotation, and we're getting some trunk rotation and developing some capacity and that's going to help you stay healthier so you can train harder for longer. All right. So the next deadlift accessory we want to talk about is a very popular movement, GHRs, glute ham raises, but we want to talk to you about how to do them the right way because maybe you've been doing them wrong and get the most out of them because what a lot of people do is they turn the glute ham raise into really another low back exercise and an extension exercise, but you already are getting so much of that in your deadlift variations that if you want to train your hamstrings and glutes harder, it takes a couple little details to get the most out of the GHR. And this was something that was taught to us by our great friend, Paid Boca Fuso, who's an awesome physical therapist, Physio, as they call him, Downanda. And she's an IPF lifter for Australia. She helped Marissa out with a lot of back pain and helped me out as well and we've learned a ton from her. So Paid gave us a cue that was really helpful for us when she was teaching Marissa how to do GHRs the right way, the first time around. She was using a lot more technical jargon talking about which way to rotate the pelvis and all the different stuff. And Marissa's kind of like, I don't know what you're talking about. What do you mean? And then she explained this hip position that we're trying to achieve on this and a lot of other exercises as if you're trying to pee in your own mouth, gross, but memorable cue. So what we're trying to do is create that hip position for Marissa where she's not in this big extension, but she's using her abs to kind of tuck her pelvis underneath her as if she was going to pee in her own mouth and maintaining that position, ribs down, hip rotated, chin tucked a little bit. And when you do this, it is so much harder to do these movements and you feel them so much more in your hamstrings. Like normally, how many GHRs if you're just the old way of doing them, could you do? Yeah. And these are like, maybe you have to start at doing just the negatives or do band assisted, or you do the negative, you have a partner help you back to the top. But it's such a small detail of your hip position that makes it so much more challenging. Because if you're throwing your head back and your shoulders are back and you're getting into a bunch of extension, your erectors are going to help pull you up to the top of a GHR. And the same thing goes for a back raise 45 degree back raise, but queuing this more neutral hip position or hips tucked underneath you, ribs down, chin tucked. So you're staying a little bit rounded. It makes your hamstrings have to work so, so, so much harder. So it just takes those little bit little bit of details and you get so much more out of the GHR, chin down, ribs tucked, hip tucked under and trying to maintain that rounded position on the way up. Yeah. And like one, two reps, and Marissa is already feeling like your hamstrings are going to cramp up. Say you're pretty strong hamstrings pretty strong, but those little detail changes make such a big difference in the GHR are going to help you get a lot more out of this kind of classic powerlifting sort of staple accessory exercise for the deadlift, but fix your hip position, fix your rib and head position. It's going to make it way more challenging, help you get more at a less with it. All right, so the last exercise we want to talk about in this video is the Penlay Row. Now that we've got the door back closed and not exposed to the elements anymore, because if you can't tell from my nipples, it's an extremely brisk winter day here in California. It's like 43 degrees outside, which I'm not prepared for. Penlay Row is a great movement. If you're struggling with tightness off the floor, like you have lacking tension in your lats, because it's going to teach you to turn your lats on right away, create that tension and just kind of be more forceful off of the ground. So Penlay Row is like a bent over barbell row, but you're going from a dead stop every time. This is for name for the late Glenn Penlay. So just kind of from your deadlift stance and grip, trying to get your back parallel to the ground. You're having to take big air in. So don't let this turn into a momentum exercise where you're heaving your back up as you do it. You want to keep your back parallel to the ground, flex your abs, turn your lats from zero all the way on, make that strict powerful row. Penlay Row is going to help you build more tension, build more strength off the floor, especially if you're lacking the kind of technical understanding of how to get tight off the floor. Penlay Row can help you learn it. So hopefully you learned something about these three deadlift accessory movements. Maybe the things that you aren't including in your training or that you are, but they just need a little bit of a tweak. So if you enjoyed the video, like, subscribe to the channel, and don't forget to check out that two week free trial of the Juggernaut AI app at the link down in the description or at juggernautai.app.

=== FILE: Fix Your Bench Press Weak Points with These Two Variations [cKGf9EkHF1c].txt ===

 Hey everybody, what's up? Chad Wesley Smith here for Juggernaut Training Systems and Juggernaut AI joined by Marisa Inda. And today we're going to be continuing our How, Why, When series, where we explain to you how to use different exercise variations, how to do them, why to do them, and when you would want to include them in your training. Today we're going to be talking about the dead bench slash pin press, which will be a great exercise variation to build starting strength in the bench press, can work around injuries, all kind of great stuff with it. But before we get into that, as always, our videos here on the channel are brought to you by the Juggernaut AI app. So if you want totally customized training that looks at your gender, age, height, weight, strength, experience, weak points in the lifts, trying to gain weight, lose weight, what's your stress like, what's your sleep like, all that good stuff, creates a custom program based on all that information for you that grows and adapts with your feedback, you get a two week free trial of the Juggernaut AI app at the link down in our description or by visiting juggernautai.app. All right, let's get into it. The dead bench, how do we do it? All right, so two exercises kind of that we're talking about here, dead bench, we're going to say that the bar starts on the pins and you press up from that dead stop position, and then a pin press. So when you're lowering the bar, touching the pins, stopping on the pins and pressing up from there, but very, very similar exercises, depending on how you do it, you know, the height of the rack and you can do this in a power rack, we're doing it here in the combo rack, wherever you're struggling in the lift, you want to set the pins about a half an inch below that. So as Marissa sets up here, first you're going to do a pin press, and a pin press is kind of going to be like a box squat for your arms. It's going to break the stretch shortening cycle when the bar hits the pins, and she's going to press up from there. So you got to make sure to really lower the bar under control so it doesn't bang on one side, then the other side and kind of throw you off balance. But we're bringing the bar down, we're letting the weight of the bar rest on the pins for a second and pressing up from there. Now the dead bench is a little bit trickier than that. The bar is going to start on the pins, and this is always the tough part about dead bench when I was doing this a lot. Josh Bryant introduced me to this exercise and kind of popularized it. With the bar sitting down on the pins is you got to get, you lay on the bench, you got to sneak underneath the bar there, and then roll it out into position. And now we're going to bench up from this dead stop position. And this most often we are going to use right at the chest, like so the bar is maybe a half inch off the chest or just kind of barely touching the chest, and you're having to overcome this dead stop position. So kind of turn on as many muscle fibers as you can at once. That's going to be the dead bench. Dead bench, we'll get into a bit more about how to use that, or how to implement it into your training. All right, so that's how you do it. It's pretty much just like a regular bench press, just affecting, are we stopping the bar on the pins, or what is our starting position. So pin press again, we're bringing the bar down, stopping, short pause on the pins, press up from there. Dead bench bar starts on the pins, we wiggle our way underneath the bar, and we're pressing up from that dead position. Now, why would you do this in your training? The dead bench is great if you're struggling with strength off the chest, you know, similar to the way like a pause squat would be using more like a box squat for sumo deadlifters. Some people will do it like this, and you're going from from zero and exploding up pin press. It could be trying to address a specific weak point. If you're getting into high pin presses, you could be really trying to overload and get yourself used to heavy weights. You could be working around an injury. If, you know, when you get to here, your shoulder is really starting to bug, but you set the pin, you know, a half or a quarter inch higher than that. So you can still get good overload through that range of motion. A lot of benefits to the exercise, to those exercises. So again, you're addressing a specific weak point, you're working around injuries, you know, just giving yourself a novel stimulus. The dead bench, you're giving your shoulders and elbows a little bit of a break if they start to hurt in the eccentric phase of the exercises. Now, when would you include these? The dead bench could really be is going to be more of a strength and peaking exercise, because it is best used in sets of one. You know, so whether that's going to be a kind of a cluster set of multiple singles into like a mini set, and then you're going to do multiple rounds of that mini set. So you could do like five rounds of three dead benches. So you're going to do one, rest 10 seconds, one rest 10 seconds, one, and that's one set. So you're doing 15 total reps and those five mini sets of three, but the bar needs to stop dead every time. Like you want to almost reset every time, take enough time in between. So it's a minimum of six seconds to, you know, fully relax the short stretch shortening cycle. So you're having to go from zero to everything you got. And that's just not an exercise that lends itself very much to hypertrophy. Now the pin press that could be used in hypertrophy strength or peaking phases. Hypertrophy phases, if you're really trying to overload the triceps with higher pin presses and higher reps, if you're trying to address specific weak points in a strength or peaking phase, that'll work too. And then you'd be in more like strength and peaking type of rep ranges, so probably four to six reps in a strength phase. And then in a peaking phase, you know, I wouldn't use the pin press as their primary exercise that you're going to reserve that mostly for the competition bench press, but you could do singles in the print pin press. If you're trying to use it for mechanical overload, that'd probably use it for more sets of like two to three, maybe even up to five reps still in peaking to complement your competitive bench press training. So that's the pin press and the dead bench. That's how we do them, why we do them, and when we would do them. If you learned something from this video, please like the video, subscribe to the channel, and don't forget to check out that two week free trial of the Joggernaut AI app. Download the link in our description or by visiting joggernautai.app. Thanks for watching.

=== FILE: Powerlifting Off-Season： Bridge Block [IW5wJNiwPGg].txt ===

 Welcome back, training. I am in a bridge block. I'm in week four. So today is actually a heavier day, which is you guys are in for a treat, because I feel like every time Shorty has come to film, it's been the lighter day. So I already warmed up, so we're not gonna film that part. My warmup was a walk, a stroll. I have a feet up bench and then competition squat and then some accessories. You guys are gonna see me jump onto a box today. So it's pretty exciting. I'm quite the athlete, Shorty, in case you didn't know. We'll see though, because I picked box jumps because I liked doing them, but then I realized I picked it on a comp squat day. Should've done it on a belt squat day, but here we are. Here we are. It's cold too, so I might have to do the low box. He's serving up the whole juggernaut outfit today. Now, it's frigid. A veritable explosion of tundra. Get some elbow pops in there. I said you to hear my elbow pop. Even though it's cold and my hands aren't sweaty, do I need chalk? Yes, I do. I think I should get security blanket. That was that one. Moving fast already. Two minute rest periods. We should just make you guys sit and just watch me for two minutes. 10 reps left, baby. 10 seconds for me. See with bench, I can start right away. With squat and deadlifts, I like to just wait. And done. Well, that's it guys. Thanks for following me. Working sets already. This is very short warm up. Could I have done six? The bar is slowing down. So, as any good athlete of the bridge block knows, you stop when the bar slows down. Bridge block, it says three to six reps per set. And our goal with that is all intense and high quality reps. So, if it's moving slow that day, if a rep, one rep significantly slows down compared to the rep before it, go ahead and rack it there. That might mean that you only do three or four reps in that set. If you're going sets of six, that's great, but don't do sets of six just to get it over with. Make sure that the reps are as high quality, explosive, high intent as possible. It's weird because when it's a time dress period, I often feel more exhausted than if I wasn't setting a timer and actually go faster when there's not a timer. So, obviously something's wrong with my brain. I like how he conveniently left when it's time to strip down the bar. Okay, I'm going to really see an athlete at work. I have box jumps. It's the tall side? Yes, the tall side. I always check as if I'm actually going to hit the top. I'm not that tall, so if you're tall, you probably couldn't do it in the garage, but that shorties can get away with it. So, I had a heavier squat day. Usually when I'm picking my accessories, the first week of any block, I don't pick them ahead of time. I pick them as I'm going. So, the main movements are always picked out in the app and then of course you can choose your accessories. And I kind of choose my accessories based on like, okay, if I have like a squat and a deadlift and a bench, let's just say I'll typically pick lighter accessories, or not lighter, but I should say easier setup kind of accessories because I know I'm going to be tired from that and I want to make sure that when I'm doing my accessories, I'm giving them full attention and I'm not just going through the motions. But when you're in a bridge block, if you've done one before, as you know, there are jumping and like, geometric exercises in the bridge block. So, typically like if I was away from here where I'm not, I don't have access to a box, I'll do like dumbbell jumps or single leg jumps, but since I have the box, I'm going to bless you guys with my jumping skills. It's normal to be afraid the first time you do these. I always see a lot of people like to kind of hesitate. You don't want to hesitate. If you need to start with a lower box, kind of get warmed up and then go to like the higher box. You also, when you're doing box jumps, you don't want to like come in like super squatty. You want to try to jump as vertical as possible first before bringing your knees up to your chest. Okay. And then for accessories, I keep my rest periods the same as I do for like the top sets. So, two minutes between each thing. I might shorten that a little bit just because box jumps, I'm not going super heavy. And then the rest of my day is not extremely taxing. So, yeah, that's what I'm doing. Doing plyo stuff is just going to help increase explosiveness. So, you know, in powerlifting, when you're squatting, you do want to be explosive out of the hole. When you're benching, you want to be explosive off the chest. So, a lot of times in the bridge block, you'll see like plyometric push-ups, you know, getting some air. That's why you're seeing like box jumps and dumbbell jumps. So, we can work on just some explosiveness that's going to carry over into the main three lifts. That was better. What did you know about that? That's out here. It's supposed to be just a straight vertical jump, but you know, do what I can. Marissa said that she was breathing really heavily while she was answering this. And I always breathe heavily, so I'll continue the trend. So, including like explosive exercise in the bridge block has a couple of different purposes. One, I guess I'll say the origin of it is because bridge block is a program that I wrote as an off-season program for myself, probably in like 2013 sounds about right. And my background being track and field as a shop putter, that the training that I always really enjoyed the most was a sport performance type of training. So, doing things like box jumps and whatnot. So, I think I put it in there originally just because I wanted to include that as part of my training because I enjoyed doing it. So, even though it's not quite as specific for power lifting, but as I look back on my power lifting career, I wish I would have kept those athletic type of training in more as you look at my early power lifting 2010, 11, 12. Yeah, I'm still doing a high 45-inch box jump type of stuff with weighted bests on. And then after my back injury in 2013, I never really reintroduced that. And besides not enjoying the training as much with that being absent, I also think I lost something with the athleticism and coordination that's involved with that. So, being an athlete, being more athletic, helps you lift heavier. Like, if that's all I know about someone is how athletic and coordinated they are. And I had to guess who's going to be the strongest. Yeah, give me the more athletic and coordinated person. So, that type of general training is just going to be beneficial in helping you make technical adjustments better. Yeah, if you're trying to make a technique change or just the like proprioceptive qualities of a lift gets a little bit off. If you're more athletic and more coordinated, you're going to be able to recover from it better. And then if you can produce force faster, that's going to give you a better chance to make big lifts as well. So, if you're filming from the front, there's a guy always asked like, pull down from the front. Just kidding, we don't take requests here unless you want us pay pal or Venmo, 29.99. How much does one charge for that? I don't think. It's cold. I don't know unless I'm sweating and you can see through this. See that beautiful technique? Sleeps are not interested. I'm not sure. Aren't they at level 420 or whatever that other. Aha, yeah. It's not interested either. Yeah. Not the same. Okay. I felt like that was like more like two reps in a reserve on that one. I don't use a lot of body English when I do it. So, it's a little bit harder for me. Chad probably just be going parallel to the floor, perpendicular, the perpendicular parallel. I have nothing right now. Perpendicular. Yes, parallel. Jay, so Chad probably goes parallel to the floor. You've seen my very strict last holdout technique. I come in the house shirtless after wings out. You know like ready to fly away. Genesis invitation on like golf tournaments at Riviera Country Club and MBD were in the VIP area. And ran into Will Arnett. He may know him as Job Bluth, gobb, Bluth. And your boy was, it was pretty hammered. And Will Arnett was very gracious in not telling me to fuck off. As my friends and I were talking to him and I did a lot of, a lot of chicken dance moves off to the side. Some would say I made a huge tiny mistake. I'm going to spot you. This one spot these. I was just about to show. Oh, I know after seeing how people spot deadlifts. You've been doing it wrong. You want the reverse. Very reverse spot. It's hot right here. Can't be pleased. It does get hot, right? I'm spot you. I'm not. Hot. This is convenient. Just go right there. Sit down. We're actually moving pretty fast though. Cause I think I want to say what time did we start nine? Yeah. Yeah. It's only 9 33. A few more exercises to be done like 45 minutes. Move fast. So for those of you who think these programs, you're going to be taking two, three hours. If you are taking that long, you're just, you're doing it wrong. Stop resting so long. Can I help you? That's all he ever does is lean. This is leaning post. I'm leaning post. God, well I'm done now. So you can resume your position. Okay. It's going to go fast from here on out. Two sets of red lateral raises. Close grip pushup. Close grip pushups. Okay. Burning. Okay. And that's it. Done. Thank you guys so much for following along with my training today. Make sure that you check out the app, juggernautai.app. You're going to get two weeks free there and you get to join the strongest community with the best Facebook group out there. So join today.

=== FILE: Squat Accessories You're Missing Out On [zW5GAzuKad8].txt ===

 Hey, everybody, what's up? Chad Wesley Smith here for Juggernaut Training Systems and Juggernaut AI. And today, I'm going to be talking to you about the best squat accessories you haven't been doing. You can find plenty of videos about split squats or, you know, leg press or hack squat or belt squat or whatever it is, and we've made plenty of those as well. But I think there are some exercises out there that, yeah, they're to help you get stronger, but they're also to make sure that you're staying healthy, that you're having a good, well-rounded strength training program, and if your goal is competitive powerlifting, these could still be really useful exercises for you in, you know, more general blocks, off-season blocks. Make sure you're getting moving and some of the ways that powerlifting doesn't necessarily have you move throughout the course of the regular squat, mentioned deadlift training, to just help you stay healthy because the healthier you are, the harder and longer you can train and ultimately stronger you can get. So as always, our videos here on Juggernaut Training Systems channel are brought to you by the Juggernaut AI app. So if you're looking for the smartest program for you, customize for your gender, age, height, weight, strength, experience, weak points, how much you sleep, are you trying to gain weight, lose weight, all that type of stuff, it's going to design a totally custom program that grows and adapts to your feedback. You can get a two-week free trial by visiting the link down in the description or by going to juggernautai.app. All right, so for squat accessories that maybe you haven't been including, the first exercise I want to talk about is the reverse lunge twist. Reverse lunge twist is something that I use a lot of MMA fighters, football players that I train, but it can be important for you as a powerlifter because so much of powerlifting is up and down, forward and backward. It's avoiding trunk rotation. It's externally rotating the hips. It's extending through the spine that when you have no capacity to the other side of things, you don't have the ability to rotate your trunk. You lack hip internal rotation and you lack the ability to control flexion through your lumbar spine. That's a lot of times where pain comes about for the athlete. So this first exercise, reverse lunge twist, it gets you moving in a little bit different pattern, you're stepping backwards and turning at the same time. So it's going to expose you to some of those movement patterns that maybe you haven't been getting throughout the course of your regular training and you can do it with a kettlebell, you can hold a dumbbell, a lot of different variations you could do with this, but I'm stepping backwards and I'm rotating over my front leg and coming back up. So this could be an accessory exercise during something like a bridge block or any kind of general phase of training that you do farther away from competition. It could be something that you just do one set of during your warm-ups prior to squatting or deadlifting, but getting some rotational movement, being able to control that pattern, having some capacity in that regard is going to help you stay healthier so you can lift harder for longer. Again, you could do this holding the kettlebell, you could do it holding the dumbbell, you could do it holding the plate, you could get into a zurcher reverse lunge twist. I wouldn't be as big with the bar on your back, but certainly could do that as well. My background is shot putting and I've seen a lot of shot putters do all kind of walking lunge twists like that, whether they're holding the bars, zurcher bar on the back, all kind of effective ways that you could do it. So reverse lunge twist is going to be an exercise for you to include in your warm-up or as an accessory and I think can be really useful and something you're probably not including in your training right now. Next exercise up is going to be the lateral step down. Marissa is going to talk to you about that. Okay, lateral step down is a great exercise if you are struggling with some knee pain or if you're struggling with your knees caving in and the box height is really going to be dependent on your mobility so you can start with the lower box or I'm going to show you here from the bench. Main keys here is before you add load, you want to make sure that you're able to control the weight down keeping full foot pressure, you want to control, you want the knee to go over the toe, light tap at the bottom using the full foot from the leg that's up, pressing back up to the top, controlling it on the way down to the top. When you're adding weight, you can hold it here, you can hold it down or you can hold it in front of you. Yeah, you want to make sure you're keeping your full foot pressure and not bouncing out of the bottom. When you're brand new to the movement, a light counterbalance is probably going to help you as you're going down putting it out in front of you, tap and letting that leg at the top do the work. So this next one we're going to talk about is the lateral lunge slash cossack squat. I don't really know what the difference between those two are probably just kind of a semantic name issue. I should have worn my cutoff jorts for more power in this stance. I can go lower. But a couple different ways that you can approach this exercise and it's going to be valuable to your training as a power lifter because as I mentioned earlier, if you're spending all your time straight up and down, straightforward, straight back, you're missing out on a lot of movement patterns that are going to help you be all around stronger and stay healthier. So a lot of times when people are experiencing hip or low back pain or a lateral shift in the squats because of a lack of adductor strength and these lateral squatting, lateral lunging, cossack squat variations can be great for that. So you can do this where you just set your feet out wide and you're just trying to sit back on your heel to that one side and then you can either stand up and go down to the other side or some people will do it where they just slide across from one side to the other. I don't know that any of those variations are necessarily better or worse. They're just kind of different. You can also do it where you're starting with your feet together and you're stepping out to the side going down back up to the middle then go into the other side. If you need to elevate your heel on a squat wedge or on a plate with a weightlifting shoe to help you get better depth, that's a great way to be doing it as well. And then as you advance in this and are able to add load, some people are going to be doing that more like a goblet squat style holding the weight out in front of them. This can also provide a useful counterbalance for you. Other people are going to do it where they're holding the weight down between their legs. If you have really long arms or it was a very long weight, I guess, that might limit your range of motion a little bit. You go down here, you can slide to the other side. I'm trying to stay on my full foot to the side that I'm going to so don't let your heel come off the ground on that side. But if you want to let your toe tip up on this side, that's a fine way to do it. You could do this bar on your back. You could do it in a zurcher position as well. You could do it wearing a weighted vest. A lot of good possibilities with this. Let a milky white thigh getting shown in this video. All right, so those are three accessories for the squat that maybe you haven't been including in your training, but could be really valuable for you. So we're looking at reverse lunge twist lateral step down and then a lateral lunge or a Cossack squat variation to get you moving in some different movement patterns to expose you to those positions that maybe you're not used to from just going straight up and down, straight forward and straight back, which is so much of specific competitive powerlifting training, but developing some capacity in these other ranges of motion is going to help you stay healthier so you can train harder longer. If you enjoyed the video, give it a like, subscribe to the channel, and make sure to check out that two week free trial of the Juggernaut AI app.

=== FILE: Stop Cheating Your DB Press—Fix These 3 Mistakes [ZQsriUPQRkc].txt ===

 Hey, everybody. I'm Chad Wilson-Smith, and today we're going to talk about getting it up. Getting your dumbbells up into a proper pressing position. I'm here, joined by my assistant, Marisa Inda, and we're going to be talking to you about some different dumbbell pressing tips, just to make sure you're maximizing this exercise. So as always, videos here on the Joggernaut Training Systems channel are brought to you by the Joggernaut AI app. So whether you're big or small, young or old, short or tall, strong, weak, beginner, intermediate, advanced, anything, everything in between, Joggernaut AI app is for you because it takes all of those factors into account to design the smartest program for you that continues to adapt with your feedback. So check out a two-week free trial of the Joggernaut AI app down in the link in our description. All right, so the dumbbell bench press, incline bench, floor press, all kind of dumbbell pressing variations, staple in powerlifting and bodybuilding and training for a long time. So we just want to talk about getting the most out of it. And the first step to get the most out of it is to get the weights into the right position. And the dumbbells are really heavy. Maybe you don't have a training partner. It's hard to get into a good position to press from. So the simplest way to do it is have the weights set on your knees. So even if you had to deadlift those off the floor, then sit down and have the weights on top of your knees. And then you're just, as you roll back in one smooth athletic move, use your knees to get them up into position. That was the joke about giving it up that I made before. All right, so hand angle is going to play a role here. Maybe hand straight, like the way it would be on a barbell is going to have a slightly higher transfer. Maybe you're going to get a little bit more peck development from that. I don't know. I'm kind of just making that up as I go along. So the beauty of benching with dumbbells is that you can adjust your hand angle. And the more palms in you go, probably the more shoulder friendly that is going to be. So a lot of times I'll have my football players, if they're having shoulder stuff going on during the season or throwing athletes, quarterbacks, whatever, they'll bench palms in all the time. But feel free to let yourself find what's the most comfortable angle for you to press to press from palms in. You might not be able to move quite as much weight, but still a good viable exercise. So one of the great benefits of dumbbell pressing in terms of hypertrophy is it's going to allow for a great range of motion, because unlike a barbell, which is going to stop when it hits your chest, the dumbbells, you could get a little bit deeper stretch than that and kind of maximize your range of motion. And for some people who really try and cut down their barbell bench pressing range of motion by having fake boobs and cheating at bench pressing so they can lift more weight. That's the only reason you got those, isn't it? Yeah. Now, can't cheat like that with dumbbells. So let's see how strong you are now. So you can see that Merissa can handle the dumbbells down below where she would be able to with the barbell. Now eliminating her ability to cheat herself by a short range of motion, get that deep stretch, build that tendon integrity in those deeper positions. So this would be great for lifters as they're chasing hypertrophy. It could be a great exercise for power lifters to improve their off the chest strength. It's going to be good for athletes who are going to get exposed to deeper ranges of motion to develop tolerance through that. When you're dumbbell bench pressing, you want to be consistent. You don't want to start out in the deep range of motion and then cut down the range of motion as you go throughout a set or as the weights get heavier, you get to a shorter range of motion. So that's going to kind of be on you to ensure that you are being consistent with your range of motion. I suppose you could be using some kind of like mechanical drop set. I'm shortening the range of motion as it goes so I can keep getting more reps. That's going to be really a topic for a different day. Be consistent. I like to just make sure that the inside of the dumbbell touches my chest as I'm going and use that sort of as a landmark to make sure that I have consistent depth throughout. So don't cheat the range of motion. Let the dumbbells kind of serve their unique purpose there and be able to extend the range of motion from what you'd be able to do with the barbell. So with dumbbells, you can do a lot of different stuff. We can do flat dumbbell bench press. We can do incline. We can do floor press. We can alternate hands. We can have just one dumbbell in one hand, nothing in the other hand. You can row a band with one hand, dumbbell press the other arm. There's a lot of great variations that you can have. Make sure that you are using these variations for their intended purpose. If you are using dumbbell bench press variations for hypertrophy, get a big range of motion. Control the tempo. Spend some time in the deep stretch there. Don't cheat yourself on the range of motion. If you're doing it to develop strength, don't cheat yourself on the range of motion. Don't become a great dumbbell presser for the sake of being a great dumbbell presser. Make sure that it's transferring to your barbell bench press if you're a competitive power lifter. There are a lot of power lifters who could dumbbell bench way more than me, but they weren't really bench pressing more than me. So was that energy being spent on the dumbbell bench press truly worth it? So I think that's going to become an issue if you start cutting down the range of motion. As you get into huge like 150s, 180s, the bell part becomes so big. It might necessitate that you're cutting down the range of motion. So is it really worth it then? I'd encourage you to get less at a more. For athletes, dumbbell bench press variations are going to be great because if you're playing football or doing MMA or whatever, your sport is not barbell bench pressing. So while developing strength there, it can be a great stimulator of force production and a great training stimulus. Dumbbell bench variations may allow you to put your shoulder in a more comfortable position, may allow you to explore some of these kind of more unique patterns like rowing with one hand, pressing with the other different hand angles, all that stuff, alternating things that might be more applicable to the demands of the sport that you play. So hopefully these tips helped with dumbbell pressing and will allow you to get more out of your dumbbell press workouts, whatever angle that you may be doing those at. So if you enjoyed the video, like it, subscribe to the channel, and don't forget to check out that two week free trial of the Jirgannot AI app.

=== FILE: The Secret Rituals of World-Class Powerlifters Revealed [thxUa84ZEX8].txt ===

 Hey, everybody, what's up? Chad Wilson Smith here for Juggernaut Training Systems and Juggernaut AI, and today I want you to focus on the words that are coming out of my mouth instead of staring into my piercingly blue eyes while I discuss pre-performance routines and their application to powerlifting, pre-performance, powerlifting routines. Okay, there's some good alliteration going there, but not too much of a tongue twister. As always, videos here on the Juggernaut Training Systems channel are brought to you by the Juggernaut AI app. So if you want totally customized program based on your gender, age, height, weight, strength, experience, where your weak points are on the lift, how your sleep is, if you're trying to gain weight, lose weight, all type of stuff like that that continues to adapt to your feedback, get the highest rated strength training app there is with a two week free trial. Try the Juggernaut AI app at the link down in our description or by visiting juggernautai.app. So a pre-performance routine, what is that? It's what you do before you perform. It's the thing that you see internet commenters complain about, why does she do that before she deadlifts? That setup is dumb, just grab the bar, grip it, rip it brother, all that type of stuff. But pre-performance routines exist in all sports and they're important aspect of sports psychology and the process of becoming excellent in the routine of your event. So whether you're a basketball player like Jeff Hornoseck, little side of the face pat, that's one I remember very distinctively from when I was young playing basketball in the 90s, free throw routines, very common for basketball players. What a baseball player does in the batter's box or before entering the batter's box, it might get ridiculous, no more Garcia para tugging on his gloves for 45 seconds and I think the pitch clock probably has done away with some of that, but you see it in every different sport. Did paint marring, Tom Brady need to lick their fingers all the time before going under center and taking a snap to start a play? No, but that's all part of their pre-performance routine and creating a replicatable routine like that for powerlifting helps a lot of athletes maximize their performance, it just becomes part of their process as they maybe think about different cues in their technique as they feel the pressure in their feet the right way that they need to do it, that they set their mind, their mentality, the right way that they feel they need to do before executing a heavy lift, it's all part of what they do. Marissa would hit her chest on the bar before the squat, Kate Cohen got her kind of spider, praying mantis walk up that she does as she twists her foot into the ground and feels that pressure in her feet the right way. I had this kind of breathing thing in the deadlift where I was blowing my air out, setting my back position, the way that I would put my hands on the bar in the squat, set one foot, set the other foot, it was the same every single time and creating those routines and habits is gonna make you a more effective competitor because it's gonna help you do it the same every single time. So when you're getting the adrenaline of competition going and kind of the blank minded nature that you need to execute at the highest level, having unconscious competence where you don't have to think about it anymore, that routine that you've done over and over and over is gonna help you set up that highest level of technical mastery. So whatever that routine might be for you, just as you think about what it is, which hand do you put on the bar first? Or thumb around, thumb over the bar. What foot are you setting first? The way that some people twist their foot into the ground. It's all part of it. So whatever feels best for you and helps you execute your technique in the most replicable way, find that and stick to it. And if people on the internet are complaining about what you do before a lift, f*** them because what's that saying, the man in the arena, you are the man or woman in the arena doing the work, putting it on the line, putting heavy weight on your back, in your hands, taking the risk, having the courage to go out there and be great. So don't be bothered by it. And people who are commenting on it, why don't you comment on basketball players for free throw routines or baseball players, their pre batting routines. Great athletes do it in all kinds of different sports. I did it when I was shot putting, had ones different for powerlifting. Why does John Jones crawl across the cage before he gets in an MMA fight? Everyone's got their pre-performance routine that gets their mind right, helps them set their technique the way that they need it. And it's a valuable part of training and competing. So if you've got one more power to you, if you don't have one, maybe having one would help you become a better lifter. So that's just my two cents, three cents. You can't even have two cents anymore because pennies are out. So it's at least a nickel's worth of advice. If you enjoyed it, like the video, subscribe to the channel, try the Juggernaut AI app for two weeks free.

=== FILE: The Truth About Squat Stance Width (Stop Copying Lifters Online) [RdHSP5HB9AE].txt ===

 Everybody, what's up? Chad Wesley Smith here for Juggernaut Training Systems, joined by Mati Sehinda. And today we're going to be talking to you about squat stance, foot width, and how you should decide upon your squat stance, figuring out what's best for you, how to adjust it, you know, through different phases of training, phases of life, perhaps, and just going to help better inform your decision-making process about this seemingly simple, but often controversial, topic. So as always, videos here on the Juggernaut Training Systems channel are brought to you by the Juggernaut AI app. So whether you squat with your feet right next to each other or out past the rack, Juggernaut AI app is going to make a custom program for you to help you become the strongest version of yourself by looking at, you know, gender, age, height, weight, strength, experience, lifting style, high bar, low bar, all those kind of things, and design a totally custom program for you that adapts to your feedback. So you can check out the link down in our description or visit juggernautai.app for a two-week free trial. All right, so squat stance, right off the bat, controversial, squatter. Why do you choose to squat with such narrow stance? Apparently, I don't want to be strong. Yes, and you need a new coach, and you've never lifted before and don't know what you're doing. So assume the position. So Marissa's squat stance right there, just barely outside of her hips, let's call it shoulder width. My regular squat stance, just outside of my hips, about shoulder width, you may notice we are different sized. We are not the same. Sometimes people confuse us and think, are you guys twins? But no. In fact, we are totally different sized. Marissa is five feet, don't say four, eleven and a half, 115-ish pounds, size two and a half shoes, the cutest little things. I am six foot, don't say five, eleven and a half, 300-something pounds, depending on the day. Our stances are not really that far off relative to our body proportions. Your stance looks really narrow to a, you know, the uninitiated internet commenter, and they're like, oh my god, your feet are so close together. Yes, but your hips are very narrow, you know, so it all makes a lot more sense. I think five, six years ago, when you were squatting like that and everyone was getting up in arms about it, and then half of the women of France decided to come along and copy your stance, I don't know, they probably came about it, yeah, they probably came about it themselves anyways, and squatting some of the biggest weights for female power lifters of all time, I think that probably changed a little, some people's perspective on it. The gist of it is, is that narrow or west side wide, one's not really right or wrong, as long as you're squatting well, you're squatting to legal depth, which is the crease of the hip below the top surface of the knee, that's the rule in every federation, by the way, and regardless of equipment. So while it's probably unlikely that someone with the west side wide squat stance is going to actually be able to hit legal depth, crease of the hip below the top surface of the knee, or someone who puts their feet totally together with their toes straight, you're going to be somewhere in between those, and the process of figuring out where you are is pretty simple. You just start squatting and you're like, ouch, ouch, this feels bad, wow, this feels strong, that feels stronger than that. It's not an overly complicated process. If you're brand new to squatting, where should you start? We say to take the stance that you would for a vertical jump, now edit that part in where I float up in the air, where you would do a vertical jump from, and then you're going to do this sweet dance move, heels out, toes out, toes out about, you know, 15 to 30 degrees, make sure to get your protractor out, because it's 14 degrees knee cancer, 31 degrees knee bola. You're going to see great squatters who squat like this, that's fine. You're going to see some great squatters who squat like this, that's fine. You're probably somewhere in between those, so yeah, about 15 to 30 degrees out, that vertical jump, sweet dance move, way to find your stance, that's going to likely put you a little bit wider than hip width, assuming you've done a vertical jump before and you don't jump like this, or like this, this kind of underneath your hips, heels out, toes out, good starting point. If you squat down from here, and you're like, hey, I hit depth, my knees don't hurt, my hips don't hurt, I feel powerful, great, you might not have to make very many adjustments. If you have great hip internal rotation, you can probably squat with your toes pointed a little bit more, you can probably squat with your toes pointed a little bit more straightforward. If you have really poor hip internal rotation, or great external rotation, I guess, you know, Greg Knuckles, great lifter, squats with his toes pointed way out, way out squats, going to give you a little bit less forward to backward stability, toe forward squat, going to give you a little bit more of that stability, kind of a natural impingement almost of the hip, but that can create a lot of tension and maybe some increased strength out of the bottom. But again, neither of them is really right or wrong. But if you start squatting like this, and you get blocked like me and you can't hit depth, or your ankles feel super tight, your knees start hurting, that's probably not the way for you. If you can't squat to legal depth and you're trying to compete in parallel, a squat that you can't hit depth with is not the squat for you. If you're doing this, and you feel like your groin is about to rip in half, that's probably not the squat for you either. So it really is just as simple as experiment with it. You could do a quick test where you lay on your back, and you pull your knee to your chest. Well, now that's already switched from the guch angle, which I was trying to give all the viewers a free show with. If I'm pulling my knees straight to my chest, and that gets me to depth, and I don't feel any like impingement in the hip, that's great. If you got to be a little wider to get to the proper depth, that's fine too. Again, one way is not right or wrong universally, it's what's best for you. These shorts are very tight through the crotch. So as we're talking about hip internal rotation, and people who are trying to squat with their toes pointed very straight forward, which was really popular for a while, particularly in crossfit and weightlifting communities. If you don't have great hip internal rotation, you're not going to be able to squat comfortably like that. Your hips are going to hurt, you're not going to get as strong as you can. But if you want to test and improve your hip internal rotation, simple way to do it, squeeze the foam roller between your knees, sit up tall, and I'm just trying to externally rotate this hip, or sorry, internally rotate this hip by moving my foot out. You want to have balance between the two sides so that they're about equal. I have bad hip internal rotation on both sides, should be able to go almost twice as far as I am here. But just doing this, holding it, trying to squeeze an extra degree or two out of it. Simple thing that you can do in your warm-up, simple thing you can do on your off days to address that hip internal rotation once it becomes pretty easy. You could, I could have a band anchored across and resist that movement. You could do the 90-90 drill on the on the ground to improve hip internal rotation. Lots of ways to address it. It doesn't need to be, you know, an hour a day. It can be like 10 reps a day. It's probably going to take you a minute and start improving that if you are really lacking in it, or if you're just so committed to squatting with your toes straighter, you need to have good hip internal rotation for that. And even if you don't squat like that, you want good hip internal rotation, because it's going to happen sometimes when the lifts get real heavy and your technique breaks down a little bit. And if you are totally lacking there, probably going to be in a little bit of pain. Not that one is right or wrong. It's really just what you feel comfortable and strong with that, you know, don't force yourself into, I have to squat with my toes straight because some books said it, or I have to squat, you know, with my feet really wide apart because I saw people lifting a lot of weights on the internet that way, especially if you don't understand the special diapers that they're wearing while they do that. You got to figure out what's what's right for you. And that's really just going to happen through experimentation. So I'd start, if you're brand new to it, start moderate jumping stance, heels out, toes out, you'll end up, you know, about shoulder width, feel comfortable from there. Same kind of thing with footwear. Footwear, your stance may change if you're swine in flats versus heels. You know, you might be able to go a little bit more toes straight if you have heeled shoes on. I had a great, you know, I squatted 905 American record in the 308s classes in 2011, the early 20-Ots. That doesn't sound as bad as the late 1900s, but in 2011, and I did it in a stance about here, wider than what you've seen me do most of the time and with my toes straighter. And it was a great squat, one of the best squats in my power lifting career. My hip hurt for about three months after, so awesome for that day, but it wasn't going to be a long-term sustainable thing for me. So once you've found that stance that you feel comfortable and strong in, you know, just stick with it and work on that and then just keep putting more weight on the bar, do more reps, move heavier weights faster, and that's a great way to do it. Different squat stances though do have a role in your training. As you're farther away from competition, you want more variation, and variation can be found a lot of ways. You could spend tens of thousands of dollars. Apologies, there's a dogfighting ring going on out here. That's not to say that different squat variations don't have a place in your training. As you're farther away from competition, you want more variation. You could get that variation by spending tens of thousands of dollars on different barbells, or I'll save you those tens of thousands of dollars. Maybe I'll put my Venmo down in the link or just sign up for the Juggernot AI app to say thank you for this money saving tips that I'm going to give you. You could get variation by moving your stance wider, moving your stance closer, putting the bar higher on your back, putting the bar lower on your back, putting the bar in front of your body, going down slower, pausing at different points in the lift. You're welcome for saving you tens of thousands of dollars on different barbells. So the stance variations there, maybe in the wider stance, you feel weak because you're adductors are weak, your glutes or hips aren't as strong. Then in a general phase of training, a hypertrophy phase could be a bridge block type of thing. Doing some wide stance squats is going to be a beneficial thing for you. If it is painful to your hips at that toe angle, at that width, don't go quite that wide. Stop it. Turn your toes out a little bit more, in a little bit more. Experiment, even just during the warm-ups of that day to find the one that feels okay for you. So having some variability there and training with different stances, your off stance that you're not as strong in, that's going to have some benefit to you long term. Just don't be doing it in the weeks or month leading up to a meet. Keep that for farther away, more general periods of training and allow you to develop that more well-rounded strength. You're going to stay healthier. You're going to be able to train harder, longer, and get stronger in the long run. Now those stance variations can also have benefits if, let's say, you're a woman lifting while you're pregnant, or you're a man lifting while you're becoming of advanced size. You need to give it a little bit more room for your belly to sit between your legs. You might have to widen your stance out a little bit. That's going to be coming out of necessity. Don't feel like if you're going from a 220s class lifter to a 275s class lifter, you probably aren't going to have the identical technique that you had. Your body structure is changing. Your stance and technique needs to change to accommodate that. It might not be forever, but just for a season might be all that you need. Also, if you're dealing with injuries, knee pain, hip pain, back pain, and it's not enough where it's like, okay, I'm in full rehab mode. I'm going to physical therapy trying to deal with this, but today, as I'm warming up to squat, my hip's kind of bugging me. Well, is it still bugging you if you turn your toes out more, if you turn your toes straighter? If you make your stance a little bit wider, a little bit narrower, give yourself the grace and the space to make those small adjustments throughout the course of training, even just making small changes like that as you warm up. Maybe it feels better and better and you get back to your normal stance, but I just took you a couple sets to get into it. All totally fine. You don't have to be so rigid and only do this one competition stance all the time because of specificity. That's not what specificity is. That's a very narrow understanding of it and one that's going to not help you succeed in the long run. So, in summary, your squat stance, the foot width, toe angle, it's really up to you to find out what feels good. Yeah, you can test your hip mobility through just laying on your back and seeing where you get to depth the most comfortable way. Hip internal rotation, hip external rotation. We want them both. We need them both. Assess that, work on it, but don't force yourself into a technique that feels really uncomfortable to you or that you don't feel powerful in because you saw someone on Instagram or on YouTube or in a book do it or that's how your favorite lifter squats because chances are you're not built the same way as them. They just built different. And so, you don't want to force yourself into that. And then the other stances, wider, narrower, different toe angles, those can have their place in your training as a variation. The more different it is than your competitive technique, put it farther away from competition and allow yourself to make small technical changes as maybe you're coming back from an injury or just kind of trying to work around an injury that could be for the day, that could be for the week, that could be for a block, that could be for several training blocks. And maybe that becomes your new stance because you just get better at it or you go back to your other one. The changes between these are not so drastic that, you know, if you're used to squatting like this and then for a couple weeks, you squat like that, that you're going to forget how to do it the other way. It's just not that complicated. So, allow yourself to make those adjustments. Do what feels comfortable, what feels strong. Don't just copy someone for the sake of copying them or take advice, you know, kind of this blanket boilerplate advice that there's a one size fits all squat technique because there's not. You can squat with your feet close, squat the biggest weights in the world. You could squat with your feet wide, squat the biggest weights in the world. You know, a lot of different ways to approach it. So, if you enjoyed this video, please like it, subscribe to the channel and don't forget to check out the Juggernaut AI app, two week free trial at juggernautai.app or the link down in the description.

=== FILE: Your Bench Is Stalling Because You’re Skipping THESE Exercises [ZeZEv-EX7jg].txt ===

 Chad Bell Systemith here for Joggernaut Training Systems, and, as always, the Joggernaut AI app, which brings you all your videos here on JTS. Today, we're gonna be talking to you about some of our favorite bench-press accessories, maybe some variations in work that you haven't been doing that could be worth including in your training or have a specific role if you're lacking in a certain area. So as always, our videos here are brought to you by the Joggernaut AI app. So if you want fully customized training that grows and adapts with your feedback, get a two-week free trial of Joggernaut AI by visiting joggernautai.app, or the link down in the description. So the first bench movement that we wanna be talking about today are long pauses. This is one of the simplest variations that you can include because it's pretty much exactly like a competition bench press. You just wanna pause to a slightly better standard, higher standard, longer standard than you may be held to in competition. And if you're someone like me that when I was new to powerlifting, I had never paused a bench press. In fact, I was coming from a track and field background and for the shop put, we've mentioned a very ballistic type of manner with a kind of a bounce on the chest. And as much as that would infuriate the commenters of the internet, especially like really useful for that sport and a more full body athletic movement and there's some rhythm and sequencing to it. But I digress. My best ballistic shop put style bench press at the time was 500 pounds. And when I came to powerlifting, I think the first time I tried to pause a bench, I was doing more like 420 pounds. So I was losing 80 pounds off of my bench press and the way that I got better at it and actually became a better pause bench presser than I did even a touch and go bench presser was by doing long pauses. So if you're struggling when you get to meets with the pause, this is gonna be the simplest variation for you to use. You just have to be strict with yourself about it. So I'm not even really sure that we need a demonstration here, but maybe we'll just have Shorty just pause the video and it'll seem like I'm really pausing for a long time. But you're just setting up like you would a normal competition bench press trying not to flash you too much midriff or probably just holding for maybe one, two, three. One, two, three. One, two, three. So if you're gonna use longer pauses, make sure that whatever it is, if it's a three count, if it's a five count, if you're getting anything longer than a five count, you're probably getting a bit excessive and gonna reduce the weight that you can use too much to make it worthwhile. But that one Mississippi, two Mississippi, three Mississippi type of count is a good way to do it. Just when it gets heavy, don't let that turn into one, two, three. Be strict with yourself, be consistent. Simple way that you can do that is to use if you just Google metronome, it'll bring up a metronome and you can set it, set it to 60 BPM and it'll give you and you just wanna hold it on your chest for three beats, which is three seconds, because that'll be consistent all the time. All right, so next exercise we're talking about is the dumbbell palms in floor press. So this can be a great movement to use in your training, especially if you're struggling with some shoulder pain. So both the palms in position, palms facing each other and the floor press are both gonna help kinda protect you from range of motion that maybe your shoulder isn't comfortable in. So yeah, that more neutral grip and then it's reducing the range of motion a little bit from a normal pressing movement. You wanna come down, have a short pause with your triceps on the ground, punch it up explosively from there. This is gonna be something that you can likely go heavier with than you would a normal dumbbell bench press. Just make sure that you're being strict about the way that you're doing it, that you're coming in and having a little pause with your tricep, not your elbow hitting the ground, but your tricep being on the ground so you're still flex when you're on there. Probably the hardest part at dumbbell floor press though is as the weights get heavier, it's really hard to get them into position. So the way that I typically have people do this, if it's really heavy, is they're gonna get one dumbbell up on their own, just gonna roll on their side, pull it into position, and then you're gonna have a training partner hand you the other dumbbell. And if it's lighter, you can probably set it on your thighs from the ground and just roll back into position. Last exercise we wanna talk about here for a bench movement that maybe you haven't been doing is really a classic that a lot of people do use, but in case you've forgotten about it, dips. So dips you could be using as an accessory movement to build your triceps. They give you tricep shoulder and pec development. You could also use them as a more primary movement and start loading them really heavy. So just a couple of tips with the dip, dip tip. Have a grip width that's comfortable to you, that's gonna be different for Marissa than it is for me. And we wanna be going down until the top of the elbow is above the shoulder. So kind of similar depth that you would for the squat, just using your arm and save your leg. So we're going down with control, feeling a little bit of stretch at the bottom, going all the way to lock out. Don't let your dips, a tricep exercise, turn into something that you're half-wrapping on the way up, because then you're not gonna be getting the full tricep development that you want out of that. Now, whether you need to add assistance, you have a band around the dip attachment and kind of sit your knees in that like a little cradle, and that's gonna give you some assistance. A amount of band assistance that you use, of course, is gonna be relative to your body weight and your ability in dips. I'd wanna be using a band to where you're gonna be able to get probably at least six reps per set. I'd say lower reps than that. You might not be getting enough stimulus to really progress in them, unless you're doing a really high number of sets. Or you could, of course, be adding weight. Some of the strongest bench pressers in history have gotten really, really heavy on dips like Pat Casey. They talk about him doing over 300 pounds hanging from his waist for like sets of five in dips. James Townsend, super strong bench presser, juggernaut, weightlifter. I've seen him do four 25s, 180 pounds for like a set of 10 dips. So great exercise. Some people get scared of dips and think, oh, dips hurt my shoulder, or the dips are bad for your shoulder. Well, if you haven't been doing them at all, and you're like, let me start doing 50 dips a day out of nowhere, yeah, that's probably gonna cause a shoulder issue for you. But if you start to load them strategically and progress them, you know, probably with some particularly slow eccentric pause at the bottom, maybe, you know, just controlling the eccentric hopping back up to the top, but giving yourself some exposure to that to get used to them, they're gonna be an exercise that makes your shoulders stronger and is gonna be beneficial to your bench press. So there's a couple of bench variations and accessories that maybe you haven't been using in your training. Maybe you know that you should be using in your training, but have been neglecting. So be strict with those long pauses. If your shoulders are bugging you, dumbbell palms in, floor press can be a great option. And dips a tried and true classic bench press builder. So if you haven't done dips in a while, reintroduce them smartly to your training and work on those for a couple training cycles. I think you'll get some great benefit from that. If you like this video, please press the thumbs up down there, subscribe to the channel, and don't forget to check out that two week free trial of the Juggernaut AI app through the link in our description or at juggernautai.app.!

=== FILE: You’re Doing Pull-Ups Wrong—Fix It Now [rKMs9Cerw2M].txt ===

 If you are struggling with getting your first pull-up or making the pull-ups that you already do look more efficient, I got the tips just for you, so check this out and let me know if you try them. I highly suggest before you jump on the bar is warming up with some lat pull-downs. What lat pull-downs is going to do is ingrain the movement pattern. A good pull-up, you want your elbows to be in line with the torso, if not slightly behind, depending on your grip width. What you don't want to have happen is your elbows come in front of you. Also, warming up with the lat pull-down, if you already know how to do pull-ups, is actually just going to be a good warm-up for you before you jump on the bar because when you jump on the bar to just do a regular pull-up, you're pulling your full body weight. So, warm up with the lat pull-down. So, you can see as I'm doing this lat pull-down, my elbows are in line with my torso or slightly behind. What's not happening is my elbows aren't getting in front of me. This is the same movement pattern as a pull-up. Also, a little Jedi mind trick here is when you're doing a pull-up, don't think about pulling yourself over the bar. Think about pulling the bar down to your chest, just like a lat pull-down. The second thing you're going to want to excel at is actually just hanging from the bar. Even if you already know how to do a pull-up, if you want to be able to do more reps or add weight, you need to have a strong grip and you need to be able to hold onto the bar more than two seconds. The key here is not just to hang inactively. You want to be active with the hang. So, demonstrate, take your grip width and instead of just hanging, you still kind of want to have a little bit of scap activation. So, wrong way, right way. Tip number three, also when you're practicing the dead hang, you want to make sure that you are being tight with the lower body. Another big mistake you're going to see people make was when they're trying to do pull-ups, as they start kicking their legs, trying to, you know, wheel their way up, walk on those fake stairs. But what you're going to want to do is actually keep the glutes really tight. What that's going to do is kind of put you into a little bit of a pelvic tilt there and actually utilize your lats instead of trying to swing your way up to the top of the bar. So, what happens if you're not keeping your lower body tight and you start to struggle, you'll see this happen or a lot of kicking. And that is actually just making the movement 10 times harder. It's putting a lot more pressure on your grip and you will fail every single time that you do that. So, what I mean by keeping the lower body tight, you want to squeeze your glutes. A lot of times what you'll see in my videos is I actually cross my legs behind me and the reason that I do this is it forces me to stay tight because as I straighten out my legs, it forces my glutes to be tight and kind of puts my pelvis in the perfect position. If you are worried about falling and not being able to uncross your legs to touch the ground, yes, you can keep your legs straight together, squeeze the glutes, and you're in this position. Another great exercise I like to do, which is an alternative to inverted rows. And I love inverted rows, don't get me wrong, but that's not actually putting you in the same pull-up position here, which is where people struggle from the bottom. So, what I like to do is to get into a squat rack and you're going to want to set that as a position where you're able to actually keep your feet on the ground but be in a dead hang here. Remember, we're not being lazy with it, we're being active. So, even when you're down here, we're going to be active with it and you're going to just use pull as much as you can without using your legs. And then as you start to struggle, use your feet to get you up over into the bar, keeping with the same position as you did in the very beginning with your lap pull downs. What that means is you don't want your elbows coming in. You want to keep them in line with your torso or slightly behind, pulling to the top of your chest, just like lap pull down. As you get stronger, you can raise the bar up and use less of your legs or even none of your legs, kind of just put them down when you need them. The way you want to progress is you want to increase the height of the bar as you get stronger, which is going to allow you to use less of your legs and more of your lats. Also, as you get stronger in that height of the bar increases, you also want to make sure that you're controlling that negative as you come down so that you can increase your lats strength and increase your time under tension and just get stronger overall. So, as long as you can, use your foot, jump over, control it on the way down. Active, pull as long as you can, push, control it on the way down. Good. Once you feel like you've mastered it from here, you're ready for the bar or even if you already do a lot of pull-ups on your own and you want to add weight, here's a great way to start doing that and that is going to be to actually get on the bar and practice the actual pull-up. I want to point out really quickly, I am not against doing assisted pull-ups and using bands. One thing that you do need to make sure that you avoid is letting the band do all the work. So, as you start to use the bands, make sure that you are keeping in mind that you still want the lats to do the work. Don't rely on the band to just bounce you up over the bar. So, what you're going to want to do is always make sure that you have a box, especially if you're first learning how to do pull-ups this way. If you struggle getting over the bar, you can actually use that to kind of give you some assistance over the bar at the top. So, use a box, use a bench, whatever you have available, just make sure your foot's able to touch it and make sure it's at a height that you can use to jump and get up over the bar if you need to. You can have it in front of you, I like to have it behind me because I think it's a little bit better positioning without getting your feet in front of you. So, we're going to put everything into play that we learned from the beginning. We want to motion, mimic, a lap, pull down. We want to stay tight with the lower body, squeeze the glutes, active the bottom, and you just want to pull yourself up as far as you can. Let's say you're still struggling with getting your chin over the bar. What I recommend is pulling yourself up as far as you can go, dropping back down, and then pushing with your foot over the bar and controlling the negative. So, this is what that would look like. You're here, you're keeping good form. Once you start to see it fail, you're going to use your foot, jump over the bar, and control it down. And what you want to do is each time you do that, try to get yourself a little bit higher, maintaining the form that we talked about earlier, which is keeping the glute tight and not letting the elbows come in front of you. A great tip for those of you that are already very efficient with pull-ups, but you want to add weight. When you're doing your dead hangs, add weight to your dead hangs. So, you do some weighted dead hangs there. This way, as you progress to adding weight to your regular pull-ups, you're already used to the feeling of the weight in your hands, and you're able to hold it for 15-30 seconds at the bottom. And when you're holding the weight, same thing is when you have no weight, you want to be active with it at the bottom, which means doing basically like a little scat pull there and holding it. Okay, if you do not have a belt that you can add weight to, there are several different ways you can do this. If you have kettlebells, you can lock the kettlebell in your foot. You can also put a dumbbell in between your legs, which is a good technique to actually force leg and glute tightness. So, I'll show you both methods and choose which one works for you. I hope you guys found these tips useful. If you try them in your next pull-up workout, make sure that you let us know how they worked for you. Also, don't forget, if you want to get good at pull-ups, you actually have to practice them. So, practice what you want to get good at. Let us know in the comments if you try it. Thank you.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.446822Z ===
