 Welcome back, training. I am in a bridge block. I'm in week four. So today is actually a heavier day, which is you guys are in for a treat, because I feel like every time Shorty has come to film, it's been the lighter day. So I already warmed up, so we're not gonna film that part. My warmup was a walk, a stroll. I have a feet up bench and then competition squat and then some accessories. You guys are gonna see me jump onto a box today. So it's pretty exciting. I'm quite the athlete, Shorty, in case you didn't know. We'll see though, because I picked box jumps because I liked doing them, but then I realized I picked it on a comp squat day. Should've done it on a belt squat day, but here we are. Here we are. It's cold too, so I might have to do the low box. He's serving up the whole juggernaut outfit today. Now, it's frigid. A veritable explosion of tundra. Get some elbow pops in there. I said you to hear my elbow pop. Even though it's cold and my hands aren't sweaty, do I need chalk? Yes, I do. I think I should get security blanket. That was that one. Moving fast already. Two minute rest periods. We should just make you guys sit and just watch me for two minutes. 10 reps left, baby. 10 seconds for me. See with bench, I can start right away. With squat and deadlifts, I like to just wait. And done. Well, that's it guys. Thanks for following me. Working sets already. This is very short warm up. Could I have done six? The bar is slowing down. So, as any good athlete of the bridge block knows, you stop when the bar slows down. Bridge block, it says three to six reps per set. And our goal with that is all intense and high quality reps. So, if it's moving slow that day, if a rep, one rep significantly slows down compared to the rep before it, go ahead and rack it there. That might mean that you only do three or four reps in that set. If you're going sets of six, that's great, but don't do sets of six just to get it over with. Make sure that the reps are as high quality, explosive, high intent as possible. It's weird because when it's a time dress period, I often feel more exhausted than if I wasn't setting a timer and actually go faster when there's not a timer. So, obviously something's wrong with my brain. I like how he conveniently left when it's time to strip down the bar. Okay, I'm going to really see an athlete at work. I have box jumps. It's the tall side? Yes, the tall side. I always check as if I'm actually going to hit the top. I'm not that tall, so if you're tall, you probably couldn't do it in the garage, but that shorties can get away with it. So, I had a heavier squat day. Usually when I'm picking my accessories, the first week of any block, I don't pick them ahead of time. I pick them as I'm going. So, the main movements are always picked out in the app and then of course you can choose your accessories. And I kind of choose my accessories based on like, okay, if I have like a squat and a deadlift and a bench, let's just say I'll typically pick lighter accessories, or not lighter, but I should say easier setup kind of accessories because I know I'm going to be tired from that and I want to make sure that when I'm doing my accessories, I'm giving them full attention and I'm not just going through the motions. But when you're in a bridge block, if you've done one before, as you know, there are jumping and like, geometric exercises in the bridge block. So, typically like if I was away from here where I'm not, I don't have access to a box, I'll do like dumbbell jumps or single leg jumps, but since I have the box, I'm going to bless you guys with my jumping skills. It's normal to be afraid the first time you do these. I always see a lot of people like to kind of hesitate. You don't want to hesitate. If you need to start with a lower box, kind of get warmed up and then go to like the higher box. You also, when you're doing box jumps, you don't want to like come in like super squatty. You want to try to jump as vertical as possible first before bringing your knees up to your chest. Okay. And then for accessories, I keep my rest periods the same as I do for like the top sets. So, two minutes between each thing. I might shorten that a little bit just because box jumps, I'm not going super heavy. And then the rest of my day is not extremely taxing. So, yeah, that's what I'm doing. Doing plyo stuff is just going to help increase explosiveness. So, you know, in powerlifting, when you're squatting, you do want to be explosive out of the hole. When you're benching, you want to be explosive off the chest. So, a lot of times in the bridge block, you'll see like plyometric push-ups, you know, getting some air. That's why you're seeing like box jumps and dumbbell jumps. So, we can work on just some explosiveness that's going to carry over into the main three lifts. That was better. What did you know about that? That's out here. It's supposed to be just a straight vertical jump, but you know, do what I can. Marissa said that she was breathing really heavily while she was answering this. And I always breathe heavily, so I'll continue the trend. So, including like explosive exercise in the bridge block has a couple of different purposes. One, I guess I'll say the origin of it is because bridge block is a program that I wrote as an off-season program for myself, probably in like 2013 sounds about right. And my background being track and field as a shop putter, that the training that I always really enjoyed the most was a sport performance type of training. So, doing things like box jumps and whatnot. So, I think I put it in there originally just because I wanted to include that as part of my training because I enjoyed doing it. So, even though it's not quite as specific for power lifting, but as I look back on my power lifting career, I wish I would have kept those athletic type of training in more as you look at my early power lifting 2010, 11, 12. Yeah, I'm still doing a high 45-inch box jump type of stuff with weighted bests on. And then after my back injury in 2013, I never really reintroduced that. And besides not enjoying the training as much with that being absent, I also think I lost something with the athleticism and coordination that's involved with that. So, being an athlete, being more athletic, helps you lift heavier. Like, if that's all I know about someone is how athletic and coordinated they are. And I had to guess who's going to be the strongest. Yeah, give me the more athletic and coordinated person. So, that type of general training is just going to be beneficial in helping you make technical adjustments better. Yeah, if you're trying to make a technique change or just the like proprioceptive qualities of a lift gets a little bit off. If you're more athletic and more coordinated, you're going to be able to recover from it better. And then if you can produce force faster, that's going to give you a better chance to make big lifts as well. So, if you're filming from the front, there's a guy always asked like, pull down from the front. Just kidding, we don't take requests here unless you want us pay pal or Venmo, 29.99. How much does one charge for that? I don't think. It's cold. I don't know unless I'm sweating and you can see through this. See that beautiful technique? Sleeps are not interested. I'm not sure. Aren't they at level 420 or whatever that other. Aha, yeah. It's not interested either. Yeah. Not the same. Okay. I felt like that was like more like two reps in a reserve on that one. I don't use a lot of body English when I do it. So, it's a little bit harder for me. Chad probably just be going parallel to the floor, perpendicular, the perpendicular parallel. I have nothing right now. Perpendicular. Yes, parallel. Jay, so Chad probably goes parallel to the floor. You've seen my very strict last holdout technique. I come in the house shirtless after wings out. You know like ready to fly away. Genesis invitation on like golf tournaments at Riviera Country Club and MBD were in the VIP area. And ran into Will Arnett. He may know him as Job Bluth, gobb, Bluth. And your boy was, it was pretty hammered. And Will Arnett was very gracious in not telling me to fuck off. As my friends and I were talking to him and I did a lot of, a lot of chicken dance moves off to the side. Some would say I made a huge tiny mistake. I'm going to spot you. This one spot these. I was just about to show. Oh, I know after seeing how people spot deadlifts. You've been doing it wrong. You want the reverse. Very reverse spot. It's hot right here. Can't be pleased. It does get hot, right? I'm spot you. I'm not. Hot. This is convenient. Just go right there. Sit down. We're actually moving pretty fast though. Cause I think I want to say what time did we start nine? Yeah. Yeah. It's only 9 33. A few more exercises to be done like 45 minutes. Move fast. So for those of you who think these programs, you're going to be taking two, three hours. If you are taking that long, you're just, you're doing it wrong. Stop resting so long. Can I help you? That's all he ever does is lean. This is leaning post. I'm leaning post. God, well I'm done now. So you can resume your position. Okay. It's going to go fast from here on out. Two sets of red lateral raises. Close grip pushup. Close grip pushups. Okay. Burning. Okay. And that's it. Done. Thank you guys so much for following along with my training today. Make sure that you check out the app, juggernautai.app. You're going to get two weeks free there and you get to join the strongest community with the best Facebook group out there. So join today.