 Levels Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level Level But I digress. As all videos here on the Juggernaut Training Systems channel are, this is brought to you by the Juggernaut AI app. So if you want the smartest program for you, it's going to look at, you know, sex, age, height, weight, strength, experience, weak points, all that stuff to make a totally customized program for you that keeps adapting to your feedback. So if you don't believe me, go check out the 5,000 plus reviews of the 4.9 star average and get a two week free trial of the Juggernaut AI app at juggernautai.app or the link down in the description. So the mythical, mystical RDL. First off, what's the difference between an RDL and a stiff leg deadlift? I don't know. But if I had to say, I would say that an RDL, you know, I call it, an RDL starts from the top, a straight leg deadlift, an SLDL starts from the bottom. So an RDL, you're typically going to take off a blocks or out of the rack and move from the top down, where a stiff leg deadlift, you're going to move from the bottom up. So we're talking RDL and we're talking about it for the purposes of building strength, possibly in the context of powerlifting. But we'll just call it strength training as the primary goal, more so than hypertrophy. Now this is a great exercise to use in a hypertrophy block for powerlifting. There are going to be a couple considerations that you want to make when using it, you know, with the overarching goal of strength rather than hypertrophy. So as Marissa sets up to do this RDL, she's going to pull the bar off of blocks using straps, VersaGrips, whatever is your preference for the RDL. Great option. You know, don't let your grip be the limiting factor in this exercise. So don't worry about using the straps with it. You want to have what I would call soft knees. So it's not a true like bend in the knees. It's just an unlocking of the knee. So we're going to have that soft knee and the amount of bend that Marissa has in her knee right now from these soft knees. It's basically the most that our knees are going to bend throughout the entire movement because this is a hip hinge. So she's pushing her butt back and lowering the bar as close to her legs as she can. You don't want the bar to drag down your legs. I typically tell people it's like you want the knurling to shave the hair off of your legs. So it's close, but it's not scraping the skin. So she's pushing her butt back. She's loading and stretching the hamstrings. You can see what she's not doing. And this is an important distinction between hypertrophy and strength is that Marissa's full foot is on the ground the whole time. She's not tipped back on her heels or pulling her toes off of the ground. While that might give you a little bit more stretch in the hamstring and potentially, you know, marginally better hypertrophic gains. It's also going to make you less stable and limit the amount of weight you can use. And if your goal is becoming as strong as you possibly can, you want to use as much weight as you possibly can. So we want to keep our full foot on the ground. Big toe, little toe, heel, tripod foot, just like we do when we're squatting, just like we do when we're when we're deadlifting. So that full foot contact is going to be really important. Now, your back position. Can you get in too much extension when doing RDL? What do you think? Yes. Yeah. So if you're really throwing your head way back and trying to get in tons and tons of extension, I would not suggest that for the RDL. You're going to feel your hamstrings and glutes work a lot more effectively with a more neutral back position. Even it's not out of the question that there could be times where it's appropriate for you to do an RDL with a rounded back position, kind of tucking your hip underneath you in a pelvic anterior, posterior. You know, I can never decide because this is referencing the top of the pelvis or the bottom of which way it's rotating. But you know the way that I'm talking about. It's tucking underneath you as if as the great K. Bokunfuso, one of our favorite PTs out there in Australia, cue that she used with us is you try to pee in your own mouth. Is YouTube going to flag this video because of that? I haven't yet. Yeah. Okay. That's good. Yeah. So trying to do a RDL with that rounded position. Yeah. This would be a choice in hypertrophy for powerlifting because it is going to limit how much weight you can use, especially early on to it. You know, and be like, oh, I normally do my RDLs with a ton of extension. And now, you know, I've never been in flexion and intentionally for the last 10 years that I've been doing powerlifting. Here's flexion. Let's load it the same way. No, you're going to have to start out light with it, but being able to control and be strong in that flexed position can be valuable. A flexed back RDL and a Jefferson curl are going to kind of blur together. But it's like she's, Marissa's setting her flexed back position and then hinging at the hip. It's not so much in a Jefferson curl where she's trying to continually round her back more and more, but that's a way that you can approach this exercise from a rehab, prehab standpoint, from, you know, hypertrophy block. Uh, and you'll be shocked when doing that, how much you feel it in your hamstrings, even with a light weight. So as we're doing RDLs with the goal of building strength for powerlifting or strength training, we're going to keep our full foot on the ground. We're going to use straps or VersaGrips because we don't want our grip to become the limiting factor. If your RDL was your primary deadlifting exercise for that day, maybe you squat in there and do RDL as sort of a secondary deadlift movement and you don't want to use straps. Sure. That's fine. If you've got a bad grip. Yeah. Probably. If you know that your grip is limiting your regular deadlift, I probably wouldn't bother, uh, to wear straps for the RDL. But if you've already deadlifted that day and you're using RDL after that, go ahead and wear, wear straps. Don't beat your hands up that much more. Keeping our full foot on the ground, going from a slightly extended to neutral low back position typically. And then there are also times where it's going to be appropriate to have even a rounded back position. So you can build strength and control inflection. So you choose when your back goes into flexion that the lifts don't choose for you. The stance width I'd go same. If you're wondering what is that stance, uh, the feet, the foot position that you would do a vertical jump from is a great place to, to start. If any, if you wanted to make a change to your RDL stance from your regular deadlift stance and you feel your hamstrings a little bit more with a slightly closer stance, go ahead and do that. But I wouldn't get too drastic with the, the adjustments there. What about sumo RDLs? You ever done those? I have done this. Sumo RDLs can be a great option too. And if you're struggling to hold good posture in the sumo RDL or are limited in mobility for sumo deadlifts, doing RDLs where you start from the top down and, and are having to hold those, those good positions. And kind of go with a little bit slower eccentric tempo that can be useful as well. People always ask like when to stop. So if you're just don't have the flexibility or mobility to, to go down too far, you kind of just need to stop right before your positioning and starts to change. Or you lose your positioning. If you're doing it intentionally with a round back, that's a bit of a different story. All right. So hopefully you learned a thing or two about the RDL here, including what's the difference between RDL and SLDL. No, just kidding. If you know the difference, go ahead and leave it down in the comments. Thanks for watching. Like the video, subscribe to the channel and get a two week free trial of the Juggernaut AI app. The description down below. Thanks for watching. Bye.