! N-acetit, naringin, pause, EMOM, because I am doing the jugger cube, and yeah, let's get started. Everything's popping. Guess what? I'm already at my working way. I don't know if you're familiar with the jugger cube, or you haven't done it, but you want to know what it's about. Today is a lighter day, high bar pause squat EMOM. So I'm going to do sets of three reps every minute on the minute. So given that it's every minute on the minute and it's pause squat, it's not going to be as heavy as if I was doing, you know, sets of five, six, or obviously a top set. So those one minute rest periods, they do jump on you. And real quickly, big difference between high bar and low bar squat, just bar placement. Nothing else needs to change. You don't need to change your stance to like a different stance. The only thing that I do different is when I do a high bar squat, I actually take a little bit wider of a grip. Since the bar is higher on my back, going in close doesn't feel good. So I come in here eating. While I work out, he just eats in front of me. The popping will stop when I get to the last set. I'm going to go to the next set. Just joints popping. Yeah. Let's get a boom mic on those knees. All righty then. Switch. Do you see those pauses? It's not a California rule. I see a lot of people posting pause squat videos and I'm like, was there a pause? Guilty of it too, but not today, baby. I'm trying to focus on my words, not my thighs and eyes, viewers. This is kind of like a dynamic effort workout, Westside-esque, as part of the Jugger cube rotation. So it's heavy, heavy explosive and, and rep. So we are using the short rest periods here in part because you're not going to need that big of rest periods because the weight is light. If you do feel like intent is starting to diminish too much, or if you're using something like a velocity tracking and the speed is going down too significantly, like probably like a 20% decrement. Then I extend the rest periods a little bit, but the short rest periods are also being used, uh, not just for the short term, uh, but more from a long-term thinking standpoint. That if we can increase, you know, density and special work capacity and you can do more, you know, good squatting and recover from it better than you're going to get stronger in the long run because of that. I remember doing some squat workouts like this, uh, you know, we'll have to look them up on the eight millimeter film that they were taken on, but things like, I want to say like 12 by three at five 15, uh, somewhere in that, in that range. Uh, every minute on the minute, 45 seconds, rest, one minute rest type of workouts. And that helped me build a really high work capacity that, you know, later training cycles was helping me to be able to tolerate a big workload and get really strong because of it. Doing a lot of milky thigh here. Yes, your multicolored leg. So. Seems light till you get to the last few sets. I think it's gotta be. You loosen it here. Now go and pull like a pull it hard. Use your muscles, babe. Muscles. Which means unlock. Look at this side. Oh, babe. Good job. Six. Seven. Yeah. Yeah. Six. Six. Seven. Or cool. If you didn't know. And done. I thought it would stop popping in the last set, but it's still popping. Polite boys. Failing. Right now. Failing. Failing. Failing. Failing. You're coming. Wow. At the very end. Love that. Next up. I highly suggest using straps on accessory exercises. This way you're not focused on like grip being your limiting factor. And you can use the same thing. You can use the same thing. You're going to use the same thing. You're going to use the same thing. And then. I thought it would stop popping in the last set, but it's still popping. The polite boys. Failing. Right now. Failing. Failing. Failing. Failing. Failing. Failing. Failing. Failing. Failing. Failing. Failing. Failing. Failing. Failing. Failing. Failing. Failing. Failing. a little bit past shoulder width using straps. And you want to keep your back parallel. So unlike a bent over row where you're up here like this, you're going to start from the floor and not move. That way you're really controlling the weight. I used to think YouTube commenters were the worst. I'm really starting to think Facebook people are the worst because it's an older crowd. And boy, I really just don't know shit about shit. I don't get like offended by stuff, but I will say older men, you're going to comment on a girl's video. You don't need to use honey buns, sweetie pie, darling. I don't know. It comes off very condescending. Sugar tits. Sugar tits. On these, if you do not have bumper plates that are as big as like a normal, I'll use pounds, 45 pound plate. So you can just elevate off of a block. This way you're not coming from a huge deficit because with penalties, you want to like maintain that parallel to the floor. And if you have very small plates, that's going to be harder to do. So just elevate it on a box. And touch point for me is right above the belly button versus when I do bend over rows. I'm probably right at belly button level. So this is a Vultra Beyond Power. And if you have a garage gym, I highly recommend getting this because it does basically everything like a cable machine can do. You have attachments for the bar here. You have an attachment that can go on your rack that moves up and down. So you can do a lot of stuff with it. So you're going to press this and this together. And then we're going to lock it into here. Then it locks itself. And the cool thing is once it locks into position, you have attachments for pretty much anything that you want to attach it, even for glute kickbacks. And then when you're getting ready to load it, you can adjust your cable length. It even has a cable rollback. So if you were going to do like a chest supported row and, you know, when you're normally using weight, it's like heavy or on a cable. There's a ton of tension. It'll give you no tension until you get into position. Once you get locked into position, it'll then tighten. So it makes it really easy to pull it back. So it's really handy. Let's establish here. This is not a paid. It is not. This is really just a very remarkable piece of equipment. Like I'm not like a gym equipment, garage gym equipment guy at all. This does a ton of cool stuff. It does it really well. The different settings where you can overload the eccentric. You can overload your wrist and spend. Yeah. Concentric. It's like tons and tons of settings for if you're like a physical therapy clinic or something. Remarkable piece of equipment. But yeah, if you want to sponsor us and send us another one, please do. Yeah. Front foot elevated lunge. When I do these, I add a twist. We've talked about this before because everything in powerlifting is up and down. I like to add in accessory exercises that give me some rotation. So the way that I do these is just get a kettlebell. You can use a dumbbell too. Front foot elevate. And I twist outward this way. Back up. Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Lite Two sets of pull throughs, and then some abs. You can adjust your weight up or down on this. Before we had this, I used resistance bands. In the app, obviously, this isn't in there. You can create a whole new exercise for it. Or I just keep it in mine as the glute hand pull throughs. I'll just leave it as that, and then when I do my performance, I'll go ahead and change this to pounds and put that I used 45 pounds. And then in the notes section, I can add in that. Let me just do this right now. Changing this to pounds. I'm going to go ahead and say I used 45. I did 10. Add it there. And then the notes section, I can put, I used the Voltra. And I'm going to add regular resistance. Because I didn't change the resistance on this, you can make it so it's harder on the eccentric. So I'm leaving it the same. And then you know what you did for next time. So I did resistance bands setting. So this has a resistance band setting. I've done the resistance band setting, doing banded crunches with it. It's pretty, pretty amazing. Say you want like A-50 pound band resistance. It'll give you that exact same resistance profile of like the newest, best band that you could have. So it'll start at zero. And then as you start pulling on it, it gets out towards 50. So if you wanted the feel of a band, but total consistency, because the way that the actual resistance of the band, it changes with the age of the band. It changes if it's hot out, if it's cold out, you know, the humidity and stuff changes it, where this is exactly on it. And then there's also a chains setting too, which, you know, same kind of idea. It's going to increase the resistance as you get closer to the top of it, the way that adding chains to the bar would. It's, it's a really, a really clever device. Okay. You've seen these before side banded crunches. Again, just adding in that rotation. So thank you guys so much for following along with my training today. If you want to join the best community with the best app, go to juggernautai.app. You're going to get two weeks free and you're going to join the best Facebook community where we will comment on your list. So click that link below. .