 Hey, everybody, what's up? Chad Wesley Smith here for Juggernaut Training Systems and Juggernaut AI. And today, I'm going to be talking to you about the best squat accessories you haven't been doing. You can find plenty of videos about split squats or, you know, leg press or hack squat or belt squat or whatever it is, and we've made plenty of those as well. But I think there are some exercises out there that, yeah, they're to help you get stronger, but they're also to make sure that you're staying healthy, that you're having a good, well-rounded strength training program, and if your goal is competitive powerlifting, these could still be really useful exercises for you in, you know, more general blocks, off-season blocks. Make sure you're getting moving and some of the ways that powerlifting doesn't necessarily have you move throughout the course of the regular squat, mentioned deadlift training, to just help you stay healthy because the healthier you are, the harder and longer you can train and ultimately stronger you can get. So as always, our videos here on Juggernaut Training Systems channel are brought to you by the Juggernaut AI app. So if you're looking for the smartest program for you, customize for your gender, age, height, weight, strength, experience, weak points, how much you sleep, are you trying to gain weight, lose weight, all that type of stuff, it's going to design a totally custom program that grows and adapts to your feedback. You can get a two-week free trial by visiting the link down in the description or by going to juggernautai.app. All right, so for squat accessories that maybe you haven't been including, the first exercise I want to talk about is the reverse lunge twist. Reverse lunge twist is something that I use a lot of MMA fighters, football players that I train, but it can be important for you as a powerlifter because so much of powerlifting is up and down, forward and backward. It's avoiding trunk rotation. It's externally rotating the hips. It's extending through the spine that when you have no capacity to the other side of things, you don't have the ability to rotate your trunk. You lack hip internal rotation and you lack the ability to control flexion through your lumbar spine. That's a lot of times where pain comes about for the athlete. So this first exercise, reverse lunge twist, it gets you moving in a little bit different pattern, you're stepping backwards and turning at the same time. So it's going to expose you to some of those movement patterns that maybe you haven't been getting throughout the course of your regular training and you can do it with a kettlebell, you can hold a dumbbell, a lot of different variations you could do with this, but I'm stepping backwards and I'm rotating over my front leg and coming back up. So this could be an accessory exercise during something like a bridge block or any kind of general phase of training that you do farther away from competition. It could be something that you just do one set of during your warm-ups prior to squatting or deadlifting, but getting some rotational movement, being able to control that pattern, having some capacity in that regard is going to help you stay healthier so you can lift harder for longer. Again, you could do this holding the kettlebell, you could do it holding the dumbbell, you could do it holding the plate, you could get into a zurcher reverse lunge twist. I wouldn't be as big with the bar on your back, but certainly could do that as well. My background is shot putting and I've seen a lot of shot putters do all kind of walking lunge twists like that, whether they're holding the bars, zurcher bar on the back, all kind of effective ways that you could do it. So reverse lunge twist is going to be an exercise for you to include in your warm-up or as an accessory and I think can be really useful and something you're probably not including in your training right now. Next exercise up is going to be the lateral step down. Marissa is going to talk to you about that. Okay, lateral step down is a great exercise if you are struggling with some knee pain or if you're struggling with your knees caving in and the box height is really going to be dependent on your mobility so you can start with the lower box or I'm going to show you here from the bench. Main keys here is before you add load, you want to make sure that you're able to control the weight down keeping full foot pressure, you want to control, you want the knee to go over the toe, light tap at the bottom using the full foot from the leg that's up, pressing back up to the top, controlling it on the way down to the top. When you're adding weight, you can hold it here, you can hold it down or you can hold it in front of you. Yeah, you want to make sure you're keeping your full foot pressure and not bouncing out of the bottom. When you're brand new to the movement, a light counterbalance is probably going to help you as you're going down putting it out in front of you, tap and letting that leg at the top do the work. So this next one we're going to talk about is the lateral lunge slash cossack squat. I don't really know what the difference between those two are probably just kind of a semantic name issue. I should have worn my cutoff jorts for more power in this stance. I can go lower. But a couple different ways that you can approach this exercise and it's going to be valuable to your training as a power lifter because as I mentioned earlier, if you're spending all your time straight up and down, straightforward, straight back, you're missing out on a lot of movement patterns that are going to help you be all around stronger and stay healthier. So a lot of times when people are experiencing hip or low back pain or a lateral shift in the squats because of a lack of adductor strength and these lateral squatting, lateral lunging, cossack squat variations can be great for that. So you can do this where you just set your feet out wide and you're just trying to sit back on your heel to that one side and then you can either stand up and go down to the other side or some people will do it where they just slide across from one side to the other. I don't know that any of those variations are necessarily better or worse. They're just kind of different. You can also do it where you're starting with your feet together and you're stepping out to the side going down back up to the middle then go into the other side. If you need to elevate your heel on a squat wedge or on a plate with a weightlifting shoe to help you get better depth, that's a great way to be doing it as well. And then as you advance in this and are able to add load, some people are going to be doing that more like a goblet squat style holding the weight out in front of them. This can also provide a useful counterbalance for you. Other people are going to do it where they're holding the weight down between their legs. If you have really long arms or it was a very long weight, I guess, that might limit your range of motion a little bit. You go down here, you can slide to the other side. I'm trying to stay on my full foot to the side that I'm going to so don't let your heel come off the ground on that side. But if you want to let your toe tip up on this side, that's a fine way to do it. You could do this bar on your back. You could do it in a zurcher position as well. You could do it wearing a weighted vest. A lot of good possibilities with this. Let a milky white thigh getting shown in this video. All right, so those are three accessories for the squat that maybe you haven't been including in your training, but could be really valuable for you. So we're looking at reverse lunge twist lateral step down and then a lateral lunge or a Cossack squat variation to get you moving in some different movement patterns to expose you to those positions that maybe you're not used to from just going straight up and down, straight forward and straight back, which is so much of specific competitive powerlifting training, but developing some capacity in these other ranges of motion is going to help you stay healthier so you can train harder longer. If you enjoyed the video, give it a like, subscribe to the channel, and make sure to check out that two week free trial of the Juggernaut AI app.