 Hey, everybody. I'm Chad Wilson-Smith, and today we're going to talk about getting it up. Getting your dumbbells up into a proper pressing position. I'm here, joined by my assistant, Marisa Inda, and we're going to be talking to you about some different dumbbell pressing tips, just to make sure you're maximizing this exercise. So as always, videos here on the Joggernaut Training Systems channel are brought to you by the Joggernaut AI app. So whether you're big or small, young or old, short or tall, strong, weak, beginner, intermediate, advanced, anything, everything in between, Joggernaut AI app is for you because it takes all of those factors into account to design the smartest program for you that continues to adapt with your feedback. So check out a two-week free trial of the Joggernaut AI app down in the link in our description. All right, so the dumbbell bench press, incline bench, floor press, all kind of dumbbell pressing variations, staple in powerlifting and bodybuilding and training for a long time. So we just want to talk about getting the most out of it. And the first step to get the most out of it is to get the weights into the right position. And the dumbbells are really heavy. Maybe you don't have a training partner. It's hard to get into a good position to press from. So the simplest way to do it is have the weights set on your knees. So even if you had to deadlift those off the floor, then sit down and have the weights on top of your knees. And then you're just, as you roll back in one smooth athletic move, use your knees to get them up into position. That was the joke about giving it up that I made before. All right, so hand angle is going to play a role here. Maybe hand straight, like the way it would be on a barbell is going to have a slightly higher transfer. Maybe you're going to get a little bit more peck development from that. I don't know. I'm kind of just making that up as I go along. So the beauty of benching with dumbbells is that you can adjust your hand angle. And the more palms in you go, probably the more shoulder friendly that is going to be. So a lot of times I'll have my football players, if they're having shoulder stuff going on during the season or throwing athletes, quarterbacks, whatever, they'll bench palms in all the time. But feel free to let yourself find what's the most comfortable angle for you to press to press from palms in. You might not be able to move quite as much weight, but still a good viable exercise. So one of the great benefits of dumbbell pressing in terms of hypertrophy is it's going to allow for a great range of motion, because unlike a barbell, which is going to stop when it hits your chest, the dumbbells, you could get a little bit deeper stretch than that and kind of maximize your range of motion. And for some people who really try and cut down their barbell bench pressing range of motion by having fake boobs and cheating at bench pressing so they can lift more weight. That's the only reason you got those, isn't it? Yeah. Now, can't cheat like that with dumbbells. So let's see how strong you are now. So you can see that Merissa can handle the dumbbells down below where she would be able to with the barbell. Now eliminating her ability to cheat herself by a short range of motion, get that deep stretch, build that tendon integrity in those deeper positions. So this would be great for lifters as they're chasing hypertrophy. It could be a great exercise for power lifters to improve their off the chest strength. It's going to be good for athletes who are going to get exposed to deeper ranges of motion to develop tolerance through that. When you're dumbbell bench pressing, you want to be consistent. You don't want to start out in the deep range of motion and then cut down the range of motion as you go throughout a set or as the weights get heavier, you get to a shorter range of motion. So that's going to kind of be on you to ensure that you are being consistent with your range of motion. I suppose you could be using some kind of like mechanical drop set. I'm shortening the range of motion as it goes so I can keep getting more reps. That's going to be really a topic for a different day. Be consistent. I like to just make sure that the inside of the dumbbell touches my chest as I'm going and use that sort of as a landmark to make sure that I have consistent depth throughout. So don't cheat the range of motion. Let the dumbbells kind of serve their unique purpose there and be able to extend the range of motion from what you'd be able to do with the barbell. So with dumbbells, you can do a lot of different stuff. We can do flat dumbbell bench press. We can do incline. We can do floor press. We can alternate hands. We can have just one dumbbell in one hand, nothing in the other hand. You can row a band with one hand, dumbbell press the other arm. There's a lot of great variations that you can have. Make sure that you are using these variations for their intended purpose. If you are using dumbbell bench press variations for hypertrophy, get a big range of motion. Control the tempo. Spend some time in the deep stretch there. Don't cheat yourself on the range of motion. If you're doing it to develop strength, don't cheat yourself on the range of motion. Don't become a great dumbbell presser for the sake of being a great dumbbell presser. Make sure that it's transferring to your barbell bench press if you're a competitive power lifter. There are a lot of power lifters who could dumbbell bench way more than me, but they weren't really bench pressing more than me. So was that energy being spent on the dumbbell bench press truly worth it? So I think that's going to become an issue if you start cutting down the range of motion. As you get into huge like 150s, 180s, the bell part becomes so big. It might necessitate that you're cutting down the range of motion. So is it really worth it then? I'd encourage you to get less at a more. For athletes, dumbbell bench press variations are going to be great because if you're playing football or doing MMA or whatever, your sport is not barbell bench pressing. So while developing strength there, it can be a great stimulator of force production and a great training stimulus. Dumbbell bench variations may allow you to put your shoulder in a more comfortable position, may allow you to explore some of these kind of more unique patterns like rowing with one hand, pressing with the other different hand angles, all that stuff, alternating things that might be more applicable to the demands of the sport that you play. So hopefully these tips helped with dumbbell pressing and will allow you to get more out of your dumbbell press workouts, whatever angle that you may be doing those at. So if you enjoyed the video, like it, subscribe to the channel, and don't forget to check out that two week free trial of the Jirgannot AI app.