 nuffine, archei, archei, archei, archei, archei, archei, archei, archei, Inda, and today we're going to be talking to you about block pulls. How to do them, why to do them, when to do them. As always, videos here on the Juggernaut channel are brought to you by the Juggernaut AI app, where you can get totally customized training for you based on your gender, age, height, weight, strength, experience. You're trying to gain weight, lose weight, where do you miss your bench press, where do you struggle in the squat, what's your sticking point in the deadlift, that and much more. Customizes the program based on all that and then continues to adapt to your feedback, making the smartest program for you. So you get a two-week free trial of that down at the link in the description or at juggernautai.app. All right, so the block pull, how to do it. It's just like a regular deadlift, but the bar is up on blocks, so it doesn't really change very much from the technique. You're just trying to recreate that same position that you would be in when the bar is however far off the floor the blocks are high. In this case, we're using these rubber mats. They're three quarters inch each, so the bar is elevated by two and one quarter. That's 2.25 inches. All right, block pull height, you know, I'd say anywhere from one and a half inches, maybe up to as high as five or six inches. Some of that is going to depend on the height of the lifter. Marissa using six inch blocks is going to be adorable, but nonsensical, while me using six inch blocks, well, that's probably just some sort of ego lift. But if I was really tall, I'm only six feet tall. She just makes me look taller. People were probably wondering that. They always are wondering. You know, for me, I'd say three or four inch block is typically the highest that I'll use. Marissa is usually an inch and a half to two and a quarter, maybe three inch blocks. Conventional deadlifters are going to be able to use a little bit higher blocks typically than sumo deadlifters because, I mean, how much more do sumo deadlifters need to cheat? They're already doing sumo. It's not even a real lift. It shouldn't be allowed. Just kidding. It's totally fine. If everyone could do more sumo than conventional, every powerlifter would do sumo, but it doesn't automatically make you do more. I digress. So in the block pull, you want it to look as much like a regular deadlift as possible, but because the bar is a bit elevated, your torso angle is going to change just slightly to try and keep that shoulder over bar, bar through mid foot relationship. But yeah, it's going to look a lot like a regular deadlift. So main takeaway, I think on the how to do the sumo deadlifts, they're mixed in with my various jokes and diatribes was the height of the blocks, you know, one and a half inches, probably on the low side up to five or six inches. If you're really tall, you know, Thor Bjornsson's watching this, he could probably use a seven inch block for his conventional block pulls, or if you really struggle there in the top end, which leads me into why would you want to use block pulls? So they can serve several purposes. They can be a fatigue management tool because you're not moving the bar as far and range of motion is going to be part of what generates fatigue. Using the block pull can help you kind of lessen the fatigue that the deadlift induces to the lifter. That's going to be a little bit more so for the conventional deadlifter, because a lot of conventional deadlifters can't do as much in a block pull in that, you know, two to four inch, one and a half to four inch block height range as they could do from the floor. And I know that's a bit counterintuitive, but you know, this kind of limits the leg drive you can get. It puts a little bit more overload on your back. And then with that extra overloading on the back and glutes, it's also going to be a useful tool to help build your lockout. Now for sumo deadlifters, it can serve a couple other purposes. Sumo deadlifters almost universally will be able to do more in the block pull than they can from the floor. So this is going to be more of a mechanical overload tool for them and to help, you know, maybe prepare their grip, prepare their nervous system, prepare themselves psychologically for maximal loads, but they could use it in like a hypertrophy block to do a little bit more volume with heavy weight, build up their glute and hip strength, build up their grip strength, endurance, a lot of different ways that you can use it. Block pulls can also be a great tool in rehab settings or for learning deadlift technique. And we have a, another video about this topic, but kind of the gist of it is if you're trying to come back to deadlifting after a low back injury and you feel most vulnerable with the bar on the ground, which would be typical that maybe you get rounded over a little bit, then you want to elevate the bar and blocks to a place that you can get in a great position for that might be, you know, four or five, six inch blocks, who knows? Well, let's say it's five inch blocks and you start back block pulling from five inches. And then the next week you go to four, then the three, then a two, then to one, and then back to the ground, giving yourself graded exposure to the exercise you're trying to return to. On the other side of that, from a technical learning standpoint, maybe someone new to lifting, they don't have the strength in specific positions to, you know, get in a good deadlift start position with the bar on the floor, whether that's sumo or conventional, conventional, maybe they're getting too round back to lift the bar off the floor in a good position. Maybe in sumo deadlift, they don't have the hip mobility to get in a great position with their torso more upright and, and hips over the bar. So there you would use the, the block pull as, you know, there's kind of an intermediary step of learning the technique. So if they can't get in a good position off the floor, but they can do it off of three inch blocks, then get good at three inch blocks and then move it down to two to one and then to the floor as they develop those, you know, the, the strength and postural strength in those specific positions to execute the technique properly. Same thing with hip mobility and the deadlift. Maybe you don't have the hip mobility to get in a good position, you know, looking like Dan Grigsby off the floor, but you can do that off of four inch blocks. And then you move to three inch blocks, two inch blocks, one inch block off the floor. And that might be a four or five week process. It might be a, you know, two to four month process, but the best way for you to learn to get into those good positions is to get into those good positions. So that's going to be a lot of the role that block pulls have. So it's going to, you know, be fatigue management tool or help build lockout strength for the conventional deadlifter. It's going to be a mechanical overload, neurological force production tool for the sumo deadlifter. And then it's going to be a rehab and teaching option when those are the appropriate settings. Now, when would you want to include this? For conventional deadlifters, we'll do a lot of block pulls in hypertrophy because it's a little bit shorter range of motion. And even though that's a little, can be a little bit counterintuitive to hypertrophy, you have to be able to do enough deadlifts to build the muscles of the hamstrings and low back, as well as manage it around the squat and bench. Cutting the range of motion down by two inches isn't too much of a trade-off. The range of motion affects of hypertrophy because you're going to make up for it and being able to do a little bit more volume than you would normally do, especially if you feel more exposed in your, in your low back deadlifting from the floor. Then as the program progresses, you could be using it as a, a tool to build the lockout or in, into a peaking phase to use a low block, just to make the lift a little bit easier, like for your secondary deadlift day of the week. So you're still getting that very, very specific pattern, uh, just with a slight, slight change to save yourself, you know, a couple percentage points of fatigue and stress coming in from that. I don't actually have a percentage system to quantify that. That was a little bit more theoretical for the sumo deadlifter. You could use it in hypertrophy for higher volume, you know, to build up your, your hip and glute strength. But normally I'll have sumo deadlifters do conventional deadlifting in hypertrophy. So the block pole is going to be more of a complimentary secondary exercise in strength and peaking to help, you know, build up the grip, build up the lockout strength, the ability to stay patient as you grind through the start of a deadlift and keep a good position. Because if you can't keep that good position under heavy load in the start of a sumo deadlift, you know, it doesn't matter how fast you are in the start. If you get into a bad position, uh, as you get to lockout, you won't be able to lock it out regardless. If you're using it for the sumo deadlift, make sure you're using it in a way that complements your full sumo deadlift and you're not becoming the best block puller for the sake of block pulls, because in powerlifting meets, that's not the event, that's not the competition. So you want to be good at the real thing, use the variations to build the real thing. So now hopefully you understand a little bit better how, why, and when to use block pulls in your training. If you liked this video, press that little thumbs up, subscribe to the channel, and don't forget to get a two week free trial of the Juggernaut AI app down at the link in our description. Thanks for watching.