 Hey, everybody, what's up? Chad Wilson Smith here for Juggernaut Training Systems and Juggernaut AI, and today I want you to focus on the words that are coming out of my mouth instead of staring into my piercingly blue eyes while I discuss pre-performance routines and their application to powerlifting, pre-performance, powerlifting routines. Okay, there's some good alliteration going there, but not too much of a tongue twister. As always, videos here on the Juggernaut Training Systems channel are brought to you by the Juggernaut AI app. So if you want totally customized program based on your gender, age, height, weight, strength, experience, where your weak points are on the lift, how your sleep is, if you're trying to gain weight, lose weight, all type of stuff like that that continues to adapt to your feedback, get the highest rated strength training app there is with a two week free trial. Try the Juggernaut AI app at the link down in our description or by visiting juggernautai.app. So a pre-performance routine, what is that? It's what you do before you perform. It's the thing that you see internet commenters complain about, why does she do that before she deadlifts? That setup is dumb, just grab the bar, grip it, rip it brother, all that type of stuff. But pre-performance routines exist in all sports and they're important aspect of sports psychology and the process of becoming excellent in the routine of your event. So whether you're a basketball player like Jeff Hornoseck, little side of the face pat, that's one I remember very distinctively from when I was young playing basketball in the 90s, free throw routines, very common for basketball players. What a baseball player does in the batter's box or before entering the batter's box, it might get ridiculous, no more Garcia para tugging on his gloves for 45 seconds and I think the pitch clock probably has done away with some of that, but you see it in every different sport. Did paint marring, Tom Brady need to lick their fingers all the time before going under center and taking a snap to start a play? No, but that's all part of their pre-performance routine and creating a replicatable routine like that for powerlifting helps a lot of athletes maximize their performance, it just becomes part of their process as they maybe think about different cues in their technique as they feel the pressure in their feet the right way that they need to do it, that they set their mind, their mentality, the right way that they feel they need to do before executing a heavy lift, it's all part of what they do. Marissa would hit her chest on the bar before the squat, Kate Cohen got her kind of spider, praying mantis walk up that she does as she twists her foot into the ground and feels that pressure in her feet the right way. I had this kind of breathing thing in the deadlift where I was blowing my air out, setting my back position, the way that I would put my hands on the bar in the squat, set one foot, set the other foot, it was the same every single time and creating those routines and habits is gonna make you a more effective competitor because it's gonna help you do it the same every single time. So when you're getting the adrenaline of competition going and kind of the blank minded nature that you need to execute at the highest level, having unconscious competence where you don't have to think about it anymore, that routine that you've done over and over and over is gonna help you set up that highest level of technical mastery. So whatever that routine might be for you, just as you think about what it is, which hand do you put on the bar first? Or thumb around, thumb over the bar. What foot are you setting first? The way that some people twist their foot into the ground. It's all part of it. So whatever feels best for you and helps you execute your technique in the most replicable way, find that and stick to it. And if people on the internet are complaining about what you do before a lift, f*** them because what's that saying, the man in the arena, you are the man or woman in the arena doing the work, putting it on the line, putting heavy weight on your back, in your hands, taking the risk, having the courage to go out there and be great. So don't be bothered by it. And people who are commenting on it, why don't you comment on basketball players for free throw routines or baseball players, their pre batting routines. Great athletes do it in all kinds of different sports. I did it when I was shot putting, had ones different for powerlifting. Why does John Jones crawl across the cage before he gets in an MMA fight? Everyone's got their pre-performance routine that gets their mind right, helps them set their technique the way that they need it. And it's a valuable part of training and competing. So if you've got one more power to you, if you don't have one, maybe having one would help you become a better lifter. So that's just my two cents, three cents. You can't even have two cents anymore because pennies are out. So it's at least a nickel's worth of advice. If you enjoyed it, like the video, subscribe to the channel, try the Juggernaut AI app for two weeks free.