 din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din That was pretty true. Yep. It's true. And they distract me. When I think about the training that you guys did back then, I don't know how we could survive. Because you're all trained Jiu-Jitsu like 10-12 times a week, probably. Because even when I was training for Worlds, I had to do Jiu-Jitsu 6 times a week. And lifting, and everything was starting all the time. I was thinking like, man, I think we used to do too much. Yeah, that was a lot, but I love it. I felt good. You know, I just broke people. Like nothing. It was like a difference. I think it was like the fundament. They have something behind, you know. You have goals to reach on the workout. So, just go to the gym and work out. It gets boring. It doesn't do much, you know. I think like the big change that I've made for the training you guys do now compared to back then. And besides that everyone's, you know, eight, nine years older. But even still, we used to do a lot of conditioning in the gym. And now it's like, I realize, this left Jiu-Jitsu would be the conditioning. The tempo stuff helps recovery a little bit of aerobic. But this is for getting strong. Out there is for, you know, sport practice and conditioning. I definitely, like I told you, I enjoy a lot. Now, there's no reason for me to be burning myself out on Jiu-Jitsu training. So, I train one Jiu-Jitsu, one Jiu-Jitsu workout a day. It's been amazing. My training partner doesn't like so much. Alright, so I want you to squeeze this between your elbows and knees. Alright, and then you have a dead bug. Opposite arm, opposite leg. Like this? Just one, so. Yeah. This one is a dead bug to do it? Well, this is one way to do it. Oh. Yeah. So, pull up. So, go this arm, this leg out. Yeah, there you go. And squeeze with the other side. Good. Keep in here. Slow back. Tight against the floor. Good. That's their flex card. How's Julian doing? Good. I gotta have him out here to make some more videos. You guys so tough. He had some injury recently. Ankle or... Yeah, knee. Knee. Now, go into bear crawl position. Okay, so. Yeah. So, you guys so tough. He had some injury recently. Ankle or... Yeah, knee. Knee. Now, go into bear crawl position. Yeah. So, you guys so tough. You guys so tough. Position. Alright. Now, touch the shoulder. I want you to imagine like you've got a glass of water balance on your back. Alright? So, your hips don't move. Only your hands move. Good. Alright. I'm gonna go on your hand. Now point your right leg straight out to the side. Alright. Now I want you to do keeping your feet low to any stretch of any stretch of any stretch of Good, all right, now go on your hand. Now point your right leg straight out to the side. All right, now I want you to keep your feet where you are, kind of walk your hands forward, let your hips come forward, yeah. And then walk back, feel like sit on your heel. Yeah, do you feel that like in your adductor? Yep. Julian is so tough, man. Julian, yeah. I think I was gonna explode his head. Seriously. I'm like, how did you not tap on this? How's Sam doing? Good. I see him friending with Bradley Martin and stuff. Yeah, sometimes they do some YouTube stuff. Yeah, so stay on hands and knees. Now I want you to take your right hand and reach to here. Yeah, under, and then up towards the ceiling. I think you're pretty big legs for a jiu-jitsu guy. I feel like a lot of other guys got real skinny legs. They lacked on their leg strength. It's one of the mostly for jiu-jitsu. Leg strength and leg conditioning. It's like a much different kind of strength than like the power lifting. Oh yeah. Because for me, trying to play open guard with these big legs, I can't move them fast up in the air and it takes a lot of energy to hold them. Like any kind of open guard, it's so easy for someone to just push my legs down. Because they're so heavy. But I think, honestly, they push your leg not because of the legs, honestly. Probably because of the hips. Yeah, hips and hips. The hip is a little muscle, it's got to hold up this whole thing. Exactly, that's what they do. That's a digger. Because I get someone like Conor Donaldson. Who? Conor Donaldson. Oh yeah. He's got skinny legs but when his feet get on my hips I'm like man his legs feel strong. But lifting he probably can't even squat 200 pounds or something. But they feel strong. Alright so we're going to go with them crossed. Down to the hip. 10 times. Then middle 10 times. The last one is not going to happen. It did not happen. What was the shoulder injury? The shoulder was fine. It was a labor but when they did the surgery the doctor used a hip to keep my shoulder over. Because he said I have too much muscle. So then they stretched my nerve almost to reach the nerve. Like on the nerve. During the surgery? Yeah. So I lost the movement on my shoulder for like 2 years. It's almost I never came back you know. Is that like a malpractice lawsuit or anything? Not in Brazil. Not in Brazil yeah. But it helped me reach. Yeah. And then knee surgeries how many of those? One? One just too serious. Okay. What about ear surgeries? Huh? I said what about ear surgery? No. You look like you're about ready for that. No. That's the... That's going to be forever. Didn't Hoppa have to have surgery? Yeah but he's like... I think he was affecting his ear. Is he on? Yeah. Well I mean... I don't know how many sound is getting in this one. Look this one here? Yeah. Don't worry about that one. I wish I had come here on Monday. For that lift. No. I was here. So like Honolo was saying you know he's got the shoulder problems with the nerve damage in there. A lot of Jiu Jitsu guys, lots of shoulder problems. I mean they're spending all day for years you know trying to break each other's, try to dislocate each other's shoulders. So shoulder problems, elbow problems, wrists, a lot of difficulties in the bench press. So making a modification to the bench press if you have access to a bar like this with neutral grips is going to be good. If you have to shorten the range of motion with like a pad or a board on the chest, that's good. If you can't do you know bench pressing with a barbell and you need to only use dumbbells like that's fine. It's just all about getting some kind of pressing exercise so we can train that movement pattern. But you know being the bench best bench presser doesn't make you the best you know at Jiu Jitsu. So we just want to train that, those muscles but the specific movement isn't a huge deal. How old were you when you started training Jiu Jitsu? When I started training for you, like I want to do this, 14 years old. 14 years old. So when you're, you know, when we get like before we're old and the kids start showing up from Brazil and they're like you know green belt or the 16 year old blue belts but I'm looking at them and I was like you guys aren't blue belts. How much were you training when you were 14? Like how many hours a day? I mean I honestly, basically when I decided to do that I trained all day. Yeah. I didn't count you know, I just stay in the gym. Sometimes you know my professor had to kick me out. Yeah. It's like man, I have to leave, you're gonna pass, I'm gonna die here. So much training you know. But when I decided to do that a lot of doubts of people what they're gonna accomplish but I have to prove them wrong you know. So I have to do my best. So yeah. If you had to guess at the hours though like six hours a day, seven hours a day. Easy. I basically I spend, I stay in the gym 8am and then I stay until like 9pm. 9pm I used to go to another gym, wait one hour and teach one class. 10 o'clock to 11. And then I would get back home at 1pm, 1am and then next day same thing again. So I just basically I leave in the gym. Let's do like five here. What about, that doesn't sound like a lot of time for school in there. Only Jiu Jitsu school? Yeah, I quit school. Yeah. I quit school, yes. Well I begin, on the first I begin to study for a little bit when I move to Belo Horizonte. For the first like six months I went to school but then after I'm like this is not going to take me no rep because I don't like it. Yeah. I don't like school. I don't like, I don't like, you know. I'm crazy that now I'm old I like. I like the body, you know. But by the time, not really. You know. So, I believe that, you know, like I don't need to, you don't need to fall anybody, like everyone's pet, you know. You can actually feel pet and then give your best. So, when you're quitting school at 14 to train Jiu Jitsu all day, do people in Belo Horizonte, they were probably thinking, oh this guy is crazy. Like, do they know what you do now and they live in America and in schools and everyone knows? Yeah, no definitely, you know, like because especially I come from a family. My mom, she's a school teacher. My sisters, all. She had to be early now, right? Yeah. All my sisters, they, you know, like, my friends, they're lawyers, police officers, you know what I mean? So, like, they always focus on studying and then I was like pretty much like the only one that they didn't want to follow, you know. Yeah. She didn't understand at first, you know, it took me a long time to go back home. I left my house as a teenager, come back as a grown man. Yeah, yeah. Because I want to come back different, you know. I don't want to like just show up like the way that I left. But, eventually they understand and then they support me. It took me like three years. Have you always been doing a bench with a feet up? I do feet up, sometimes I'm like I bridge a little bit, you know. Yeah. But whatever you think is best. So, I usually have the guys get a little, whether it's feet on the, most of them go feet on the floor, but. Like a bridge up a little bit? Yeah, and get that little bit of hip drive. Okay. And like, you know, bodybuilding people, like maybe they're going to watch this video, this guy's got bad bench technique or whatever, but it's like you guys aren't bench pressing to have nice looking pecs and that kind of thing. You're bench pressing to be able to create space and like that bump and press. Exactly. With that timing and the whole body action is really important for that. Oh, you win kilos today, huh? I got all kilos here, pounds, pounds over there. Now I'm confused, I haven't done kilos in a while. I shoot no kilos, right? Because in Brazil that's how I do it. But I'm American now, I live here for 13 years already. And we quit school, so. Exactly. I hope my buddies don't watch this either. Okay. What? Sorry. The plan today we're going to go as heavy as you can for five reps. Okay. But I don't want to do like unnecessary reps while we're warming up. Uh-huh. Because you said last time you did 45 and 25. Yeah. So we're just going to do smaller warm ups sets until we get to about that range. Okay. And then we'll try and do, you know, maybe like 45, 25 and five for five reps kind of thing. Okay. Okay. That's all. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I usually only have videos when I train jiu-jitsu. But I'm walking out. I feel like Naiman, he only trains hard when I put the video on. Yeah. Really? I only have one speed. Yeah. 100%. And then I'll do four sets, no video. Uh-huh. The fifth set, the video turns on. Ah. Yeah. Okay. So we're going to do smaller warm ups sets until we get to about that range. Okay. And then we'll try and do, you know, maybe like 45, 25 and five. Okay. I usually only have videos when I train jiu-jitsu. But I'm walking out. I feel like Naiman, he only trains hard when I put the video on. Really? Yeah. But I only go one way. I only have one speed. 100%. Naiman, I'll do four sets, no video. Uh-huh. The fifth set, the video turns on. Yeah. I'm so used to videos, you know, like, dance. Yeah. So do two or three reps here. How's that weight feeling? It feels good. How many do you think you could have done with that? Uh, I could do ten. Ten? Okay. Well, I usually punch press a lot. I think that's why I have this injury on my shoulder. Yeah. When I was, like, too long, I was, like, crazy, you know? Yeah. No technique, nothing. Just push your weights, you know? So I think that's why one of the reasons I have this injury on my shoulder, you know? So... When you're using the hip bridge, too, like, think about when you touch for your hips to be down. And then, like, as soon as you start to press, it'll be like... Okay. Like a quick. Like, I let it come and then reach together. Yeah. Like, same kind of thing. I mean, you have good ways to escape side control, but, you know, I just bench press the person off of me. But, like, the same idea where you take a little bump and then... Yep. But, actually, that's the technique. Yeah. You know, like, because when you bump, you know? Like, basically, like, for example, you don't push. Yeah. Why you bump, because when you bump, the pressure's gonna push back, right? Yeah, yeah. Then you have, like, for example, underhook, they're gonna be behind. You know what I mean? It's actually perfect. I just throw them like that. You just, like, get out of here. Like you usually throw the things, huh? That's what we call the Coach Chad side control scope. Alright, let's go five reps here. How old were you when you moved to the US? Uh, 25. 25, yeah. So, at the color belts, how did you do at Worlds and all that stuff? Uh, blue belt, blue belt I didn't do much very good, you know? Like, for people, maybe they'd be good, but I didn't win. So, I got third place, second place in all the events. I got third place too. Second place, Brazilian Nationals. Third place, third place, third place, Pan Amps. I hate it because I train so hard and then a couple of my friends, they didn't train as much as I did. They won and then I didn't, you know? I was like, I'm doing something wrong. But I believe on the hard work, you know? And then, uh, as a purple belt, I begin to actually win and then it took me like, uh, in a world championship fight, I went to purple and chill in a world championship in my weight class. Not open weight, so people don't get confused. Purple belt until my fourth year black belt, I didn't lose one match. Oh wow. So purple belt, brown belt, brown belt, two years, black belt first year, black belt second year, black belt third year. I lost the first one, the final, I think, fourth year black belt in my weight class. Yeah. How old were you when you got your black belt? Uh, 22, 21, something like that. So you're fourth degree now? Now I'm fourth degree, yeah. How many years before fifth? I think two years, two more years or three more years, something like that. I don't even know. Yeah, I don't know. I think, I think so, three years or two or something like that. I'm confused, sorry. I don't know much about the belt system. Every couple years, they could get a new stripe. I know. I don't know if it's five years or three years, you know, like now you make me, I don't know. Oh, sorry, Carlius. Yeah, I think it's, I think the first three stripes are three years each. First three degrees, three years each, and then it's five years, five years. See, you know more than me. Well, they got that poster on the wall. Sometimes I'll end up doing warm ups and looking at it, you know. Well, I just know that I'm going to be quarter belt when I'm 51. All right. That's what I'm looking, you know. So, I get 51, I'm 38, that's like 13 more years. All right. Let's go, quarter belt. I'm going to smash all the young fools. That's why I'm training with Chad. So, I get my quarter belt and then I still smash the young guns. So, this is 95 kilos or like 209. 95 kilos? Not bad. Not bad. Not bad. Not bad. Not bad. Okay. Like people ask me like, why you, you walk off with the pants and the sweater? I'm like, cause I'm freezing my balls. It's like so cold. I woke up in the morning, my house, oh my god. Especially, I mean, it's not cold like in other places but for California it's cold. What's the, what's the Belo Horizonte like? It gets chill, you know, like my city, I'm not from Belo Horizonte, you know. But I live in Belo Horizonte for training. I'm from like a Jama Chiles on the mountains, you know. Okay. So, it's pretty cold. You know, like when the winter gets pretty cold. Probably, to be honest with you, it's as cold as here probably. Yeah. You know like in the winter. You know like it's, it gets chill. And it gets really hot chill. Alright, so this, we're gonna do three sets of four. And then in between each set, the pushups on the box where you jump up. Ahhhh, this one is a little too high for me. Too high? Yeah. Maybe, maybe. I'll try. I mean I make it easy, you know. Yeah. You have to do it. Yeah. Yeah. You, Chad, you know. I'm just like a normal mortal. Yeah. Why that comes weight, you know. Sure. Just like coming in Jiu Jitsu is a little different, you know. He passed my guard once, you know. That's right. On camera. He was not even trained. That's, that's, that's bad, you know. And we've never trained you since then. Never trained. We have never, I've never trained with him since then. Two zero. Three. Three zero. And that's why we've never trained it. Again, because I know you've just been, you've just been building that up. Well, you know. I'm actually, I was scared. You would visit me and then I'd be rolling to you. I'm like, I'm gonna go with Chad, you know. He passed my going with a, not even a trained you. Just imagine now. I'm like, I'm gonna go with Chad, you know. This guy's passed my going with a, not even a trained you. Just imagine now. So I go there now? Yep. When he's started at the top here, coming down. And it's not, like, handling her. So it's, it's not a slow push up down and then go. It's quick. There you go. Good. All man. Three. Perfect. Good. On the next set, try and land with soft hands. Okay. Yeah. So same way that when you're doing box jumps, I want you to land soft, soft feet. Like a ninja. Like a cat. Like a ninja cat. I guess your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your, your story in Brazil is sort of how I imagine you guys, a lot of you guys growing up. And I remember asking for how about it, like, how much you train. He's like, oh, 2 PM to 9 PM kind of thing. And then he said he, you know, dropped out of school for, before his senior year. So I could just train Jiu Jitsu all the time. Cause I knew that. I was like, this guy's trained all the time. Like, did they ever go to school or a school in Brazil? You just do Jiu Jitsu all day. Yeah. I didn't know for all. He let, he, he, he stopped school too. Yeah. I didn't know, you know, like, yeah. I think he kept like his GED kind of like a test. Yeah. I did that too. You know, like, obviously my mom maybe do that. You know, she's like, okay, you don't, you don't want to go to school, but you know, like, you need to study and do the test and then finish, you know, like a finish like a, a, a, a, how, you know, like a finishing and you'll be ready to go to college. And someday like you, you decide to do it. Yeah. So I finish it. Then, uh, but I just did a couple of tests and then I finished, you know, but, uh, I, I, you know, I want to tell you remember how school looks like. I don't miss it. You know. So when you moved to the U.S. like any, did you speak any English then? Uh, yeah, because, um, well, in 2000, uh, 2005 or four, I'm not sure, five, I think. I spent six months in America, you know, like, uh, before that I spoke no English and then I was in Santa Fe, New Mexico. That's no Brazilian. So, and then I hang out with, uh, one of my friends, his name is Tim. And then, you know, like, uh, I learned, you know, a lot. I went back to Brazil, forgot a little bit. 2006, I did the same thing. I went back to Santa Fe, New Mexico. And then I spent some time there. 2007, I came to California. After the wars, I spent some time here. And then, uh, 2008, I live in England for one year. In England? Yeah. Were you training with Roger? I trained Roger and then Braulio. But I went there to, like, do the treatment on the shoulder. Okay. So then, uh, I live with, uh, with Braulio. And then me, Roger and Braulio, we get together, like, three times a week in training. Yeah. It was one of the, the most, uh, uh, you know, like, one of the best experiences of my life as far as training. You know, because, you know, like, uh, I had the chance to, to train with the two best of all the time, every day, you know. So, it was really good. So, you call him Roger, with an R or something. I just, you know, I just, because I'm kind of like American, you know, I'm just, you know, Roger, Roger. Well, but I've heard, I've heard some other people call him Roger, too. Does he have people call him that in England, because they don't know? Yeah, uh, probably, you know. Probably they have, because even, like, uh, because, like, it takes some time for the person to actually meet the person, like me, right? Yeah, yeah. So, like, all my own students, they call me, like, homo, you know. Like, they already know, because I thought them, homo, homo, you know what I mean? Uh-huh. But, like, somebody come new and then, like, they see my name, like, Romulo on the wall, they call me Romulo. Yeah. I mean, I think, I used to always call you that. And the way that everyone would pronounce it, you know, it was Gigo or whoever, and these names all start with R. But, like, I just didn't know that sound. So, I'm like, what are they saying? But now I hear it so much that it's, you know. It's not, right? I like, I learned a lot of Portuguese words. I can't say any of them on the camera, but. See, he has bad teachers. You know, you have to at least know a little bit, because you have all these crazy Brazilians here walking all the way. Yeah. I saw the guys yesterday here. Yeah. They look pretty jacked. Yeah. What's this guy doing? You know, Furron. Furron is jacked because he's like. Furron never misses training. Never miss a training. Never, never do a cheat meal. Yeah. More again. Furron. Well, I think he's been back training for maybe seven months. Never miss one workout. Yeah. Even when there are all the fires, they had to evacuate his house. He comes here one day, Fernanda and the kids in the car, and he comes to workout, and he's like, he's like, I have one hour. The kids will wake up in one hour. And no joke, at one hour, like on the dot, Fernanda's like waving out the window like, hey, they're awake now. That's good. Yeah. Furron is, he's very disciplined. Very. You know, like, I like it. I like it when I saw the, when you were training at your hardest. Yeah. What, 2007, 8, 9, 10, that kind of range. How much every week were you training? Whew. Oh, man. A lot, like, I would say, you know, like three sessions a day. Monday to Friday, that's 15, two sessions Saturday, 17 sessions a week. You know, like a combine strength conditioning. Yeah. So like, like 12 jujitsu. Yeah, jujitsu, yes. 12 jujitsu. Five strength conditioning. And then, yeah, like, I think I was to do like four conditionings in one run. One day I run, you know, I do like the condition with you. One day it was power lift. One day it was conditioning. And then there was twice a week. No, four times a week actually, right? I think you used to train with me either two or three. Three times, three times. One condition, two workouts, like, weeks. And then one or two on your own. Yeah. And then I used to run a lot. Yeah. One, like, a 30 minutes run and then one sprint, you know. Mm-hmm. So that was my routine, you know. Like, and then I remember, like, in 2012 I did my first camp in my gym. They came, like, I think, like, maybe, like, I'm not kidding, like 15 guys from Brazil. Yeah, yeah. Like, 14 of them quit Jiu Jitsu. Yeah. They hated Jiu Jitsu. Like, I have to do like this guy does to be the best. I don't wanna, I don't wanna, I swear. Like, some people they got depressed, some people they got sick, some people they got hurt. And then, like, one day my wife told me, you crazy. You know, like, you know, like, I'm like, I'm not crazy. They do whatever they wanna do it. They try to hang, that's gonna happen. Yeah. I'm used to. It's like, I tell you, like, people ask me a question. What's your motivation? There's no motivation. I just train more than all my students still. Wow. At almost 40 years old, not comparable no more. You know, like, the reason, I don't know, you know, I think I'm just used to it. You know, like, I don't think, I cannot say that I have, like, any of, like, the guys that I train that's more professional than I am right now. Like, I mean, right now. Not even. I can attest to that. I can attest to that from time to that visit it up there. So, I actually, I quit competition training. I don't coach competition anymore. Oh, yeah. Yeah, I stopped. Yeah, because, you know, it's pointless for me nowadays. You know, I just like to go on training and then, you know, like, it drains a lot of my energy to see people not, they wanna be the best but not, they're not professionals, you know. So, the amateurs, they're hobbyists. That's it, as many as you can. I'm gonna do it as many as you can. Let's go! Bora, I know that. I can't have hit you with a... That one got so good. I know, all of them are good. Of all the ones I know, that's still one of the better ones. Bora Bish. Bora Bishão! Empluê Canelo. And Bunda Granja. Those are the first three Portuguese things that I knew how to say. Bunda Granja. That's important stuff. Bunda Granja is important. So like the stuff you're saying there about being a professional and even now you train more than everyone else. I feel like that's what this is. I think people's like... I feel like after I did Everyday Pojada, I saw a lot of people like doing like a clothing or something like that. And then people ask me like, how did you do? I didn't do nothing. I just leave this. And people know, people feel. And then that's why like the people they represent and then they feel that they actually are Everyday Pojada. And sometimes they are not Everyday Pojada, but just when they put it, they get motivated, you know? I mean, that's why this works so well. Every Everyday Pojada? I tried there actually to be Everyday Pojada, but I just can't, you know? Like some days I'm like, I'm going to take some time off, but you know, like that's... I still have too much energy, you know? Yeah. Like that's... If I actually don't drain myself like a train and work on the list once a day, you know, like it messes in my head. Yeah. For the people who don't know, what does Everyday Pojada mean? Well, Everyday Pojada means like... I said two words combined Portuguese, in English, you know? Like everyday everybody know. Pojada in Portuguese means like a brawling. But you know, like I told many people one day I'm going to change the world. I'm going to go to Fantástico in Brazil, like the TV show on Sunday. And I'm like, I'm the guy that changed the Pojada word for a good word. Because a lot of people in the beginning, they thought that I was like supporting, fighting, stuff like that. But like we use the word Pojada a lot for everything. Like for example, you know, like you have to like do like, for example, conference come in the morning. Then you have to teach like some clients here. And then you have to work on your app. You have to go and then work in all this stuff, you know? Like today my day is going to be Pojada. You know what I mean? Like today... Grinding. Exactly. All like, man, you go someone on a train that is really tough train, man, this train there is going to be Pojada. So it means a lot of things, even like our mom is everyday Pojada. Actually, our moms is the most everyday Pojada. Because they do everything for free. They never get paid for. And then that's why I think people really relate to that. In Brazil, it's very big because a lot of people, they need to be everyday Pojada to at least survive in Brazil. And then it's something that basically people feel good to wear. You know, like as a brand, as a brand develop, I realize that people have to wear something that means something. Yeah. You know, like you buy a clothes. Like this, you buy your support accounts. Like, you know, like sometimes you doubt, but like you put a shirt, you look it up and they say like, let's go, you know? And then, man, I get tons of messages every single day of people, you know, like telling me how everyday Pojada help them. Help them like overcome sickness, overcome like having no job, overcome losing weight, you know, like overcome like building a company. You know, like in Brazil, they have like a soccer player, singers, they have like business man, you know, like everybody that like the mindset, you know? So I believe they also stay on the panel if I'm like, this one is the poor one. Yeah, it is. And then that's like actually the mission state of everyday Pojada, you know? Well, I like these ones because there's something about the blanks of these shirts, of these ones, that I didn't want to match with you otherwise I would have worn it too. Because if something like makes my shoulders look real big in that shirt, so I like them just because of that. That's why I wear the ones today. Otherwise I would have worn the same one but I was like, oh, we can't, we can't match. We can't match. So I've worked out the other one on. This one is good too. Yeah. Yeah. When you were talking about that you don't teach the competition class anymore, that's something I see even when I started coaching football or track or something, that when you've competed at a high level and you hold yourself to this certain standard, it's so frustrating if other people don't do the same thing. You know, it's a, and I think it's a hard thing for a lot of people who have been very successful athletes to coach so well too. I mean the guys that you've coached, I mean, Felipe Pena, Gabriel, Edwin, you know, all these world champion kind of guys. So like, I mean, you're probably one of the most like decorated coaches, but, but yeah, that frustration when it's like, why, why do I still care more than you do? Exactly. When I was doing what was important for me, compete, I was leading by the example, right? So I was training so they have to fall, right? I tell them a simple mat, like, still nowadays they want to smash me, right? All of them. You know, like we talk smack with each other. And I always told them when I was growing up and there was somebody much better than me. And then I look on the simple mat. Well, you, this guy is so ahead of me. We're going to race here on the street. And then you go, you go like 200 yards on the front of me and going to spin 300 yards. Yeah. Well, I'm not going to catch you. You know what I mean? So how can I catch up with someone that's so much ahead of me? Well, in Jiu Jitsu, I have to train three times more than they train. So I look at the guy, this guy is smashing me. I want to smash him next year. Well, I want because I'm going to the same amount of him. So I change. I train three times more than a person. And then I see the results. Nobody told me to do that. I just like, it just comes sense, you know? So nowadays, you know, like people like, I do my videos like, well, but they don't get smashed. I'm like, yeah, sometimes. Like actually sometimes, sometimes. You know what I mean? You shouldn't. Those guys, they should play with me. You know what I mean? Like obviously Gabriel, Edwin, Philippe, Benny, those guys, they all build that way. Yeah. I'm talking about the new guys that are coming. Yeah, yeah. They did what's supposed to be done, you know? They're not like the examples, you know? But like the other guys that are coming, you know, like they need, I think they need a new blow. That's why I told Gabriel and Edwin, you guys should take it off and then they look up to you guys, you know? Because for me, you know, it's like you said, you know, I'm frustrated. Yeah. Give your hips a little flatter on this. Huh? Give your hips a little lower on this, yeah. It's so hard if I do it. Okay. This is like a little way for me to like, you know, hurt the shoulder. Legs, no problem. Shoulder, push is a little problem. Pull, no problem. Yeah. As long as it's not pull out. Yeah. He's a monster. Yeah. He's a different animal. How do you say his nickname? Pregissa. Pregissa. Okay. Slot. Slot? Huh? In English? Slot? Slot. You know, like the animal, they like... A slot. Slot, yeah. That's what I mean. Because when he was young, he just like going on the mat, and he's always laying down. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Like he died. Like he died. Like he died. Like he died. Like he died. Like he died. Like he died. Like he died. Like he died. Like he died. Like he died. Like he died. to train with us before Worlds that year, and he was purple belt then, and all you guys were saying like, oh man, this guy is the next guy, the next guy, and I was like, I didn't really know much about Jiu-Jitsu, but I was just like, he's a purple belt, like, what's the big deal? You know, you guys are all black belts. And then no athletic ability, remember? Yeah, he was kind of goofy. He was like, hey homie, you think this guy is actually good? He can't jump? Crazy, man. The guy is, oh my God, like, that year, that year. Yeah, he won purple belt. Yeah, double gold. Yeah, and then brown belt the next year, and then probably black belt the next year. And then, yeah. Then I'll just win. No problem, we're back, baby. I'm drinking. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Do you have a heart rate monitor? Huh? Do you have a heart rate monitor? I have that too and then I have, I was using Whoop, you know? Okay. But it's very hard for me to keep things in my body, you know? Yeah, yeah. Like watch, you know. Yeah. I've used for a long time but then one time I was like, damn, I don't, it is no more. Have you used the Whoop strap up here? Yeah, for training. Because when you're doing the tempos, that's really what we want to do is keep you in a certain heart rate zone. I can do it. We'll start doing that. Okay. Because I know, knowing you, you're going to go too fast, you're going to go too hard. Sometimes, you know, like when I want to like mess with them. Oh yeah. You know, but like a 70%, right? Yeah. Okay. Yeah, 70% that's the, yeah, it was like the first thing that I didn't remember, I didn't know. Like I told you Chad, I almost died. You told me that was easy. Yeah. I think I pushed too hard. Next time I come here, I'm going to walk out to shirtless. Cause you know, I'm on the project for, that's what the people like. Project 40. Yeah. You know, like now I'm on project 39. I'm not so Jack, but next year, next year, oh my God. When I took four, I'm going to be shredding. Let's go. I can, every day somebody asks me what workout routine you're doing. Your, your, your, what's the call? Your link is always safe. I don't even reply, just like, here, let's go. Oh, thank you. That's when we were workout the first, first time. Like basically that time I was going to the gym and then I just lift weights, right? So then I used to go with you and then you're like, okay, you do the weights, right? Then lift. And then you do like, okay, let's see like 315. Okay. Next week, we're going to do like 225, 225, 325, 400. And then I'm like, oh, I actually can feel my, my strength, uh, build, you know? Yeah. Before that I was like, oh my God. I never, I never knew that. Like when we begin to work out, like, uh, we begin, like I told you Chad, I was traveling. I said, man, I couldn't do the new routine. This one, now I'm being like, never miss once. Like a day. That's the fifth week. Yeah. Oh my God, man. Like, like different, you know? Totally worth it. Goal is investing yourself, you know? So you want to get strong for Jiu Jitsu. Just adapt, you know? The things that we can do it to adapt. Like a diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to diner to din diner to din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din din Thank you. You know, I started with G Continuo, he was the first guy. And whenever the training would get hard, his English would get bad, and he'd be trying to tell me, like, oh, coach, like, I can't count that high, you know, for that many reps. I think I'm going to go out there end of March. Oh, yeah? Yeah. Austin? Yeah. How was that? Yeah, last time we were there, and two or three years ago now, but we ran into Dunji, like, literally ran into him. And we were walking across the bridge, and he was running the other way. And I was like, man, I recognize that guy. I was like, I know that guy. And she's like, what are you talking about? Some guy, you know, a random guy in the middle of Austin? And he ran up. Oh, coach, I'm a brother now. What's up? I just did not put a camera. That's why you make the touching easy, because if it's people who I have to, like, get on them and motivate them and shit, I don't like that. You guys either want to do it or you don't. It's not. It's not. It's not. It's not. It's not. It's not. It's not. Yeah, like, go down, never, never miss. Otavio hadn't been here for, like, a month, because he's having to work way more at his school. Yeah. So this week was the first week he's been back. And so he's a little out of shape. But Otavio's funny, because he can't remember any of the exercises. Really? Any. Like, I do it, I show it to him, and then he's supposed to do it five seconds later, and he forgets. He just follows his foot up. He just follows his foot up. Otavio is, he's very disciplined, too, you know? Yeah. He's a machine, trains hard. Definitely trains hard. He came to the gym, right? Before, like, he was not trained, too. He was out of shape. And he didn't want to train. He's like, oh, man, I'm so tired, man. I'm dead, you know? I don't know if I'm going to be able to compete. I'm like, no, man. It's your first day. Yeah. Relax, you know? And all of a sudden, like, two weeks later, he's like a machine again, you know? Yeah. He's good. I really like, I really like Otavio's style. He just has one spin. Yes, he does. He just, you know, like, if you go with Otavio, you have to, like, beware, like a tournament. You cannot be like, oh, let me feel here. No, no, no. Yeah. I see this before. Like, I can hurt the neck. First, like, he grabs you. He's going to shake you, like, 100%. And especially because, like, when I train with Furao, you know, Furao is teaching. But that training for Otavio, that was his training. That's his competition training. So, you know, Furao, like, okay, kind of lets you get to this position so he can work from there. Otavio, I don't give a shit about that. He just smashed. He just did. Then he gets on top and I'm like, you weigh like 500 pounds. How are you doing this? Just go back and then, man, pressure. He just, like, pulls himself onto you and, man, yeah, it's tough. This is amazing. Brother, great to meet you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Chad. Appreciate that. I'm feeling good. Thank you for the workout, you know? Yeah. It's been helping a lot. You know, like, I never stopped, you know? Like, even that I was walking out on my own, I was still doing, like, a jungle now with a train sister back in 2012. Yeah. And now I'm on the new one. Feeling good. Feeling good. Let's get started. Let's get started.