 Islam33-3, at the beginning of the block, it might feel a little bit heavier. And as you go through the week, it's going to feel much better. A couple of things on deload. You don't need to max out. Don't do different things. No need to max out your preacher curl biceps because then that's when bad things happen. So this is the week where you want to start recovering and feeling good. So you get ready for the next training block. So at the beginning of the deload week, you might be looking at the training and be like, oh, this is going to be so easy. And it probably should, you know, if you're, if you're functioning overreach the way that we're designing and hoping to happen, uh, that started the deload week, the training on paper is going to look easy, but actually feel hard and your motivation to train should be kind of low. Uh, you know, but you go in and get it done anyways. And then by the end of the deload week, that same training that looked easy on paper will now feel easy and you get kind of get hungry again to get back to, back to the heavyweights. Feels pretty, pretty easy. It's finally starting to get warm enough again where I can wear shorts, but why does everything that they sell have to be high-waisted or these like booty crunch shorts, which I hate, but it's like you have, you have no option. So once again, I'm serving you guys a terrible outfit week. So in the app on the deload weeks, you're still going to get a, um, hold on. I think what am I thinking about? So in the app on the deload week, you're still going to get a range with the weights. So my range this week is 105 to 115. You guys know me. I always go the lower end range. Also woke up with a terrible headache this morning. So we're sticking. We're sticking with 105. So I'm going to do this. So I'm going to do this. So I'm going to do this. Usually between sumo pools, I usually do my warmups right before or kind of in between because I didn't have a ton of sets to get to my working weight. I sumo is much harder on my hips. So I like to do these in between, kind of open up, open up the hips a little bit before I go back to pulling. It doesn't need to be any specific rep range. Just kind of feel loosey goosey. Get ready to go again. Get ready to go again. A lot of times we get asked during deload, is this a time to get massages, whatnot? Yeah. Typically during a deload week is when I would schedule like a nice deep tissue massage stuff to anything that's going to get me ready to start lifting the heavy weight for the next block. So suggestion is always to do those things during your deload week. Load up the bar, plate boy just disappeared. So you'll notice on my front foot elevated lunges, I'm adding in the rotation there at the bottom. Reason being, we've talked about this before, everything that we do in powerlifting is in one direction. So on the accessory exercises, doing things where you're moving your spine in a rotational pattern is not only going to strengthen your back when you're deadlifting or squatting, but it's going to keep your back healthy if you have dealt with sciatic. So Chad and I both have dealt with back issues and these are exercises that have definitely helped keep us strong. Keep us strong. Two sets, done. Three sets, do you wanna do it. So this is another exercise that I tried to really focus on at the bottom, getting into more flexion. It's really going to put more pressure, focus on the glutes and the hamstrings. And this is an exercise modification that my PT gave me pay to make these a little bit more gluten, not gluten, yeah, gluten hamstring focus. I guess I can't talk today. Yeah. So back extension, really simple exercise, but it can lead to some of the same kind of over-specificity problems we've talked about for carlovers and back pain before, because if all you ever do is extension and never have any flexion, then you're not going to have control or capacity for flexion. So you can see where Marissa is making this very deliberate rounding of her low back there to get into flexion as she does this exercise. When you do this, you're going to be really surprised to feel how much more you feel this exercise in your hamstrings and glutes and take your low back extensors out of the movement some. Oh my goodness. Last but not least, banded crunches. You guys have seen me do this multiple times. Again, really focusing on over-exaggerating the flexion. I know fine when you do it this way, you actually do feel it in your abs a lot more. So a question I get a lot of times in regards to deload weeks are, can I do a reactive deload? And the answer to this, you know, as most things in lifting is it depends. If you're getting ready for a powerlifting meet, depending on how far away that meet is, I would not suggest doing a reactive deload. I also wouldn't suggest doing reactive deload unless you're experienced enough and confident enough to know your body that well, to not be deloading, you know, too late after you need it. And that's going to be one of the main issues with a reactive deload is you're going to wait until you really, really need it. And maybe it's too much. And then the deload is not going to be enough. But if you're getting ready for a competitive powerlifting meet that's on a specific day, you know, then the reactive deload, you know, what if it takes one of your phases now too long because it gets extended a couple weeks and then you deload and now you don't have sufficient time in like a subsequent, you know, strength or peaking phase. So it's, it's for the competitive powerlifter. I don't suggest it. If you're in a really general training phase, sure. Go for it. Reactive deload, not, not a big deal. But once you're into meet prep, you're, you know, 10, 12 weeks out, I wouldn't suggest doing that because it might just mess up your training calendar and it's gonna be hard to get back on track and do enough of the other types of training that you need going into a, going into a meet. So can have a role, but I've never been one to use them. As you become more and more experienced, I think their training is going to become more predictable and you're going to have a better understanding of like, all right, this is what's going to functionally overreach me and cause me to need a deload week. So now my two cents on that, take it for what you will. Another great thing about a deload is this took me 28 minutes and that was with going in and having to re-glue my nails. So make sure during deload week, because the weight is lighter, that you're lifting with great intent and you're doing, using great technique. This is a good time to really focus on those areas. You're set up, making sure every rep looks exactly the same. So lift with great intent. If you're not competing and you feel like you don't need a deload, go ahead and skip that week and go on to the next block. The intent of a deload is though that you worked so hard on that last week that you need a deload. But again, if you feel like you don't need one and you're not competing, just go ahead, skip that week and go on to the next week. Thank you guys so much for watching. If you have any questions or comments, please go ahead and write it below. And if you want to join the best community out there, go to juggernautai.app. You get two weeks free. We are constantly making improvements, listening to what you guys want. And we're always in the Facebook group giving you guys constructive feedback. So make sure that you join today.