 Chad Bell Systemith here for Joggernaut Training Systems, and, as always, the Joggernaut AI app, which brings you all your videos here on JTS. Today, we're gonna be talking to you about some of our favorite bench-press accessories, maybe some variations in work that you haven't been doing that could be worth including in your training or have a specific role if you're lacking in a certain area. So as always, our videos here are brought to you by the Joggernaut AI app. So if you want fully customized training that grows and adapts with your feedback, get a two-week free trial of Joggernaut AI by visiting joggernautai.app, or the link down in the description. So the first bench movement that we wanna be talking about today are long pauses. This is one of the simplest variations that you can include because it's pretty much exactly like a competition bench press. You just wanna pause to a slightly better standard, higher standard, longer standard than you may be held to in competition. And if you're someone like me that when I was new to powerlifting, I had never paused a bench press. In fact, I was coming from a track and field background and for the shop put, we've mentioned a very ballistic type of manner with a kind of a bounce on the chest. And as much as that would infuriate the commenters of the internet, especially like really useful for that sport and a more full body athletic movement and there's some rhythm and sequencing to it. But I digress. My best ballistic shop put style bench press at the time was 500 pounds. And when I came to powerlifting, I think the first time I tried to pause a bench, I was doing more like 420 pounds. So I was losing 80 pounds off of my bench press and the way that I got better at it and actually became a better pause bench presser than I did even a touch and go bench presser was by doing long pauses. So if you're struggling when you get to meets with the pause, this is gonna be the simplest variation for you to use. You just have to be strict with yourself about it. So I'm not even really sure that we need a demonstration here, but maybe we'll just have Shorty just pause the video and it'll seem like I'm really pausing for a long time. But you're just setting up like you would a normal competition bench press trying not to flash you too much midriff or probably just holding for maybe one, two, three. One, two, three. One, two, three. So if you're gonna use longer pauses, make sure that whatever it is, if it's a three count, if it's a five count, if you're getting anything longer than a five count, you're probably getting a bit excessive and gonna reduce the weight that you can use too much to make it worthwhile. But that one Mississippi, two Mississippi, three Mississippi type of count is a good way to do it. Just when it gets heavy, don't let that turn into one, two, three. Be strict with yourself, be consistent. Simple way that you can do that is to use if you just Google metronome, it'll bring up a metronome and you can set it, set it to 60 BPM and it'll give you and you just wanna hold it on your chest for three beats, which is three seconds, because that'll be consistent all the time. All right, so next exercise we're talking about is the dumbbell palms in floor press. So this can be a great movement to use in your training, especially if you're struggling with some shoulder pain. So both the palms in position, palms facing each other and the floor press are both gonna help kinda protect you from range of motion that maybe your shoulder isn't comfortable in. So yeah, that more neutral grip and then it's reducing the range of motion a little bit from a normal pressing movement. You wanna come down, have a short pause with your triceps on the ground, punch it up explosively from there. This is gonna be something that you can likely go heavier with than you would a normal dumbbell bench press. Just make sure that you're being strict about the way that you're doing it, that you're coming in and having a little pause with your tricep, not your elbow hitting the ground, but your tricep being on the ground so you're still flex when you're on there. Probably the hardest part at dumbbell floor press though is as the weights get heavier, it's really hard to get them into position. So the way that I typically have people do this, if it's really heavy, is they're gonna get one dumbbell up on their own, just gonna roll on their side, pull it into position, and then you're gonna have a training partner hand you the other dumbbell. And if it's lighter, you can probably set it on your thighs from the ground and just roll back into position. Last exercise we wanna talk about here for a bench movement that maybe you haven't been doing is really a classic that a lot of people do use, but in case you've forgotten about it, dips. So dips you could be using as an accessory movement to build your triceps. They give you tricep shoulder and pec development. You could also use them as a more primary movement and start loading them really heavy. So just a couple of tips with the dip, dip tip. Have a grip width that's comfortable to you, that's gonna be different for Marissa than it is for me. And we wanna be going down until the top of the elbow is above the shoulder. So kind of similar depth that you would for the squat, just using your arm and save your leg. So we're going down with control, feeling a little bit of stretch at the bottom, going all the way to lock out. Don't let your dips, a tricep exercise, turn into something that you're half-wrapping on the way up, because then you're not gonna be getting the full tricep development that you want out of that. Now, whether you need to add assistance, you have a band around the dip attachment and kind of sit your knees in that like a little cradle, and that's gonna give you some assistance. A amount of band assistance that you use, of course, is gonna be relative to your body weight and your ability in dips. I'd wanna be using a band to where you're gonna be able to get probably at least six reps per set. I'd say lower reps than that. You might not be getting enough stimulus to really progress in them, unless you're doing a really high number of sets. Or you could, of course, be adding weight. Some of the strongest bench pressers in history have gotten really, really heavy on dips like Pat Casey. They talk about him doing over 300 pounds hanging from his waist for like sets of five in dips. James Townsend, super strong bench presser, juggernaut, weightlifter. I've seen him do four 25s, 180 pounds for like a set of 10 dips. So great exercise. Some people get scared of dips and think, oh, dips hurt my shoulder, or the dips are bad for your shoulder. Well, if you haven't been doing them at all, and you're like, let me start doing 50 dips a day out of nowhere, yeah, that's probably gonna cause a shoulder issue for you. But if you start to load them strategically and progress them, you know, probably with some particularly slow eccentric pause at the bottom, maybe, you know, just controlling the eccentric hopping back up to the top, but giving yourself some exposure to that to get used to them, they're gonna be an exercise that makes your shoulders stronger and is gonna be beneficial to your bench press. So there's a couple of bench variations and accessories that maybe you haven't been using in your training. Maybe you know that you should be using in your training, but have been neglecting. So be strict with those long pauses. If your shoulders are bugging you, dumbbell palms in, floor press can be a great option. And dips a tried and true classic bench press builder. So if you haven't done dips in a while, reintroduce them smartly to your training and work on those for a couple training cycles. I think you'll get some great benefit from that. If you like this video, please press the thumbs up down there, subscribe to the channel, and don't forget to check out that two week free trial of the Juggernaut AI app through the link in our description or at juggernautai.app.!