 If you are struggling with getting your first pull-up or making the pull-ups that you already do look more efficient, I got the tips just for you, so check this out and let me know if you try them. I highly suggest before you jump on the bar is warming up with some lat pull-downs. What lat pull-downs is going to do is ingrain the movement pattern. A good pull-up, you want your elbows to be in line with the torso, if not slightly behind, depending on your grip width. What you don't want to have happen is your elbows come in front of you. Also, warming up with the lat pull-down, if you already know how to do pull-ups, is actually just going to be a good warm-up for you before you jump on the bar because when you jump on the bar to just do a regular pull-up, you're pulling your full body weight. So, warm up with the lat pull-down. So, you can see as I'm doing this lat pull-down, my elbows are in line with my torso or slightly behind. What's not happening is my elbows aren't getting in front of me. This is the same movement pattern as a pull-up. Also, a little Jedi mind trick here is when you're doing a pull-up, don't think about pulling yourself over the bar. Think about pulling the bar down to your chest, just like a lat pull-down. The second thing you're going to want to excel at is actually just hanging from the bar. Even if you already know how to do a pull-up, if you want to be able to do more reps or add weight, you need to have a strong grip and you need to be able to hold onto the bar more than two seconds. The key here is not just to hang inactively. You want to be active with the hang. So, demonstrate, take your grip width and instead of just hanging, you still kind of want to have a little bit of scap activation. So, wrong way, right way. Tip number three, also when you're practicing the dead hang, you want to make sure that you are being tight with the lower body. Another big mistake you're going to see people make was when they're trying to do pull-ups, as they start kicking their legs, trying to, you know, wheel their way up, walk on those fake stairs. But what you're going to want to do is actually keep the glutes really tight. What that's going to do is kind of put you into a little bit of a pelvic tilt there and actually utilize your lats instead of trying to swing your way up to the top of the bar. So, what happens if you're not keeping your lower body tight and you start to struggle, you'll see this happen or a lot of kicking. And that is actually just making the movement 10 times harder. It's putting a lot more pressure on your grip and you will fail every single time that you do that. So, what I mean by keeping the lower body tight, you want to squeeze your glutes. A lot of times what you'll see in my videos is I actually cross my legs behind me and the reason that I do this is it forces me to stay tight because as I straighten out my legs, it forces my glutes to be tight and kind of puts my pelvis in the perfect position. If you are worried about falling and not being able to uncross your legs to touch the ground, yes, you can keep your legs straight together, squeeze the glutes, and you're in this position. Another great exercise I like to do, which is an alternative to inverted rows. And I love inverted rows, don't get me wrong, but that's not actually putting you in the same pull-up position here, which is where people struggle from the bottom. So, what I like to do is to get into a squat rack and you're going to want to set that as a position where you're able to actually keep your feet on the ground but be in a dead hang here. Remember, we're not being lazy with it, we're being active. So, even when you're down here, we're going to be active with it and you're going to just use pull as much as you can without using your legs. And then as you start to struggle, use your feet to get you up over into the bar, keeping with the same position as you did in the very beginning with your lap pull downs. What that means is you don't want your elbows coming in. You want to keep them in line with your torso or slightly behind, pulling to the top of your chest, just like lap pull down. As you get stronger, you can raise the bar up and use less of your legs or even none of your legs, kind of just put them down when you need them. The way you want to progress is you want to increase the height of the bar as you get stronger, which is going to allow you to use less of your legs and more of your lats. Also, as you get stronger in that height of the bar increases, you also want to make sure that you're controlling that negative as you come down so that you can increase your lats strength and increase your time under tension and just get stronger overall. So, as long as you can, use your foot, jump over, control it on the way down. Active, pull as long as you can, push, control it on the way down. Good. Once you feel like you've mastered it from here, you're ready for the bar or even if you already do a lot of pull-ups on your own and you want to add weight, here's a great way to start doing that and that is going to be to actually get on the bar and practice the actual pull-up. I want to point out really quickly, I am not against doing assisted pull-ups and using bands. One thing that you do need to make sure that you avoid is letting the band do all the work. So, as you start to use the bands, make sure that you are keeping in mind that you still want the lats to do the work. Don't rely on the band to just bounce you up over the bar. So, what you're going to want to do is always make sure that you have a box, especially if you're first learning how to do pull-ups this way. If you struggle getting over the bar, you can actually use that to kind of give you some assistance over the bar at the top. So, use a box, use a bench, whatever you have available, just make sure your foot's able to touch it and make sure it's at a height that you can use to jump and get up over the bar if you need to. You can have it in front of you, I like to have it behind me because I think it's a little bit better positioning without getting your feet in front of you. So, we're going to put everything into play that we learned from the beginning. We want to motion, mimic, a lap, pull down. We want to stay tight with the lower body, squeeze the glutes, active the bottom, and you just want to pull yourself up as far as you can. Let's say you're still struggling with getting your chin over the bar. What I recommend is pulling yourself up as far as you can go, dropping back down, and then pushing with your foot over the bar and controlling the negative. So, this is what that would look like. You're here, you're keeping good form. Once you start to see it fail, you're going to use your foot, jump over the bar, and control it down. And what you want to do is each time you do that, try to get yourself a little bit higher, maintaining the form that we talked about earlier, which is keeping the glute tight and not letting the elbows come in front of you. A great tip for those of you that are already very efficient with pull-ups, but you want to add weight. When you're doing your dead hangs, add weight to your dead hangs. So, you do some weighted dead hangs there. This way, as you progress to adding weight to your regular pull-ups, you're already used to the feeling of the weight in your hands, and you're able to hold it for 15-30 seconds at the bottom. And when you're holding the weight, same thing is when you have no weight, you want to be active with it at the bottom, which means doing basically like a little scat pull there and holding it. Okay, if you do not have a belt that you can add weight to, there are several different ways you can do this. If you have kettlebells, you can lock the kettlebell in your foot. You can also put a dumbbell in between your legs, which is a good technique to actually force leg and glute tightness. So, I'll show you both methods and choose which one works for you. I hope you guys found these tips useful. If you try them in your next pull-up workout, make sure that you let us know how they worked for you. Also, don't forget, if you want to get good at pull-ups, you actually have to practice them. So, practice what you want to get good at. Let us know in the comments if you try it. Thank you.