mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm Good friends for seven years doom 13. So got dropped for saying the n-word shit happens Here's a $25,000 hand. We have a king of the gays here. It's gonna be not true nine give it to him Ooh natural eight see we take that shit. So somebody owe me 250,000 We're doing a coin flip for that I owe someone a hundred thousand and I owe somebody two million dollars and we're doing coin flips for all that all real Contracts so all right. We'll see you guys later. I'll see you on the tripod. Let's go Oh Dude, see if you met my best friend late. Oh my god. What up dude? You remind me myself My god you want a house You can be a landlord Okay, well congratulations on condominium Yeah, yeah, no for real. I'm not kidding. You're your tenant is is my brother. He's pretty cool. He doesn't pay rent though So we met he's a he's famous I mean it's like those fitness influencing He dabbles in real estate and he dabbles in real estate now He's a landlord. That's awesome mom. Yeah, we're doing a hundred K giveaway Okay Okay, we're doing a hundred thousand dollar giveaway and during the financial crisis, okay That's like fucking going outside playing football during Hurricane Katrina. It just makes no sense. You're never gonna catch the ball What's the giveaway to just like a subscriber just yeah, just like oh cool No, we're gonna do it to where I don't have to fucking pick congratulations to the winner blank Alright, let's go Yeah, so we are at a car dealership and it's operation financial crisis mom am I a rich or no? Well the past two videos now do I make a lot of money. Yeah, do I have a lot of money? No, you don't I don't know these giveaways 100k a week. Are they real? They're very real. I'm talking to them now Are we stressed out and and I'm making payments? I'm financing those We are so goddamn poor we finance our giveaways. Oh, Jesus, you know, I'm doing coin flips for three million dollars Nelson, did you give me wine? You are a drunk I need it. Are you kidding me? Yeah Yeah No I'm not hacky sacking. I need my money. Yeah, I know are you gonna give it away? Yes I'm gonna give it away to a black person. Does that make you upset? No, that doesn't make me upset, but we're not hacky sacking My mom's a racist. No, I'm not No She works All right, so we're at say the car dealership brickle buick All right, you see brickle view with gmc So i'm either gonna ruin their lives or make them have the best reviews ever No, let's see. All right, so we're going we're buying us a ratchet. She's my language. Okay I love all strippers a little people, but I mean if you work at a strip club at 2 p.m I'm sorry, you're kind of a god, excuse my language the ratchet bitch, okay? I'm sorry, but I'm here for you We're gonna buy you a nice car and we have what's your name again? Miguel So Miguel's either gonna make this business or ruin this business because i'm telling you my people are unlike no other All right, so Miguel the way I run my videos is I I need something from you guys, right? Okay This guy's water Yo, Chris, I need it real quick 40,000 bucks Mike, whoa, we haven't felt like 30 You guys have a notepad and a pen I really want to try to learn spanish I'm retarded I can only learn by writing down Yeah, can we send out to you first Thank you Go go to the notes Let's do it, a thai car Yeah Yeah Yeah Yo What are you thai? Yeah I'm ready to come out You two we can take a Oh there is Let's look at the car for strippers, okay? Here you go All right, car for strippers Okay I mean strippers like to have sex in cars, right? So she needs space She needs space She needs space Yeah Are these all the cars to sale? I'll take it How much is this? I don't really fucking know I don't really fucking know What else you guys got? Oh that's nice What else you guys got? Yeah, that's styling I know She's gonna be upset Last time I got the strip club, all they talked about was only four If I give her a four fucking, what is this called? Escape Escape She's gonna escape for me I don't wanna like, freak just like nice type shit You wanna bless her real quick? I wanna bless her Okay So I wanna um, I wanna have sex with her I mean, what's a nice car? Come on No, pick up Sell me Okay, you know what? Yeah, you lose me the GLE The GLE right there Yeah How much is this? You take that one? Probably like 50 I'll take this one That shit you say you're trying to fuck her? Yeah She's fucking after she's getting this Yeah, for a stripper? Oh for sure, yeah Sorry bro, DT will take that out But you guys did my hands, please Oh my god Sorry It's so tragic Thank you for being a valued customer here at UIC If you'd like to give UIC It's good It's for real bro For me? Yeah Yeah Look at that That looks like you I mean, you don't wanna shake my hand Look cool Look at that Alright, good business dude I mean, shout them Let's pop up their website The reviews I mean If you're in Miami You buy cars from them dude Yeah If you're in Miami Come to Brickle Group GMC As you can see It's the best spot to come too Oh they're hella chill dude Taking this Taking this Alright, we just got a stripper car Best car dealership ever Positive reviews Bro, we've ruined car dealerships on accident before For all the car dealerships I've ruined Let's make it right Look at these beautiful gentlemen I mean dude Is he Asian? I can't tell Uh, we are out Thank you guys so much You're right I already feel sick from before Stop Now I'm gonna be $10 So Ow Stop it I'm giving you a heads up Yeah Do I need to bring dollars? Are you excited? I'm not If one little crap jumps out You're a little girl Check it Bouncing Bouncing Bouncing I'm about to throw a couple thousand Bouncing Bouncing Bouncing Bouncing Bouncing Bouncing I'm about to throw a couple thousand Five Five Ten Twenty Work your way up to them big face hunnets just bouncing Bouncing Bouncing I'm about to throw a couple thousand I'm about to throw a couple thousand Got the body of a goddess Alright so I got a surprise for one lovely lady here And uh, it's this bitch I chose this bitch right here But you see this bag of money It's all y'all motherfuckers So if you guys would like to see uh Excuse me what's your name? Yennifer If you're friends with Yennifer Come outside Yennifer Alright We gotta get her heel Oh my god Alright Yennifer The stories backstage really uh touched my heart And you're a sweet stripper lady I would love to make passionate weird sex with you But we can't do that You told me you didn't have a car and you want a car right? Yeah Alright so take off your blindfold and look at your new car Scoadoop Wow Look at this yennifer Can I get a blowjob? A blowjob? I can get one? Got you ass Thank you Oh you're welcome No I tried to throw the dollars towards you I'm new at this Oh sorry I touched the board I'm sure it's fine This is my new friend Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Yay Yay Yay Yay Yay Yay Yay recording in on L.A. my bitch bad just different to my fucker bottle I ain't my man last nigga I just bitch hey yeah hey Danny yo what's up yo what's up bro how's jail amazing bro hey Danny about to work out are you losing weight that's the goal can't come on fat everyone thinks I took drugs or something because I'm going through a financial crisis I don't think it's because of financial crisis I just think you love drugs dude Danny it's serious financial crisis yeah that's my mom I'm in prison right now I know how about that Luigi Danny what is he like to be honest he reminds me a lot of you guys he killed somebody Danny yeah he reminds me straight killers I love you Danny Jesus Christ dude potting these I mean dude why are you wearing a fucking real shirt you need a sleeveless shirt dude how do I look pretty good good lay up for the rugs bro no no no not the drugs bro what happened was like I went through withdrawals so I'd throw up every morning you know so it's like I do it I do it at the times no no he doesn't no you don't I do it at that don't do drugs and throw up lay works out every day oh my god oh let's take the shirt off whoa whoa whoa fire yeah dogey I'm not on drugs I don't think I'm on drugs well dude the nice thing is like gambling and money is the best drug when you're in a real financial crisis the dopamine hit is awesome I don't think I don't think I don't think that's good this is my personal chain okay oh shit no way no problem come here yo I like it get a deal the girls are gonna love that shit yo talk to the bitches here fat and ugly you can't get in alright we're gonna get club from our to get a wash is that real yeah oh god let's open her up let's open her up okay what do you guys like let's go that's far the chicken oh my god let's see get care man yo you're the best you're the best you like how I wear two watches yeah okay let's get yeah alright he wants this this no yeah no no I'm scared bull it's a financial crisis we're in fucking deep financial crisis not good okay I'm making purchases that I can't necessarily afford and I'm going on death with these guys I feel great about it how do you feel like I feel good about it the chicken is really really perfect for you okay so coin flip for a hundred thousand alright alright you flip I call okay circle with squares his tails the bird is heads okay easy oh my god biggest bet of all animals okay ready you call in there yeah heads is it me god damn it yes yes finally no all of my losses just took out on you and you were the last person I wanted to win off of it's funny because I was going to call heads you fucking head truth you should have told me to flip though okay minus okay pop it up coin flips minus hundred k alright you have a coin I gotta have a drink I gotta have a coin do you guys have a coin we're doing a $250,000 coin flip he owes me $250 so if he wins he owes me nothing if I win he owes me $500,000 basically coin flipping a Lamborghini bro it's so weird I always borrow money from people so this is like the first guys he owes me money which is like it's so weird okay Raz owes me $250,000 if I win he owes me $500,000 if he wins zero alright you flip you call alright I flip and I call that's ridiculous I don't have no responsibility okay whatever it lands on that's it ready there's a $250,000 coin flip alright ready heads oh my god oh my god I feel bad no don't feel bad I'm happy no bro I've been sweating this shit all day no it's sick you don't owe me any money how awesome is that I'm gonna frame this fucking quarter thank you you owed me money so this feels good I feel like I won well I actually lost it was a fuck well it's good shit I'm happy for you this is Raz one of the best humans I know pop up his Instagram what is Raz Q Locks is it? something like that Raz Q is it? Raz Q Locks yeah Raz Q Locks one of my good friends I'm happy he won just lost $250 huh what's going on? it's like so over for me if I lose this coin we're both loud four like this is not okay like I do the 100k giveaway week and I do payment plans like it's so like not chill I'm really nervous so this is my house and I'm coin flipping it to fix all my problems I just need one time but it's shitty because it's like I don't want to take Steve's money I'd rather take the casino's money or somebody else's money but I mean he's the only person on the planet that is willing to do a $2 million coin flip with me what am I going to do with this house anyways if I lose it you know it's just a house go big or don't go home alright guys we're doing a coin flip for this house $1.9 million we're going to do it out here and guess what I got a bitch out there with contracts coin flip for $1.9 million I don't know if anyone's I mean no there's some crazy yeah there's crazy people that have done this it's your people the Chinese man they go crazy yeah so it makes sense that I'm doing this with the Chinese dude okay if I win this I'm going to be very very excited and I don't want to see you lose $1.9 million but just an apology in advance the cheers from me are I'm sorry if I win this too bro we've been talking about this for like weeks now it's like now we're doing now I'm like actually nervous alright you flip it I call it like we're just going you flip it I call it ready alright $1.9 million coin flip alright are we ready you flip I call oh my god and then he says it yeah you're going to say it's heads or tails okay do it do yeah do heads oh my god oh my god got your ass oh my god it's so funny because it's like we're both so poor it's like I want to just be like yo togi I have tens of millions of dollars like just keep it but like we're so poor oh my god you just lost 2 million oh fuck I feel bad my accountant is going to fucking kill me oh my god I feel terrible my first house is just gone he just lost his house yeah he just lost his house oh great it's kind of cool at least I could say I gambled away my house I would say I'm the realest nigga ever to gamble now like everyone talks about oh I gambled away the house you have a mortgage so you gotta pay this shit off dude oh my god you're paying monthly it's not funny bro I have a 30 year mortgage on this bitch let's go to the contract oh we'll sign it I thought it was gonna be me I swear this is like one of the most devastating signatures of all time you can sign here with the date congratulations on the house alright this financial crisis is looking a little better right now oh my god mine just got like I'm up a house for a time to work dude so the whole plan was I was gonna give something to Togi before the coin flip because I thought he was gonna win I was gonna make him feel bad but Togi you lost your house but I lost my Rolls Royce so that's your Rolls Royce dog it's a Phantom $650,000 come on that's Rakeback dog that's what you call Rakeback that's what you call Rakeback you seriously that's what you call Rakeback alright I lost my house but that doesn't hurt too bad this is Rakeback you're a good friend because let me tell you Rakeback bro if I had won the 2 million off of you I would not have given you one of my cars this is very nice I love you bro thank you so much you just got ripped off you paid $1.9 million for a Rolls Royce life's not bad it's the nicest Rolls Royce you can get ever 2025 Phantom it's gangster dude I got the wrap the wheels today's a good day I'm a lot a lot happier I was really really not happy Togi the deal gets a little better what? to choose between this Rolls Royce my Inventador which is $750,000 oh wait wait is the Inventador right there? it's right there can I go look at it? let's go look at it oh shit I don't know what is Togi gonna choose? you gonna choose my Lambo? oh I don't know I don't know I think I am making a decision I think I'm leaning alright no I will take the Revolto thank you Steve I love you bro that shit is crazy new Revolto alert god damn bro this is like the coolest Lamborghini to ever exist like this is no miles brand new whoo here's the keys to your new car dude this is all real dude so you're in his YouTube videos moving forward you're gonna see he has a Revolto you're gonna see me I have a house it's like yeah time we'll see shout out Pac-Draw shout out Ruben alright I'm out dude we out dude financial crisis so bad that me and your sister have to take a freaking Uber put your hands in the air where I can see them this is the Convict Kitchen season finale it's going to be fucking insane we have the three winners here from the previous episodes competing for a chance to win $251,000 I set this finale to be chaos let's go Convicts enter thanks this is back baby my name's Quinn $251,000 is on the line and I'm bringing that all home I'm Tay I'm the winner of day three I've just been waiting on the rest of the money holy shit Quinn you turned Mexican here at Convict Kitchen we would like to give you a $5,000 bonus for switching races during our show how y'all motherfuckers feeling I'm lit you're lit like you're under the influence all of the above whatever you want to call it my black queen how you doing doing amazing coming for the rest of the money today alright today your challenge is prison break do you see the prison pantry you can't touch it today all the ingredients are going to be bought outside in the free world basically you can get the fuck out of here you can use whatever fucking ingredients you want you can cook whatever you want you just can't go to a fast food restaurant you have two hours to present me a dish you have $100 to complete this challenge I don't care what you do in the two hours you want to go hang out with your amigas man go for it you want to go fuck a bitch because I know you're a player go fuck a bitch if you want to go sell some dime bags go sell some dime bags there's no prize money today the worst dish goes the fuck home probably back to prison and the two remaining dishes compete tomorrow head to head for prize money of $251,000 and the best dish today gets an advantage tomorrow and you'll learn about it then alright so the options you have to go get the ingredients to cook your meal are gas stations street vendors grocery stores or a homie's house no fast food no fucking rotisserie chickens I want to eat your food how are we going to get there are we about to fucking walk on some diddy shit I'll never make you guys walk on no diddy shit follow me yes chef thank you for that thank you alright convicts here's the twist here are my personal Rolls Royces you guys can each take one of them and you have to go and complete this challenge just make sure that the dish is ready in two hours say yes chef yes chef my black queen I have diddy's car for you diddy owns that car smell it it's great drug dealer yes sir I'm giving you the lean machine you go in there it's going to make you think of Sprite and lean thank you chef my Mexican you just have the ghost I have nothing racist to include with that if you fuck it up in any way you're disqualified if you get pulled over you automatically lose the challenge two hours on the clock you guys ready yes chef yes chef thank you for the yes chef your challenge starts right now I have to look out for a few key items you know I'm really leaning towards the penitentiary pizza I really don't even know what I'm finna date that's what's so crazy about this yo I get to keep the phantom I get to keep the phantom you're going to come with me you're going to help me find some tortillas I'm getting chicken y'all I'm just coming super black I'm not doing no extravagant shit you make burritos tacos yeah yeah yeah okay this is good classic smoked sausage oh this is the cheese where we going oh here we go here we go here we go yeah I gotta go to another store we got a hunski let's hope we cut it you know it's 2025 groceries are expensive and I still got 50 left I can't fuck with me alright here we go two more items I don't even care about the change give me the money I have to leave whatever it is you can keep some of it I have to go oh I think I'm the first one out the door alright we got out of there man right now I gotta go to the gas station we're probably gonna hit 7-eleven actual grocery store didn't have no ramen noodles no cheese crackers Immm Hurry up, hurry up, hurry up. It was a weird grocery store. It's not a real grocery store. I don't know how much time I got love. I really hate racing against time when I'm trying to create a masterpiece. I forgot cooking oil. Slim Jims. I'm going to have to use the Slim Jims for oil. Got to start rendering these things now. I'm back. Well, well, well, welcome back, man. Welcome back. I see you got all kinds of stuff over there. Hey, man, where's the competition? She didn't get the message? I don't know. What'd you drink? Don't be having me. None of that toilet hooch. Right here. You guys, we got Smith Hook wine. Let me just add. We can grab these ingredients over here. Okay. All right, where do you think she went to? She's not at the store anymore, man. Hey, man, I don't know what she doing right now, but it better be exotic. With all the time she taking it to you. Smoke turkey tail. New duck for your green veggie. Let's roll. Here you go. Here you go. So, lost my follow. Got fucking lost because nobody was following me and telling me directions. It smells like shit already. These motherfuckers is terrible. It is on fire. Okay. Good to know. It smells like something burnt. I ain't even gonna lie to you. I'm making fried chicken, green vegetable, and macaroni and cheese. Real black shit. Stax, what you making? I'm supposed to be making some Chinese food. The Chang Gang way. If I do have the time, it's gonna turn into a whole nother meal that's not necessarily Chinese food. But you use what you got. I gave away all my money at the grocery store. I gave away my money at the grocery store, too. Damn. Gave it away to who? Who says prison reform don't work? Gave it away to who? People in line. People that needed it. Oh, okay. Still don't have any competitors today. I'm going against the champions. I do not expect today to be easy. When they come to prison cooking, I've done this for years. Yell in my backyard. No competition again. What are you cooking? This is either gonna be Stax Famous Chang Gang Chinese. Ooh, you want Chinese? Or it's gonna be Stax Famous Dumplings. Oh, nice. A little taste? No, no. You don't want to taste it yet because I just put some raw chicken in there. All right, well, we'll be back. We're gonna try that. How's it going? Oh, you're cooking some... I'm cooking with hot grease, baby. You're cooking some fried chicken. Hey. Now, I thought you stole my vehicle. If I was selling, it would have been gone. We wouldn't have been here. Straight up. What's going on, huh? What's up, I say? I'm making some Panam Tenshi pizza. Oh, you're making a Mexican dish? It's Italian, but you know... Oh, you're going Italian? It's a little Mexican twist on it because, you know, I like my tortillas. Oh, no. All right, we can taste some sauce. This is a little bit of a pizza sauce right there. All right, huh? Slim Jim's meat sauce. It's pretty good. All right, guys. 30 minutes left. I'm worried. I wasn't able to taste shit from any of you guys. He had some pizza sauce, the Mexican. You guys all look like donkeys out here. Nobody kind of looks like they want to win $250,000. And you guys aren't saying, yes, chef. Yes, chef. Yes, chef. Don't fuck this up. Who the fuck wants $250,000? Me? Me. Hey, man. Yes, chef. Yeah. Get the fucking Mego out of here. All right. Bye, guys. You going to make it on time? We got plenty of time. What about you? I don't know. It's looking real crazy right now. Something smelling beautiful in this bitch. And it's mine. It does not smell good to me. Well, close your fucking nose. All right. Armed Robber. One time. Top. A lot to do. Okay. All right. My beautiful black queen. Yes, yes. Yes, chef. You going to... My bottle is hot. You look like that after? Oh, yeah. Okay. Yo, chef. That's cool. All right. 15 minutes left. It was aight. You got a lot of work to do. Yes, chef. Yes, chef. Say yes, chef. Yes, chef. Thank you. See you guys in 15 minutes. Me and you. Sexual later. No matter win or loss. Okay? Yes, chef. Yes, chef. Ooh. Pause. Yeah, pause. Yeah, pause. Time to get in the back, though. No pause. Watch that. Oh, this shit is looking terrible. Okay. The only thing looking terrible around here is the dry-ass pizza crust. Oh, yeah. All right. Five seconds left in the clock. Five, four, three, two, one. Hands up. Mind your back. On the ground. All right, guys. I'm very proud of you. Now it's time to bring a celebrity guest judge. Drum roll, please. Convicts, can you please lose that? Young motherfucking gravy. Let's go! How's it going? Good to see you. Likewise, baby. Gravy, you been to prison? I've been to jail, not prison. Oh, fuck yeah. How long? Well, three times. Probably a total of like 48 hours. Something like that. I have had four jail meals, which I'm sure is a little different than prison meals. I feel like I could be a good judge here, and I know that we gotta send somebody home, so. Yeah, so one person's going home, and the two people are going to the finals, and they have the chance to win $251,000. We have Lemur Steeler, the transition to the Mexican. All right, bring up your dish. Explain your dish. What do you got for us? We got some penitentiary pizza. I used a tortilla. We have some Slim Jims, some Lunchable pepperonis, some onions, some grilled bangs, and then we got a champagne Jell-O shop. I found these Jell-O shots on my way out the store. All right. We have a Jell-O shot. We have the prison pizza. All right. That's what we have. That was the... It's nicely cooked. It's a nice crunch. It's a little hard to hold on to, but... Cheers. Cheers. Yep. Okay. Mm-mm-mm-mm. To be honest, I don't give a fuck about your Jell-O shot, okay? You're trying too hard. Wow. Oh, nice. Oh, wow. This is a nice presentation. I'll see you in a bit. All right. Next up, my beautiful black queen, drug trafficker. All right. Explain your dish. Caught your fried chicken, some greens, and some mac, and a little piece of bread. All right. It's fried chicken. Is it bleeding black and spire this? Yeah. That's a good answer. How do we make the mac and cheese? How do you have to do that? Cheese and noodles. Touche. My bad. It's cold as a motherfucker. It is cold. Are these called greens? Yeah. It's called poker? Yeah. It's called greens. I like this. That's it. All right. Can you go back to the station? Thank you so much. You're welcome. Last but not least, we have Drug Dealer. Bring up your dish. I like that. I like the sound of that. Explain your dish, Drug Dealer. Okay. Today we doing Stax Chang Gang Chinese. Okay. You got noodles, cheese puffs, mixed with a little bit of fizz. And you got the tuna on top, whipped up with some cheese as well. This is like ramen? Yes, that's ramen. With tuna? With tuna. And what's going on? Okay. You got the pork skins in the special sauce mixed with chicken and summer sausage. Yeah, they kind of... This feels the most genuine to me. This one feels the most prison. Nah, you got to get the chicken. It's like orange chicken butt. Exactly. Okay. But you got to eat it together. Mm-hmm. Wow. All right. All right. All right, convicts. Great job. Me and my associate have a lot to discuss. If you could please leave your station and fuck off, I'd appreciate that. Yes, chef. Thank you, chef. Thank you for saying yes, chef. All right. Let's taste it. We actually got to figure this out. I mean, I'm... There's an important factor here that I'm thinking about. She breaded it. She fried it. She made it with love. She made this. So that's impressive. I was, like, questioning that from the jump. This, personally, my favorite was this. Was the... Oh, it was? This was your favorite? I mean, it's the most prison feeling. It's like making something with what, you know, make something completely different out of all you got. It's, what, like pork rinds and chicken pieces to feel like fried or orange chicken. Genuine, you know? This is prison. It almost feels like these two guys really went, really spent time in prison. I don't know if I trust the Mexican slash white dude. He doesn't seem like he... I don't know what's going on there. Which one tastes the best? How about that? This is my favorite right here. That's yours? That's my favorite. I just think drug dealer gets my vote. The other two, I'm torn on. We're kind of torn apart. Because I thought this tasted like, what do you call it? Shit. It doesn't taste great. It doesn't taste good. But the effort and like... I say this was the worst, like, thing I've ever tasted in my life. And then there's Young Gravy saying, this is incredible. But the black girl made fried chicken that you can get from Publix. And did she just get pre-breaded chicken? We have to figure that out. Because... The mac and cheese tasted straight out of a fucking... Yeah, it tasted like it was straight. I'll have to review the footage because if she did all that, she won. If she did it, yeah. We gotta pick between these two and I'm leaning towards this motherfucker right here. I think we're very close to know who's winning. Let's get them back in here. Convicts! Alright. Convicts. You criminal-ass motherfuckers. We have a tough decision. Obviously, every single time there's a clear loser. So right now... Hombre! You're out, dog. Sorry. At the end of the day, just a $50,000 grand prize is massive. The fact that I already made that, I'm looking at this in a super positive light. Drug dealer. Yes, sir. Beautiful black queen that drug trafficked. I have to say, the person going to the finale with an advantage is a motherfucking woman. Ah! Again! I'm two for two out here! Two for two! Let's go. Oh, yeah. Thank you! What the fuck? Get up! What the fuck? What's going on after this? What's that called? We hit my... Hey, drug dealer. That shit was... Tony. You won $50,000. I know you bought a bunch more meth than we... So I'm gonna give you... $6,900. And put it towards the way. Unless if you don't want to, but, like, I think that'd be spank. You gotta flip it. No, flip it. All right. We'll see you guys all at the grand finale. Let's see. Put your hands in the air where I can see them. All right. I want to say thank you guys so much for all the support. I feel like a YouTuber again. A YouTuber again. Or I am a YouTuber again. It feels so fucking good. And this is my best right now. Wait. You want to take that? Yeah. Let's go. Congratulations. Say thank you, though. You get back. Yeah, we're a $100,000 giveaway. You guys want to get payment plans. Let me max win. Mom, I make a lot of money. You do, but you spend more than you make. Boom. Oh, yeah. Live on kick right now. All right. Watch yourself. You see someone that looks like this. Tuck your chain. Hide your watches. Okay? Practice, practice, practice. Okay. You see Don. What do you do? What do you do? You see someone that looks like him? Wait. Hide your chain. And act like you have a gun. That's what I do. Yep. That's what you do. Yeah. I have a gun. Yep. I'm not even kidding. I'm not even thinking. Thank you.