

=== FILE: 6ix9ine gave me my $2,000,000 back! [KuclOzSro60].txt ===

! segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur second winner plus the $100,000 winner so every single video we give away $100,000 to you guys that like comment subscribe I think that's kind of crazy it's $400,000 a month I love you guys so much I feel so happy to be the youtuber so congrats to Daniel Simo his first verse was better than 6ix9 oh my god and your dude oh congrats congrats Daniel Simo you won $250,000 like comment subscribe we're gonna weigh $100,000 every single video thank you guys so much my life feels I feel like I have purpose now again king of the gays don't talk shit about Danny I'm coming for you Danny fucking asshole Ari's in love what who said that Stephen no I'm not see you guys on the tripod I'm gonna do I come with you Sounds bad. Yeah, you said. You said. You'll love it. I'll suck my way to the cat. Yeah. Another Cardi B. Yeah. Yo, Danny. Hi. So when I got deleted off YouTube, I was mad depressed, right? I didn't answer nobody, but you'd show up to my house and play tennis with me and shit. Yeah, right on the ninth floor. And the IRS took all your shit, so I wanted to get you a Lamborghini. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It did take my job. The IRS took your shit. My shit was on a tow truck. That's gas or electric? Gas. Thank God. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He is so fat. Yeah. Man, it took everything. I'm on a fucking electric car right now. Yeah, and they got a Lambo. It seems common. It's good. When he owes you money, but. Whatever, bro. Add it to the demos. Guys, it is funny. I was 6'9", a Lamborghini when he owes me $2 million. Yeah, but you know what? You know what? In the name of Donald. Yeah. We're going to do right. Steve. Yo, Danny has something for you. He's felt really bad about it, so he told me he was bringing you something. He was bad about what? I don't want to give too much detail, but you're going to be pretty thrilled. Trust me. segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur It's not 90. Oh shit. It's a chat. It's a chat. It's a chat. Oh. Well that's just good. That's just as good as Kat. No he's good for it. I'm gonna put it on my tab. No but for real. He did commit to paying me back. Yeah. Bro it's so funny right when I get back on YouTube you become like the funniest fat Mexican. I'm just saying. I'm not allowed to go to the show. I'm not allowed to go to the show. I'm not allowed to go to the show. Do you see his gut? How long? How much? I'm in prison and it's probably the best thing for me. So we're giving the chef from Komodo. You're not allowed there. That's just funny. I'm not allowed to go to Komodo but I'm allowed to give away. Not only the chef of Komodo we're giving a black man. Yeah. That's what we do. There's a black man right here. There's a black man right there. So $100,000 chefs making elevated prison food because we're going to go into convict kitchen. You watch Convict Kitchen more than once right? I watch. We watch Convict Kitchen twice the first time you send it. Fucking amazing. And then we watch Convict Kitchen probably like seven times after that shit. It was hilarious. I don't know where to say this but like dude this nurse gave me these pills and they said they were vitamins. Bro he's a new net-disclassified. No, no, no. We were honest and he gave me these pills. He says there were vitamins and I was super sick. I take them every day. So after I was unsick I started taking them every day. Anyways, they're literally opioids and then now I'm going through withdrawals. I'm sweating, I get the chills and it's crazy. I'm not. You just have net-disclassified like right here. Bro I accidentally got, not addicted because I don't feel addicted but I have withdrawals if I don't take pills. That's called addiction. Hi, my name is Steven De Leon Anderson. I'm a drug addict. I'm proud. Hey, my name is Daniel Hernandez. I'm AKA Tagash 6x9 and I'm an alcoholic. Okay, everyone, everyone go. Okay, sorry. I'm a faggot. I'm sorry. I have a faggot as well. I'm straight. I'm straight. I'm straight. I have zero addictions. And this camera. I'm done. I'm black and I steal shit sometimes. Nah. Alright, we're going to go get Chef 100k. Shout out Yasu. Yasu sent me 100,000 and he said just give it away. Yo, shout out to Yasu. Yasu Papa. Yasu, your money's going to a fucking, probably, I don't know, he probably killed someone in Jamaica. We don't know. He's from Jamaica. Alright. Alright. We're going to make like two, like one ounce balls, like for meatballs. Come on man, I see what I gave him to you. Let's go. Roll that. Yeah. Roll it and we're going to place it here. I made these in prison. Yo, Steve, this is your meatball. Fire. Fire. Let's go. Yo, he accused you, he accused you of murdering him. Who accused me of murdering him? Who accused him? A murder? You said he killed God in Jamaica. I know, that didn't happen. You did. You probably killed someone in Jamaica. We don't know. Alright guys, so we're about to show you guys Convict Kitchen. This is the chef of my favorite restaurant. And the head chef. Head chef and favorite convict. Yeah, this is a convict. So we're going to, he came over. We're cooking elevated prison food before I release my show. But the reason you're here, chef, is because my friend sent me a bunch of money. Yasu. Shout out Yasu. Shout out Yasu. And he said, just do something with it, give it away. So this is Ari, king of the gays. Good morning, Fabulous. This is, because you're my favorite chef in the whole world. Thanks man. Time piece trading. I know black people love jewelry. That's right. That's right. That's Don, am I right? No, no, no. It's called, it's called jewelry. Jury. Jury. So I'm just kidding. We didn't get you jewelry. We got you $100,000. What? Woo! There we go! Yeah! I didn't want to look at it, chef. Yeah. I love you, chef. The best. And then we're going to go into Convict Kitchen. I want to do a shout out Yasu. Yasu sent me $100,000 on the house randomly and said, give it away. And I was like, chef. Thank you, brother. You're welcome. And Convict Kitchen. This is going to be amazing. Literally, I'm going to jail in seven days and I'm going to be eating fucking ramen noodles with Doritos. You gotta learn something. But you have the recipes now because we're cooking this together. All right, we'll see you guys on the trackpad. Best chef ever. I love chef. Warning. This is a comedy and is not to be taken seriously. If you are offended by jokes, please click away now. If you take this seriously, it's a you problem. You've been warned. Now sit back, relax, and enjoy the show. Okay, so what we're doing, I'm filming my own version of Master Chef. Yeah, it's not home cooks. It's people that have been in prison. My name's Jaya Wallace. Sam Bodine. Jamil Akalazzi. The smartest people in the world are in prison and they get creative. In prison, you pretty much survive off a commissary because the food is garbage. These created minds, they make elevated prison food. Anything I can get in my hands, I can turn into the best goreman you've ever had. I definitely am a good cook. I'm the Tang Gang MacGyver chef and I'm here to win. I am the best chef here because I'm actually a chef. This is Convict Kitchen. Let's get started. Put your hands in the air where I can see them. What's up, motherfuckers? Welcome to Convict Kitchen. We are here to find the best chef in America that's been to prison. No pedophiles here, right? No? Okay, we're good. Your challenge today is to make a two course meal, one entree and one dessert. Prison food, I'm living in prison. I'm living in prison. I'm living in prison. I'm living in prison. I'm living in prison. I'm living in prison. I'm living in prison. I'm living in prison. I'm living in prison. Prison food elevated with a grand prize of $50,000. All right, guys, you're going to be having one hour to complete these dishes. Winner gets 50 grand. Second place, third place, probably going to go back to jail, right? So now we are going to bring in the ingredients. Tyrone! We did our research. So every prison has a commissary list. And these right here are the approved snacks that you can buy from prison. So we have honey buns, top ramen, cheese sticks, fucking bread. All right, contestants, please go to your stations. And from here on out, dress me. Yes, chef. Yes, chef. Yes, chef. Yes, chef. You guys ready? Yes, chef. Thank you. Tyrone, 60 minutes on the clock. Starting now. All right, like you're running from the cops. You guys are slow. Come on. Okay, so he's grabbing onions. He's got Cheetos, Doritos, top ramen. They're using all the ingredients. This is incredible. What you all got going on for the main course here? I'm making a chicken. What about you? I am making a burrito out of bread. Okay. I was going to go with the classic bologna sandwich, but I felt like Stephen looked like a bologna kind of guy to me. All right, guys. Ten minutes in. How are you feeling? Ten minutes in? What are you cooking here? Right now, I'm doing my summer sausages, green peppers, and onions for this wrap that I'm going to make for you. It's going to be epic if I can get it together. Why did you go to prison? I went to prison for selling a lot of drugs, trafficking. What kind of drugs? Weed and meth. Well, they were ex-pills, but... So the fun shit. Oh, yeah. Oh, dude, so you're a hero. I got all the party papers for you. Oh, dude. You seem like a fun time. Oh, yeah. Why'd you go to prison? I got married. And divorced. Oh, so you, uh, domestic violence? No, fraud. Oh, sweet. Yeah, right? Nice. Have you ever been shanked or shanked someone? No, I haven't, luckily. Been jumped, but not shanked. What about rape? You've been involved in dropping the soap, picking up the soap? Those are secrets I don't kiss and tell, you know? He raped. I mean, is it rape if you're in prison? That's called having fun. Now, why the hell does a sweet lady like you go to prison? Um, ten years. Armed robbery. Armed robbery? Yeah. Oh, sweet. Fuck yeah. Yeah. Oh, dude. Fuck yeah. No. Oh, no. No, not at all. That's horrible. Would you have pulled the trigger? No. Not at all. Never. So you're a coward. Okay. That's it. All right. Not at all. Not bad either. So we have drug dealer versus armed robbery, which is sick, and fraud. And this guy just literally just, he said he raped someone, which is like, this is, uh, this is something else. You don't see this on MasterChef. You fucking doorknobs. Right? That's what Gordon says. You fucking doorknobs. Say yes, Chef. Yes, Chef. I'm excited to taste this, and best of luck. All right. Thank you. Yes, Chef. So we're going to make a burrito out of bread. So take your crust off. Make your dough. Pick this dish because I thought Steve would think it's cool that I could turn bread into a tortilla. We're at the 30-minute mark. We improvising today. We're going to take whatever we got. If you don't have butter, fry whatever you got with mayo. See right now, add the hot water to your noodles. You put your crackers in there to lock it up. You season and pack everything together. Add the sauce. I can't tell you I was in a secret sauce. Just know it's a game changer. There you have the open-ended wraps. Plate one done. 15-minute mark. How are we looking? Amazing, Chef. Can I touch your man BUN? Yes, Chef. It's good man BUN. See how pretty it is now? So we're going to use the noodles as the rice. Cut down some of our sausage peppermint and then some of our refried beans. All right. So burritos are done. Now dessert. There is five minutes left on the clock. All right. We're in dessert mode. All right. So we got our toasted oats. Pinch of coffee. Okay. Let's let that cool. Got to break these down. Once I break it down, you add a little water. You roll it. Stretch it out like dough. We'll take our oats and we'll take our peanut butter. Well, right now I'm scooping the cream out of the cookies. I'm going to add a little bit of water to it and turn it into icing for the balls that I'm going to make. Let's mix these up. No big cookies. Just creamer, butterscotch, and coffee. And then you just add a little water and you just smash it together. Five, four, three, two, one. Hands up. Behind your back. Behind your back. On the car. On the car. Okay. I couldn't finish it. I ran out of time. All right, guys. It's time to present the food. Are you guys ready? Yes, chef. Thank you. So first up, armed robbery. Present your dish, please. Oh my God. So what do you got here? Explain the dish. It's a chicken log. A chicken log. Yeah. Cheese puffs. Noodles. Cheese puffs. Noodles. Okay, that's pretty fucking cool. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. You're getting there. So Tyrone's been to prison, so he's a real test. Oh God. All right. But not bad. I mean, I could eat it. Oh man. If there was nothing else to eat in the world, you fucking donkey. I appreciate it. I don't know, did you spit out? Yeah. It tastes like shit. It's okay. So explain your dish here. It's taffy, coffee creamer, and butterscotch. Taffy, cotton creamer, butterscotch. Yes. It's sweet. It tastes like butterscotch heavy. It's like if you have Play-Doh, and you put butterscotch in it, and you eat it, that's what it tastes like. Play-Doh butterscotch. You fucking donkey. I'll be honest. Oh my God. We'll see. That was not bad. All right. Thanks. All right. Next up, we have the scammer, which I think he's a pedophile, but it's the man BUN. Whoa. What do you have here? Explain the dish. So we have a cheesy burrito, sausage burrito made out of bread. Okay. Not a tortilla. Okay. No shortcuts. It's got a chipotle ranch on top. Okay. Let's try this. I mean, dude, so far, it looks fantastic. I'll be honest. Presentation looks... That's ramen noodles. It is for us acting as the rice. Yeah. That's pretty sick. Come on now. That's pretty good. That's pretty good. Motherfucker, dude. I'd go to your cell any day of the week. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Thank you. Thank you. All right. We're going to the dessert. The dessert is a maple, peanut butter, chocolate, coffee, no-bake cookie. Let's do that. Let's do that. Motherfucker, that's good. Yeah. That's good. I like the texture. I like the peanut butter and the chocolate combination. Just a hint of coffee. And it looks like shit. You have no idea what you're eating. But it tastes good. Thank you, chef. We'll see. Thank you, chef. No. Oh, you're welcome. All right. Last but not least. Drug dealer! Yes, sir. Very essential to our economy. Very essential to me. So. Yes, sir. Explain your dish. What do we have here? Okay. We got what we call the stack signature wrap right here. Okay. Mm-hmm. It's summer sausages sauteed with onions and green pepper. Okay. I made my own cheese and salsa sauce to go on top. It's the secret sauce to go on top. Drizzled with the cheese puffs. Okay. And what do we got for dessert? For dessert, we got the stack stuffed donut. Oh, a donut? Yeah. The stack stuffed donut. I was just calling these criminals donuts. And now you got me a donut. That feels like a donut texture. Yeah. Incredible. Now the center has Reese's cups. Outside is made of honey BUN, of course. It's rolled in the vanilla side and the chocolate side of the cookie and crushed butterfinger centers. Wow. Let's get that opinion. Yes, sir. A little messy, but it's worth the risk. And the reward is amazing. Everything I do is layered, so you're going to taste all the flavor. Okay. All right. The dessert. Donut. Donut. Motherfucker, dude. Oh, my God. Okay. All right. I would like to ask you guys all to leave. Me and my associate are going to have a discussion. Yes, chef. Man BUN? Yes, chef. Incredible. Incredible. All right. Let's break this down. What we liked, what we didn't like. All right. We're in agreeance. We're in agreeance. Yo, criminals. All right, guys. Just want to say thank you guys all for coming. I think you're awesome. So there's two of you that shined, shined bright like a diamond, like Rihanna. And there's one of you that kind of just shit the bed, fucked the pooch. Is that what Robert Downey Jr. said? They said, fuck the pooch. I'll be honest. Drumroll. Armed Robert, you fucked the pooch. Yeah. I'm so sorry. It's okay. I understand. I'm so sorry. It's okay. I'm so sorry. You fucked the pooch, as Robert Downey Jr. said. Is that a term? Tropic Thunder or something? Okay. Thank you. Man BUN. Dessert. Phenomenal, right? Phenomenal. Drug dealer. Entree. Phenomenal. Right? So it's like one, one. It's hard to tell, right? So it really comes down to both at the same time, right? So tough decision. One of you guys could be making $50,000. One of you guys is going to jail again. It hurts me. I like them both so much. I like them so much. I'm going to be honest. I'm sorry to say it, dude. Dude, it's so hard. Dude, fraud and drug dealer. They're so sick. Both are dope. Oh, dude. It's such a hard decision. I'm just going to rip the band-aid off. I'm going to rip that man BUN off. Man BUN. I'm so sorry. Drug dealer, you had the best day. Oh, my God. Thank you. You won $50,000. You won $50,000. Yes! Yes! Damn. Yes! We're at it. Thank you. $50,000. What the hell are you going to do with $50,000? I'm going to start a box truck company. I'm going to definitely jump into it. No, dude. With $50,000, you're going to buy a mad weight. That's definitely a thought. No, I'm saying, but you go back. No, but you put $50,000, then your profit margin just... Just think about it, dog. I'm not against you being a drug dealer. Hey. Oh, man. You got this real money here. Okay? Boy, you got this made my year. I know. Oh, my God. All right, man BUN. The original prize was $5,000, right? So I'm going to give that to you. Because, dude, the way you said yes, chef, every time was admirable. Thank you, chef. And then there was a woman here, she's not a cook. It was... I mean, come on. What's the world coming to this day? I mean, dude, it was... Like, I would literally rather eat my own shit than what she cooked. No. All right. Put your hands in the air where I can see them. Thank you guys so much for watching. If you guys liked Comic Kitchen, make sure to tell me if I should upload episode two next week or I should go on a second channel. Thank you guys so much for everything. I feel like I got purpose again. So I'm happy. Yeah. Anyone got anything to say? We fucking love you, man. Here we go. Cowboy got it. We're coming for you. Oh, yeah. The nurse from Las Vegas that got me hooked on opioids. Listen. Okay. Make sure you follow him. Subscribe. Okay. Because at the end of the day, there's going to be a lot of crazy shit. Rockstar lifestyle shit. Yeah, yeah. I mean, I'm addicted to opioids. That's rockstar shit. Right? Cap. Cap. We was so cap. On accident. It was an accident. Uh, love you guys. Bye. segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur segur

=== FILE: Always down for a coin flip 😂 @mosesthejeweler [QGHm42nlm64].txt ===

 almosi-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i 15k fucking corn flip we're gonna show that a fuck we dance gee let's go Corby coin you got 24 you got eight. We're gonna 15k up and down from the balance. Yeah, I'm going 24 Eight for infinity Got your ass I got his ass Lost money on this trip This you got a fox It's worth the 15k I got a fox coat

=== FILE: How to pay for a haircut like SteveWillDoIt. [SP5vrsoYPuw].txt ===

 what's going on over there? they're probably... do you cut nose hair? I only want a nose hair trimming. I'll pay top dollar. okay. mm-hmm. mm-hmm. mm-hmm. mm-hmm. so crazy. what the fuck are we doing? will I go? oh sure. yeah. oh my god! oh, oh god. how much do I leave sir? 20. yo. 20? 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50. 50.

=== FILE: I Coin Flipped for Togi's $2,000,000 House! [cyZoKEJ8Wlo].txt ===

mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm Good friends for seven years doom 13. So got dropped for saying the n-word shit happens Here's a $25,000 hand. We have a king of the gays here. It's gonna be not true nine give it to him Ooh natural eight see we take that shit. So somebody owe me 250,000 We're doing a coin flip for that I owe someone a hundred thousand and I owe somebody two million dollars and we're doing coin flips for all that all real Contracts so all right. We'll see you guys later. I'll see you on the tripod. Let's go Oh Dude, see if you met my best friend late. Oh my god. What up dude? You remind me myself My god you want a house You can be a landlord Okay, well congratulations on condominium Yeah, yeah, no for real. I'm not kidding. You're your tenant is is my brother. He's pretty cool. He doesn't pay rent though So we met he's a he's famous I mean it's like those fitness influencing He dabbles in real estate and he dabbles in real estate now He's a landlord. That's awesome mom. Yeah, we're doing a hundred K giveaway Okay Okay, we're doing a hundred thousand dollar giveaway and during the financial crisis, okay That's like fucking going outside playing football during Hurricane Katrina. It just makes no sense. You're never gonna catch the ball What's the giveaway to just like a subscriber just yeah, just like oh cool No, we're gonna do it to where I don't have to fucking pick congratulations to the winner blank Alright, let's go Yeah, so we are at a car dealership and it's operation financial crisis mom am I a rich or no? Well the past two videos now do I make a lot of money. Yeah, do I have a lot of money? No, you don't I don't know these giveaways 100k a week. Are they real? They're very real. I'm talking to them now Are we stressed out and and I'm making payments? I'm financing those We are so goddamn poor we finance our giveaways. Oh, Jesus, you know, I'm doing coin flips for three million dollars Nelson, did you give me wine? You are a drunk I need it. Are you kidding me? Yeah Yeah No I'm not hacky sacking. I need my money. Yeah, I know are you gonna give it away? Yes I'm gonna give it away to a black person. Does that make you upset? No, that doesn't make me upset, but we're not hacky sacking My mom's a racist. No, I'm not No She works All right, so we're at say the car dealership brickle buick All right, you see brickle view with gmc So i'm either gonna ruin their lives or make them have the best reviews ever No, let's see. All right, so we're going we're buying us a ratchet. She's my language. Okay I love all strippers a little people, but I mean if you work at a strip club at 2 p.m I'm sorry, you're kind of a god, excuse my language the ratchet bitch, okay? I'm sorry, but I'm here for you We're gonna buy you a nice car and we have what's your name again? Miguel So Miguel's either gonna make this business or ruin this business because i'm telling you my people are unlike no other All right, so Miguel the way I run my videos is I I need something from you guys, right? Okay This guy's water Yo, Chris, I need it real quick 40,000 bucks Mike, whoa, we haven't felt like 30 You guys have a notepad and a pen I really want to try to learn spanish I'm retarded I can only learn by writing down Yeah, can we send out to you first Thank you Go go to the notes Let's do it, a thai car Yeah Yeah Yeah Yo What are you thai? Yeah I'm ready to come out You two we can take a Oh there is Let's look at the car for strippers, okay? Here you go All right, car for strippers Okay I mean strippers like to have sex in cars, right? So she needs space She needs space She needs space Yeah Are these all the cars to sale? I'll take it How much is this? I don't really fucking know I don't really fucking know What else you guys got? Oh that's nice What else you guys got? Yeah, that's styling I know She's gonna be upset Last time I got the strip club, all they talked about was only four If I give her a four fucking, what is this called? Escape Escape She's gonna escape for me I don't wanna like, freak just like nice type shit You wanna bless her real quick? I wanna bless her Okay So I wanna um, I wanna have sex with her I mean, what's a nice car? Come on No, pick up Sell me Okay, you know what? Yeah, you lose me the GLE The GLE right there Yeah How much is this? You take that one? Probably like 50 I'll take this one That shit you say you're trying to fuck her? Yeah She's fucking after she's getting this Yeah, for a stripper? Oh for sure, yeah Sorry bro, DT will take that out But you guys did my hands, please Oh my god Sorry It's so tragic Thank you for being a valued customer here at UIC If you'd like to give UIC It's good It's for real bro For me? Yeah Yeah Look at that That looks like you I mean, you don't wanna shake my hand Look cool Look at that Alright, good business dude I mean, shout them Let's pop up their website The reviews I mean If you're in Miami You buy cars from them dude Yeah If you're in Miami Come to Brickle Group GMC As you can see It's the best spot to come too Oh they're hella chill dude Taking this Taking this Alright, we just got a stripper car Best car dealership ever Positive reviews Bro, we've ruined car dealerships on accident before For all the car dealerships I've ruined Let's make it right Look at these beautiful gentlemen I mean dude Is he Asian? I can't tell Uh, we are out Thank you guys so much You're right I already feel sick from before Stop Now I'm gonna be $10 So Ow Stop it I'm giving you a heads up Yeah Do I need to bring dollars? Are you excited? I'm not If one little crap jumps out You're a little girl Check it Bouncing Bouncing Bouncing I'm about to throw a couple thousand Bouncing Bouncing Bouncing Bouncing Bouncing Bouncing I'm about to throw a couple thousand Five Five Ten Twenty Work your way up to them big face hunnets just bouncing Bouncing Bouncing I'm about to throw a couple thousand I'm about to throw a couple thousand Got the body of a goddess Alright so I got a surprise for one lovely lady here And uh, it's this bitch I chose this bitch right here But you see this bag of money It's all y'all motherfuckers So if you guys would like to see uh Excuse me what's your name? Yennifer If you're friends with Yennifer Come outside Yennifer Alright We gotta get her heel Oh my god Alright Yennifer The stories backstage really uh touched my heart And you're a sweet stripper lady I would love to make passionate weird sex with you But we can't do that You told me you didn't have a car and you want a car right? Yeah Alright so take off your blindfold and look at your new car Scoadoop Wow Look at this yennifer Can I get a blowjob? A blowjob? I can get one? Got you ass Thank you Oh you're welcome No I tried to throw the dollars towards you I'm new at this Oh sorry I touched the board I'm sure it's fine This is my new friend Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Woohoo Yay Yay Yay Yay Yay Yay Yay recording in on L.A. my bitch bad just different to my fucker bottle I ain't my man last nigga I just bitch hey yeah hey Danny yo what's up yo what's up bro how's jail amazing bro hey Danny about to work out are you losing weight that's the goal can't come on fat everyone thinks I took drugs or something because I'm going through a financial crisis I don't think it's because of financial crisis I just think you love drugs dude Danny it's serious financial crisis yeah that's my mom I'm in prison right now I know how about that Luigi Danny what is he like to be honest he reminds me a lot of you guys he killed somebody Danny yeah he reminds me straight killers I love you Danny Jesus Christ dude potting these I mean dude why are you wearing a fucking real shirt you need a sleeveless shirt dude how do I look pretty good good lay up for the rugs bro no no no not the drugs bro what happened was like I went through withdrawals so I'd throw up every morning you know so it's like I do it I do it at the times no no he doesn't no you don't I do it at that don't do drugs and throw up lay works out every day oh my god oh let's take the shirt off whoa whoa whoa fire yeah dogey I'm not on drugs I don't think I'm on drugs well dude the nice thing is like gambling and money is the best drug when you're in a real financial crisis the dopamine hit is awesome I don't think I don't think I don't think that's good this is my personal chain okay oh shit no way no problem come here yo I like it get a deal the girls are gonna love that shit yo talk to the bitches here fat and ugly you can't get in alright we're gonna get club from our to get a wash is that real yeah oh god let's open her up let's open her up okay what do you guys like let's go that's far the chicken oh my god let's see get care man yo you're the best you're the best you like how I wear two watches yeah okay let's get yeah alright he wants this this no yeah no no I'm scared bull it's a financial crisis we're in fucking deep financial crisis not good okay I'm making purchases that I can't necessarily afford and I'm going on death with these guys I feel great about it how do you feel like I feel good about it the chicken is really really perfect for you okay so coin flip for a hundred thousand alright alright you flip I call okay circle with squares his tails the bird is heads okay easy oh my god biggest bet of all animals okay ready you call in there yeah heads is it me god damn it yes yes finally no all of my losses just took out on you and you were the last person I wanted to win off of it's funny because I was going to call heads you fucking head truth you should have told me to flip though okay minus okay pop it up coin flips minus hundred k alright you have a coin I gotta have a drink I gotta have a coin do you guys have a coin we're doing a $250,000 coin flip he owes me $250 so if he wins he owes me nothing if I win he owes me $500,000 basically coin flipping a Lamborghini bro it's so weird I always borrow money from people so this is like the first guys he owes me money which is like it's so weird okay Raz owes me $250,000 if I win he owes me $500,000 if he wins zero alright you flip you call alright I flip and I call that's ridiculous I don't have no responsibility okay whatever it lands on that's it ready there's a $250,000 coin flip alright ready heads oh my god oh my god I feel bad no don't feel bad I'm happy no bro I've been sweating this shit all day no it's sick you don't owe me any money how awesome is that I'm gonna frame this fucking quarter thank you you owed me money so this feels good I feel like I won well I actually lost it was a fuck well it's good shit I'm happy for you this is Raz one of the best humans I know pop up his Instagram what is Raz Q Locks is it? something like that Raz Q is it? Raz Q Locks yeah Raz Q Locks one of my good friends I'm happy he won just lost $250 huh what's going on? it's like so over for me if I lose this coin we're both loud four like this is not okay like I do the 100k giveaway week and I do payment plans like it's so like not chill I'm really nervous so this is my house and I'm coin flipping it to fix all my problems I just need one time but it's shitty because it's like I don't want to take Steve's money I'd rather take the casino's money or somebody else's money but I mean he's the only person on the planet that is willing to do a $2 million coin flip with me what am I going to do with this house anyways if I lose it you know it's just a house go big or don't go home alright guys we're doing a coin flip for this house $1.9 million we're going to do it out here and guess what I got a bitch out there with contracts coin flip for $1.9 million I don't know if anyone's I mean no there's some crazy yeah there's crazy people that have done this it's your people the Chinese man they go crazy yeah so it makes sense that I'm doing this with the Chinese dude okay if I win this I'm going to be very very excited and I don't want to see you lose $1.9 million but just an apology in advance the cheers from me are I'm sorry if I win this too bro we've been talking about this for like weeks now it's like now we're doing now I'm like actually nervous alright you flip it I call it like we're just going you flip it I call it ready alright $1.9 million coin flip alright are we ready you flip I call oh my god and then he says it yeah you're going to say it's heads or tails okay do it do yeah do heads oh my god oh my god got your ass oh my god it's so funny because it's like we're both so poor it's like I want to just be like yo togi I have tens of millions of dollars like just keep it but like we're so poor oh my god you just lost 2 million oh fuck I feel bad my accountant is going to fucking kill me oh my god I feel terrible my first house is just gone he just lost his house yeah he just lost his house oh great it's kind of cool at least I could say I gambled away my house I would say I'm the realest nigga ever to gamble now like everyone talks about oh I gambled away the house you have a mortgage so you gotta pay this shit off dude oh my god you're paying monthly it's not funny bro I have a 30 year mortgage on this bitch let's go to the contract oh we'll sign it I thought it was gonna be me I swear this is like one of the most devastating signatures of all time you can sign here with the date congratulations on the house alright this financial crisis is looking a little better right now oh my god mine just got like I'm up a house for a time to work dude so the whole plan was I was gonna give something to Togi before the coin flip because I thought he was gonna win I was gonna make him feel bad but Togi you lost your house but I lost my Rolls Royce so that's your Rolls Royce dog it's a Phantom $650,000 come on that's Rakeback dog that's what you call Rakeback that's what you call Rakeback you seriously that's what you call Rakeback alright I lost my house but that doesn't hurt too bad this is Rakeback you're a good friend because let me tell you Rakeback bro if I had won the 2 million off of you I would not have given you one of my cars this is very nice I love you bro thank you so much you just got ripped off you paid $1.9 million for a Rolls Royce life's not bad it's the nicest Rolls Royce you can get ever 2025 Phantom it's gangster dude I got the wrap the wheels today's a good day I'm a lot a lot happier I was really really not happy Togi the deal gets a little better what? to choose between this Rolls Royce my Inventador which is $750,000 oh wait wait is the Inventador right there? it's right there can I go look at it? let's go look at it oh shit I don't know what is Togi gonna choose? you gonna choose my Lambo? oh I don't know I don't know I think I am making a decision I think I'm leaning alright no I will take the Revolto thank you Steve I love you bro that shit is crazy new Revolto alert god damn bro this is like the coolest Lamborghini to ever exist like this is no miles brand new whoo here's the keys to your new car dude this is all real dude so you're in his YouTube videos moving forward you're gonna see he has a Revolto you're gonna see me I have a house it's like yeah time we'll see shout out Pac-Draw shout out Ruben alright I'm out dude we out dude financial crisis so bad that me and your sister have to take a freaking Uber put your hands in the air where I can see them this is the Convict Kitchen season finale it's going to be fucking insane we have the three winners here from the previous episodes competing for a chance to win $251,000 I set this finale to be chaos let's go Convicts enter thanks this is back baby my name's Quinn $251,000 is on the line and I'm bringing that all home I'm Tay I'm the winner of day three I've just been waiting on the rest of the money holy shit Quinn you turned Mexican here at Convict Kitchen we would like to give you a $5,000 bonus for switching races during our show how y'all motherfuckers feeling I'm lit you're lit like you're under the influence all of the above whatever you want to call it my black queen how you doing doing amazing coming for the rest of the money today alright today your challenge is prison break do you see the prison pantry you can't touch it today all the ingredients are going to be bought outside in the free world basically you can get the fuck out of here you can use whatever fucking ingredients you want you can cook whatever you want you just can't go to a fast food restaurant you have two hours to present me a dish you have $100 to complete this challenge I don't care what you do in the two hours you want to go hang out with your amigas man go for it you want to go fuck a bitch because I know you're a player go fuck a bitch if you want to go sell some dime bags go sell some dime bags there's no prize money today the worst dish goes the fuck home probably back to prison and the two remaining dishes compete tomorrow head to head for prize money of $251,000 and the best dish today gets an advantage tomorrow and you'll learn about it then alright so the options you have to go get the ingredients to cook your meal are gas stations street vendors grocery stores or a homie's house no fast food no fucking rotisserie chickens I want to eat your food how are we going to get there are we about to fucking walk on some diddy shit I'll never make you guys walk on no diddy shit follow me yes chef thank you for that thank you alright convicts here's the twist here are my personal Rolls Royces you guys can each take one of them and you have to go and complete this challenge just make sure that the dish is ready in two hours say yes chef yes chef my black queen I have diddy's car for you diddy owns that car smell it it's great drug dealer yes sir I'm giving you the lean machine you go in there it's going to make you think of Sprite and lean thank you chef my Mexican you just have the ghost I have nothing racist to include with that if you fuck it up in any way you're disqualified if you get pulled over you automatically lose the challenge two hours on the clock you guys ready yes chef yes chef thank you for the yes chef your challenge starts right now I have to look out for a few key items you know I'm really leaning towards the penitentiary pizza I really don't even know what I'm finna date that's what's so crazy about this yo I get to keep the phantom I get to keep the phantom you're going to come with me you're going to help me find some tortillas I'm getting chicken y'all I'm just coming super black I'm not doing no extravagant shit you make burritos tacos yeah yeah yeah okay this is good classic smoked sausage oh this is the cheese where we going oh here we go here we go here we go yeah I gotta go to another store we got a hunski let's hope we cut it you know it's 2025 groceries are expensive and I still got 50 left I can't fuck with me alright here we go two more items I don't even care about the change give me the money I have to leave whatever it is you can keep some of it I have to go oh I think I'm the first one out the door alright we got out of there man right now I gotta go to the gas station we're probably gonna hit 7-eleven actual grocery store didn't have no ramen noodles no cheese crackers Immm Hurry up, hurry up, hurry up. It was a weird grocery store. It's not a real grocery store. I don't know how much time I got love. I really hate racing against time when I'm trying to create a masterpiece. I forgot cooking oil. Slim Jims. I'm going to have to use the Slim Jims for oil. Got to start rendering these things now. I'm back. Well, well, well, welcome back, man. Welcome back. I see you got all kinds of stuff over there. Hey, man, where's the competition? She didn't get the message? I don't know. What'd you drink? Don't be having me. None of that toilet hooch. Right here. You guys, we got Smith Hook wine. Let me just add. We can grab these ingredients over here. Okay. All right, where do you think she went to? She's not at the store anymore, man. Hey, man, I don't know what she doing right now, but it better be exotic. With all the time she taking it to you. Smoke turkey tail. New duck for your green veggie. Let's roll. Here you go. Here you go. So, lost my follow. Got fucking lost because nobody was following me and telling me directions. It smells like shit already. These motherfuckers is terrible. It is on fire. Okay. Good to know. It smells like something burnt. I ain't even gonna lie to you. I'm making fried chicken, green vegetable, and macaroni and cheese. Real black shit. Stax, what you making? I'm supposed to be making some Chinese food. The Chang Gang way. If I do have the time, it's gonna turn into a whole nother meal that's not necessarily Chinese food. But you use what you got. I gave away all my money at the grocery store. I gave away my money at the grocery store, too. Damn. Gave it away to who? Who says prison reform don't work? Gave it away to who? People in line. People that needed it. Oh, okay. Still don't have any competitors today. I'm going against the champions. I do not expect today to be easy. When they come to prison cooking, I've done this for years. Yell in my backyard. No competition again. What are you cooking? This is either gonna be Stax Famous Chang Gang Chinese. Ooh, you want Chinese? Or it's gonna be Stax Famous Dumplings. Oh, nice. A little taste? No, no. You don't want to taste it yet because I just put some raw chicken in there. All right, well, we'll be back. We're gonna try that. How's it going? Oh, you're cooking some... I'm cooking with hot grease, baby. You're cooking some fried chicken. Hey. Now, I thought you stole my vehicle. If I was selling, it would have been gone. We wouldn't have been here. Straight up. What's going on, huh? What's up, I say? I'm making some Panam Tenshi pizza. Oh, you're making a Mexican dish? It's Italian, but you know... Oh, you're going Italian? It's a little Mexican twist on it because, you know, I like my tortillas. Oh, no. All right, we can taste some sauce. This is a little bit of a pizza sauce right there. All right, huh? Slim Jim's meat sauce. It's pretty good. All right, guys. 30 minutes left. I'm worried. I wasn't able to taste shit from any of you guys. He had some pizza sauce, the Mexican. You guys all look like donkeys out here. Nobody kind of looks like they want to win $250,000. And you guys aren't saying, yes, chef. Yes, chef. Yes, chef. Don't fuck this up. Who the fuck wants $250,000? Me? Me. Hey, man. Yes, chef. Yeah. Get the fucking Mego out of here. All right. Bye, guys. You going to make it on time? We got plenty of time. What about you? I don't know. It's looking real crazy right now. Something smelling beautiful in this bitch. And it's mine. It does not smell good to me. Well, close your fucking nose. All right. Armed Robber. One time. Top. A lot to do. Okay. All right. My beautiful black queen. Yes, yes. Yes, chef. You going to... My bottle is hot. You look like that after? Oh, yeah. Okay. Yo, chef. That's cool. All right. 15 minutes left. It was aight. You got a lot of work to do. Yes, chef. Yes, chef. Say yes, chef. Yes, chef. Thank you. See you guys in 15 minutes. Me and you. Sexual later. No matter win or loss. Okay? Yes, chef. Yes, chef. Ooh. Pause. Yeah, pause. Yeah, pause. Time to get in the back, though. No pause. Watch that. Oh, this shit is looking terrible. Okay. The only thing looking terrible around here is the dry-ass pizza crust. Oh, yeah. All right. Five seconds left in the clock. Five, four, three, two, one. Hands up. Mind your back. On the ground. All right, guys. I'm very proud of you. Now it's time to bring a celebrity guest judge. Drum roll, please. Convicts, can you please lose that? Young motherfucking gravy. Let's go! How's it going? Good to see you. Likewise, baby. Gravy, you been to prison? I've been to jail, not prison. Oh, fuck yeah. How long? Well, three times. Probably a total of like 48 hours. Something like that. I have had four jail meals, which I'm sure is a little different than prison meals. I feel like I could be a good judge here, and I know that we gotta send somebody home, so. Yeah, so one person's going home, and the two people are going to the finals, and they have the chance to win $251,000. We have Lemur Steeler, the transition to the Mexican. All right, bring up your dish. Explain your dish. What do you got for us? We got some penitentiary pizza. I used a tortilla. We have some Slim Jims, some Lunchable pepperonis, some onions, some grilled bangs, and then we got a champagne Jell-O shop. I found these Jell-O shots on my way out the store. All right. We have a Jell-O shot. We have the prison pizza. All right. That's what we have. That was the... It's nicely cooked. It's a nice crunch. It's a little hard to hold on to, but... Cheers. Cheers. Yep. Okay. Mm-mm-mm-mm. To be honest, I don't give a fuck about your Jell-O shot, okay? You're trying too hard. Wow. Oh, nice. Oh, wow. This is a nice presentation. I'll see you in a bit. All right. Next up, my beautiful black queen, drug trafficker. All right. Explain your dish. Caught your fried chicken, some greens, and some mac, and a little piece of bread. All right. It's fried chicken. Is it bleeding black and spire this? Yeah. That's a good answer. How do we make the mac and cheese? How do you have to do that? Cheese and noodles. Touche. My bad. It's cold as a motherfucker. It is cold. Are these called greens? Yeah. It's called poker? Yeah. It's called greens. I like this. That's it. All right. Can you go back to the station? Thank you so much. You're welcome. Last but not least, we have Drug Dealer. Bring up your dish. I like that. I like the sound of that. Explain your dish, Drug Dealer. Okay. Today we doing Stax Chang Gang Chinese. Okay. You got noodles, cheese puffs, mixed with a little bit of fizz. And you got the tuna on top, whipped up with some cheese as well. This is like ramen? Yes, that's ramen. With tuna? With tuna. And what's going on? Okay. You got the pork skins in the special sauce mixed with chicken and summer sausage. Yeah, they kind of... This feels the most genuine to me. This one feels the most prison. Nah, you got to get the chicken. It's like orange chicken butt. Exactly. Okay. But you got to eat it together. Mm-hmm. Wow. All right. All right. All right, convicts. Great job. Me and my associate have a lot to discuss. If you could please leave your station and fuck off, I'd appreciate that. Yes, chef. Thank you, chef. Thank you for saying yes, chef. All right. Let's taste it. We actually got to figure this out. I mean, I'm... There's an important factor here that I'm thinking about. She breaded it. She fried it. She made it with love. She made this. So that's impressive. I was, like, questioning that from the jump. This, personally, my favorite was this. Was the... Oh, it was? This was your favorite? I mean, it's the most prison feeling. It's like making something with what, you know, make something completely different out of all you got. It's, what, like pork rinds and chicken pieces to feel like fried or orange chicken. Genuine, you know? This is prison. It almost feels like these two guys really went, really spent time in prison. I don't know if I trust the Mexican slash white dude. He doesn't seem like he... I don't know what's going on there. Which one tastes the best? How about that? This is my favorite right here. That's yours? That's my favorite. I just think drug dealer gets my vote. The other two, I'm torn on. We're kind of torn apart. Because I thought this tasted like, what do you call it? Shit. It doesn't taste great. It doesn't taste good. But the effort and like... I say this was the worst, like, thing I've ever tasted in my life. And then there's Young Gravy saying, this is incredible. But the black girl made fried chicken that you can get from Publix. And did she just get pre-breaded chicken? We have to figure that out. Because... The mac and cheese tasted straight out of a fucking... Yeah, it tasted like it was straight. I'll have to review the footage because if she did all that, she won. If she did it, yeah. We gotta pick between these two and I'm leaning towards this motherfucker right here. I think we're very close to know who's winning. Let's get them back in here. Convicts! Alright. Convicts. You criminal-ass motherfuckers. We have a tough decision. Obviously, every single time there's a clear loser. So right now... Hombre! You're out, dog. Sorry. At the end of the day, just a $50,000 grand prize is massive. The fact that I already made that, I'm looking at this in a super positive light. Drug dealer. Yes, sir. Beautiful black queen that drug trafficked. I have to say, the person going to the finale with an advantage is a motherfucking woman. Ah! Again! I'm two for two out here! Two for two! Let's go. Oh, yeah. Thank you! What the fuck? Get up! What the fuck? What's going on after this? What's that called? We hit my... Hey, drug dealer. That shit was... Tony. You won $50,000. I know you bought a bunch more meth than we... So I'm gonna give you... $6,900. And put it towards the way. Unless if you don't want to, but, like, I think that'd be spank. You gotta flip it. No, flip it. All right. We'll see you guys all at the grand finale. Let's see. Put your hands in the air where I can see them. All right. I want to say thank you guys so much for all the support. I feel like a YouTuber again. A YouTuber again. Or I am a YouTuber again. It feels so fucking good. And this is my best right now. Wait. You want to take that? Yeah. Let's go. Congratulations. Say thank you, though. You get back. Yeah, we're a $100,000 giveaway. You guys want to get payment plans. Let me max win. Mom, I make a lot of money. You do, but you spend more than you make. Boom. Oh, yeah. Live on kick right now. All right. Watch yourself. You see someone that looks like this. Tuck your chain. Hide your watches. Okay? Practice, practice, practice. Okay. You see Don. What do you do? What do you do? You see someone that looks like him? Wait. Hide your chain. And act like you have a gun. That's what I do. Yep. That's what you do. Yeah. I have a gun. Yep. I'm not even kidding. I'm not even thinking. Thank you.

=== FILE: I am broke (dark truth) [wN00Xuw4JSo].txt ===

 right now and I'm not even kidding so the winner of the $100,000 is okay oh a black guy telling us straight up telling us straight up he wins $100,000 guys I am live right now on kick kick.com so I have Steve will do it we can get away a lot more money there enjoy it bro I've been the the videos are like bro I've been going through fucking withdrawals on kratom on accident like so I feel for anybody that goes through withdrawals wake up every day I throw up eat food I throw up I drench the bed and sweat it's the worst so just bear with me the videos are going to get better it's just like drug addict get in this video live right now kick.com slash steve will do it I love you guys so much I'll see you on the tripod look at that fucking allergies oh my god okay the fact that I can feel your tongue like gulping it down all right I'm getting drunk no I'm not getting drunk I'm getting buzzed loosey loosey we're gonna have some fun we're gonna go into a financial crisis okay the goal is to get in as much debt as possible and be as little liquid as possible but I bet you I have no money hold on I'll call my mom mom yeah honey how much money have I spent in the last 12 months 19 million 19 million dollars so mom can I afford a 5 million dollar airplane a 1.3 million dollar car a 500,000 dollar watch and then spend like around 400,000 dollars on a bunch of random people no you're telling me I'm not a rich nigga mom I'm not telling you that I'm just telling you please don't well 19 mil that's pretty impressive I mean we have nothing to show for it well other people know okay thank you for the green light on the spending okay thank you bye I guess no she did not Togi what'd she say no she said no three times also I don't understand this though we're going out to spend money on everyone's credit card right now right you have nine million dollars of debt like as of like right this second no well I get nine million dollars of debt tomorrow oh and then what and we're winning it back is the goal well then we're going to call every single friend that has money and ask them to borrow money and we're going to play with their money and just let's see what we can do yeah but I'm saying that's a big risk to take all their money to then gamble to make your debts back and then potentially lose all that money you got so then you're even deeper in a hole well yeah that's the whole point financial crisis look there's a guy in this car how much money do I owe you Alex G? you owe me 300,000 as of right now and he has a credit card I could spend one million dollars on he said so my limit is probably five six hundred thousand so I'm going to owe Alex at the end of this video nine hundred thousand dollars promo your ass dude because I'm stealing 900k from you so no I trust people doing he'll pay you back I believe in him no doubt in my mind that's what he's saying is he's not and you get a promo no no no no no you have really good friends everybody in this car is maxing up their credit cards that's awesome Fuck yeah ok we have to go get sexy ref alright lets go Boy don't do that. I'll take you through that. I'm a real little bit. Hey. Hi. Hi, guys. Hey, see? See, this is my mama. Oh, hi, don't. Happy birthday, mom. Thank you. You ready to shop? Don't turn us up, see? Don't turn us up. So the premise of this video is a financial crisis, right? So it's a good day, you know, for your birthday to be. It's on the day that I want to go into a financial crisis because... It's your birthday? Yeah. Happy birthday, mama. Happy birthday, y'all. Happy birthday, Mrs. Sexy. Thank you, Steve. I really appreciate you. You don't know why I appreciate you. Oh, no, you're welcome. I help you go into crisis life. It's nothing. Yeah. We don't get to it. One of you said, do the cake. No, let's do it. I can transform this tattoo. This is my ex-girlfriend. It's your face. I don't worry about my hair. Don't worry. I dare you. I'll fib. I'll be like, yeah, we fucked. We're kind of in a relationship. All right. Financial crisis stage one. Watches and jury. All right. Mrs. Sexy mom. She loves bags. You like any one? You like the pink one? Mrs. Sexy. There you go. It's your bag. Easy. Come on. All right. Debt. Dude, we have to have a debt account. Yeah. It's going to be so much fun. I need a really expensive watch. Oh. Bingo. Getting this one. All right. Decide. Neil, this red watch. Yeah. How much is it? $420,000. Okay. I will take that. Best bet. We have like the, you saw the mini prostit there, Sexy? Very hot. Oh, sexy. You're getting that. It's $100,000. Let's see if she likes it. I'm not snitching, but Steve's bought that one for another chick, so. Oh! That's, yeah. And you don't bought this one for another chick, Steve? No, not that. I bought a... Yeah, he does. No, not a rose gold. I bought a white gold and white. And a yellow gold for real. Okay. I got rose. You like it, right? Yeah. But can I still get an AP? Or no? I mean, let's see. Let's see. I mean, a Richard. A Richard. No, probably not. Honestly. I thought you was trying to ball out. You being lame now? How about that? You being lame? I'm going to cut your blood. Yeah, you are being cheap. And then you said, you said you're going to put jewelry on my mama. Like, what's going on, Steve? No, no. Mama's sexy. Let's give you some jewelry from this box. What do you like, Mrs. Sexy? I like this. Oh, you want that? Okay. Let's get this from Mrs. Sexy. Oh! That motherfucker. What do you get? Jury? Jury? Jury? Jury? Jury? Jury? Jury? Jury? Jury? Jury? Jury? Jury? Jury? Jury? Jury? If you want it, if you want it, Steve, we'll do it. No, I do appreciate that though, Steve. Oh, you're welcome. Cause ain't nobody just doing it. No, I'm going to ask for nothing. And then it's her be there, but thank you. This is my gift to her, too. Yeah. Happy birthday, mama. Thank you. Let's go. I'm going to talk her dog how to self-suck. She can say self-suck on command. A dog? Yeah, well she says commando and then he self-sucks. He humps things so long that his dick comes out and then he sucks it. Oh my god. I didn't teach him it though. No, she taught me. Where are we headed to? Design district. Okay, I'll see you guys there. Yeah, yeah. I got some zooms to go to, I think I can meet. I got zooms to meet. Yeah, well we need your credit card. I'll only spend a hundred, I'll only spend a hundred K. There's no limit on that, bro. So be careful, bro. Bro. All right. Thank you, Alex. Good luck. I stole that shit. I stole that shit. We're going to tip Komodo, my favorite restaurant, on Alex G's credit card. I'm going to try to tip 200,000. Oh my god. No, you're not. Stephen, he said no more than a hundred K. I guess I did a fib. What they call it? A fib. White lie. Why don't we just tip 50? That's me. 50 would change every one of their lives. For your $50,000 tip, do we at least get food with that? Yeah. Don't worry, you do. The service is really good here. I mean, bro, I just went and took a piss and all the food's here. Bro, it is not stopping. Let's go! It's not the dragon! Oh my god, this is awesome. Oh my god, happy birthday! Thanks so much! All right, Brad Komodo, we are using my friend's Alex G's credit card because we're in a financial crisis and my credit card's max. We're tipping $50,000. Alex G, thank you for the credit card. Look how jokes this is, bro. I ain't paying your ass anytime soon. Oh, no. We gotta write it in manual. Angel. Yeah, we need someone to do it. Angel, let me get Angel. Get Angel. Get Angel. Angel. We need Angel. He's running. He's running. All right, then you gotta run it and see if it works, okay? Got you. Additional tip, $50,000. $53,49390. All right, run that shit. Got it. Appreciate it. Come right back and make sure that shit works. I got you. I'm going to be right back. I hope this shit works. Alex G, we're testing your poorness. Guys, went through. Let's go. Thank you for the service. Anytime. I made this for you. Menu. Whatever. Yeah. Yo, that is hilarious. It's official. Wow. Thank you. Made it myself, bro. We love you. Only at Kuboto, you get an N-word back. Wait, I want to read the back. That's amazing. Grant, any holder permission to say the N-word? You have it right now. I don't want it. No, no, it's too much responsibility. I don't want the pass. It says hard R in traffic. I mean, don't we all? Stop it. Come on. Good night, guys. Thank you. I look at it. Yo, Alex G, got your ass. Ha, ha. Ha, ha. Ha, ha. All right, guys. So the financial crisis continues. So we have a commander jet 604 right here. You see how big this is? I'm buying this. It's five and a half million dollars. I'm putting as little down as possible, and I'm financing the rest. This is what you call an air steeple dude. Dude, I'm about to go five million dollars in debt. Financial crisis alert. All right, so this is the plane I'm buying. Ready? Boom. Boom, boom. Look at this. Look at this. So yeah, this is what you call getting into generational debt, right? This is a five and a half million dollar plane. All right, how much do I have to put down? I think like a couple hundred thousand only. Only a couple hundred thousand. All right, let's just call it five million in debt. Pop up the debt counter. Boom. This is what we do. Okay, so you guys have to like, comment, subscribe, because we're giving away a hundred thousand thousand still. I'm kind of poor, so I need your support right now. All right, guys. We're here with my car guy, the official car guy of Steeple Do It, Brian from McLaren Charlotte. And I told you I'm trying to get into generational debt. So we're trying to buy really expensive cars. But as little money down, we want to acquire debt. A lot of debt. Well, we can make that happen. Let's make it happen. Okay. So these are the million dollar cars. Regera 2021, three and a half million. Elva, 1.6 million. Oh my God. Yo, this is retarded. Bro, we've been in here for 30 seconds. Sign me up on this. Okay. I'll take it. Oh my God. I'm not in here. No questions asked. I will take it. You want to turn it on? No. No, I'll take it. I will take this car. So how much do I have to put down on this? I don't know. Probably 400 grand. All right. So I'm going to put $400,000 down. How much does this cost? For you? One three. Okay. $900,000 in debt within two minutes walking in. Huge. We're in $900,000 in debt. One of one. Don't worry. I'll get you the keys. You own it. Okay. So let's get one more car. We're going into debt. What else should I get? You've got to break your 720 or something. Shit. I don't know. You can call one in for sure. You have so many calls. You have so many calls. You have so many calls. You have so many calls. You have so many calls. You have so many calls. I mean, dude, I'm at the point in my life when I hear $140,000, I'm like, oh, it's free. Oh, you used to have one of these. Yeah, I'll take it. I'll take it. We're going to finance it. You want this? Yeah. We're going to put $30,000 down. You guys trying to buy a car? I wish. You want a car? $3,000? You want a car? I'll buy a car. Yeah. You like that BMW? Nice color. Okay. It's yours. Steve, I know who you are. Are you serious? Yeah. Congratulations. You're not being serious. I'm very serial. I'm like fucking Captain Crunch right now. That's my dream car, so you can't do that. So you go to bed and you dream about it. You go to bed and dream about cars, that's for sure. Probably not fantasize, but yeah, I dream. All right. Well, congrats. That's your car. The dream maker. Thanks, TJ. You just got the turbo, too? No way, Steve. All right. So you're going to be part of my financial crisis video. That's your car. Title of the vehicle. Congratulations. Steve. That's how we do business. Easy. Here at McLaren Charlotte. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it, man. Thank you so much. Here's the power I bought. Did you get an Elba? Yeah. Oh my gosh. Can I drive? It's just around the corner? Of course. Yo, whip so cold. Whip so cold. This whole thing. Fall so hot. Act like you'll ever be around. Motherfuckers like this. The game. Easy girl. Grab her hand. Fuck that bitch. She don't want anything. How much is that bottle right there? It's like 15 grand. It's 15,000 on a bottle? Yeah. You want some? Yeah, man. Steal that shit. Dude, what's 15 grand when you just spent 1.5 million? If you drink all that, you're going to be lit. Oh my God. Dude, dude, dude, dude. All right. We just, we're in debt, dude. Yeah. We literally just bought a 1.3 million dollar car. Ryan, McLaren, Charlotte. We get cars. You come here right now. Man, message him on Instagram. Let's pop up the Instagram. Yeah. All right. Any car you want, you go to him. You need watches. You go to Neil. You need cars. You go to Ryan. And that's it. Love you guys. We are going to get into more debt right now. See you guys on the debt tripod. Thank you for everything. I appreciate you. Appreciate you. Thank you. Yeah, man. Yeah. Yeah. Put your hands in the air where I can see them. Welcome to day three of Convict Kitchen. Today's episode and challenge is called Contraband Cuisine. I have my good friend Stiney here as guest judge today. Convict Kitchen, baby. Let's go. My best friend right here. Let's go. Thank you for having me. What is Contraband Cuisine? Contraband Cuisine is a cooking challenge where you need to make an elevated prison dish and hide contraband in it without fucking up the contraband. Whatever the contraband is, we need to use it after. So can you define what contraband is? Contraband is illegal shit that a motherfucker can't have in prison. So in prison, usually you put contraband, you put it in your poop chute, your butthole. Okay. Or you put it in your gooch. You know what the gooch is? Yes. The place between your butt and your balls. And your balls, yeah. But today, they're putting it inside our food. How nice is that? Wow. All right. Stiney, do you want to meet the ex-convicts? Let's fucking meet the ex-convicts. Let's go. Convicts, enter and address me as Yes Chef. Yes Chef. Thank you. Are you serious? We're just mad. Yes Chef. These are our three right here? Yeah. All right, Stiney. Yeah. We're not about profiling people for this scenario. Let's profile them. Look at each one of these ex-cons and let's just guess their charge. Okay, so you don't intimidate me at all, to be honest. If I saw you in the street, I'd throw hands with you any day. I'm going to take shoplifting, something weak for you. Misdemeanor, obviously. My name is Trevor Jacob. I was charged with five different felony terrorist charges. I jumped out of a plane, let it crash into the ground on purpose, pulled my parachute. Never been in trouble in my life. All of a sudden, I'm in a federal prison with very scary people and had to toughen up. You know, I'm a kid from the mountains that just grew up having fun. And next thing you know, I'm literally in a prison cell with murderers. But I learned to cook. At one point, I was forced to join a white prison gang. But, you know, luckily, things stayed pretty calm. I did almost get stabbed in a prison riot. I almost started another riot in the kitchen on accident. But we're here still. We're alive. Then we got the big dog on campus who acts like you got you act like you got to be the big guy, right? I don't act. You see it? Yeah, I don't see shit. Honestly, I ain't intimidated. That's why you looked away. He probably got aggravated assault. My name is Greg Rinosso. The official Ms. Tasty. I went down for 10 years for five attempted murders. Oh, attempted murders? Yeah. Fuck. Didn't finish the job. Wait, you had five people attempted? Technically, because it was shot in the car and there was five people in there. You got no aim, my boy. I mean, how do you miss five? I'm sorry. I don't mean to be that guy, but you missed five times. Yeah. What was it mean? Okay. All right. That's what they all say. Being incarcerated really taught me a lot. You know what I'm saying? At the end of the day, learning great people skills. I learned how to read a whole lot better being incarcerated. And I picked up cooking. And then, I don't know. With you, I kind of vibe with you. Like, if I was locked up, I'd want to hang out with you. Okay. Sellies. Domestic violence. My name is Shante. I went to prison for three years for drug trafficking. Opiates and cocaine. Very great drugs. Did you get high on your own supply? I had fun. That's the number one rule. Don't get high on your own supply. No, no. That's why you're here. I didn't get... No, absolutely. I'm here because a family member wore a wire on me. They told on me. All right. Which family member? Yeah, we don't call them out. Sister, brother. Cousin. Ooh. Fuck my cousin. I fought her at my grandma's funeral. When you watch this, I'm still on that. A family member wore a wire on me and did five control buys. So, she just kept coming over, asking me for drugs. I was giving her drugs. She was wearing a wire the whole entire time. I ended up getting indicted. All right. Let's bring out the correction officer, Pepino. Ex-military. Ex-marine, right? Yes, sir. Pepino, would you like to show them what they have to use? Yes. What do we have here? What's the first item? My personal condom. Ooh, a magnum. Magnum. Oh, you're packing. Okay. What is that? A lockpick or a shank and a bag of drugs. Okay. All right, convicts. Somebody here is going to have an advantage. So, whoever served the most time in prison gets to choose their contraband first. Who's on the most time? Who's first pick? How much time you do? Ten years. Straight. Miss? I got three. Three? I served a total of six months. Nothing. Wow. Ten years. You come up and you take your pick. All right. I want the s***. I mean, I want the drugs. All right. Second pick. Three years. Oh, whoa. Yeah, I know what I'm coming. Whoa. You're familiar with those or no? Absolutely not. Okay. And if you want, after the correction officer here, Pepino, could test out the condom on you. Okay. All right. Mr. Clean. You have the- Thank you, sir. I appreciate it. This is honestly the most versatile, useful thing out of these, and I'm grateful to have it. Thank you. I know it was last pick. I didn't have a choice, but- I mean, you're a terrorist. This is where I get confused. Like, he's like a nice guy, but you know he's like the worst one. You know what I'm saying? Convicts, here are the rules. You have to make an elevated prison dish using the commissary pantry. These are all the approved ingredients in prison. You got the fridge. You have one hour to make an elevated prison dish and hide the contraband in it. Winner gets $50,000. $50,000? $50,000? Motherfucker, I'm insane. Stop playing me. I'm homeless. I don't have no car. I don't got nothing to go back to after this. And you also move to the grand finale, where the prize money is $251,000. Let's go. $251,000. Terrorist, are you ready? Yes, chef. Attempted murder. Are you ready? Yes, chef. Beautiful black girl. Are you ready? Yes, chef. 60 minutes on the clock. Your time starts right now. Run. Let's go. The cops are chasing you. The cops are chasing you. Getting all my supplies. Get out of my way. Get out of my way. This motherfucker got hot chocolate. He did six months. We'll fuck six months in here making hot chocolate pockets. Shut the fuck up. I'll cook all you motherfuckers all day. The six months I spent in federal prison was absolutely terrifying. I don't live a life of crime. I basically did this YouTube stunt, and holy hell did it take me down a path. What are you making, Trevor? Don't worry about it. It's for me to know, for you to find out. Okay. Today I'm making the Pookie Bar. It's a dish that's created and inspired by my plane crash. The Pookie Bar is all the most tasty, delicious commissary items, including hot chocolate, equal sweetener. We've got oatmeal packets. We've got a little bit of peanut butter. I don't know if we're going to be able to get chocolate milk in here, but we've got some dry milk, and we're going to have to add a little water. Crush it all up. Make it a delicious item. And I'm not kidding you. It sounds insane, but it's absolutely fucking delicious. And this stuff traded really well in prison. All right. Tempted murderer. What are you cooking today? So I'll make it sweet and sour, but not a spray. We're going to actually make a meal. Ooh, wow. Yeah. You're going Asian. Yeah, going Asian. It's the word on the street. You're a bitch. That's the word on the... Hey! Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You said what? Pepino. Pepino. Hector. So maybe put you in the hole with all the other vatos. That's cool. Back up. What are we going to do? What I'm trying to do is cook these to where they don't get too soggy. Make actual chow mein noodles. The trick is to put some hot ass water in it, let it steam for a little bit, then we're going to dump the water out. What's brewing in there? Because it looks like. What I'm doing is with the Mountain Dew, because you can't get sugar in prison, so what we do is reduce the soda, and that's what we're going to glaze the meat with. Making the base of the potato logs, I'm going to add these noodles, chicken, everything into them chips right there. Just so they can run the light and be upon their way. You got to get this ranch and that mayo. Put the eggs in there. You don't got eggs. Just you're going to keep it all together. I am about to heat that up so I can deep fry this. After I deep fry it, I'm going to put my sauce, my beans, my cheese on top. All right, final 10 minutes. I'll see you guys in a few. Yes, Chef? Yes, Chef. For fucking Christ's sake. Yes, Chef. God, the terrorist is the only one that's respecting the Yes, Chef. Good job, Terry. Mr. Clean over there making some that look the same going in as it come out. Look at that. Zoom in on the dookie. She's actually got jokes, but I bet her food tastes like shit. Now we're just putting the final touches on these. Let's go. Three, two, one. Time's up. Hands up. Behind your back. Get on the fucking floor. Get on the floor. Get on the floor. You see who lives. Oh. Can I get back up now? Yes, sir. Thank you, chef. Oh, you're welcome, terrorist. You had one hour to make a dish with the contraband included in the dish. It's time to taste the food. Terrorist! Come up here. Yes, chef. Pepino, check him down. Come on. Get my back. All right, so here we have the pookie. Are you going to pat me down first? Explain your dish. Explain your dish. This is a beloved dish. It's called the pookie. It is the prison cookie, also short for the poo cookie. Why? Because it is a prison wallet's finest. And basically inside of this we have our contraband that I was supplied with. So the reality I was telling you guys is that you're going to move on the fly and you need to have something quick that's tasty, it has protein, it has all the nutrients you really need to survive and have a good meal. Ten years ago, I started a failed energy bar company. And when I said I did the crime, that was the only thing in my pocket. Hey, Terrace. Yeah. Shut the fuck up. Okay. I love your respect. Yes, chef. You talk too much. All right, thank you. Hey, it's intact. Good job. Mr. Clean. Terrace, get back to your station. Yes, chef. Oh, thank you for that. Oh, yes, chef. I love that. Okay. All right. Next up, we have the Mexican attempted murderer. Six attempted murders, right? Correct? Five. Five. Pretty good numbers. All right. Explain your dish. So what we had is a traditional sweet and sour, which a lot of those that could relate know about the sweet and sour, but I also made a little chow mein and some white rice. Okay. Let's mix it. Oh, man, you messed up the... Man, you got us caught. All right. Now, where's the contraband? It's right there. He almost ate that motherfucker. Yeah, I'm lost him. All right. The drugs are still intact. Do you think you're a big dog? Come on. I think you're a little puppy, my boy. You can see it, my guy. A little puppy. You have full permission to come at him. Oh, my God. What's the fuck? My man, my man, my man, my man, my man, my man. Thank you. All right. Last but not least, we have a beautiful black woman. Queen. Who's a drug trafficker. Come up, drug trafficker. Explain your dish. My dish is like chicken roll. It's got spicy pickles, cheese, sausages inside. This looks like a real jail dish right here. Because I don't eat beans, but some people did. All right. It's a chicken roll. Is this a Cheeto crust? Yeah, hot Cheeto crust. Okay. Where did you hide your contraband? It's like trying in the middle. Is this cooked all the way through? Yeah. Everything's full of it. No. Okay. It's sausage. Let's see if we can use it. All right, Pepino. Can you try this on? And if you're up for it, you can have sex with a drug trafficker. You want me to help you try it on? So what's all in this? Shredded chicken, cheese, pickle, smoked sausage, peppers. Cheers. Thank you so much. Thank you. Right now, it's a hard decision we have to make. Me and my associate and my corrections officer, we're going to have to have a meeting. And we're going to see who won this shit. $50,000. $50,000. And a chance to go to the finale with a chance to win $251,000. Let's go. That's real money. Real money. All right. Get the fuck out of my kitchen. Yes, chef. Yes, chef. There we go. Thank you. Thank you so much. I'm 50-50. This tastes the best. It's simple. This looks like shit. Yes, tastes good. I'm leaning towards this because even though it wasn't as good as this, you've never seen some shit like that before. All right. This was a very tough fucking decision to make, but I think we know who won. Pepino, go get the convicts. Pat down the terrorist and the black one. Fuck, pat them all down. First and foremost, I want to say I'm very proud of all of you. Today was not like the other two days. The other two days of convict kitchen, there was always this one clear fucking loser. Today, all three of you motherfuckers did good. So let's remember, we are judging the dishes off of hidden contraband, most elevated dish and taste. All right, Terrace, your granola par, damn delicious, right? I just want to say that right now. But the whole thing was elevated prison dishes, right? It was good though. Mexican, you made Chinese food inside a prison. Be proud of yourself. Pat yourself on the back. Terrific. Beautiful black woman. You made slop. You made shit that doesn't taste like shit. So, I hate to say this, terrorists, this whole thing was elevated prison dishes. So, I'm going to have to ask you to get the fuck out of here. But, I have someone here. His name is Parker Lippman. He's rich as fuck. He has businesses. We would like to talk to you about investing and starting a granola bar company. There we go. There we go. Thank you, Chef. It was really good. Thank you, Chef. Yeah. I was the first eliminated. I'm pretty upset about it. They said it tasted good, but it wasn't enough to make the cut today. I've had to borrow money from everyone in my life to just stay afloat, to put food on the table, to just get through this chapter. It's been a rough road. So, that $50,000 would have really helped in getting my life back on track. And, uh, I've been living in an airplane hangar, you know, like, just in the cold, miserable dark that's, like, close to the prison that I was in. And, like, I'm on the comeback, so. All right. Now we have a attempt. I mean, this is so tough. This is tough. We have an attempted murderer. And we have drug trafficker. There can only be one winner. There can only be one winner. One person that wins $50,000 and gets to go to the finale with the chance to win $251,000. I'm just going to be, uh, get straight to the fucking point. Drug trafficker, black woman, 50 grand. Stop fucking paying me. Give me a hug. Oh, my God. Who am I? You for real? You for real? Yeah. Bro. I fucking got the money, y'all. I don't even cook. I love being black. Everything you do is fire. You showed me shit on a plate. I love that shit. I appreciate it. Yeah. You just took the jail dish to another level. Ultimately, that's why you won. So, congratulations. Since you guys were all so close, attempted murderer and terrorist, you guys need to get 5,000 rackeroonies. There we go, baby. Thank you. A little 5,000. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate that. You get 10% of the winnings. Thank you so much for coming on. And, uh, just say something at home. For, uh, the peeps. For my people out there, man. If you don't believe in nothing, believe in the next day. Because tomorrow will come. And you're going to get another chance. And another chance. And another chance. So, keep going. Next up is season finale part one. And that shit's going to be fucking crazy. And the winner gets 251,000. How do you feel about that? I'm feeling great. I just won 50,000. I know I'm coming for that quarter milli, y'all. Now, can you give a white man, the judge, a little smoochy smooch? Come on. You give me 50,000. Okay. You think I'm professional. Put your hands in the air where I can see them. Uh, guys. I just want to say. I am so thankful for everybody that is still watching. If you're watching this, I'm so thankful. I want to know what you guys thought of Combi Kitchen episode three. And just know. The videos are going to get better. Longer. More thought. It's like, bro. I swear to God. In order for me to get out and do something normal, I have to take Kratom and Benadryl. Otherwise, I can't fucking move. So, guys. $100,000. Just like, comment, subscribe. Watch the whole video. Give me your opinion. But I love you guys so much. We're live right now. Kick.com slash Steve will do it. We're going to be giving away a lot of money. And since it's outshot, this could be longer. I have been so depressed the last three years. And I made so much goddamn money in the last three years. And I don't give a fuck about it. And I mean this. I would rather be poor with a YouTube channel versus super rich without a YouTube channel. Like, YouTube is my everything. So, if you guys, you just come back every single week. I'm telling you. Kind of became a drug addict. I'm about an accident. Might be. So, anyways. Every single Wednesday, 830 Eastern. Even if I'm going through withdrawals. I don't know, dude. Even if I get AIDS. I'm fucking going to be there. Me. And sometimes it feels like I can't die. Cause I never was alive. Every day it feels like someone new dies. Hope the news is alive. This is.

=== FILE: I made a Mr. Beast diss track!! (feat. 6ix9ine) [qI0r-QIn4hY].txt ===

Was see on this page. I WALK SHIT DOWN! So congrats to atcinmac1. And he said, have to turn on bell notifications for Steve. You just won $100,000. $100,000. And there's one more. What's this for? Another $100,000? No, no, this one is for $250,000, the first one. $250,000 fucking grand. Quarter million dollars. We do $100,000 every single week. Look, it's picking out of $250,000 comments. So completely random. Bro, completely random. So this guy. Ryan Manclopal. Just won $250,000. No, Ray Manclopal 5591. I love you guys. Let's get in the video. Anything you guys say, Neil. I love you guys. Make sure to hit a subscribe on his page. We're getting him to $1.2 million. $1.2 million. We're at $954,000. Timepiece trading on YouTube. $100,000 plus a watch. Like, comment, subscribe. Subscribe to Neil. I love you guys. And this is for you guys at home. You finish this sentence. I WALK SHIT DOWN! You guys finish it for me. No matter where you are, where you're at, who's around you. Scream. All right, we're at the studio. We have a huge feature. You may know him. Lyrical genius. Future inmate. Like a day away. Future tomorrow inmate. At the MDC Brooklyn. We're talking about Josh Bloch. Oh, we have a Josh Bloch. Future inmate. What does B-A-N-N-E-D mean on Tinder? Nigga. What do you get banned on Tinder for, Josh? Put my cash app on it. All right, so this is the trio to make the biggest track in the world, I think. All right, wait. So, Danny, you got three months? Yeah, three months. Yeah, but you're, dude, you're going to be partying with fucking all the cool people. Yeah, it's like, bro, best basketball team a prison has ever seen. Listen to me. I'm point guard. I'm leading the squad, right? You have Maduro. He's kind of big. You know what I mean? So he's playing center. Listen. Wait, are you guys in the same one? Yeah, bro. Maduro's going to play center, right? I got fucking, um... My daddy Luigi Mangione. Ari Luigi Mangione's man. He's the shooting guard. He's the shooting guard, right? Because, bro, he's the shooting guard, bro. Like, come on. You know who he needs to lock up is Brittany Griner. And then you have a squad. Yeah, but we fucking traded her fucking... It's a bad trade. You need her on the squad. She's not even adding 15 points, and we traded her for a fucking arms dealer. I know. It's stupid. So, listen. Explain what's happening here today. We are doing a diss track because I want an easy YouTube video because I'm going through opioid withdrawals. And I'm having, um... That's all it is. I just want an easy video. I'm an alcoholic. Don't take the bottle. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Dude, how dare you touch this shit? Yeah, man. I'm sorry. I don't have problems. All right. Let's make a fucking banger. Let's do it. Let's go. Josh, you ready? Yeah. He's an IG. I'm going to cuss out. Yo, just punch me right there. Dressing no black when I creep. That's it. All right. Come on. Let's knock this out. Let's do it quick, bro. All right. Babe, you shot that? You shot that? Dressing all black when I creep. And I'm still making millions when I sleep. You ain't never touching streets, you a geek. Who the fuck is Mr. Beast? You be sucking off the sheiks, nigga. Dressing all black when I creep. And I'm still making millions when I sleep. You ain't never touching streets, you a geek. Who the fuck is Mr. Beast? You be sucking off the sheiks, nigga. Everything about you fake. I can see right through it. Do it. Everybody's scared to say it. I guess they will do it. Do it. Fuck a thumbnail. Your main bitch is trash. When's the last time you helped someone without a camera test? Pussy, nigga. If the lens broke, would you still come? No. If you stopped getting views, would you still come? No. For a like, ain't no telling what you do. You be out there in Dubai getting shit and I'm by doing it. This ain't jealousy. Nah, this is about loyalty. Yeah. He was acting wild. Now I gotta tame the beast. Yeah. When I started shining, you the one who shaded. Me. Yeah. Just be honest. You ain't even who you claim to be. Dressing all black when I creep. Creep, creep. And I'm still making millions when I sleep. Sleep, sleep. You ain't never touching streets. You a geek. Who the fuck is Mr. Beast? You be sucking off the sheiks, nigga. Dressing all black when I creep. Creep, creep. And I'm still making millions when I sleep. Sleep, sleep. You ain't never touching streets. You a geek. Who the fuck is Mr. Beast? You be sucking off the sheiks, nigga. Wild body. With this baby yellow bitch, I call a god body. She go back up on my dick like it's hydraulic. Why do you think it's true so much that they can't die about it? Fucking looking at my chain, stupid nigga. Die about it. Like ha, ha, niggas mad. They business like my picks. I got these niggas really mad. Swerving in the lamp. Steve getting to the bag. If I see the running blues, know I do the whole thing. Creep, creep. Steve the same nigga. Only thing change, that chain got bigger. Whip got faster. Oh, God thicker. Steve, Mr. Beast. Hit him with the perica. Pop. Pop. And I'm still making millions when I sleep. You ain't never touching streets, you will keep. Who the fuck is Mr. Beast? You be sucking off the sheiks, nigga. Dressing all black when I creep. And I'm still making millions when I sleep. You ain't never touching streets, you will keep. Who the fuck is Mr. Beast? You be sucking off the sheiks, nigga. Celebrate it, baby. You can get shit in it. You can get shit in it. I don't cough him. He's got aura on God. Just hit the gym. What else are you going to do in jail? Hit the gym and leave. Don't drop any soap to your Gucci. To be honest, I feel like I'm going in during my, what was it called, done? Revenge arc. But anyway, God is sitting me down for a purpose. Right. I feel like one of these days, January 16th, February 12th, March 19th, I could have head out to go fill up the car with gas. You know, my mom sometimes asks me, what are we eating today? I don't feel like cooking. And I would go get some meat. You would go outside. So you never know when God sits you down and say, listen, there's no way to stop this. I know you're trying your best, but sit down real quick. Yeah. And three months is nothing, bro. We're going to get through it. Now, I get what you're saying. You got to say. You're saying it's like this plan, so nothing bad will happen. Listen, don't question. Yeah, don't question. Whatever's supposed to happen, this is what's happening. So what are you thinking you should do? What time is it? Bro, we live in an hour and a half. What do you want to do for your last hour, bro? This ain't a shot. Fuck, I ain't a drink. I'll do it with you, bro. We got to. Steve, I think you're going to give a speech. You're blowing up. Speech. I just want to say I love everyone here, for real. And I'm so happy for you because everybody loves you. Like when I was fucking with 6ix9ine, nobody fucked with me. And every major person of mine on the team would call you and say, what are you doing? Yeah, no one approved or agreed or whatever. And then now I get back on YouTube, I feel like I'm on top of the world. And at the same time, simultaneously, this fucking fat Mexican is like, no, like he's just on the internet, like he's just the funniest fat Mexican ever. Like, anyways, I'm so thankful for life. And I think he needed to go to prison to lose weight. Honestly, all right? Cheers. And you got to go meet the president. It's all meant to be. Yo, Steve, real quick. Thank you so much. Yo, boys, all right, let's do this on live. Let's cut this off. Let's send my presentation. Do we have something? Yes, this is right there. Oh, my God. Here it comes. I keep it. Oh, my God. It's coming. Let's go. Hey. Let's go. You're free. Let's go. There we are. Let's get on the bed. We're going to get a cubo. It's going to be a sweater. It's beeping. Steve, you got to smell it. That's been all my best. So, like, some tacos? Hey. It has electricity. Oh. Oh, nigga, that shit. It has electricity. It has vaccinated. Why you sad? 6ix9ine is going to jail. That is sad. That's his best friend. I know that. No, but it's necessary. It's the only way he's going to lose weight. I support it. Yo, Steve, you think I'm still coming home with fappy shit? No, no, no. If you do, I would be so disappointed in you because I'm so happy that you're going to jail. I'm sad. It is sad, but you got to make the best of it. No, it's necessary. We're going to be fat forever. It's going to happen. It's part of the simulation. He needs prison to get rich. It is what it is, man. Damn, so do I go with dicks? If you guys see a headline that I die, listen, I'm not suicidal. I will never kill myself. You love your life. I love my life, and I got three months to go with the f***ing off his life. No, but he would never. Bro, I'm telling you, this guy loves his life. We never abandon God. I'm not going to support that. Damn. Hold it down, Steve. Hold it down, Steve. I'm going to take care of my... Koh-Hor-Lim. Yo, but no fro. Hold it down on YouTube. Kill it. I love my brother to death. He's not a vibe. He's going to hold it down. Forever, regardless, I'm going to hold it down. Three months, we're going to walk that s*** down. We're going to walk that s*** down. And... Yo, whoa, bro. What the f***? Oh, God, man. Oh, damn, they. Why are they still on dick? So, listen, when the IRS took everything, and I started coming back up, I didn't like this song, but it just hit harder. Now that I'm back up, it resonates, and I'm literally here with good people. Mm, that's true. We love you, Dave. Ah. I think it's time to shine. I've been waiting so long. Bro, she keeps serving time. I've been going for so long. And I promise I'm going to do this s*** for us. Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. That was my song. But when Steve lost his YouTube, we were going to work out. We played tennis every day. This is my depression song. Jail said they're ready. Yeah? All right, ready? All right. Right here? Let me go up there. All right, let's go. All right, boys. I'm going to jail. They said they're ready for me. Hey, baby. I want to say thank you to Steve. I love you, bro. Love you, brother. I love you. You feel the best, bro. My girlfriend. Yeah, we're going in there. We got this. You got this. Love me, you mean me. Nothing can change your mind either. Tekashi 6ix9ine voluntarily surrendered and entered the Brooklyn MDC to serve a three-month sentence. Daniel Hernandez was sentenced to three months behind bars. This is the last time we're doing this jail shit. Facts, man. That's sad. Fuck! I'm mad as fuck. Yeah, man. That happened. It's all right. I'm mad as fuck. No, it's good. It's the only way this guy is going to have his weight. No, it's not. That's the fucked up part. I need to sit down. Here. I'm like, man. Hey, double of them. Bro, three months is going to go by so fast. Yeah. Three months is going to go by. He's popular in jail. Of course. I wish they could do what he did in being there. But, you know what? Fuck it. Everybody in there tucking their tail. My man just walks with his head of hell high. His shoulders back. That's it. What's up, boys? Steve's tired right now. We just came back from fucking taking Danny to jail. He's doing three months. It's all good. He's going to be in good faith. We'll make sure, right? But, listen. Here we go. New video. Going straight to Coffee Kitchen. We're not doing no fucking Chip Riannis. We're not doing no fucking Carbone. We're not going to Mila. Straight to Coffee Kitchen. Let's go. Come on. Yeah. We walk shit down, nigga! Put your hands in the air where I can see them. Inmates, enter. From here on out, you address me as Yes Chef. Yes Chef. Yes Chef. Welcome to day two of my Convict Kitchen competition. Winner gets $50,000 motherfucking dollars. Today, we have a special guest. Guys, meet Mama. I was in jail last night because I went out with my girlfriends and the police hate fun. What better guest judge than someone fresh out of jail? So, in honor of Mama, today's episode is called Bailing Out a Baddie. So, today's challenge, you have to cook a meal that you would present until your first date. This is the prison pantry. These are all certified items that are in prison, as you guys probably recognize them. You're criminals. And, yeah, you have one hour. You got impressed, dude. Winner gets $50,000. And a blowjob. What? Hey! The best. For me, yeah, I know. Great. All right, degenerate criminals. You guys know the rules. You know what's in store. $50,000 and a blowjob. Your time starts right motherfucking now. Go, go, go, go, go, go! Don't be taking all the shit now. Y'all taking shit y'all don't even need. Take what you need. Shush. We're here, sir. My name is Derrick. I'm from New York City. I went to jail for armed robbery with some bullshit. You know, it was something I did in my teenage years. I spent two years for it. After that, it changed my life. My name is Tiana Bell, and I'm coming right out of D.C., but, of course, I rep ATL. I've done about four years total. I've done everything from looting the police into fighting the police. They should never touch me. My name is Quinn Casbar. I'm from San Diego, California. I went to prison for over seven years for over 33 felonies, one of which included stealing a ring-tailed gamer from a zoo. What are you making, Derrick? I'm going to make like a hibachi. Okay. Basic. Don't be hating, bro. You're going to want some of this food, too. Watch. Tomorrow, I'll be making her breakfast. Making a pan-seared burrito. First, I've got to prep the beans, the rice, and the meats. In prison, we don't got knives, so I've got to make one. This is a jailhouse sausage. This is the kind of sausage that you would never buy in the real world. This is the kind of sausage that you want to stay away from. What? Got all the PFAs, all the nitrates, all the bad stuff. You know what? I'm going to make a chili. I love chili because not having a lot, what we do is we cut up all the vegetables, all the meats, and we make what we have. And chili is usually the easiest thing to manifest. Right now, I'm about to see what this shredded beef is hitting for. This looks like some prison shit. But we're going to do whatever we got to do to make it good. This is goya, salsa goya seasoning. I'm trying not to season it too much because I don't want it to be too salty. But after I put it in there and really start cooking it, I'm going to taste it and see what's what. All right, guys. 30 minutes left. How are we looking? Oh, shit. Looking good, chef. Oh, my God. I got something here for you to try. Dude, thank you. All right. So that's just some of the meat, how it's coming along, some tomatoes, sorry, onions in there. Just kind of sauteing everything, getting it ready. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Oh, okay. Mm-hmm. Thank you for calling me, chef. Yes, chef. All right. Cop beater. So what are we looking like? Can I, what'd I try? This is the chili, but it's without the meat. Okay. I'm just getting there. Just, mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. I'm going to make you a dessert. Very impressed that you're making dessert. You're going above and beyond. And, yeah. Thank you. Oh, yeah. You got to call me chef. Yes, chef. Oh, that's hot. Okay. All right. Armed robber. Yes, sir. Can I taste something? Oh, which one? You want to taste some of the shredded meat real quick? Yeah, yeah. What do you think? Okay. One. You scared me. Come on, man. All right. We'll see you guys in 30 minutes. All right. Jesus Christ. Yes, chef. Yes, chef. Thank you. Sorry for losing my temper. Okay. Woo! Yes, chef. I'm going to dump this in here right now. This is the beef. And this is just for flavor. Pepperoni. Add this right into the pot. All right. We're going to taste some. It's good. Hey, what you doing over there, lemur stiller? I'm just sauteing some meat, trying not to rush. I just got to oil these up because after all, they're going to be fried burritos, so I need some sort of fat. And I'm going to use the mayonnaise just for that. That's a good idea, lemur stiller. You making some dog food over there? That looks like what we get off the chow hall. Basically, to make it all cute and pretty, I'm going to do it like this. Okay. That doesn't work, so I'm just going to make it sloppy. All right. Guys, one minute left. Oh, fuck. God damn it. Yes, chef. Yes, chef. You know what? Where's the ice? So I'm going to pour the Pepsi in a plastic bag and pour the ice in a separate plastic bag, and I'm going to freeze the Pepsi. Hopefully, it freezes in time because I'm an overachiever. It's going to take longer than one minute. Hey, cop beater, 30 seconds. What are you doing? Oh, fuck. It's 30 seconds? 30 seconds. I'm going to have to improvise and just smash the ice. Five, four, three, two, one. Hands up. Bar your rack. Bar your rack. I got you to the bar. All right. Oh, shit, Lehman Stiller. I like the way you played that. Yeah, he played it. You played it well. I don't play that good. It fixed with the tux. All right, criminals. It's judgment time. You had your hour. You made your dish. Now it's time to taste your dishes. Who wants 50K? Me. Who wants a blowjob? Me. Me. Well, technically, my pussy lick, but anything's possible. All right. Lemur. What is a lemur? Is a monkey? A lemur. You ever seen Madagascar or King Julian? Oh, I love King Julian. All right. Bring it up. Present your dish. What the hell you got for me? This is an artisanal pan-seared burrito. We have a blend of meats in there. We have some hot Cheetos, beans that have been seasoned to your tastings. I made this just for her. You know, I know you just came out of jail. I want to make sure you eat right. I hope you like it. Garlic chili sauce off to the sides that we have. That's a typical sauce you'll find on any commissary. All right, well. Good boy. Thank you, Lemur Story. Oh, let's do it. Yes, Chef. Oh, thank you for that. Oh, thank you. All right. We have caught Peter. Come up. Present your dish. All right. So, to impress you, I made an extra dessert. It might not look the best, but it's yummy. Explain your dish. So, this is a deconstructed chili because we don't have a bowl, so I made it nice and thick and hearty. This is jalapeno rice chili. We have a chipotle sauce on there, a nacho cheese. I have some garlic seasoning, salt, pepper. I have some hot Cheetos. Literally everything you can think of is in this dish to fill us up. And make a shit. And this. And this, we have a ground Reese's cup. We have some cookies in there, different types of cookies. We have some M&Ms, chocolate. I melted the chocolate down with heat. Really yummy dessert. All right, get the fuck away. Thank you. Okay, great. Yeah, thank you. All right, last but not least. Sex offender. I'm just kidding. Armed robbery. Asshole joke. He's so not. Yeah. I'm so not a sex offender. Okay. Explain your dish, please. So this is my gel chow time rice, shredded beef, garlic, some eggs, some onion. Okay. Hopefully you guys like it. It looks dry. You look dry. Oh. Doubt it. If you like spiciness, I pour some chipotle on the side so you could, you know, to your dry. I don't know if everybody likes spicy shit. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. He likes it. Okay. Thank you. Do I get the blowjob now? Uh, you know what? Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. That's your motherfucking station, but you pissed me off. All right, chefs, criminals. Thank you guys so much. Please approach. You guys did a great job, but we have a very tough decision to make. Me and Mama, we need to have a talk. Please leave the kitchen. Yes, chef! Oh, thank you guys. Damn. Yeah, nice. Wow. This was wild. I can do it. Yours was good. He ate that shit twice. I'm Robbery. I really like the beef. He's seasoned beef very well. I wish you put more beef in it. It's really good. I know I'm going home. My shit looks so disgusted. What do you think about her? It was good. I like the crunch, and you got to think, like, if you were in jail, this would go absolutely fucking nuts. No, cop beer, it's good. Bro, y'all just got to all believe in ourselves, bro. No, I do not believe in her. I just think y'all got to, like, keep shit, you know what I mean? It can go any way. It can. We don't know. We all have her mouth. We just talk, and we don't know. So, lemur stealer. The burrito was pretty impressive. Spicy. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Ooh. I'll be honest, they're all pretty fucking good. All I know is, I'm just proud of the little ones. All right. Mama, we both agree? I think we both agree, yeah. Can you go get the criminals? Sure. Try not to have sex with anyone. Okay. All right. All right. Thank you. All right, everybody. Okay. We have made the decision. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Guys, first off, I want to say thank you guys so much for coming in here and participating. This was like the hardest decision ever. So, we're just going to get straight to it. So, two of you were kind of head to head. Did so good. It was so delicious. And then the third, it was kind of you shit the bed. Hoo, hoo, hoo, hoo. Oh, my God. I hate to do this. Cop beater. Yeah. I'll be your sugar daddy, but I can't. I can't let you win this competition. I'm okay with that. Third place. It hurts me. Yeah, it's okay. Yeah. So, get the fuck out of here. I'm so sorry. You're the best. Thank you. So, I probably should have thawed it out a little bit more. I didn't have some of my ingredients. So, I made a chili, which wasn't a chili. Because I feel like if I would have made all the dishes the way I planned them in my head, it wouldn't have went right. And I probably wouldn't. Hoo, all right. This is tough. Lemur Steeler. You stole King Julian. Pretty badass. Armed Robbery. Pretty badass, too. Did you use a pistol? You have a pistol? Allegedly. Allegedly. Oh, sweet. First off, meat was tender. It was so good. Like, armed robbery was really good. The rice. So good. It was good. Lemur Steeler. I mean, it was just incredible the way it had Cheetos in the burrito. It's very tough for me. I hate this part of the show. Everything's fun until this part. All right. The person that is getting $50,000 and a blowjob. Stole a monkey. Lemur Steeler. Let's go! I'm gonna break from that. Congratulations. Give me a hug. Come on now. Here you go, buddy. Oh, yeah. Let's go. 50 Bandaroonis. Woo! Yeah, that was the toughest thing. This is a lot of money. This can change a lot of people's lives. Yeah, what are you gonna do with the money? I owe a lot of people money. Oh, dude, same. So, again, this is just going straight to them. Yes, you also won a blowjob. What are you gonna do with the blowjob? Can I phone a friend? Phone a friend. Listen, I got a girl. I got a girl. What can I do? It's not cheating if it's a game show and mama. So, congratulations. You are the winner of episode two of Convy Kitchen. You are now going to move on to the two-part finale. You're still in this, dog. Let's go. Let's get it. I'm excited. I'm going to win my A game. Congrats. Thank you, for sure. Thank you guys so much for watching episode two. Really excited. We have three new contestants for episode three. Lemur Steeler is going to be in the finale. So, stay tuned for that. I mean, unless you go back to jail. Hopefully, I don't go back to jail. Seven years was enough for me. I was able to do a lot in there. This was Convy Kitchen. Signing off. Hope you guys love it. I'll see you soon. Mama, sign us off. Mwah. Love you guys. I'm going to go sip some digs. Bye. Put your hands in the air where I can see them. All right. I want to say thank you guys so much for everything. I am so goddamn thankful for you. And $100,000 giveaway. Like, comment, subscribe, share. Timepiece trading. And new videos every single Wednesday, 830 Eastern. I'm so thankful and happy in life. So, let's get 1 million subscribers today. We got this, yo. Let's get it. A 950,000 subscribers in two weeks. 1 million in 15 days. That's pretty crazy, man. I love you guys so much. Need on time, peace trading. I love you guys, too, you guys. This is the, this note, 6,900. I, yeah, it's like that. I don't know the whole thing, though. It's some cripped shit. there?

=== FILE: I surprised my Filmer with his Baby Mama 😭 [Kcnv9ZBwi-w].txt ===

 buys find out. My cameraman, Lloyd, he came here, he fucked Anika, and got her pregnant, and just left her ass. Anyways, I'm a surprised Lloyd with his baby mama and a kid. I love you guys, surprise for you. Thank you. Yeah. This is a beautiful moment, okay? I see. Alright, Lloyd, you've been crushing at your job, and I'm gonna give you a big present. Okay. I have the best present you can give. He's bringing a child into his life. And that, Lloyd, big fun off, I have your Nicaragua kid. Yeah, I know. Yeah, that's it. She's so beautiful. Oh my gosh. Oh my god. And Lloyd, ten thousand. Be the father. Come on, mom. Are you okay? Yeah, give your daughter a ten grand. To the mom. To the mom. Lloyd. Lloyd. Hi, daddy. Hi. Aww. Yeah, Lloyd. Where are you? I'm here. No. I'm here. Take it. Please. Lloyd. Lloyd. Uh, congrats, bro. I should thank you. You're welcome. Yeah, you don't have to. You don't have to ignore anymore.

=== FILE: I'm back on YouTube!! [QoWcyYk2occ].txt ===

יאkיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיאיא Wednesday the 24th merry fucking Christmas guys, so we are going to be uploading every single week Wednesday at 830 Eastern So seven days from today. I love you guys so much $500,000 to either one person that likes and comments and shares or five people hundred thousand dollars each and if this video It's five hundred thousand likes will give way another five hundred thousand dollars if this video gets 10 million views We'll give way another five hundred thousand dollars if I get a million subscribers in 48 hours We'll give another five hundred thousand dollars, so I don't know big prize pool. I love you guys I'll see you guys on the tripod. This is crazy. Life's insane dude. I can't believe it. I'm a youtuber. I love you guys All right guys, we're about to go to the Red Rock and UFC This is what you call Vegas match style get even or get even worse So right now I have my airplane I have all my cars and all my watches we are down to gamble all of it to win my 1.6 million back. Look at this shit Fuckin Steve We're missing a Lamborghini Rivalto a Ferrari 458 spider Ferrari super fast a Maybach a Sprinter and a McLaren All right, so these are the cars we got we're going all in I have a guy that's down to buy all my shit on the spot We're gonna gamble we're gonna win everything back. We're going huge on UFC. I love you guys so much I'll see you guys on the tripod show the cars All right guys, so we are in North Carolina before we go to UFC and make this crazy video We are picking up my car guys you guys. I hate car guys. I always tell people if I were to I would have every single car guy, but so we found a car guy that is a good guy like Neil and part of our deal If you're my car guy, I have to audit your ass to make sure you're doing good business and Corinna oh god, please no I'm coming. Could you come with me? No, I don't want another fucking car. You got her another gift Not saying that I'm just saying follow me Oh my god Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my god. Rick Ross Why is Rick Ross here? Yo, this is Ryan my new car guy and he'll be the first one to practice real business Let's go because everyone I dealt with that fucked me over was the middleman. They bought cars from him I went straight to the supplier. That's like when uh all the cocaine movies when they're like go straight to supplier You know what I'm saying get the best deal Look at this car guy grab me Oh god There's a fucking scene So this is for us to gamble Come on There's a girl in the mirror with the queen on the side Yo, this is so sick. I'm giving her three choices of guards She is such a reward What the fuck? Okay Corinna So come here right here So we have the rolls royce cloning We have the for what is this phone? 296 a ferrari 296 I don't know what that fucking is I'm a claren 720s spider 750 He says I'm all wrong. He's just correcting them And then we got the 4x4 brabis Wow You have three minutes because we have to make our flight Choose one of them and it's all yours Time starts now Pick somebody else dude I have fucking eight cars You have nine This is like really bad gluttony and I'm going to hell If it wasn't my pussy pics it's this You gotta sit man You wanna do eeny meeny miny mo Corinna Corinna Corinna You know which one it is I think it's the rules for Royce brother I don't want another daily Three seconds I don't know Can I make a decision in the jet? Like why do I have to make a decision right now? Cause that's the game Yeah it's kind of like the game I don't want a car I literally don't want one I'd rather just say none Okay you're getting the 750s and I'm wrapping it I don't want the 750s Okay then you're getting the Ferrari I don't want the Ferrari Okay then you're getting the Rolls Royce I don't want the Rolls Royce Alright process of elimination We're getting the Brabus This is the stupidest game I've ever played You told me you wanted a 4x4 Brabus I did Pleasure doing business with you Thank you So nice This is crazy This is the craziest car reaction I've ever seen in my life I've gotten three What do you want me to say? No no no I'm not blaming you No another car Like it's literally like buying me Chick-fil-A Let's just sit in it, come on Alright well I guess I gotta tell my group chat I got another car The first $212 on his dollars inside of my pocket So Scott Storch went to my party, performed epic Right? First time meeting you was that day And he said he didn't want no money but if you can give him 6 grand to your manager or something And 6 grand for him to come and legendary It was for him So he's doing my uh, he's doing my Christmas party and I'm throwing you and Pepino birthday party So I said, alright let me get out of my bag Just 50 G's baby Come on now Yeah brother Come on We got iced out watching my kid Yeah I appreciate it Thank you bro Alright, we really gotta go Alright let's get the fuck out of here 1, 2, 3 Welcome to feeling shy To give me that pussy nicely 100,000 on the ice We just gonna fuck a Pisces Being at the fights like in person that close it's pretty cool Who are you putting money on? Who are the guys? I have no idea Excuse me No idea Spending a million dollars that you don't even know yet? I have two friends that are doing for me So now you're being shy, I'm gonna see Yeah I have a foot fetish Now you're doing that thing where they're like oh yeah As you do Was there a moment I liked feet? Yes It was a phase It was definitely a phase Like I understood why people like feet I understood when I saw her feet through the fetish Now I can tell I'm into her feet But it's like what do you do? Do you like cum on them? Or something? No no no no I never got that far You can't do that right now No come on while they're on my leg I'm walking inside a wine glass These niggas burnt All your poppins and For a bypass I see you niggas every single time Like an eyelash I really wanna see the height difference between Pepino and Alicia How tall is Pepino? 5 foot even He's 6 foot even Oh nice He can suck her titties without even Okay I'm like that lady All of a sudden bitches love me cause I'm getting money Alright we're about to go to UFC I'm gonna wager The goal was a million dollars But some shit happened I can't So I'm gonna wager at least 500,000 We can hit by it Yeah we can hit by it Hittin' a missionary She start yelling tell her be quiet I'm with Lil Y'all We got ten rods We don't fuck with niggas You don't like them we can hit by it I'm kind of upset cause I was betting a million And then they're playing that wifi But right now I have It's embarrassing I don't even wanna say it Come on I only have 300,000 on fights That's a lot of money No but dude I was like so It's like the whole idea was I was gonna bet a million We gonna record it Like do I even record 300,000? It's just like What? Of course Of course Okay so I just added 300k on top of the 300k Um Peter Yan To win 1.2 million Okay Peter Yan though That feels good yeah Bro underdog I don't even know who the fuck he's playing Maybe he's versing I blindly bet 300k on Peter Yan I'm like Oh I hope he does this Let's go Peter Yan Who do you bet against? Merab Dude I'm so losing Yeah Is it too late? It hasn't started Hey you never know You never know You never know Oh it feels like a guaranteed loss Yeah It's one of those things where I feel like if I pull it it's gonna win but if I don't pull it I'm gonna lose Okay yeah yeah yeah So either way I feel like you're gonna win though So usually Merab does not lose I'm feeling good about it Terrible Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Come on Hey Merab fight You're being a bitch right now He's a fucking for the book He's a cuddle monster Merab quit hugging him It's a championship fight Come on Yo We are actually looking okay I've never seen Merab look this hurt Really? Yeah I swear he was a win by decision Really? I think he could be winning right now I don't know No I thought he Oh Oh Oh He's hurt He's hurt That was a fucking shit Dude he's looking really good Don't He's looking really good Yeah I think he's winning Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Come on You fucking bitch Oh my god I think we're winning this Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah I just won a million dollars Russia Russia Russia I told you I had a good feeling Hey Ned You punished this with the truck out of here You ready? Yeah fuck it Alright guys so we're at the casino Dude is the CFO here? CFO! You went to the bathroom Okay so I owe these motherfuckers 1.6 million I'm not gonna pay y'all guys I mean I guess I have to But the whole thing is I got 25 million dollars of shit 10 million of it I don't care about It won't change my life Nothing I don't even think about it So we have Ryan from McLaren, Charlotte, North Carolina He is here ready to buy any car that I wanna sell I have 2 million in watches How much money do I have in cars? 5.3 5.3 million cars I probably got like 12 million in real estate You're down to buy everything All of it Okay so we're winning my 1.6 million back I don't give a fuck Okay? I will lose everything Yeah so we're gonna go in there Oh Christmas party And I made a Christmas song And we have Karina Okay? Look how Good shit Thank you Steve I was about to say I tapped that but I did not do that We are going to have a Christmas party And I'm going to either lose all my assets and money Or I'm gonna be rich We're prepared to go as deep as we need to right? Oh we're going deep Alright let's do something fun The Camel has the money on the back so Oh we have a Camel Oh come on So the Camel's got money But my black trainers also got money too And we're just gonna make a match No no no no no no seriously Spillage A pile Millions fucking dollars Alright Ballet Alright we're running play okay? Alright Straight Take right Left Throw it you keep it Alright straight Haktua Detroit Lions Alright Cut You got it Who else wants to smoke? Alright you Dude I got it I don't give a fuck dude Hey Can't you Hey Hey It's all sides Oh I'll keep you style right here Hi Camel Hi You want a Camel Crusher? I just asked the butlers to beat you Camel Crusher Hey he likes you Did I make you horny? If you horny So Hey Mr Camel I just gave away 30,000 to ballet So I kinda need 30 G's Thank you Thank you It's like it never happens Boom I love it I love it Alright Christmas Motherfucking party Spread the party Christmas party Yes sir Christmas party my time Yes sir Is Buddy the elf here? Yes Yeah thank god Last year on my Christmas party He took the mic and was on livestream He went in and fucked the hooker And he heard everything It was so sick Alright Welcome to my Christmas party I'm an exes that the sexes like my George Stray Or they go to Georgia State When I teach in his hand on my serenity This is my pilot Let's go We got a special surprise for you guys tonight So we made a banger last night Featuring one of the hottest rappers ever My brother Steve will do it Make some nachos Steve will do it Just to let you guys know I've never rapped before in my life We made a Christmas song as well This is all for funsies So don't take this shit seriously F*** Bounce for the gift Bounce for the gift Now can you shake for the gift Shake for the gift Girl can you wait for the gift Wait for the gift Wait I need to see how many bitches on that naughty list Now can you bounce for the gift Bounce for the gift Let's go I don't need a wishlist Cause everyday is Christmas Three hoes when I'm done I'ma dismiss Mistletoe on my dick Need a kiss bitch Treat me like Santa and I'll give your ass a big gift Hop in my sleigh I got toys to give away Steve will do it and I do it everyday Chugging eggnog I do not need a break Gotta dashing through the snow with the keys to my estate Baby tell me what I'm gonna do I'm gonna do it I'm gonna do it I'm gonna do it I'm gonna do it I'm gonna do it I'm gonna do it I'm gonna do it I'm gonna do it I'm gonna do it I'm gonna do it I'm gonna do it I'm gonna do it Keeps in my estate Baby tell me if you're naughty or nice If you're a fatty with a fatty then I'm checking it twice Send me the addy and I'm coming down the chimney Don't need a walla cause I'm balling like I'm Wemby Then you can't get thatיא Then you can't get thatיאיאיא million we hit from 1.2 on ufc then i got deadly sick i got deadly sick so right now we're gonna do 400 000 on the ravens and boom we owe nobody nothing we don't have to sell any cars houses watches and on the pathway to go bet that money we're gonna bless some people because i'm grinch i'm the grinch that made christmas fucking awesome like i'm the cool grinch i drink and i give people presents right thanks all the serial numbers are the same i'll take it back love christmas oh thank you and chadese people i love you guys hello hi hi i'm making fun of you there's a guy dressed like the grinch oh cool you see me at all or no yeah yeah i can see a bit yeah all right these are a hundred dollar bills do you feel buddy yep these are all hundreds each wow yeah it's for you what yeah fantastic because you're fucking blind thank you yeah merry christmas merry christmas i'm sorry for being cheap on you can you see this ten thousand dollar stock kind of yeah these are all hundreds ten thousand wow being blind really paid off yeah thank you so much that's incredible merry christmas yeah maybe you could get new eyes i don't know thank you yeah yeah yeah yeah are you guys gambling no not really i'm there right now there's some money to gamble with are you serious yeah yeah i'm the grinch that loves christmas i party and shit oh my god thank you so much so much so kind are you serious thank you for your service oh thank you he's the only one that made it out in his pool all right guys so i'm out of words god bless you god bless all you all right guys so 1.2 million 400,000 left to go to make we have two tickets right here 200,000 to win 100 and 150,000 win 100 okay so it's 200,000 so we just gotta call the bookie real quick and we need to place in a bet for ravens to win another 200 that we're even we don't have to sell any assets yeah can i place a bet with the bookie yes you can i gotta do uh to win 200,000 on the ravens money line or minus two and a half i'll let you choose okay minus two and a half i would do okay to win 200 to win 200 yes sir okay i'll text your confirmation right now all right so we're in for let's just call it 250 450 600,000 to win 400,000 boom you are now about to witness the strength of street knowledge all right guys we are doing christmas in motherfucking compton cue to giving blacks cool stuff because that's kind of what it is right a toy drive we have cars we have cash we have big booty black bitches okay okay if i were black or mexican i'd be in compton right now if i were you oh this is ari the sickest gay guy on the planet head gay in charge don't forget it it is awesome having a gay on the squad oh yeah here's a murder out to keep ya dancing with a crime record like charles manson 8k 47 is a tool don't make me act a motherfucking fool me you can go toe to toe no man i'm knocking niggas out the bus as a family thank you you're a lot of people though oh my god capital cpt well you can't fuck with me so when i'm in your neighborhood you better duck cause ice cube is crazy as fuck as i live come on hit that all right i'm coming straight out yes sir come on oh yeah what's up tell them where you're from straight out of compton is a brother that i'll smother your mother what do you got oh you got it wow come on now what do you want you playing i play war for family yeah congrats dang it my boy got the whole stand up let's see what you got nice damn that shit was dope this is my son his name is jose what's up jose his birthday is tomorrow all right so happy birthday i got you uh this vehicle no no oh my god thank you so much thank you so much thank you no rappers came and did this big dog you hear me thank you thank you he could not have done this without you bringing the city in and making this thing happen so he wanted to do something special for you that's your vehicle that's your vehicle oh my god no rappers they gave it so clear that's funny i just want to say this everything i do for my community i do it with love i got 20,000 kids under my belt auntie man we love you man we love mama we got you mama all right auntie here this is the brush i got on me for the kid no so you guys said you came from the hospital to here yeah we came from the clinic to here we were checking his counts to see if he's eligible to get chemo tomorrow he had cancer in his brain you guys are from compton we're from compton literally two doors down shit okay yeah well we love compton so yes we have some money for you oh my god this is for you honey that's for you yeah thank you so much hopefully there's helps thank you yeah this does i don't know how you're gonna hide it honey yeah tuck it somewhere tuck it somewhere tuck it in front of you you might gotta throw it in your tits miss oh okay you might have to enjoy god bless you with multiple more so uh i'm gonna give you ten thousand dollars oh my god thank you so much thank you so much i miss this so uh we just wanted to give you this automobile right here with the bow oh my god if you don't have a car seat i'll get you a car seat she'll get you a car seat i'll get you a car seat thank you thank you it's stolen by the way it's stolen by the way and then we also got some some uh some pocket change that's a blessing i'm just kidding it's just for the video i'm sorry okay so what we're doing i'm filming my own version of master chef what's up motherfuckers yeah it's not home cooks it's people that have been into prison with a grand prize of fifty thousand dollars sixty minutes on the clock starting now the smartest people in the world are in prison why did you go to prison for selling a lot of drugs i'm rapping with these creative minds that they make elevated prison food so we're gonna make a dorito out of bread so take your crust off make your dough not bad i could eat it if there was nothing else to eat in the world you fucking donkey anything i can get in my hands i can turn into the best gourmet you've ever had i am the best chef here because i'm actually a chef sir is that burning let's just say the kitchen gets hot

=== FILE: Surprising Bradley Martyn with Terminal Cancer! [XKEzcZguDd8].txt ===

 Warning. Steve is a trained professional. Do not attempt anything you see on this page. All right, guys. Welcome to a new video. It's Pepino. Hola. Took two weeks off, honestly, because I'm poor. And we needed to get a... He couldn't afford me. So we got some businesses going on. We have a partnership. We have PatDraw, my friend, Duke13, which I know, in real life. Went with him. And PatDraw. So basically, that's what I explained. Oh, I flew with Dukes, my moderator, on kick. We're live on kick. But Pat, I mean, you win real life. Win real life violence. Like, you can win watches, clothes. But this is what Duke13 said. PatDraw is a website where you can open packs similar to Pokemon. But when clothing, jewelry, watches, and cars, anything you win can be shipped to your house. Or you can withdraw the value in crypto. For example, instead of you finding a Pikachu in a pack, you can find a Ferrari. Oh, that's cool. Yellow Ferrari, like Pikachu. So you win real life items. So what I did is I wanted to pay cash monthly. I want to get items monthly. And I want you guys to get items. So pretty cool. The $50,000 winner is Boom. Light comment. And I asked PatDraw, I asked, do you guys take $50,000 out of my pay and pay someone? Because I'm literally making payments. And then also, I own 50% of motion. The limit list pouches is a non-nicotine, but it's like a neutral pick. It's like a neuro gum, and it fucking works, and it's awesome. My friend, I ran into at RedRock. I was like, dude, financial crisis, these are awesome. So motionpowder.com, whatever. And Togi, he gave me 30% of his supplement company, Evoar. So let's pop up that website. Like, dude, so we got a partnership, patdraw.com, my friend in real life. Evoar supplements, and a dux. This is the longest-send driver. I gave Togi a 30K loan yesterday. He hit for $250, he sent me 70. So I want to get it back to you. Dollar split in thirds. Alex behind the camera, Boyd, and a dux. Sorry for the pain in the neck. Oh, fuck. Yeah, I split 70 grand. Oh my god. Yeah. Are you? My mom will wire you. Thank you, Togi. Shout out to Evoar. That's my new supplement, dude. I own 30% Evoar. Everything's in the description. PatDraw is my new sponsor. Like, comment, subscribe. We're giving away $50,000. Just mess with me on Instagram. PatDraw is going to send you the whole 50K. Start it up, like, right away. All right, one second. I got this with us. I love this. So I want to like, comment, subscribe. Yes, like, like, subscribe. It's like, comment, subscribe. Love you guys. Get in the video. Say something, say something. I'll stay back. OK. Beep. Beep. Beep. Beep. Beep. Beep. Beep. Beep. I Only one in those care nose hair trimming I'll pay top dollar Oh Ignore any powder Oh my god, it looks terrific Yeah, oh my god How much do I leave sir 20 Oh I got you. All right, it's for the video I want to do drugs not feel like the We go caught up in those Column and she Oh, we all sound Be now oh my god, it's good to see you welcome to Nicaragua brother. Oh Wait, I'm gonna step on my life I want it to come nice my show loud he's having a party here For one we got a lock on the game, but it's more to come you got a pot that ass to the morning come you won't shots for the girl then what a song Who's calling it? Who's calling that she Who's calling that she Who's coming that she all right guys we're in Nicaragua We are about to surprise my best friend with terminal cancer to see the title by spying out my cameraman boy He came here. He fucked the Nica and got a pregnant and just left her ass Like he's Chinese to eat black so that's anyways, I'm a surprise Lord. Yeah, we're surprising with his baby mama and a kid Let me surprise you no, sir. You got Lord I This is a beautiful moment. Okay, I think I would you've been crushing at your job You know we're going to surprise Brad with a huge gift and before we do that. I'm gonna give you a big present Okay, my the best present you can give he's bringing a child into this life and Look take one off. I have your nigga Robin kid. No, no. Yeah, that's it. She's so beautiful. Oh my god I Be the father come on Where are you I hear This is so funny we love being really honest what was fading her ass Oh Too One big happy family. It's true. Oh, she's a Chinese Nica. Yeah. Oh my god Such a cute man I Can I Not ignore anymore Now we're at we got a show for you. We'll see you guys on the tripod. You probably penny montage I'm sure we can probably keep buying something that I can't afford To racism Hi Brad, so I have you out here. Yeah comment of the last video was you 7.8k likes. I don't know that was number one comment. You weren't in the video You weren't mentioning the video so I brought you to New York. I told you I'm surprised Obviously, you know, I gave David Dobrik Ferrari those $550,000. I saw a gay Karina all of this million dollars in gifts Yeah, you're like two cars or something. I think right. Yeah, so do you're such a good friend? So this It's gonna meet a lot It's a dope surprise. It's sick. You're probably thinking what am I? Yeah, the real question is like why would I have to be in New York to receive this gift? So I'm like is it like all York's because you have Because what? Well, all the really bad people come to New York when they're dealing with legal shit That's a thing Epstein. Let's just came out the whole the question is would you have gone to that island? If you didn't know what it was and you were just invited by this like rich billionaire guy. No, I don't know I know no I'd have to meet him. You have to know him. Yeah. Yeah, he seems so much fun I think the second I meet him I would go to his island for sure. I Don't need a surprise. I'll be honest with you. Oh, that's what Connor is I'm Don't give up on I've already made I'm giving you this present. I decided to not because you I'm not some young girl That shit Like when you're a freshman in high school, yes Magic shit, but it does not work. I'm doing this because it's my own free will and I'm not some fucking Trisha 16 years old I'm not getting sent lunch to Lunch to what you send girls long I send girls lunch What the fuck are you even talking about in high school? That's part of you know, it's weird that you say that is that just the fact that you're saying that makes it weird Okay, but just my mom of that my mom used to bring I used to bring lunch this thing every day, okay? Okay, okay, that's and yeah, we when I visit my house in Orlando. Yeah, I might sign lunch to You Do pedophile jokes are so sick if you're not one well, that's the only way they're okay. Ah So what is the surprise man scribe it into words give me a hint ill ill like dope sick sick as fuck Is it a car Okay I Shoulda chillin dude, thank you always always. That's you look at this 20k cash, no joy. You're the man. You love your brother. You go back tonight right after enough dumbin Thank you For the bit, you know, we love giving people money. Yeah, we love doing things. We love being on list Wait, why? Me what the hell you definitely on list somewhere, bro. There's a list of cool people. I mean did you're on the list of with the cool people? I mean something would say We are at the American Dream Mall as you guys know we're out the owner store. Okay, I'll give way We're going to a watch store Brad. Oh Yeah, so Brad's been such a good friend. He was kind of upset and I gave the over the $600,000 Ferrari So basically I want him to close his eyes and you got him I don't want him to know which watch store Brad we don't want you guys are both on the esteem list. That's crazy. He was on the list. I was not on the list Oh, yeah, yeah You don't know. All right cue emotional music Take Brad's hands Yeah All right Before you open your eyes don't get any fucking smart ideas. Don't be a smart ass. What is it? This is Jassy where to be hang out for today. You're not getting a watch yourself or something bitch You're talking to me about my stairmaster Are you? Don't get smart. You're gonna win. You're gonna survive so strongly. Okay It's Jazzy. She's Okay, let's do it. How pissed are you that you're not getting a watch? Just shocked you look like you're fuming. No, I'm just shocked like genuinely shocked you look like I just took your hat No, I'm looking like You just look a level of dark humor. I know but I'm down. Let's do it I'm down. Let's see what the hell's going on. You're gonna be shamed. Okay? $10,000 big beautiful Dallas What? Don't spend it all in one place, okay? Come on, come on, yeah Here we go unbelievable We'll have a good day, Jazzy. Yeah, let's go Oh A few minutes And you Go I think you did it again There's no way Oh Yeah

=== FILE: Surprising David Dobrik with his DREAM CAR! [vgiQl2pIbQ0].txt ===

! Warning, steeve,enez, naringin, cttt, ctttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt Natural nine bang. Yes! You won! Get back in there! Get back in there! Comment, subscribe. I mean, dude, that's how we are going to afford giveaways. We have to gamble to win because we are so poor. What? Love you guys. All right, guys, we were at the Red Rock. It's hashtag financial crisis, okay? You know what's bad? When I text my mom, I'm like, yo, I just put $350,000 in the bank. And she goes, thank God. I just had to lend you $150,000 so you could keep things afloat. That's a bad sign, okay? And I currently have a $700,000 Lamborghini on the way, a $1.3 million McLaren on the way, a $1.5 million McLaren on the way, a $450,000 Porsche on the way. Guess who paid for those? I didn't pay nothing. It's called credit, okay? And it's fun. All right. We have $750,000 on the Patriots, and I would like to add $250,000 on it to make it $1 million so I look cool. Okay. So we're good. I will talk to you later. We have $1 million on the Patriots, and that's because of Stefan Diggs, okay? Sounds good. You have this. Okay, you have a good one. $1 million. Locked in. See you later. Bye. Ciao. All right. Put on the game. It's hard to be going. Dude, this is going to be crazy. When this hits. When this hits. If it doesn't hit. No, it's going to hit. If it doesn't hit, we take a private plane, get out of country. I think we go to Venezuela. No. But, you know, I have no... Bro. What do you mean bad? Wait. You know Nelson? Big Nelson? The guy that looks like you, kind of? He's against you. Okay? Now, it's your mom who's against everyone, honestly. Your mom hates me. Apparently, you're a liability. Yeah, I heard that. Yeah. Okay. You know what? Just fly. Flip the camera. Just fly in. I'm trying to get you back, dude. You just can't get you. What do you mean bad? You've been fucking already. Dude, what do you mean? I have no choice. When Nelson thinks that you shouldn't be around, it's a fucking problem. Do you want me around? Yes, I do. Dude, I... The boss is the only one that sticks up for you. Decide. People like me because I'm real, right? People like me because I'm real. Your punishment is going on impulsive. I don't like... Punishment. It's going on impulsive. That is your punishment. You are going to talk to Logan Paul for one fucking hour. By the way, when you pay a person, you've got to actually pay them. Your friends are taking your money from you. I know that. And you're just asking more people for money. You should never be in the need of money when I've given you like... That is so. When I've given you like $130,000. I am an idiot. No. No. No. $130,000 in three months, you make more. I'm not going to job trip. You know I don't give a shit about money. You give a shit about money. Stop saying you don't. How is this guy to talk? Oh, everyone. Jesus himself. I don't think Jesus likes gay people. Jesus doesn't like gay people. You're right. You're right about that. How much money to suck the peanut off? A million dollars. Let's hope the Patriots win and you get a blowjob, okay? Come on, Patriots. This is the game right here. This is the game. This is the game. No! No! No! No! No! Mom, you're on the video. How much money do I have my bank account? What, is it like 50k? Oh my God, let me get a freaking hat on. I'm over here barbecuing. What the hell's the matter with you? So how much money do I have? Do I have like nothing? I believe I have nothing when you say I had to let you borrow 150 to keep things afloat. So I have nothing, right? Yeah, that was last week. Yeah, I put that in here again. What is that? Can I get 50 bucks? See, we're in a financial crisis. I've been in a financial crisis since 89. My Pino texts me and says, Oh, Mom, I need money. My friends robbed me. I did that, Mom. It's robbed a lot. I did that, Mom. You lost a watch in Miami as well. If I can't, that's right, yeah. You are a tranny. I wish I'd get laid more. I still love you even though you hate me. Bye, Mom. And you know I'm a genie. I love you, Mom. Bye. What did I say? Oh, my God. Bro. Oh. How much money did we win? Okay, I secretly added more money. So we had 1.25 in the game. So we won 475. 800,000. Thank God. What's this max bet plus three? You want a max bet plus three? Yeah, max bet plus three. Thank you, guys. Hey, pep. I'm rich. Oh, that's a push. Oh, get out of sight. Oh, my God. All right. Wait. Bro, we have abs. Three seconds. Fuck. Oh, my God. Wait. Three seconds. Wait. Dude, did he not go out of bounds? Oh, wait. Wait, what? Wait, what? All right, guys. We are going to buy my best friend, David Dobrik, a Ferrari truck because he seems obsessive. If you guys know Dobrik, he's always in that same gay Aston Martin, the blue one, for years. Dude, you know, I bought one for like $270. It's worth like $100,000. Like, it's shit. So we're calling Ryan from McLaren Charlotte, the best car guy ever. I used to buy cars from Vegas Auto Gallery, and literally, I was just middleman. So what I went to do, I went straight to the supplier. McLaren Charlotte Ryan. You ask for Ryan, let's pop him up. But no, important thing. In four hours, I need a Ferrari truck for David Dobrik in Beverly Hills, and I need it as cheap as possible. I need it to be on my tab. Can you please help me out? I got three Ferrari trucks, and I'm going to make one happen for you. Beverly Hills. Nardo Gray, red interior. Nardo Gray, red interior. Dobrik's going to like that, dude. It's probably the sickest one that you could possibly get. But four hours is doable. Have I ever not made it happen? Boom! Okay, thank you, Ryan. Seriously, four hours. I got you, brother. It's for Dobrik. Send me the address. Send me the address. Okay, thank you so much. Ryan McLaren Charlotte, North Carolina. Best guy ever. Look, pop him up. Boom! All right, thank you, Ryan. Four hours, dude. No kidding. It's for Dobrik, dude. Okay, it's a big deal. Okay, bye. I can't breathe. I can't breathe. Line, line, line. All right, if you guys don't know, this is my Uncle Timmy. If you've been an exclusive viewer, he's the drunkest. This guy in the state of California. And Pepino is back. He went to rehab. This is a company. I don't go to rehab. He went to rehab. So I want to show you guys. We're all alcoholics, right? Kind of? I'm a drunk, not an alcoholic. I don't go to meetings. I'm a binge drinker. I'm a drunk. I'm going to show you guys something. This is how I got famous. I'll be doing it. I can't breathe. I'm waiting for the ex. Look at this. All right, we're going to Dobrik. You guys are actually all best friends at Dobrik. I love David very much. I still try even though I know I'm going to fail. Stress on my shoulders like an anvil. Prickey got me itching like an anthill. Drugs killing me softly, long hill. Sometimes I don't know how to fail. I need for Pete out. I need Pete out shaking me up in the night. Dad, you're worse than Derek. This is why I wear dirty clothes, but it doesn't help. I need for Pete out. All right, so we're at the house of Billiards. We're about to go hang out with David Dobrik. I'm giving him a Ferrari truck. But this guy, he hustled me for $100,000 on billiards. Have you guys seen the Drake and Josh episode where Josh hustled everyone? That was Dobrik. And he learned it from Josh himself because they're kind of friends. We're going to go in there. We're going to get a billiards player. And we're going to hustle in just like you hustled me, David. You fucking sack of shit. Yo, sign it. 5K. Okay, so you're going to come in like you're an Uber Eats driver. Got it. You've never played pool in your life. You're like, oh, I have never played. It's fine. Thank you. Don't dip on us now. We need you. No, we're not. All right, thank you guys. We'll see you there. All right. Doorbell works. Oh, that's big man. Why your best friend? Oh, Uncle Champ. Hi. The security? No, I'm the security. Oh, you're fucked. How are you, brother? Good to see you. Dude, what's new? YouTuber. I know. YouTuber alert. Yeah, dude, we're both YouTubers. We are both YouTubers. What's going on? So what this is, I mean, as you see, I don't know. I don't know. Dude, I kind of lied to you. I said we're going to film something. I'm kind of here just to hang out. Okay, yeah. Let's just hang out. It's just like, just crash. I mean, I already stole something. I don't know if you can see. Wait, what did you steal? I don't know. Take a look around your house. Honestly, I'll give you a hint. Wait, right now. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. No. Where'd you put it? It's in my car. This is a robbery, isn't it? And you're disguising it as a video. You won, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Pepino played me first. Easy bet to take. So it was a $25,000 bet. We went to $50,000. And then we got to $100,000, right? For double or nothing. Yeah. Damn. Look at this big. Where'd you get? Where's your... Do you want to just hang out, dude? Can you hang out? Yeah, you can hang out. Is this a bit? Thank you, bro. Hey! Hey! I'm no director. I'm no Spielberg. Bye. This is Doug. He's my... David? No, that's Steve, my buddy. This is David. This is his house. Hey, Doug, David. You want a drink? You don't want anything? Diet Coke or water if you can. Why'd you... Let me check what's on your order. No, no. God damn it. Okay, well, the rat's out of the bag. I mean, yeah, we're going to hustle your ass like you hustled me. Oh, he's a... He's a... No way. We picked him up from the billiards room on the way here. No way! Let's do a game for 25 and then double or nothings. Just one 25K game. You and him. Okay, let's play. Why did you know so quick? Well, he came in... He took a step in before you invited him. I always see that, though. Yo, you imagine... Imagine we lose with our ringer. Then we're fucked. You gotta fucking win. Thank you. All right, Doug. If you win, we get 25K. If Dobrik wins because I tried to hustle him, he gets 125K. Oh, come on, dude. No, no, no. It's 25K, 25K. That's it. I don't want more. Bro, I picked him up from the billiards room at 2 PM on a Tuesday. This guy can fucking fight. This guy can fuck. The money. When did you see him do that, he can have this watch. No, no, no. No way! It's 420,000. Steve said if I win, I could have this watch. I haven't even had time to compliment you on this watch. This watch is fucking badass. I thought we were here to win it back. But he fucking read us like a book. I know. I know. That was impressive. One game. Look at him. He's measuring the fucking ends of the stick. I'm looking at the tips to see which kind of round right there. Oh, my God. That was me. This is crazy. This is really scary. I mean, I'm going to have to step it up. This is no capino. We don't even know if he's good or not. It's all about low-code. We just, the fact that... He hustled you. And he was just in the pool hall getting drunk because of the cheapest beers. I already did give him five-page pants. I'm going to miss the break because I'm so fucking nervous. Okay, okay. All right. All right, we're going to get to do what Dustin did. I mean, I'm going to go gently. Yeah. We're going to go two to the side. Oh, come on. Why are you getting fancy, bro? I'm going to go pink and purple. Hey. I wasn't shut up. I'm going to go brown middle. Oh, crap. Hit the fucking hole. Yes. Yes. Let's go. Lock in. Okay, okay. All right. Let's go. Let's go. Yes. Holy shit. I don't think I can. I can't get purple. I can get purple off pink. Don't knock them out, Doug. Here's your shot. Hey, Coach Doug, take it easy with the tips. I can't get purple. I can't get purple. I can't get purple. I can't get purple. I can't get purple. I can't get purple. Yes. Fuck yeah. Let's go. Yes. Oh, fuck yeah, baby. Go. Go. Go. Go. God damn it. It's so crazy because I have three balls to get in for $425,000. That was a big mistake, David. That's not cool. No, that's how we play. Do whatever you want in here. Oh, let's go. No clutch, Gene, Dolby. Oh, dog, look, it's fish. Oh We're alive dog you choke. Oh Douglas fish and then you'll be right there Okay, I'm going there Oh That's what you're both of them somehow. I'm scared. So you won. I didn't come here for this I wanted to gift you something because we're best friends Yeah, you see that Ferrari truck back there bro. Shut the fuck up. This is your truck. Are you fucking with me? Steve are you being dead ass? Fuck up bro. This thing is gorgeous That was the best pool game for my entire fucking life. Steve are you fucking with me? Yeah, you're completely fucking numb with your financial crisis brother It's got a lot worse. Go look at it though. It's actually fucking crazy. Oh, it's got red Bro, shut the fuck up This is fucking insane Bro, this is stunning Oh, you got it from charlotte Best dealer in the world Dude, but the crisis Steve Yeah, you're helping me out You can't make bets like that Well either way win or lose I was gonna give you a sorry truck Which we did with BFFs dog Okay, but Just tell the internet how we're like kind of best friends. Yeah, we're the internet. We're best friends now No, no. Oh my god. Oh, oh my god. He's hurt my feelings Dude, I genuinely can't take this because I've watched every video. I've loved it. I love you in a financial crisis, but it's dangerous Dude, you know I made It's incredible. Okay, I'll take it No, I mean I'm saying I spent all of it and I'm still in a financial crisis We're okay, D Dobrik This is It's cool, right? Now come inside have a beer Okay, listen whenever you're low on money you come and you take this car from me Okay, back Keep the car from robbing, but right now I gotta pay even my rush for $3,000 cash Can you do that? Yeah What the fuck kind of a deal is that? No, I mean I dude I genuinely have to He told me to blow you right now I definitely have no choice Alright, 1500 and a blowjob No, I wouldn't do the third grand I mean you guys want to see what I got out of this? I mean you want to see my sign I stole? Right, this is the part where he goes through the house and takes things Okay, what do I want from Dobra? Alright, I'm gonna take the Chipotle David Is this meaningful? Of course, my cap shield, I can get a new one of these You can? Yeah, go You want anything else? I know what you're looking at I want R2-D2, yeah Do you want the R2-D2? Yeah It's from Disney Really? Yeah I'm loaded up in the car Oh, I still have them look So I have these Colombian cigarettes that are really rare and I store them in here because no one will find them I'll give you these two Thank you Guys, like, subscribe, follow Steve on this journey to get the money or keep losing the money What's the goal? I just want to be a YouTuber, man You're already doing it I don't care about the money It's obvious, but But we're best friends, that's all that matters, man Everybody please, for the love of God, just for me, just hit the subscribe button for Steve Thank you, thank you David, thank you for having us over You're a fucking maniac Put your hands in the air where I can see them Convicts, welcome to the season finale of Convict Kitchen Congratulations to both of you 251,000 on the line and I'm here to get it for all the hoes Today, I'm amped up, I'm energized, I'm pumped up, bro, I'm ready for this one Today, we have a special guest Please help us welcome Waka Waka Flame Waka Waka Flame, hey Waka Waka Flame What's up, man? What's up? What's up? Thanks Thanks Thanks All right Hello, how are you doing? Today, for the challenge, it's called the final meal So today, you have one of these four ingredients Mexican Jumbo Shrimp, Maine Lobster, A5 Wagyu from the Japs, and Australian Motherfucking Wagyu So you're gonna use one of these ingredients and you're gonna use the prison pantry to make me an elevated sexy prison dish You have one hour to complete this dish So Tay over here, she won yesterday's competition So her advantage today because she won is she gets to pick what ingredients she must use first Have anyone ever cooked with these ingredients? I've cooked with all of the above I never cooked with this, I don't eat anything up the water I'm not really a fan of red meat either So I got the advantage that I'm not having a little Whoever picks the shrimp, cut out the doo-doo If there's shit in my palate, you go the fuck home Okay All right, Tay, so out of these four ingredients using your advantage, what are you gonna pick today? What are you gonna cook? I'm gonna go lamb chopped nachos All right, Stacks, we have three remaining ingredients What are you gonna pick today? It's looking like I'm going with the scrimps I swear to god, no shit, please The scrimps If they say scrimps, them motherfuckers, they're gonna be good All right, convicts, the grand finale of convict kitchen with the grand prize of $251,000 starts right now Let's go! I got out of prison about four months ago And now I'm sitting here in front of y'all about to work my way in this kitchen and win $251,000 Hey, I'm feeling amazing right now Like I went to sleep last night and I said man, you know the hoes, I'm gonna get it tomorrow when I got this money What you over there doing? That's how you did it back in the tank gang, you can really know What you got going on over there? I'm getting this lamb on here Are you taking that shit out? I ain't even get to taking this shit out yet Don't give Steve no shit Oh shit, there's the shit This man is about to give me $251,000 That's what he worried about Don't give him no shit Look, I know what to do with shrimp, you know what to do with lamb? Absolutely not But I also didn't know what I was doing when I got here And I'm two for two I think you're one for two But after today, I'm three for three We'll see about that 15 minutes in, 45 minutes left, how you doing? How you feeling? I'm feeling good Now in prison, did you cook for the hoes? They're waiting in line, I'm not doing shit Oh, they're cooking I'm not cooking, yeah Every night was an audition All right, drug dealer What's that in? Drug dealer, 15 minutes in Drug dealer How you feeling? How's the shit? I'm making sure there ain't no shit No shit All right, Waka Can you perform a poop check on drug dealer? I don't know if you gotta just sniff or you gotta put it in your mouth From the rooty to the tootie All right, I'll be back, good luck guys Yes, Chef Yes, Chef It's $251,000 on the line You coming in this bitch making some damn nachos Talk about keeping it simple I love what you over there doing I really want to see you sweat, for real All right, guys 30 minutes left How you feeling? I am feeling Give me a little taste Give me a little taste It's looking like I had to pull out the secret And really A little taste walk up Get that little Creole up in there I'm nervous Okay All right, drug dealer What's happening? All right Have a little nibble or something? Oh, we ain't ready yet All right, ready? All right We have a Cheeto That's your bust down Just over here You've used Cheetos in every single dish you've made, right? Oh yeah, definitely Oh, fuck yeah, dude Got you I love that shit That's good Well, see with the Cheetos You get that nice blast of cheddar and jalapeno with every bite when you sprinkle it over the food So every bite you take, you get that flavor in your mouth Pause All right, guys Are you getting nervous? Nervous about what? I do this shit Oh I ain't even concerned You need to be afraid of me coming around here with some damn basic ass nachos I've never been afraid of nobody in my life I want you to be standing right there like a deer in the headlights I want you And turn into a speed bump I want you to Ooh, speed bump I can't wait to see I can't wait to see Nobody's ever going to be dreaming about shrimp, shit, and Cheetos ever Man, people have cravings all the damn time Drug addicts You sound like you speaking from personal experience He has some obsession with shit Little one, you got to read the room That's so crazy I am not here to be like anybody else you ever met Shrimp going Jumbotron Stop playing All right, guys 15 minutes left Ooh, quesadilla, motherfuckers All right, you went Mexican Fuck yeah All right Doesn't smell too good All right, 15 minutes left I can't tell if this looks like complete shit or the best dish I've ever had in my life It's probably the best dish you've ever had in your life All right Now, do you think this is a $251,000 dish? Yes, chef Oh, thank you I believe so too All right, best of luck We have 15 minutes Don't fuck this up Don't fuck this up No, at least get you a shrimp or something while it's hot Don't let it be cold Yeah, there's a lot of shrimp in there You know what I'm saying? Wow That's good You know, it's a match 15 minutes left We'll see you guys soon Who the fuck's gonna win $251,000? You think you're gonna make it? This nigga say I'm not gonna make it putting cheese on chips Cheese on chips? What? This should sound extra crispy You know, when I get my $251,000, I still take you out for drinks, you know what I'm saying? Okay When you still kick it Okay Okay You know what I'm talking about? Okay, I'm definitely down with that I'm always up for positive vibes You wouldn't know what to do if they got you first place Oh wow I'm gonna show you what to do with it though I'll leave by example All right, you guys are done early Let's just get the fuck into it Drug trafficker! My black queen, come here Present your dish Explain your dish My dish is lamb chopped quesadilla with some lamb and chicken nachos I'll get my quesadilla Good Good It's all You still gonna lick me like that? Win or lose? I'm gonna lick you Don't worry Thank you Quesadilla and nachos, they just go together Thank you You can go back to your station Yes, chef Last but not least Drug dealer Present your dish, please Yes, chef Explain to me what you got going on here Okay, basically we made the pocket style noodles with cheese puffs in it, of course Lock it up with the seasoning Refried bean sauce on the top Mixed with the cheddar cheese and the cheese puffs on top The jalapeno kind To of course go with some sauteed shrimp Sauteed summer sauces with jalapenos on the inside Protect it Put it, yeah, he gotta put it together That's the much That's how you supposed to do it Fuck Good man, I want to crackle Take one for the roll Like we putting in work in the street Let that thing lock up Thank you so much Can you back to your station? Yes, chef Thank you Thank you Me and my associate here We have a $251,000 decision So if you can please get the fuck out of the kitchen We have Yes, chef Yes, chef Oh, thank you guys so much That's so sweet of you Thank you We'll call you back soon Oh I know you saw that I said nothing about that pork I don't eat pork All that beef have pork Sounds good Yeah, it's true That's good I know, I've seen them They tore it up It was good eating that shit Why do you like this one? It's so good It's Mexican, dude You can't fuck up Mexican It's a quesadilla With nachos With fucking Doritos And a chip It's phenomenal But him A little more creative, right? They're like Oblop nachos With protein Because there was ramen noodles And he thought it was rice So I mean, I think he did something good there I mean, damn We have a tough decision We have a split decision What? You get over here It's tasty too, man It's good as fuck What do we do? Because I'm kind of going towards Mexican black chick And you're kind of going towards Drug dealer Drug dealer I think we got to call someone I think Pepino might have to be the final Yeah Pepino! Oh What am I doing first? You eat I want you to get the full taste I think you got to make him a bite So, alright And you got to make him a full bite You want to go hand action? Oh Okay, that's not what I meant But okay But okay The hand action Let's go I meant that was for the jaw Oh, alright Pick one bit You need to put it all in your mouth All of it Fit it all Fit it all I don't know Let's start with the quesadilla And now it's a nacho Alright Pepino So which one do you think is the winner? Come here Alright Let's get the contestants out now Drug dealer Your dish I had no idea you could make ramen noodles like that I thought it was fucking rice It was ramen noodles Good job Okay Drug trafficker Black queen You can't go wrong with Mexican It was great You know we love Mexicans It was delicious And it actually Was a split decision It was very tied Me and him were split And we had to bring in A guest judge To finalize the decision Okay Alright The winner of convict kitchen And the person going home With $251,000 Is Yes Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes! Oh my God! Oh my God! Praise God! Oh my God! Stop playing! Congratulations! Why are we taking it home? Congratulations! We're taking it home. We're taking it home. We're taking it home. Sue me and Sue me. I'm rooting for everybody that's black. Aw, man. All right. We're taking it back to the A. Drug dealer. Before I give you this check, here's the catch. I'm sorry. You could take this $251,000, you go home, you buy more weight, you get as much meth as you want, right? Or, you can flip a coin and you can win $502,000 and you can get all the meth in the world. Ohhhh. What you thinking? You gonna flip the coin? I'm gonna take the $251,000. Let's go. I'm gonna take the $251,000. Hey, smart decision, dude. Congratulations. I'm gonna take it back to the city. Congratulations. I'm gonna bring it back to the city. I'm gonna bring it back to the city. I'm gonna bring it back to the city. My black queen, I have a Tesla out there that's my mom. It's your motherfucking Tesla. You got me, Tesla? Oh, man. It's a $130,000 Tesla. Oh, oh, ooh. Oh, wow. Oh, my God. Whoa, whoa, whoa. What did they talk about? The key's to Tesla. The key's to Tesla. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You got the Tesla? That's the guy got me. Ah! Ah! Ah! Why are you good? Oh, my God. Ah! Hey, I couldn't... Ah! Yeah. I love you, man. I want to thank you. I want to thank you for this experience. All right. I want to say thank you to everyone for being part of Convict Kitchen. It was the sickest thing I've ever created. And I just love you guys so much. There's a lot more to come. Can I get a last Yes Chef, you guys? Three, two, one. Yes Chef! Thank you. Put your hands in the air where I can see them. THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.369576Z ===
