! Warning, steeve,enez, naringin, cttt, ctttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt Natural nine bang. Yes! You won! Get back in there! Get back in there! Comment, subscribe. I mean, dude, that's how we are going to afford giveaways. We have to gamble to win because we are so poor. What? Love you guys. All right, guys, we were at the Red Rock. It's hashtag financial crisis, okay? You know what's bad? When I text my mom, I'm like, yo, I just put $350,000 in the bank. And she goes, thank God. I just had to lend you $150,000 so you could keep things afloat. That's a bad sign, okay? And I currently have a $700,000 Lamborghini on the way, a $1.3 million McLaren on the way, a $1.5 million McLaren on the way, a $450,000 Porsche on the way. Guess who paid for those? I didn't pay nothing. It's called credit, okay? And it's fun. All right. We have $750,000 on the Patriots, and I would like to add $250,000 on it to make it $1 million so I look cool. Okay. So we're good. I will talk to you later. We have $1 million on the Patriots, and that's because of Stefan Diggs, okay? Sounds good. You have this. Okay, you have a good one. $1 million. Locked in. See you later. Bye. Ciao. All right. Put on the game. It's hard to be going. Dude, this is going to be crazy. When this hits. When this hits. If it doesn't hit. No, it's going to hit. If it doesn't hit, we take a private plane, get out of country. I think we go to Venezuela. No. But, you know, I have no... Bro. What do you mean bad? Wait. You know Nelson? Big Nelson? The guy that looks like you, kind of? He's against you. Okay? Now, it's your mom who's against everyone, honestly. Your mom hates me. Apparently, you're a liability. Yeah, I heard that. Yeah. Okay. You know what? Just fly. Flip the camera. Just fly in. I'm trying to get you back, dude. You just can't get you. What do you mean bad? You've been fucking already. Dude, what do you mean? I have no choice. When Nelson thinks that you shouldn't be around, it's a fucking problem. Do you want me around? Yes, I do. Dude, I... The boss is the only one that sticks up for you. Decide. People like me because I'm real, right? People like me because I'm real. Your punishment is going on impulsive. I don't like... Punishment. It's going on impulsive. That is your punishment. You are going to talk to Logan Paul for one fucking hour. By the way, when you pay a person, you've got to actually pay them. Your friends are taking your money from you. I know that. And you're just asking more people for money. You should never be in the need of money when I've given you like... That is so. When I've given you like $130,000. I am an idiot. No. No. No. $130,000 in three months, you make more. I'm not going to job trip. You know I don't give a shit about money. You give a shit about money. Stop saying you don't. How is this guy to talk? Oh, everyone. Jesus himself. I don't think Jesus likes gay people. Jesus doesn't like gay people. You're right. You're right about that. How much money to suck the peanut off? A million dollars. Let's hope the Patriots win and you get a blowjob, okay? Come on, Patriots. This is the game right here. This is the game. This is the game. No! No! No! No! No! Mom, you're on the video. How much money do I have my bank account? What, is it like 50k? Oh my God, let me get a freaking hat on. I'm over here barbecuing. What the hell's the matter with you? So how much money do I have? Do I have like nothing? I believe I have nothing when you say I had to let you borrow 150 to keep things afloat. So I have nothing, right? Yeah, that was last week. Yeah, I put that in here again. What is that? Can I get 50 bucks? See, we're in a financial crisis. I've been in a financial crisis since 89. My Pino texts me and says, Oh, Mom, I need money. My friends robbed me. I did that, Mom. It's robbed a lot. I did that, Mom. You lost a watch in Miami as well. If I can't, that's right, yeah. You are a tranny. I wish I'd get laid more. I still love you even though you hate me. Bye, Mom. And you know I'm a genie. I love you, Mom. Bye. What did I say? Oh, my God. Bro. Oh. How much money did we win? Okay, I secretly added more money. So we had 1.25 in the game. So we won 475. 800,000. Thank God. What's this max bet plus three? You want a max bet plus three? Yeah, max bet plus three. Thank you, guys. Hey, pep. I'm rich. Oh, that's a push. Oh, get out of sight. Oh, my God. All right. Wait. Bro, we have abs. Three seconds. Fuck. Oh, my God. Wait. Three seconds. Wait. Dude, did he not go out of bounds? Oh, wait. Wait, what? Wait, what? All right, guys. We are going to buy my best friend, David Dobrik, a Ferrari truck because he seems obsessive. If you guys know Dobrik, he's always in that same gay Aston Martin, the blue one, for years. Dude, you know, I bought one for like $270. It's worth like $100,000. Like, it's shit. So we're calling Ryan from McLaren Charlotte, the best car guy ever. I used to buy cars from Vegas Auto Gallery, and literally, I was just middleman. So what I went to do, I went straight to the supplier. McLaren Charlotte Ryan. You ask for Ryan, let's pop him up. But no, important thing. In four hours, I need a Ferrari truck for David Dobrik in Beverly Hills, and I need it as cheap as possible. I need it to be on my tab. Can you please help me out? I got three Ferrari trucks, and I'm going to make one happen for you. Beverly Hills. Nardo Gray, red interior. Nardo Gray, red interior. Dobrik's going to like that, dude. It's probably the sickest one that you could possibly get. But four hours is doable. Have I ever not made it happen? Boom! Okay, thank you, Ryan. Seriously, four hours. I got you, brother. It's for Dobrik. Send me the address. Send me the address. Okay, thank you so much. Ryan McLaren Charlotte, North Carolina. Best guy ever. Look, pop him up. Boom! All right, thank you, Ryan. Four hours, dude. No kidding. It's for Dobrik, dude. Okay, it's a big deal. Okay, bye. I can't breathe. I can't breathe. Line, line, line. All right, if you guys don't know, this is my Uncle Timmy. If you've been an exclusive viewer, he's the drunkest. This guy in the state of California. And Pepino is back. He went to rehab. This is a company. I don't go to rehab. He went to rehab. So I want to show you guys. We're all alcoholics, right? Kind of? I'm a drunk, not an alcoholic. I don't go to meetings. I'm a binge drinker. I'm a drunk. I'm going to show you guys something. This is how I got famous. I'll be doing it. I can't breathe. I'm waiting for the ex. Look at this. All right, we're going to Dobrik. You guys are actually all best friends at Dobrik. I love David very much. I still try even though I know I'm going to fail. Stress on my shoulders like an anvil. Prickey got me itching like an anthill. Drugs killing me softly, long hill. Sometimes I don't know how to fail. I need for Pete out. I need Pete out shaking me up in the night. Dad, you're worse than Derek. This is why I wear dirty clothes, but it doesn't help. I need for Pete out. All right, so we're at the house of Billiards. We're about to go hang out with David Dobrik. I'm giving him a Ferrari truck. But this guy, he hustled me for $100,000 on billiards. Have you guys seen the Drake and Josh episode where Josh hustled everyone? That was Dobrik. And he learned it from Josh himself because they're kind of friends. We're going to go in there. We're going to get a billiards player. And we're going to hustle in just like you hustled me, David. You fucking sack of shit. Yo, sign it. 5K. Okay, so you're going to come in like you're an Uber Eats driver. Got it. You've never played pool in your life. You're like, oh, I have never played. It's fine. Thank you. Don't dip on us now. We need you. No, we're not. All right, thank you guys. We'll see you there. All right. Doorbell works. Oh, that's big man. Why your best friend? Oh, Uncle Champ. Hi. The security? No, I'm the security. Oh, you're fucked. How are you, brother? Good to see you. Dude, what's new? YouTuber. I know. YouTuber alert. Yeah, dude, we're both YouTubers. We are both YouTubers. What's going on? So what this is, I mean, as you see, I don't know. I don't know. Dude, I kind of lied to you. I said we're going to film something. I'm kind of here just to hang out. Okay, yeah. Let's just hang out. It's just like, just crash. I mean, I already stole something. I don't know if you can see. Wait, what did you steal? I don't know. Take a look around your house. Honestly, I'll give you a hint. Wait, right now. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. No. Where'd you put it? It's in my car. This is a robbery, isn't it? And you're disguising it as a video. You won, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Pepino played me first. Easy bet to take. So it was a $25,000 bet. We went to $50,000. And then we got to $100,000, right? For double or nothing. Yeah. Damn. Look at this big. Where'd you get? Where's your... Do you want to just hang out, dude? Can you hang out? Yeah, you can hang out. Is this a bit? Thank you, bro. Hey! Hey! I'm no director. I'm no Spielberg. Bye. This is Doug. He's my... David? No, that's Steve, my buddy. This is David. This is his house. Hey, Doug, David. You want a drink? You don't want anything? Diet Coke or water if you can. Why'd you... Let me check what's on your order. No, no. God damn it. Okay, well, the rat's out of the bag. I mean, yeah, we're going to hustle your ass like you hustled me. Oh, he's a... He's a... No way. We picked him up from the billiards room on the way here. No way! Let's do a game for 25 and then double or nothings. Just one 25K game. You and him. Okay, let's play. Why did you know so quick? Well, he came in... He took a step in before you invited him. I always see that, though. Yo, you imagine... Imagine we lose with our ringer. Then we're fucked. You gotta fucking win. Thank you. All right, Doug. If you win, we get 25K. If Dobrik wins because I tried to hustle him, he gets 125K. Oh, come on, dude. No, no, no. It's 25K, 25K. That's it. I don't want more. Bro, I picked him up from the billiards room at 2 PM on a Tuesday. This guy can fucking fight. This guy can fuck. The money. When did you see him do that, he can have this watch. No, no, no. No way! It's 420,000. Steve said if I win, I could have this watch. I haven't even had time to compliment you on this watch. This watch is fucking badass. I thought we were here to win it back. But he fucking read us like a book. I know. I know. That was impressive. One game. Look at him. He's measuring the fucking ends of the stick. I'm looking at the tips to see which kind of round right there. Oh, my God. That was me. This is crazy. This is really scary. I mean, I'm going to have to step it up. This is no capino. We don't even know if he's good or not. It's all about low-code. We just, the fact that... He hustled you. And he was just in the pool hall getting drunk because of the cheapest beers. I already did give him five-page pants. I'm going to miss the break because I'm so fucking nervous. Okay, okay. All right. All right, we're going to get to do what Dustin did. I mean, I'm going to go gently. Yeah. We're going to go two to the side. Oh, come on. Why are you getting fancy, bro? I'm going to go pink and purple. Hey. I wasn't shut up. I'm going to go brown middle. Oh, crap. Hit the fucking hole. Yes. Yes. Let's go. Lock in. Okay, okay. All right. Let's go. Let's go. Yes. Holy shit. I don't think I can. I can't get purple. I can get purple off pink. Don't knock them out, Doug. Here's your shot. Hey, Coach Doug, take it easy with the tips. I can't get purple. I can't get purple. I can't get purple. I can't get purple. I can't get purple. I can't get purple. Yes. Fuck yeah. Let's go. Yes. Oh, fuck yeah, baby. Go. Go. Go. Go. God damn it. It's so crazy because I have three balls to get in for $425,000. That was a big mistake, David. That's not cool. No, that's how we play. Do whatever you want in here. Oh, let's go. No clutch, Gene, Dolby. Oh, dog, look, it's fish. Oh We're alive dog you choke. Oh Douglas fish and then you'll be right there Okay, I'm going there Oh That's what you're both of them somehow. I'm scared. So you won. I didn't come here for this I wanted to gift you something because we're best friends Yeah, you see that Ferrari truck back there bro. Shut the fuck up. This is your truck. Are you fucking with me? Steve are you being dead ass? Fuck up bro. This thing is gorgeous That was the best pool game for my entire fucking life. Steve are you fucking with me? Yeah, you're completely fucking numb with your financial crisis brother It's got a lot worse. Go look at it though. It's actually fucking crazy. Oh, it's got red Bro, shut the fuck up This is fucking insane Bro, this is stunning Oh, you got it from charlotte Best dealer in the world Dude, but the crisis Steve Yeah, you're helping me out You can't make bets like that Well either way win or lose I was gonna give you a sorry truck Which we did with BFFs dog Okay, but Just tell the internet how we're like kind of best friends. Yeah, we're the internet. We're best friends now No, no. Oh my god. Oh, oh my god. He's hurt my feelings Dude, I genuinely can't take this because I've watched every video. I've loved it. I love you in a financial crisis, but it's dangerous Dude, you know I made It's incredible. Okay, I'll take it No, I mean I'm saying I spent all of it and I'm still in a financial crisis We're okay, D Dobrik This is It's cool, right? Now come inside have a beer Okay, listen whenever you're low on money you come and you take this car from me Okay, back Keep the car from robbing, but right now I gotta pay even my rush for $3,000 cash Can you do that? Yeah What the fuck kind of a deal is that? No, I mean I dude I genuinely have to He told me to blow you right now I definitely have no choice Alright, 1500 and a blowjob No, I wouldn't do the third grand I mean you guys want to see what I got out of this? I mean you want to see my sign I stole? Right, this is the part where he goes through the house and takes things Okay, what do I want from Dobra? Alright, I'm gonna take the Chipotle David Is this meaningful? Of course, my cap shield, I can get a new one of these You can? Yeah, go You want anything else? I know what you're looking at I want R2-D2, yeah Do you want the R2-D2? Yeah It's from Disney Really? Yeah I'm loaded up in the car Oh, I still have them look So I have these Colombian cigarettes that are really rare and I store them in here because no one will find them I'll give you these two Thank you Guys, like, subscribe, follow Steve on this journey to get the money or keep losing the money What's the goal? I just want to be a YouTuber, man You're already doing it I don't care about the money It's obvious, but But we're best friends, that's all that matters, man Everybody please, for the love of God, just for me, just hit the subscribe button for Steve Thank you, thank you David, thank you for having us over You're a fucking maniac Put your hands in the air where I can see them Convicts, welcome to the season finale of Convict Kitchen Congratulations to both of you 251,000 on the line and I'm here to get it for all the hoes Today, I'm amped up, I'm energized, I'm pumped up, bro, I'm ready for this one Today, we have a special guest Please help us welcome Waka Waka Flame Waka Waka Flame, hey Waka Waka Flame What's up, man? What's up? What's up? Thanks Thanks Thanks All right Hello, how are you doing? Today, for the challenge, it's called the final meal So today, you have one of these four ingredients Mexican Jumbo Shrimp, Maine Lobster, A5 Wagyu from the Japs, and Australian Motherfucking Wagyu So you're gonna use one of these ingredients and you're gonna use the prison pantry to make me an elevated sexy prison dish You have one hour to complete this dish So Tay over here, she won yesterday's competition So her advantage today because she won is she gets to pick what ingredients she must use first Have anyone ever cooked with these ingredients? I've cooked with all of the above I never cooked with this, I don't eat anything up the water I'm not really a fan of red meat either So I got the advantage that I'm not having a little Whoever picks the shrimp, cut out the doo-doo If there's shit in my palate, you go the fuck home Okay All right, Tay, so out of these four ingredients using your advantage, what are you gonna pick today? What are you gonna cook? I'm gonna go lamb chopped nachos All right, Stacks, we have three remaining ingredients What are you gonna pick today? It's looking like I'm going with the scrimps I swear to god, no shit, please The scrimps If they say scrimps, them motherfuckers, they're gonna be good All right, convicts, the grand finale of convict kitchen with the grand prize of $251,000 starts right now Let's go! I got out of prison about four months ago And now I'm sitting here in front of y'all about to work my way in this kitchen and win $251,000 Hey, I'm feeling amazing right now Like I went to sleep last night and I said man, you know the hoes, I'm gonna get it tomorrow when I got this money What you over there doing? That's how you did it back in the tank gang, you can really know What you got going on over there? I'm getting this lamb on here Are you taking that shit out? I ain't even get to taking this shit out yet Don't give Steve no shit Oh shit, there's the shit This man is about to give me $251,000 That's what he worried about Don't give him no shit Look, I know what to do with shrimp, you know what to do with lamb? Absolutely not But I also didn't know what I was doing when I got here And I'm two for two I think you're one for two But after today, I'm three for three We'll see about that 15 minutes in, 45 minutes left, how you doing? How you feeling? I'm feeling good Now in prison, did you cook for the hoes? They're waiting in line, I'm not doing shit Oh, they're cooking I'm not cooking, yeah Every night was an audition All right, drug dealer What's that in? Drug dealer, 15 minutes in Drug dealer How you feeling? How's the shit? I'm making sure there ain't no shit No shit All right, Waka Can you perform a poop check on drug dealer? I don't know if you gotta just sniff or you gotta put it in your mouth From the rooty to the tootie All right, I'll be back, good luck guys Yes, Chef Yes, Chef It's $251,000 on the line You coming in this bitch making some damn nachos Talk about keeping it simple I love what you over there doing I really want to see you sweat, for real All right, guys 30 minutes left How you feeling? I am feeling Give me a little taste Give me a little taste It's looking like I had to pull out the secret And really A little taste walk up Get that little Creole up in there I'm nervous Okay All right, drug dealer What's happening? All right Have a little nibble or something? Oh, we ain't ready yet All right, ready? All right We have a Cheeto That's your bust down Just over here You've used Cheetos in every single dish you've made, right? Oh yeah, definitely Oh, fuck yeah, dude Got you I love that shit That's good Well, see with the Cheetos You get that nice blast of cheddar and jalapeno with every bite when you sprinkle it over the food So every bite you take, you get that flavor in your mouth Pause All right, guys Are you getting nervous? Nervous about what? I do this shit Oh I ain't even concerned You need to be afraid of me coming around here with some damn basic ass nachos I've never been afraid of nobody in my life I want you to be standing right there like a deer in the headlights I want you And turn into a speed bump I want you to Ooh, speed bump I can't wait to see I can't wait to see Nobody's ever going to be dreaming about shrimp, shit, and Cheetos ever Man, people have cravings all the damn time Drug addicts You sound like you speaking from personal experience He has some obsession with shit Little one, you got to read the room That's so crazy I am not here to be like anybody else you ever met Shrimp going Jumbotron Stop playing All right, guys 15 minutes left Ooh, quesadilla, motherfuckers All right, you went Mexican Fuck yeah All right Doesn't smell too good All right, 15 minutes left I can't tell if this looks like complete shit or the best dish I've ever had in my life It's probably the best dish you've ever had in your life All right Now, do you think this is a $251,000 dish? Yes, chef Oh, thank you I believe so too All right, best of luck We have 15 minutes Don't fuck this up Don't fuck this up No, at least get you a shrimp or something while it's hot Don't let it be cold Yeah, there's a lot of shrimp in there You know what I'm saying? Wow That's good You know, it's a match 15 minutes left We'll see you guys soon Who the fuck's gonna win $251,000? You think you're gonna make it? This nigga say I'm not gonna make it putting cheese on chips Cheese on chips? What? This should sound extra crispy You know, when I get my $251,000, I still take you out for drinks, you know what I'm saying? Okay When you still kick it Okay Okay You know what I'm talking about? Okay, I'm definitely down with that I'm always up for positive vibes You wouldn't know what to do if they got you first place Oh wow I'm gonna show you what to do with it though I'll leave by example All right, you guys are done early Let's just get the fuck into it Drug trafficker! My black queen, come here Present your dish Explain your dish My dish is lamb chopped quesadilla with some lamb and chicken nachos I'll get my quesadilla Good Good It's all You still gonna lick me like that? Win or lose? I'm gonna lick you Don't worry Thank you Quesadilla and nachos, they just go together Thank you You can go back to your station Yes, chef Last but not least Drug dealer Present your dish, please Yes, chef Explain to me what you got going on here Okay, basically we made the pocket style noodles with cheese puffs in it, of course Lock it up with the seasoning Refried bean sauce on the top Mixed with the cheddar cheese and the cheese puffs on top The jalapeno kind To of course go with some sauteed shrimp Sauteed summer sauces with jalapenos on the inside Protect it Put it, yeah, he gotta put it together That's the much That's how you supposed to do it Fuck Good man, I want to crackle Take one for the roll Like we putting in work in the street Let that thing lock up Thank you so much Can you back to your station? Yes, chef Thank you Thank you Me and my associate here We have a $251,000 decision So if you can please get the fuck out of the kitchen We have Yes, chef Yes, chef Oh, thank you guys so much That's so sweet of you Thank you We'll call you back soon Oh I know you saw that I said nothing about that pork I don't eat pork All that beef have pork Sounds good Yeah, it's true That's good I know, I've seen them They tore it up It was good eating that shit Why do you like this one? It's so good It's Mexican, dude You can't fuck up Mexican It's a quesadilla With nachos With fucking Doritos And a chip It's phenomenal But him A little more creative, right? They're like Oblop nachos With protein Because there was ramen noodles And he thought it was rice So I mean, I think he did something good there I mean, damn We have a tough decision We have a split decision What? You get over here It's tasty too, man It's good as fuck What do we do? Because I'm kind of going towards Mexican black chick And you're kind of going towards Drug dealer Drug dealer I think we got to call someone I think Pepino might have to be the final Yeah Pepino! Oh What am I doing first? You eat I want you to get the full taste I think you got to make him a bite So, alright And you got to make him a full bite You want to go hand action? Oh Okay, that's not what I meant But okay But okay The hand action Let's go I meant that was for the jaw Oh, alright Pick one bit You need to put it all in your mouth All of it Fit it all Fit it all I don't know Let's start with the quesadilla And now it's a nacho Alright Pepino So which one do you think is the winner? Come here Alright Let's get the contestants out now Drug dealer Your dish I had no idea you could make ramen noodles like that I thought it was fucking rice It was ramen noodles Good job Okay Drug trafficker Black queen You can't go wrong with Mexican It was great You know we love Mexicans It was delicious And it actually Was a split decision It was very tied Me and him were split And we had to bring in A guest judge To finalize the decision Okay Alright The winner of convict kitchen And the person going home With $251,000 Is Yes Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes! Oh my God! Oh my God! Praise God! Oh my God! Stop playing! Congratulations! Why are we taking it home? Congratulations! We're taking it home. We're taking it home. We're taking it home. Sue me and Sue me. I'm rooting for everybody that's black. Aw, man. All right. We're taking it back to the A. Drug dealer. Before I give you this check, here's the catch. I'm sorry. You could take this $251,000, you go home, you buy more weight, you get as much meth as you want, right? Or, you can flip a coin and you can win $502,000 and you can get all the meth in the world. Ohhhh. What you thinking? You gonna flip the coin? I'm gonna take the $251,000. Let's go. I'm gonna take the $251,000. Hey, smart decision, dude. Congratulations. I'm gonna take it back to the city. Congratulations. I'm gonna bring it back to the city. I'm gonna bring it back to the city. I'm gonna bring it back to the city. My black queen, I have a Tesla out there that's my mom. It's your motherfucking Tesla. You got me, Tesla? Oh, man. It's a $130,000 Tesla. Oh, oh, ooh. Oh, wow. Oh, my God. Whoa, whoa, whoa. What did they talk about? The key's to Tesla. The key's to Tesla. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You got the Tesla? That's the guy got me. Ah! Ah! Ah! Why are you good? Oh, my God. Ah! Hey, I couldn't... Ah! Yeah. I love you, man. I want to thank you. I want to thank you for this experience. All right. I want to say thank you to everyone for being part of Convict Kitchen. It was the sickest thing I've ever created. And I just love you guys so much. There's a lot more to come. Can I get a last Yes Chef, you guys? Three, two, one. Yes Chef! Thank you. Put your hands in the air where I can see them. THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK