 Warning. Steve is a trained professional. Do not attempt anything you see on this page. All right, guys. Welcome to a new video. It's Pepino. Hola. Took two weeks off, honestly, because I'm poor. And we needed to get a... He couldn't afford me. So we got some businesses going on. We have a partnership. We have PatDraw, my friend, Duke13, which I know, in real life. Went with him. And PatDraw. So basically, that's what I explained. Oh, I flew with Dukes, my moderator, on kick. We're live on kick. But Pat, I mean, you win real life. Win real life violence. Like, you can win watches, clothes. But this is what Duke13 said. PatDraw is a website where you can open packs similar to Pokemon. But when clothing, jewelry, watches, and cars, anything you win can be shipped to your house. Or you can withdraw the value in crypto. For example, instead of you finding a Pikachu in a pack, you can find a Ferrari. Oh, that's cool. Yellow Ferrari, like Pikachu. So you win real life items. So what I did is I wanted to pay cash monthly. I want to get items monthly. And I want you guys to get items. So pretty cool. The $50,000 winner is Boom. Light comment. And I asked PatDraw, I asked, do you guys take $50,000 out of my pay and pay someone? Because I'm literally making payments. And then also, I own 50% of motion. The limit list pouches is a non-nicotine, but it's like a neutral pick. It's like a neuro gum, and it fucking works, and it's awesome. My friend, I ran into at RedRock. I was like, dude, financial crisis, these are awesome. So motionpowder.com, whatever. And Togi, he gave me 30% of his supplement company, Evoar. So let's pop up that website. Like, dude, so we got a partnership, patdraw.com, my friend in real life. Evoar supplements, and a dux. This is the longest-send driver. I gave Togi a 30K loan yesterday. He hit for $250, he sent me 70. So I want to get it back to you. Dollar split in thirds. Alex behind the camera, Boyd, and a dux. Sorry for the pain in the neck. Oh, fuck. Yeah, I split 70 grand. Oh my god. Yeah. Are you? My mom will wire you. Thank you, Togi. Shout out to Evoar. That's my new supplement, dude. I own 30% Evoar. Everything's in the description. PatDraw is my new sponsor. Like, comment, subscribe. We're giving away $50,000. Just mess with me on Instagram. PatDraw is going to send you the whole 50K. Start it up, like, right away. All right, one second. I got this with us. I love this. So I want to like, comment, subscribe. Yes, like, like, subscribe. It's like, comment, subscribe. Love you guys. Get in the video. Say something, say something. I'll stay back. OK. Beep. Beep. Beep. Beep. Beep. Beep. Beep. Beep. I Only one in those care nose hair trimming I'll pay top dollar Oh Ignore any powder Oh my god, it looks terrific Yeah, oh my god How much do I leave sir 20 Oh I got you. All right, it's for the video I want to do drugs not feel like the We go caught up in those Column and she Oh, we all sound Be now oh my god, it's good to see you welcome to Nicaragua brother. Oh Wait, I'm gonna step on my life I want it to come nice my show loud he's having a party here For one we got a lock on the game, but it's more to come you got a pot that ass to the morning come you won't shots for the girl then what a song Who's calling it? Who's calling that she Who's calling that she Who's coming that she all right guys we're in Nicaragua We are about to surprise my best friend with terminal cancer to see the title by spying out my cameraman boy He came here. He fucked the Nica and got a pregnant and just left her ass Like he's Chinese to eat black so that's anyways, I'm a surprise Lord. Yeah, we're surprising with his baby mama and a kid Let me surprise you no, sir. You got Lord I This is a beautiful moment. Okay, I think I would you've been crushing at your job You know we're going to surprise Brad with a huge gift and before we do that. I'm gonna give you a big present Okay, my the best present you can give he's bringing a child into this life and Look take one off. I have your nigga Robin kid. No, no. Yeah, that's it. She's so beautiful. Oh my god I Be the father come on Where are you I hear This is so funny we love being really honest what was fading her ass Oh Too One big happy family. It's true. Oh, she's a Chinese Nica. Yeah. Oh my god Such a cute man I Can I Not ignore anymore Now we're at we got a show for you. We'll see you guys on the tripod. You probably penny montage I'm sure we can probably keep buying something that I can't afford To racism Hi Brad, so I have you out here. Yeah comment of the last video was you 7.8k likes. I don't know that was number one comment. You weren't in the video You weren't mentioning the video so I brought you to New York. I told you I'm surprised Obviously, you know, I gave David Dobrik Ferrari those $550,000. I saw a gay Karina all of this million dollars in gifts Yeah, you're like two cars or something. I think right. Yeah, so do you're such a good friend? So this It's gonna meet a lot It's a dope surprise. It's sick. You're probably thinking what am I? Yeah, the real question is like why would I have to be in New York to receive this gift? So I'm like is it like all York's because you have Because what? Well, all the really bad people come to New York when they're dealing with legal shit That's a thing Epstein. Let's just came out the whole the question is would you have gone to that island? If you didn't know what it was and you were just invited by this like rich billionaire guy. No, I don't know I know no I'd have to meet him. You have to know him. Yeah. Yeah, he seems so much fun I think the second I meet him I would go to his island for sure. I Don't need a surprise. I'll be honest with you. Oh, that's what Connor is I'm Don't give up on I've already made I'm giving you this present. I decided to not because you I'm not some young girl That shit Like when you're a freshman in high school, yes Magic shit, but it does not work. I'm doing this because it's my own free will and I'm not some fucking Trisha 16 years old I'm not getting sent lunch to Lunch to what you send girls long I send girls lunch What the fuck are you even talking about in high school? That's part of you know, it's weird that you say that is that just the fact that you're saying that makes it weird Okay, but just my mom of that my mom used to bring I used to bring lunch this thing every day, okay? Okay, okay, that's and yeah, we when I visit my house in Orlando. Yeah, I might sign lunch to You Do pedophile jokes are so sick if you're not one well, that's the only way they're okay. Ah So what is the surprise man scribe it into words give me a hint ill ill like dope sick sick as fuck Is it a car Okay I Shoulda chillin dude, thank you always always. That's you look at this 20k cash, no joy. You're the man. You love your brother. You go back tonight right after enough dumbin Thank you For the bit, you know, we love giving people money. Yeah, we love doing things. We love being on list Wait, why? Me what the hell you definitely on list somewhere, bro. There's a list of cool people. I mean did you're on the list of with the cool people? I mean something would say We are at the American Dream Mall as you guys know we're out the owner store. Okay, I'll give way We're going to a watch store Brad. Oh Yeah, so Brad's been such a good friend. He was kind of upset and I gave the over the $600,000 Ferrari So basically I want him to close his eyes and you got him I don't want him to know which watch store Brad we don't want you guys are both on the esteem list. That's crazy. He was on the list. I was not on the list Oh, yeah, yeah You don't know. All right cue emotional music Take Brad's hands Yeah All right Before you open your eyes don't get any fucking smart ideas. Don't be a smart ass. What is it? This is Jassy where to be hang out for today. You're not getting a watch yourself or something bitch You're talking to me about my stairmaster Are you? Don't get smart. You're gonna win. You're gonna survive so strongly. Okay It's Jazzy. She's Okay, let's do it. How pissed are you that you're not getting a watch? Just shocked you look like you're fuming. No, I'm just shocked like genuinely shocked you look like I just took your hat No, I'm looking like You just look a level of dark humor. I know but I'm down. Let's do it I'm down. Let's see what the hell's going on. You're gonna be shamed. Okay? $10,000 big beautiful Dallas What? Don't spend it all in one place, okay? Come on, come on, yeah Here we go unbelievable We'll have a good day, Jazzy. Yeah, let's go Oh A few minutes And you Go I think you did it again There's no way Oh Yeah