 How much does the effect of fatigue, or the decrease in our absolute level performance, modify the absolute stimulus we get from a given RAR? Yeah, so 6.5 minutes for both curls and pulldowns in the drop set condition, versus 16.5 minutes in the traditional condition. There was a slight advantage to the traditional sets versus the drop sets. We'll talk about what that may mean here in a second. Welcome back to the Data Driven Strength Podcast. Today, I'm here with Dr. Zach Robinson, and we're going to talk about a cool topic, I think. We were lucky enough to be a part of a new pre-printed study by our good friend, good colleague, Seth Hinson, as a lead author. Shout out to Seth, shout out to the rest of the team at the Florida Atlantic University Muscle Lab. So Seth, Jake Remmert, Scott McCula, Alex Hameed, and Dr. Zordos as well. The title of the paper is Investigating the Effect of the Tonal Drop Set Mode on Elbow Flexor Hypertrophy. So this has been pre-printed for a couple weeks since, as of recording this podcast. And there's been some interesting chatter about it. It's always really interesting when you work on a project for a while to, you know, put it out there and see what the initial responses, see what the initial thoughts are. And I'm not going to use the word disappointed, but I'm just going to say it's been interesting. Our hope is that we can come at this from an angle such that we can show some of the potential, the way that this nudges the field forward as a whole. And hopefully, yeah, contribute to the conversation, if you will. It's a really exciting study, not only in terms of the technology that it uses, but also in terms of what that technology allows us to investigate from a conceptual standpoint. Something that we haven't historically had access to, which we'll get to in a little bit. So with that, Zach, do you have anything here to say on the front end? And if not, I can go ahead and just jump into the general rationale for a drop set. No, go for it. Cool. So we're going to be talking about drop sets today. But again, we're going to use drop sets probably more as an avenue for a conceptual discussion about what makes a set effective, what makes a rep effective. So we're going to get into all of that. So let's take a step back. And I wasn't around when drop sets were invented, but I would have to imagine that the thinking was, okay, I'm doing curls with a hundred pounds. And once I finished that set, because I failed, yeah, I can't complete another rep with a hundred pounds because I failed, but I still have more in me. It's not like I'm completely done. It's not like my biceps are completely toast. I could actually lift 90 pounds, right? I could drop the load 10% and I could do reps with 90 pounds. I could definitely drop the load 30% and do reps with 70%. So the idea is you have more in you. You have more gas in the tank, if you will, in terms of the working musculature. So perhaps you can get a better stimulus from that set by dropping the load and performing more reps. I would say initially some of the mechanisms suggested for why that might be beneficial is just around the fact that you get more work. Again, before we had the luxury of the amount of research we have now, which obviously it's still a growing field. We still have a lot to know, but we have learned a lot over time. Maybe there were some thoughts around the effects that might have in terms of the local metabolic environment and the skeletal muscle. Maybe even changes in some markers that we could measure in the blood. Again, that's kind of turning the clock back pretty far that I don't necessarily have a great historical account of. But you could definitely see how bros and scientists alike are like, hey, there might be something here in terms of a drop set. It might be better or it might be a nice tool compared to a traditional set. But I would say now the general evidence-based narrative around it is that drop sets could be a really awesome tool for time saving specifically. I think that's where most people think of drop sets is around time savings. So with that, Zach, I'll kick it to you. I'll let you maybe give an overview of why that's the case based on where the literature is as of 2025. Yeah, two things I'd add real quick there is like, and I totally think it's validating to just think about the experience of doing a drop set. If you remove all context of what we know about, you know, the process of hypertrophy now, pretty, pretty gnarly, you know, pump when you do a drop set. So all the all the bro based indicators would definitely lead in the in the the side of like, hey, there's probably something going on here. And so then obviously we've just had more context for that now. And then the other thing I'd say in terms of the time savings, I think most people would probably tip their cap to the idea that it may be slightly diminishing the stimulus. But I think that part of things is not discussed a ton, which I think we'll get into a lot throughout today's discussion, which is kind of the interesting component of the study in my view. Yeah. And just to clarify what you mean, of course, correct me if I'm wrong here in terms of diminishing the stimulus. So let's say let's go back to that example of doing bicep curls with 100 pounds. If you were to do two sets with 100 pounds with like a traditional rest period of, say, three minutes, that's like the traditional set approach. You're saying a diminished stimulus would come if you do 100 pounds and then you just do one drop set after that. So you go 100 pounds and then you say drop it to 60 pounds and you do another set to failure. Correct. So the idea is that second set. What you're saying is that second set would be a lower stimulus compared to the second set in the traditional scenario. Is that accurate? Correct. Exactly. Yep. Yep. And so when we kind of take a zoom out and look at the literature that we have, this is a body of evidence that I think potentially seems like it's relatively clear cut. But the more that you dig into the weeds, the more that things get a bit confusing. So shout out to Max Coleman and the team over at Lehman College. They did the initial meta-analysis on this topic, I believe, where they saw that, you know, going by typical statistical standards, effect size was like 0.08 on the standardized mean difference scale in favor of drop sets for hypertrophy, but non-significant confidence interval clearly overlapping zero on both sides. But the drop sets took about 53 less time. However, the one thing that is painting to the kind of some of the conceptual issues with this body of research is that the drop set conditions, if you're counting each individual drop as a quote unquote set, did about 32% more sets on average. So the question then becomes like, are the results we're seeing here totally generalizable in the way that people actually utilize these things where they basically kind of exchange a traditional set for a drop set? And that's where things get a little bit more confusing. And I think it's illuminating to kind of think about why this topic is difficult to study. You have to kind of pick and choose which variables you're ultimately going to equate when you would design a drop set study, right? You have the loads that you want to utilize. So for the traditional and drop set conditions, you have kind of the initial set load and then what's happening in those subsequent sets. For the traditional kind of conditions, obviously, it's pretty straightforward. You're going to keep the load roughly the same set to set, trying to optimize for either a rep range or optimizing for the load itself. But for the drop set condition, obviously, you have to think about, okay, what are we trying to match any of these loads? For strength, this is probably more relevant in terms of like what's the peak load that we're using, which you could think about as like the initial set if you're like matching the loads there. But then you also have to think about what are the percentages being dropped throughout that drop set kind of series or whatever you want to call it. Then you have to think about, okay, what about the total reps that I'm performing? Am I trying to equate volume load with a similar number of quote unquote sets or am I trying to equate volume load over more kind of sets for the drop set condition or what have you? So there's a lot of heterogeneity in the way the drop set protocols are designed. I think that makes the more conceptual nature of the things that we're looking to gain from this area of research a lot more challenging to kind of decipher than maybe it seems at face value. And then, of course, probably the one that's most relevant, kind of what we'll talk about here is the average proximity to failure of the quote unquote drop set series that I think we'll call it from here on out. Essentially, when you do a traditional set, let's say you perform a set of 10 to failure. Each one of those reps is going to get consequently closer to failure. And then, you know, basically the rep number is essentially the inverse of its RAR. So you go 10 RAR, 9 RAR, 8 RAR, all the way down to failure. And so your average RAR there in a traditional set is around 5, right? So if you take every single RAR of every single rep. Now, put that in a drop set case, it's a similar thing going on. But now we've reduced the load to kind of reach a similar average proximity to failure. Depending on the way drop sets are designed, though, that can potentially be modified. And that's one of the things we try to do with the way that we design this mode. So I don't know if there's anything you want to hit on in terms of the state of the literature. I believe there's also another meta-analysis. I forget the lead author's name that largely confirmed. The lead author, I think, is pronounced Sotal. Sotal, yeah, very similar. I think Stian Larson is part of the group. Shout out Stian. Yeah, very similar findings. That was from 2023. Yeah, very similar findings overall, I believe. But yeah, I don't know if you have anything to add on the research there. Yeah, so I guess just to recap, in a lot of ways, if you were to just look at these meta-analyses, which are well done, it's like, hey, you could cut your training time in half and you could get similar muscle hypertrophy. Correct. Now, the quote-unquote downside, we'll talk about whether this is truly a downside or not throughout the show, is that you have to do more sets, around a third more sets, it seems, to get the same hypertrophy. Now, we don't have so much literature such that, you know, we know that that 33% number is accurate, is gospel. But again, that kind of paints the picture of where things stand. Like, hey, yes, you can do this and save time. It just might mean that each of those sets, later on in the drop series or whatever you want to call it, just become less efficient. And yeah, man, the heterogeneity, every time I revisit this body of literature, it's tricky to study because, and we were talking about this before the show, you could just imagine all the different ways to control rest periods, to control the starting load that you use, to control how big the drops are, etc. How much that can change what you're actually looking at. Yep. And then, also, layer on individual differences in fatigability. Exercise-based differences. Exercise-based differences as well in fatigability. We were talking about, before we press record here, just our experiences with drop sets. I seem to be much more fatigable than Zach, such that if I try to do drop sets, my performance just drops off way more than his. It's not a good or a bad thing. No. It just might change the calculus in one way or another. And again, it just makes it really tricky to study. Whereas, if you're a researcher and you're like, hey, everyone's going to rest three minutes before the next set, you can assume most people are going to be mostly recovered. We can move into the new pre-printed study, get into some of the specifics there, what we found, and then how that fits in conceptually with the rest of the research, and just what we think we know about muscle physiology and what we think we know drives muscular adaptation, specifically muscle hypertrophy. Before we get into the specifics of what we did, we should talk generally about the fact that this was a funded study by Tonal, which is really, really cool that a company like Tonal is willing to fund research like this, because hopefully, Zach and I's prep for this podcast got me giddy because of what this technology allows us to do in terms of investigating some of these physiological concepts. So, huge shout-out to Tonal. Huge shout-out to Troy Taylor, who is integral for making this happen as well. And, yeah, shout-out to Tonal. If you don't know what Tonal is, you might have seen some commercials. I know I was first introduced to Tonal with some of the commercials with LeBron James in them. Infamous. Yes. It basically looks like a huge iPad that's installed onto the wall, and then it has adjustable cable arms that, you know, you can do a ton of different exercises on. You can train your entire body on it. But there's no weight stack, right? You can mess with the display, and you can increase the resistance up to 200 pounds. I actually think it might be a little bit higher than that now. I think it is now, yeah. It might have gone up a little bit in their most recent version, but what we used for the study was their first version. I think they're onto their second version now. But nonetheless, it gets pretty dang heavy, which is really cool. And, again, there's no weight stack. So the question is, how does the resistance actually occur? And I'm definitely not an expert in this, but basically there's an electromagnetic motor in there, right? So you can have basically computer-controlled electric resistance based on that electromagnetic motor that basically pulls against the cable to provide the resistance. So what does that allow us to do? That allows us to do two main things. I'm sure it allows many more things beyond the scope of our discussion here. But for our discussion here, there's two things that does for us. The first is it allows for the load drops to be very specific. And secondly, it allows for load drops to be instantaneous. Typically, with a drop set, the quickest possible way to do it would be a pin-loaded machine where you have to stop the set, adjust the pin, and get back into it. Even that is five to ten seconds. But if you're doing like a bench press, you have to get up, change the weight, et cetera. In this case, it is instantaneous. Rep to rep, the load can be adjusted. So the reason I'm so giddy about this project and what it can tell us, and hopefully others take this and run with it, or hopefully we're able to do more work in this area down the road, is it basically removes the arbitrary constraints of those logistics and of those load increments and of the timing. So at least in our view, it makes things better controlled, tighter, more specific, and allows us to look at the question at hand in a more precise way, is probably the best way that I can explain it. We can also, quote-unquote, optimize the drop set protocol, right? So if you think about doing a drop set where you do, again, 100 pounds to failure, let's say you get 10 reps and then you drop the load to 70 pounds. Once you pick up that weight with 70 pounds, you might have to do 10 reps again in order to get to failure. But what we saw as an opportunity here, and what Troy identified at Tonal, is that, hey, we could just kind of remove some of those early reps in the drop set, right? So in other words, once the load drops, we can just drop it a smaller amount such that we are close to failure right away. And then we just do a couple reps and then we drop it again. So there's more drops, there's smaller drops, and therefore the average reps in reserve is lower. So in other words, the average proximity to failure is closer to failure. We're training closer and to failure more often. So that basically allows us to ask and start to answer the question of, can we use a mode like this to save time? That's a big thing that's relevant to drop sets, and we'll give you the actual results regarding how long these sessions took later on. And then can we maybe get similar results in way less time, or maybe even like improve the stimulus compared to a traditional set? Because, again, if you look back at some of the other research that we've talked about on the show that Zach has pioneered in a lot of ways, is that, hey, there does seem to be a benefit to training to or close to failure. So what if we really kind of isolate that part of the equation and let's effectively get a drop set group, or a drop set condition, I should say, where we do the same amount of reps as the traditional condition, but the average RER is lower in the drop set condition, right? So that basically isolates the question of, hey, more of these, quote-unquote, effective reps or more of these reps closer to failure are being done in the drop set condition. So I know that was a lot, but stick with us, because once we get into some of the specifics, I think it'll become clearer and clearer as we go. Zach, anything to clarify in just the general rationale what Tone allows us to do? If not, we can jump into some of the specifics. Yeah, I guess I'd just restate it in a slightly different way. It's like from our perspective, again, coming off of the two meta-analyses that we have, and also I'd say if we're factoring in our practical experience as well, and like I said, kind of just the general maybe prior belief of the evidence-based community, is coming into this, we were essentially trying to design a drop set mode that had the best chance of still saving time and resulting in equivalent or, like you said, absolutely best case scenario, maybe even a little bit more hypertrophy than traditional training. That was essentially the goal. And so by leveraging some of the technology that we have access to, we can try to have more of those reps be performed close to failure rather than kind of having some of those redundant repetitions that typical drop set configurations would potentially result in. And I think the idea there was from this previous research, to get the equivalent hypertrophy, it took additional sets. That's not to say that we have confirming evidence to say that it required it, but purely based on the comparison that we have, there's at least theoretical rationale based on the data we have and the training protocols that were in those studies, and just our practical experience, and I would say just kind of our best bet that maybe drop sets aren't quite as good on a per set basis. So how can we manipulate the variables further to try to regain that ground and maybe even push it even further? That was the idea. Yeah, I think that's a great explanation. It's almost like taking – it's like as a scientist and going to grad school for so many years, you're basically encouraged to rethink everything. And I know it's easy to take this too far. It's like there's a lot of benefits to experience and what's been passed down over the years. But it's almost like taking a step back and saying, hey, most people use straight sets and they use isotonic resistance, right? They use a consistent external resistance until they have to manually change it. It's almost like taking a step back and saying, is there a better way? Right. Right? And you literally can't – like it's one of those things where once we first realized what this technology gave us access to, like you said, is like removing this like blindfold that we have in terms of the technology literally enables things you could not do otherwise, which is just like, man, let's take advantage of this, right? So, yeah. Like I think in a lot of ways things were designed to say, hey, could we get, yeah, equivalent muscle growth with a similar amount of – it's so hard to say total work in this context because you can quantify that so many different ways. But just roughly speaking, similar total work and just, yeah, leverage the technology, leverage the beneficial effects of training at a closer proximity to failure from muscle hypertrophy and what can this lead to. And this we thought was a really good start in terms of our design here. So with that, are you good if I jump into some of the details? Yep. Sweet. I'll give – I'll run through this pretty quickly and then I'll let you fill in any color or any details that you think would be beneficial for the listeners. So we had 29 trained participants in this study, which I think is important to highlight that it was a pretty well-trained cohort. The average training experience was about seven years in that ballpark. So pretty solid sample size, pretty well-trained participants. And it was a within-participant design, meaning the arms of each individual were randomized to either traditional straight set training or the drop set protocol. Okay. It was a semi-supervised study, which I think you can view it in two ways here. One is you could view it negatively and say, hey, we can't like 100% with certainty say that the protocols were executed to a T because there wasn't a researcher watching every single session, right? Supervising every single session. I would flip it on its head and say that there's benefits for two reasons. While fully acknowledging that limitation, I'd say there's two benefits to this being a semi-supervised study. The first is that, hey, a machine like a tonal device is going to be used in people's homes and they're probably going to be training alone or MOs with one other person. Of course, you could use those in like a training studio, but I think a lot of people would use that sort of device by themselves. So it's ecologically valid for that reason. And then secondly, one limitation of research is that there is a researcher encouraging you for every single rep that you do. And with something that can be as psychologically taxing as pushing yourself through the really high levels of discomfort that come with drop set training. If you don't have that for every single session, there's a question of whether what we see in the lab actually would play out in the real world. Whereas here, we're basically jumping to the end and saying, hey, let's make sure some of the sessions are supervised. I think it was four sessions were supervised throughout the study. So enough to check in, remind them, make sure everything is all good with their execution. But most of the sessions were not supervised. So we could, again, jump to the end and see how this actually plays out in the real world. Yeah, I was just going to mention the difference between efficacy versus effectiveness. And in medical trials, this is something that's often kind of talked about. So like efficacy is ultimately saying like in ideal scenarios, is it resulting in the difference that you would expect or what have you? So that would be like in super well-controlled conditions, what happens? But then there's also, you can look at effectiveness, which is basically saying when something is prescribed to somebody, what happens? And so that's different than, so in the case of a medical trial, I could make sure someone takes the medication or I could prescribe someone the medication. And the act of prescription isn't necessarily the same thing as them taking it, right? And so those things can kind of diverge. And the same thing is here. We could ensure the mode is completed exactly, or just the training in general is completed exactly as specified, which obviously has a lot of upsides. But also, particularly in this case, when we have this device that we're testing that is utilized in the real world in the kind of the free living scenario, the effectiveness to some degree is almost more interesting because that is actually how that is prescribed and executed. And what was the thing we actually wanted to compare? So like you said, that is an important distinction. And of course, has implications on how we review the results of the study when we get there. But I do think it's not one of those things that is appreciated, the distinction between those two things. And it's easy to be like, oh, lazy researcher, semi-supervised, no thought into it. And of course, there's pros and cons to that from a laboratory execution perspective. But at the same time, I do think there's important things to realize, the distinction between efficacy and effectiveness. Yeah. And again, just to say it like for the sixth time, pros and cons to each because, yeah, there's, it's tricky. But I think the approach is clear for the listener at this point. So the training itself, eight-week long training study. For the first four weeks, participants trained twice a week. And then for the weeks five through eight, participants trained three times per week. So the volume did kind of progress in a stepwise fashion from week four to week five. Now, every single session was the same, starting from the get-go. Again, halfway through, it progressed. Volume increased by 50% just by adding an extra day per week. Now, what did each session look like? So again, if I was in the study, one of my arms was in the traditional condition. The other arm was in the drop set or drop series condition. Okay. Each session, it was randomized which arm went first. So let's say that my traditional arm was first. In that case, I would do four straight sets, traditional sets with the same load, all the way to failure with about a 10 rep max. But again, they were taken to failure. So the target rep range was about 8 to 12 on bicep curls. And you can check out the paper for the exact like bicep curl variation, but that's not super, super important here. So four sets of bicep curls, and then I do two sets of single arm pull downs. So we did control their back training as well. So we wanted to make sure they weren't just doing their own back training on their own because that could obviously impact the change in muscle size for their biceps. So that was a way to test the mode more comprehensively and also as a way to ensure the participants had some back training so they didn't feel the need to go do that on their own. Then once I'm done with my traditional side biceps and pull downs, I move on to my drop set side. So we're going to call them from here on out drop series because I think calling them drop sets is a little bit easy to misinterpret. So what we used in the paper was drop series. So I did two drop series on bicep curls and one drop series on pull downs. Okay, so basically half the number of again, I don't want to use sets, but you get the idea. Those these drop series were tough. Okay, so there's a really nice figure in the paper. And I think we'll be able to have our fantastic editing team put that on the screen now. But basically the starting load. The idea was to to keep it similar to the other side. So the the different the two sides were progressed individually. So I didn't like just use the exact same load that I use on my other arm. But conceptually, in terms of the repetition maximum used, the idea was to start with a similar load. So to start with a 10 rep max load. Okay, and I'm not going to get into the weeds of like the exact velocity loss thresholds or the exact load reductions. But the idea is, okay, I have a 10 rep max load. And once I get to about one to two RER. The tonal will detect that. And this was, we kind of worked through this whole process during pilot testing to make sure the mode was in a really good spot. And of course, that was mostly the work of the development team at tonal. Once I'm in that one to two RER range or so, there's a low drop. And the idea is that after the low drop, I'm, of course, you know, training with a lighter load now. But I'm not like dropping way back down to like 10 RER. I'm dropping down to like two RER. Okay, then I'm doing a couple reps, dropping it again. So you're basically staying in this zero to two RER range. Okay. So you can imagine that this was quite painful. And I think the typical number of reps per drop series was like 20. Yeah. So basically, think of doing a set of 20 to failure. But it's much harder than that because instead of very high fatigue at the end of a set of 20 to failure, you also had high fatigue like halfway through because you started with a heavier load. It's one of those things you can't really even understand until you've done it. Like I remember pilot testing this like extensively. And it's just, yeah, you don't really grasp it until you do it at first. Like when you do a drop set, you don't realize the kind of, I just call them the quote unquote redundant repetitions. They might not be entirely redundant, but hopefully that makes sense. Those kind of breaks that you get psychologically even. But you're literally, imagine it in the context of like a lower body exercise. That puts it on the extreme of like the experience, but I think you can help understand kind of how it feels is like you do that first set of leg press or what have you. You get into that zero to two RER range and then you basically just surf that for an additional 10 repetitions, which is like, again, it's like hard to even describe until you've done it. But it's, yeah, it feels what it sounds like in terms of like you're basically surfing all of those reps close to failure consecutively. And just dropping off just enough to make sure you can keep going. And it's, it was, yeah, it was a cool experience. Yeah. So again, we'll have that figure on the screen. If you're listening on podcasts, this might be worth hopping over to YouTube and taking a look. Or if you have Spotify, you should be able to access the video there as well. Or better yet, pull up the paper, read that thing from cover to cover. And you could definitely see the figure there in version, in the current version of the preprint that we're looking at. It is figure two. So check that out because I think that's really, really helpful. And again, just subjectively explaining it, watching participants do this, doing it ourselves when executed properly, which does require maximum intent. Because basically what the device is detecting is the velocity of each repetition. So if you are lazy with it and you don't move the weight quickly, if you don't use maximum intent on each rep, then it's going to drop the load too quickly when you weren't actually ready for a load drop. But when executed appropriately, it's tough, it's fatiguing, and the pumps are gnarly. So basically this achieved our goals of keeping the total reps similar between my traditional arm and my drop set or drop series arm. However, we also achieved the goal of having a lower average RAR in my drop series arm, right? Even though the load did have to fall off. Because again, I'm getting this done way quicker. There's no between set rest periods. So that is what we did. Zach, I'll let you clean anything up or add any clarity that you think is necessary. And then I'll also let you jump into what we found. And then we'll get into the good stuff of how to actually make sense of all of that. Yeah, I think in terms of what we did, I think that was really well explained. So I'll just hop. Oh, and we took ultrasound muscle thickness at four time points. And we did muscle thickness halfway down the muscle belly. Yep. And Seth crushed those. Yeah. Very, very well done. And anyone that's used ultrasound knows there's a reason the biceps are studied so commonly. It's because they are an absolute joy to measure. And I genuinely mean that compared to other muscles. They're so much easier to measure. So I feel good about our measure of muscle size. Yeah, 100%. And so that's what we found. And I think the first thing that I want to try to fully explain here is because I do think it's important for the interpretation of the results, particularly on social media. I think this can probably get glossed over and not talk through all the way, was how we set up our research question. So our research question was kind of dependence on two different independent, to some degree, parts of our results. So the first thing we did was we wanted to establish a range of what we were going to consider practically equivalent. And so the reason that's relevant is let's just talk in the conceptual here for a second. If I have an infinite sample size, for example, a supplement that gives me a 0.0001% benefit is still going to be a quote unquote statistically significant difference. And so I think a lot of people hear that and they say, oh, statistically significant difference. Therefore, that must be meaningful. In reality, those two things are entirely different. Those two concepts are not related. Meaningfulness is inherently a subjective endeavor. If you ask an Olympic athlete what a meaningful difference in performance is, is very different than someone who's just getting started with the gym, right? And so that concept of meaningfulness is really, really important to define and do so a priori in one of these investigations where is the hypertrophy practically equivalent is essentially our primary research question. It's been reported that drop sets are basically just as good as traditional training in certain conditions. And we wanted to formalize that. So basically what we did to do that was, again, it's subjective, but a way that we thought would be a pretty decent bet was to take a basically some separate pilot reliability data that we have. Define a region from that. Essentially, that would be roughly what an individual might be able to detect if they were to apply this and kind of measure their own muscle size in this kind of fake universe that we're talking about. And so that's kind of how we defined it. And so if you're looking on the plots on the paper, we'll probably have them on the screen as well. There's that gray band that essentially represents this region that we considered practically equivalent between the two groups. That's just something I want to highlight because you'll see on social media when this paper is being communicated, that kind of concept will just kind of get thrown around. But it's important to understand what that means. And so if we look at the results here, both groups saw significant and meaningful growth in muscle size, which is awesome. That means both the traditional group and the drop set group were able to increase their bicep size with the protocols that we leverage, which is great and gives us a pretty good comparison in both groups. However, where the things get interesting is looking at this comparison between traditional and drop sets. And the reason I went through the whole rigmarole of kind of making the difference between practical and statistical significance is because we had a divergence in our results. And this is what I've described in other podcasts is kind of the equivalence fallacy is that sometimes when people see a lack of significant differences, they say their results are equivalent. You really can't say that unless you have a very precise measurement and some threshold that you're considering a practically meaningful difference. And you can say in high confidence it's within that range. That's what we actually had. So to start, we did see that the difference between traditional and drop sets are what I would consider quote unquote real. There was a slight advantage to the traditional sets versus the drop sets. We'll talk about what that may mean here in a second. But also the precision of our results in the magnitude of difference was within what we consider practically equivalent, which we defined ahead of time. And so basically how you can view this is, yes, there may be a quote unquote real advantage to traditional sets, which again, we'll talk about why that may be the case here in a second. But at the same time, the magnitude of the difference isn't so large that it's outside of what we would consider quote unquote practically equivalent. And so put it put another way, drop sets within the range of what we considered pretty good and pretty similar was within that. And so that's a win for drop sets as far as I'm concerned. Where things get even more kind of in favor of drop sets from my perspective is we also looked at our results relative to the time it took for essentially all the repetitions completed in each condition. And that's where drop sets came ahead in the sense that the difference there was outside of that range of quote unquote practically equivalent in favor of drop sets. And drop sets, you know, just looking at things kind of visually kind of wins substantially. And drop sets took a little less than half the time to achieve essentially what we're considering practically equivalent hypertrophy. So to wrap all that stuff up, drop sets seem to deliver practically similar hypertrophy in less than half the time in the protocols examined. However, there may be a small potentially real advantage to traditional sets if you're looking to optimize elbow flexor hypertrophy from these programs. How'd I do? No, I think that was a great breakdown. I mean, just to add a little bit of context for the listener, the smallest effect size of interest, which like you said, was defined ahead of time, is effectively point. It's like about 0.1 centimeters, I believe. I think, yeah, the smallest effect size, yeah, 0.14 centimeters. So that's a small amount. And it's tricky because when you're doing, you know, we had a solid sample, we had a within participant design such that, you know, we were able to put together what we think is a pretty good study for the field. At the same time, you don't want to like overstate the results beyond what would be practically meaningful. So the difference, so the between condition contrast between traditional training and drop set training was 0.07 centimeters, right? So if you basically take the estimate of growth for the muscle thickness change or the growth for the traditional condition, it was 0.26 centimeters. And for traditional, it was 0.19 centimeters. So basically what you were saying is that difference of 0.07 centimeters, the confidence intervals around that 0.07 centimeters did not cross 0, which means we're pretty confident that the traditional condition saw growth greater than the drop set condition in the positive direction. But it was just really, really small. That's basically what it's saying. And then the training efficiency, I think, is really relevant because we often get into the headspace of optimization. And I think that's good. And we're going to talk about that even more later in the show. But I think it's really important when thinking about a consumer device like a tonal. Someone might be buying a tonal because they don't have time to get to the gym, right? And if they can cut their workout time in half or even more or in that ballpark and get similar results and enhance their training efficiency, that's a really, really hopeful metric. So I am hopeful that we see that training efficiency metric used a little bit more in the research. So when you look at it through the lens of training efficiency, so basically growth per unit of time, drop sets just absolutely crushed traditional training. So, and you mentioned the total training time, right? Yep. Yeah, so 6.5 minutes for both curls and pull downs in the drop set condition versus 16.5 minutes in the traditional condition. Huge difference in training time, right? And, of course, the study here is focused on the bicep training and the pull down training. But if you were to, in theory, apply this to an entire training program, you know, you're taking a five-hour training week and cutting it down to, I don't know, what? Two hours. Two hours. Two hours. Something like that in that ballpark, which is insanely practically relevant, I think. Yep. So with that, with those results, let's get into, like, how to actually interpret this and apply it and where it fits into the research from a conceptual basis. So to start, let's talk about the ways that we can actually view these results and view these data. Like I just said, the first thing is that drop sets are way more efficient, and therefore, you should just do that. That could be a takeaway. It's like, hey, you guys didn't have a group that did 16.5 minutes worth of drop set training. But if I were to extrapolate this out and make some assumptions, I would definitely get more, right? My hypertrophy per minute is way higher in drop sets, so we should just do a bunch of drop sets, which we just don't have much research on. And we'll circle back to that. But I think the two most interesting ways to view the data that are opposed to each other is where there's a really interesting conversation. So there's one way to view it is to say, hey, the drop sets did produce a little bit less growth when you just compare the results to zero, right? Like we just outlined. That 0.07 centimeter difference between the two conditions basically tells us that they weren't optimal. And that could be due to the fatigue that builds up over the course of a drop series. That's one way to view it. Another way to view it is to say that, hey, the drop sets were not optimal due to some other reason, right? Maybe it is due to the feasibility of the protocol. It was due to the adherence of the protocol, such as the discomfort that comes with it or the inability to actually use maximal concentric attempt, something like that. So as with a lot of research, there's no like crystal, super crystallized takeaway you can just extract out and say, boom, now I changed my training accordingly. And we have the answer. But instead, we wanted to present the results in various ways, report it compared to zero, which we think is helpful. Also compare it to a metric for what we deemed as practically meaningful. Also within the context of efficiency. And in a lot of ways, you can kind of paint your own picture in your mind, if you will. So what do you think, Zach? How do you view the data? Yeah. And so it's a really good question. Ultimately, I think the first thing I'll say, just also, I don't think we made this point yet, is of course, drop sets are simply one strategy that kind of fits within this bucket of set extension techniques is probably the best umbrella term I could think of. So that's one thing I'd say is like drop sets definitely do have their advantages with essentially no time between the column sets again. But you know what I mean? The little clusters of repetitions. So they're probably the most time efficient if I had to roughly think off the top of my head. But of course, there's other ways to do it, such as my reps or what have you. So that's the first thing I'd say. But speaking specifically about this study, yeah, I think to me the time efficiency is kind of the expected outcome. I hesitate to say I'm less interested in that because that is arguably the most practically relevant thing. Like I was trying to think if I would personally take this information and obviously this is the drop set research at large. If I was going to show a loved one how to train, is this kind of how we should always teach people as a basis? Like, right? Like, you know what I mean? Like, let's design a minimum effective dose resistance training program with leg press, chest press, lat pull down. The effect of additional volume at low volume is pretty dang beneficial. What if we just have them do drop sets to get those couple extra sets in? And it's kind of like the standard template to show somebody how to lift, right? Like, that was one thing I thought of. Yeah. So you're saying for gen pop. Yeah. People that just want to get some results from a little bit of time in the gym and they're time constrained. Yeah. Maybe drop sets should be the default. That's basically what you're saying. Exactly. Yeah. Drop sets are some sort of set extension technique is like basically getting people in and out of the gym in 30 minutes and doubling or tripling the amount of volume that they would have done otherwise. Like, it's a double win. Or just don't do that extra volume. Well, I guess I'm saying you're doing that extra volume in less time and it's at the point where that extra volume is actually probably going to make some meaningful differences, right? So, yeah. Long story short, like that should be the number one takeaway, I think, in terms of like just adding on to that narrative. It's worth considering. Yeah. Yeah. Like just dropping that into the evidence-based larger conversation is like, hey, why is this not the default for just the average person? Exactly. Which the average person is not an optimizer. Now, maybe the average listener of this show is. And don't worry, we got you. Yeah. In a little bit. But, yeah. Like I think about like your average, you know, finance bro, like working at whatever job or whatever. And like, you know, you're probably exhausted after like crushing trades all day or whatever. Yeah. And then, yeah, you go to the gym. Day trading day any. Yeah. Yeah. You go to the gym for 30 or 45 minutes. Like, I don't know. I just like I really think that is something to be considered as kind of like, you know, you could probably write a pretty good book on like, you know, whatever. Like what's like the Tim Ferriss book that's like. Oh, like the four hour. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Something like that. Like that. That would be pretty, pretty cool. But anyway, that's publishers are going to come running. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. So like that's the first thing to underline just because I genuinely do think that's the most practically. Oh, he also has a book. I promise you I didn't look this up. He also he does have a book called The Four Hour Body. Oh, he's already got us then. He probably. I wonder if he has drop sets in it. I wonder. All right. I'll do a quick search. Yeah. So the reason I want to highlight that because I do think that is the most practically relevant for the most people on the planet. Now, shifting to the most people who listen to this podcast, maybe it's slightly different. So the interesting discussion to me is how do we view the fact that there is a quote unquote real difference between traditional and drop sets. So one thing I want to talk through quickly. I don't don't let me get too far. Low volume, high intensity and frequent training. Oh, it's like slow tempo stuff. Oh, nice. Okay. Push ups, pull down, seated rows, chest press, shoulder press, leg press, hip thrust, progressive overload, baby. Drop us a comment if you want a live review of the four hour for our body for our body on the next podcast. Yeah. I mean, this is a super quick search. Low volume, high intensity. I don't see anything about drop sets in here. Well, Mr. Ferris, if you want to, you know. Yeah, I don't know for sure, but I don't think drop sets are a core component of the four hour body. Yeah. But. So anybody in the biohacker community. Oh, shoot. Has he got it? ChatGPT says the four hour body does mention drop sets, but only briefly and not as a core recommendation. All right. Well. But who knows if that's actually accurate. Long story short, if anybody's looking up to level up the biohacker training game, let us know. Um, but anyway, to come back to the, um, how to view the traditional results. And all I was going to say is don't let me get too off track on this because I will definitely talk about this for too long, but I want to talk about what it means to detect a difference between groups real quick. Okay. Good luck making this tight. I'll try. You got it. I'll try five minutes or less. So I think a lot of people are going to say, how, how are you saying that this difference is real? It's so small and I can't measure that. The issue with that idea is that the whole reason we do research is to be able to detect effects smaller than we could detect on an individual. And so the idea is when we have a larger sample size, the measurement error that doesn't allow us to measure a change for a given individual or a given difference allows us to detect that once we have a larger sample size and all these individual measurement errors can cancel out. So that's, that's just something I think is like really important to realize why we do research in terms of the size of the effects that we can detect. Essentially the idea that we can detect smaller differences than we'd be able to detect on any individual. That's why you can't go to get a DEXA scan and be confident that you had a change in lean mass or be confident that you had a change in body fat percentage. But if we, if we take a thousand people over the course of two different interventions or what have you, a control group and a training group or whatever, we can detect extremely small differences in lean mass because we have a larger sample size where these measurement errors cancel out. And so I, I see that on social media sometimes in terms of like critiquing the differences between group means. Sometimes that's justified depending on the sample size and the overall study design, of course. But the idea is we do research to be able to have as much precision on those differences and means as possible. It's the basic idea why studies are not just one person. Exactly. And, and then, and then. Which sometimes people can use a reminder about. Yeah, exactly. And then the, and then the, the next question is, is it meaningful or not? Which is what we've just spent time discussing. So I just wanted to discuss that because I see it on social media sometimes and it, um, it irks me slightly just, just to kind of, it's antithetical to the reason that we, that we try to get larger sample sizes and study groups for that reason. Um, okay. So with that out of the way, how do we view this small difference that is in favor of traditional groups is the million dollar question, right? It is it due to this fatigue or is it due to some other, uh, kind of, um, practical reasons? And are you, just to make sure the listeners on the same page, all frame, this is a question. Sure. Are you confident saying there, there was a difference? Yeah. I mean, based on our design, I think that we have an extremely, based on our data. Sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry. Sorry. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Based on the data, there was a difference. We're just saying, man, it's small. It's very small. Exactly. It's small. And it's to the point that on the individual level, it is arguably impractical. Exactly. Yep. Yeah. Or is impractical the best word there? Maybe there is a bad word. It's impractical is the best word given our subjective criteria. And that's the thing that's really hard to get. Because it was a standard error of measurement times square or two. Yeah. Something like that. It's essentially arbitrary. Like that's, that's the tough thing with meaningfulness in defining that in any way. Here's another example. Go ahead. With our dose response metaregressions, right? Um, so on the X axis, you have the number of sets on the Y axis, you have gains or muscle growth. Sure. Technically the entire dose response relationship is positive and it's significant. Beyond increasing zero. It's increasing, right? And the confidence interval is above zero. Yes. Um, however, again, check out previous content on this. We used criteria to determine what is likely to be meaningful. And that gave us some insight into basically where the, uh, practicality of that dose response relationship maybe ends based on the, the data that we have. Um, which we're, we're kind of double clicking on this point quite a bit. Yeah. To use one of my corporate phrases. Double click. That's a good one. Um, but it, it, it is like, it does kind of like make your head spin a little bit. Yeah. So I'm glad you, glad you, you're double clicking on it. Yeah. Yeah. So I, I guess to me, like there's kind of two ways we can go. Like, I guess to me, the second hypothesis is a little bit quicker to discuss. And then we can kind of grant it for sake of argument is kind of the way that I view it is like, of course, in a semi-supervised setting where there's a couple of logistical constraints that we obviously tried to account for and instruct people how to use the tonal and the mode, both of the modes, um, as much as intended. There's obviously things that would inhibit them from, from doing so. And so whether that been perception of discomfort, which we did try to anchor them to the, to the idea of failure, what that feels like, um, in both conditions. Um, but there's still, you know, things that can make you terminate a set prior to the point that we desired, which is like the local muscular, muscular fatigue. That's obviously always kind of a concern. But the thing I was going to say is like semi-supervised, supervised, what have you, that's kind of always happening and you have to essentially take the participants word to some degree that task failure occurred for X, Y, Z reason or X, Y, Z, um, proportion of reasons if you can't separate them entirely. But basically what I'm saying like that, we do a leg study or a leg press study and we're screaming at the participants as much as possible. Sure. We think that they're reaching. We see it happen, but we don't know what's happening. Of course. Exactly. We can't necessarily totally guarantee in any scenario that the thing that's limiting task performance is local muscular fatigue. And there could be, um, like bad reasons or good reasons or like there, there could be the reason that the participant isn't motivated. So they like fake failure. I don't think that happens. No. But what I think what you're getting at is like, we assume that the force production capability of the muscle is what is, is insufficient and therefore task failure occurs. Right. But it could be kind of this bi-directional relationship between your experience and your perception of effort. And on the other end of that relationship, what's going on at the level of the skeletal muscle and all the fatigue that it's experiencing. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah, exactly. So the reason I bring that up is because I think we can basically grant it for this discussion because while I do think the probability is a little bit higher in this case, given it's semi-supervised, you know, we're not screaming at the participants every single time they train. Um, that is kind of always the case. Um, so that's, that's something to consider. The other thing, as far as that goes, as far as the, the maximal intent, um, once again, like that is something we really tried to, um, instruct the participants, familiarize them. They understood that that is essentially how the mode works. Um, and I do believe that given that amount of familiarization and re-familiarization at every single one of the supervised sessions, we can basically grant that that was, that was roughly kept in check and essentially all of the metrics that we use to assess was the training completed in similar parameters as we desired were basically met. So long story short, I think we can basically take off the table, um, from the idea that at least in this study, drop sets weren't optimal due to feasibility and adherence to the protocol. If you can grant the assumptions that I just laid out. So that, that, that'd be the first thing I'd say. Okay. So what that brings us to is now what I think is the most interesting part of this and where we can kind of get into the rabbit hole in terms of practical implications and just ideas is what is the influence of fatigue, particularly in the case of drop sets on the stimulus side of the equation. And if you take our results at face value, we basically try to set up the drop sets to have the maximum chance of equating hypertrophy. And again, in a absolute fairytale world where the number of reps close to failure is perfectly related to the hypertrophy observed, maybe it's even going to go up a little bit. We didn't see that. We saw, we saw the opposite. We saw that while the difference is very small, of course, drop sets were a little bit worse for hypertrophy looking at the group means. Why is that? Yeah. Yeah. So I, the way that I like to conceptualize this, and I hope this resonates with at least some of the listeners and definitely let me know if this is unclear to you is just kind of imagine a grindy rep in isolation. Okay. So you're grinding through the last rep of a set or the second, last rep of a set. You're locked in. The rep is moving slow because you're close to failure. Okay. Imagine that at the end of a 10RM set, right? So you're using a hundred pounds or whatever. Imagine that exact same thing. So that exact same repetition speed, but it's after this, these multiple drops have occurred and therefore you're more fatigued in the, the repetition velocity is similar, but the force production is lower. The load you're using is way lower. Right. And also just the amount of time you spent up to that point doing work, fatiguing yourself at the level of the musculature and also probably some mental fatigue as well. Yeah. That is added up. So you're basically taking similar looking reps. It's completely different. But different, different fatigue context, right? Now, this is a bit of an extrapolation, a bit of a jump, but, and now let's move into our practical takeaways. And this is a bit of a jump. But I think when you pair this and kind of triangulate it with other data, my, one of my main takeaways is that reps to failure or sorry, reps closer to failure just in general are likely more effective. But that fatigue context that basically precedes the repetition in question may moderate the effectiveness. We don't know how much it moderates the effectiveness. Yeah. Okay. And like you did a great job outlining. The moderation of the effectiveness. So basically how, how much the hypertrophy stimulus from that rep goes down as a result of the fatigue con context. It could be a physiological thing. It could just be a psychological thing or it could be both. We don't know. We can't tease that out with, you know, what we did here. And that would also just be a tricky thing to study. That's my main takeaway. My other simpler takeaway is that drop sets are an awesome tool. Right. And I just think it's worth sitting on that and really thinking about that a little bit more as like an evidence-based person. I put that in air quotes purposefully, but, you know, using evidence to inform what we think we know conceptually. It's like, man, it's not a big body of research. There's limitations. There's heterogeneity. But like, I think there's a really cool study. I think we achieved the objectives and it produced hypertrophy really efficiently. And I'm not saying drop sets are an awesome tool. Therefore, you have to do this drop set method. Therefore, you have to buy a tonal. Instead, I'm saying, hey, conceptually, if you have access to a tonal, awesome. If not, there's a ton of ways to apply this. And that would be kind of like a takeaway to be, if you will, is that there are other ways to apply this concept. Right. And regular listeners of the show will know that that's not really how we think about research is like, oh, this is the way this is the way now. Or like we found look at how how significant our results were for efficiency with this drop set protocol that therefore it was more efficient here compared to this study. Therefore, this drop set method is better. That's definitely not how to think about it, but just conceptually ways to like either use drop sets or like rest pause or my rep type training. And we have a lot of unanswered questions about like what's actually driving the hypertrophy stimulus from those slash taking away from maximum hypertrophy stimulus of those. We still have a lot of questions, but there's definitely no right way to use this concept. We would need a ton of resources to go into the research to really tease that out. I don't think we'll ever get there. But instead, conceptually, it's an awesome tool, I think. Yeah. A hundred percent. Cool. Do you agree with are we all good with takeaways? Yeah, I think so. I mean, the. Yeah, I honestly, honestly think this which sucks and this is definitely the meme in terms of more research is needed. But this study has given me more questions than it has answers. I think it confirmed the idea that we can get really great growth in a short period of time leveraging these strategies, which is, again, like I said, for the for the most people on the planet. That is probably the most practical questions we could investigate, which is really cool. But for the super nerds like us, like now it makes me just really want to dig into these speculative relationships between feet fatigue and essentially how much does the effect of fatigue or the decrease in our absolute level performance modify the absolute stimulus we get for it from a given RAR basically. And then, OK, so this that's a great way to tee up what we discussed beforehand is the biggest remaining research question in our mind. If you look at our study that we just talked about and also the drop set research up to this point, to my knowledge, there's no study that equates time, total training time between a traditional approach and a drop set training approach. OK, so some of the feedback, which I think is totally. Fair feedback is like, hey, why didn't you guys just equate total training time between traditional and drop sets or sense and see if. You know, if you're like a stimulus max or you're you're a optimizer, you're someone trying to get everything you can out of your training, if drop sets are just more effective overall. And I think that's a great answer. Hopefully, by listening to this, the last hour of us talk about a rationale here, you can see why we designed it the way we did. But I think that is absolutely the next research question is like, what if we do a similar concept, but we match training time. And see if the drop set type of approach or a myorep type of approach, something in this general vicinity can lead to more muscle growth in the same amount of time. That's a really interesting question. And that gets at kind of this larger conceptual discussion. And that is to what degree do the diminishing returns of additional work within a session change as a result of the training style? Yeah. So I'm going to say that again in different language because I know that's a little bit tricky to think about. So think back to our dose response relationships between volume and hypertrophy. X axis is the number of sets per week. Y axis is change in muscle size, right? We see the dose response relationship. What exactly it is doesn't really matter from my point here. But what is important is that the majority of that research is based on traditional training with decently long rest, right? Two plus minutes. I don't remember the average rest off the top of my head, but traditional-esque training, right? How would that dose response relationship look if on the X axis, maybe it's not sets because again, it's kind of tricky terminology wise when you're doing drop sets or drop series, whatever you want to call them. But just generally speaking on the X axis, if you have work that you do within a week and on the Y axis, you still have change in muscle size. Does that dose response relationship look similar, right? Or does it change? Because you could make the argument that, man, we do see evidence from the study in question that maybe fatigue, the fatigue context, so higher fatigue preceding a given repetition at a given velocity does take away from the stimulus a little bit. So therefore, you could make the argument, you could extrapolate to say that by doing this like higher fatigue type training, this higher within session acute fatigue type of scenario that you would see stronger diminishing returns and potentially effectively a plateau in terms of the muscle growth stimulus earlier in the workout. So the final way I'll word this is that you kind of really just wipe yourself out early in the workout by doing all drop sets. Here's another way to think about it maybe. And the short answer right now is we don't know. Yeah. And a lot of assumptions in the evidence-based community, the kind of narrative right now is just do them at the end of the session to get more volume. Um, but that's not really an evidence-based opinion and credit to you. And I'll let you add some color here because you pointed this out before we pressed record. It's like, that's not really evidence-based, right? Um, no one's actually studied that, that has assumptions. Why are we starting from the position that it wouldn't be better just to do them the entire time? Yeah. I mean, the, the way that I, when I heard you say that I hadn't thought about it this way, but it is kind of an interesting way to think about it is shout out to Jake Remmert, um, going to back to his meta-analysis, thinking about the per session volume, quote unquote cap. Is it a volume cap or is it a like total fatigue cap? If you think about it like that. So the psychological, of course, of course it could be psychological as well. I guess what I'm saying is like, if you add up the reduction in performance across all the sets in the workout, set configurations that increase that level of fatigue may hit a wall in the number of sets that we're performing much earlier than, or sets, damn it, and I keep using the same language, but you might hit that fatigue cap much faster for a given number of repetitions or workload compared to traditional set configurations, which what's the stimulus, uh, net there in terms of hypertrophy? Again, not entirely sure. Um, so it's just, there's just so many remaining questions in terms of utilizing. Yeah. And so to come back to what you just said at the end there is like, the thing I always ask myself is like, okay, yeah, sure. We should throw these at the end of the workout or the last, uh, exercise for a given muscle group or things like that. Like those are very practical applications of this research for, for like somebody that's more on the optimization side of things, which I totally understand practically, but intellectually I'm like, okay, this is like the first super tangible evidence to say that there's like a clear potential downside. Um, not large, but some, but absent that, let's say we lean on the practical equivalent side of things. Why would you not use this all the time? Like what is the tangible reason there? Particularly if you set up the configuration of the training to try to quote unquote set drop sets up for success. Let's use slightly heavier loads, maybe slightly more submaximal proximities of failure, uh, per each little series or what have you to really try to minimize the unnecessary parts of that fatigue to make sure you could do them for more parts of your session without feeling tanked. Um, I don't have a good answer to that question. And my intuition is there's probably some modification of the dose response relationship. Like you were saying, what that looks like, I don't know. And so just throwing them at the end of the workout or using them in kind of that capacity. Like you said, I don't think that's a very direct application of the research because for the most part, I'd have to go back and read the studies. Now this is something I'm not a hundred percent confident about, but I would stand to reason or stand to bet that most of these training programs are with isolated muscle groups. Um, meaning it's not like a global training program where they're using this for their upper body, their lower body, their back, their legs. Um, it's just biceps or it's just quads. So that's not really the application we're saying in anything related to fatigue, the context in which these research questions are investigated is crucial. Hypertrophy is easy to study, um, in kind of these localized examples because it's a pretty local adaptation. So for some of those things, it's really, really, um, helpful to kind of keep the problem isolated. But for fatigue, which is more of a systemic and local process, that's where the difference in how these things are applied ecologically and how they are in the research, that divide, I think gets more tricky. And that's why when we come back to your meta-analysis, we always talk about it as like the physiological dose response relationship and like in this super meat in a Petri dish kind of sense in terms of like, if we can linearly apply the dose in like this really controlled setting, that's how it ends up. But in, in, in these more fatigue related questions, I don't think that's as useful to think about. So I, I, I will not belabor things any further, but what do you think? No, I totally agree. I mean, I like to just take the concepts and just think one, two, three levels higher. Yeah. And when you were talking there, basically, I think what it comes down to is we don't know why diminishing returns occur within a session. And again, within both the weekly dose response meta and the per session dose response meta, we were able to identify a point of undetectable outcome superiority, which basically says, Hey, beyond this point, we don't have much certainty that it still goes up, that the benefits are still there. It could be a plateau. That's a true plateau is within reason. Um, I believe for multiple reasons, including the fact that that point exists, that there probably is a plateau. Um, but we don't know why that occurs. Right. I think it's very easy for someone that, you know, takes a muscle physiology class and learns about muscle protein breakdown. Um, and yeah, to make assumptions about why there would be a plateau, but then you really think mechanistically, it's like, we don't really know why that's the case. In fact, there's no research demonstrating that higher volumes to my knowledge. There's no research to my knowledge that actually demonstrates a dose response relationship with additional, uh, of additional muscle protein breakdown with additional volumes, not because there isn't, but just because that's surprisingly hard to study. That's just a basic example, right? We make a lot of assumptions about like why that dose response for curve does tail off, why there are diminishing returns. But I think it's helpful to like, you know, think multiple levels higher than that, say why? Because if we know the answer to why that's the case, then we could extrapolate it more confidently and more broadly to something like this. Yeah. If we add an answer, answer that question, we would probably be able to tell you with more certainty whether or not drop sets making up the bulk of your training would make sense versus just putting it at the end of the session as like the cherry on top to the program. Because once you do a whole bunch of drop sets within a session, we would expect stronger diminishing returns. So yeah, I thought this was very fruitful. Um, I don't have anything else to add, but I also have plenty of rabbit holes I want to go down, but I don't have anything else that's going to sway me from any of the podcast here. How about you? Yeah, I don't think so. Um, lots of questions. I think the only thing that came to mind when you were just finishing that is like, I do think some, uh, sides of the aisle, if you will, would think there is a pretty clear cut like way to explain why diminishing returns occur, for example. But the thing I want to underline, like what you're saying, and I'm just interpreting what you're saying and confirming that's the case is like, you could make a compelling case that from a physiological perspective, um, the longer the training session occurs or the more sets that you're doing the, you know, you take like a cardio bout, for example, over time, the longer the task duration goes, the central fatigue or what have you is kind of kicking in as that task is going on. And so you reach some point where your, your brain isn't sending, you know, a sufficient signal to recruit the musculature in the case of resistance training. And that's starting to essentially diminish the effectiveness of each set. That's part of it. And then also, um, you know, for the drop set case, maybe the actual physiological process of shorter rest periods and decreasing your performance isn't delivering as much tension on a per rep basis. And that is both of those things collectively are decreasing the mechanical tension experienced and thus the chemical signals that, that kind of come from that. I understand that perspective entirely. That's I think it's very reasonable. I do. I too, but I guess I'm just going to highlight what I think you were saying. And I, I, I just want to make it explicitly clear is in the real world, there are other things that can limit it. And so when we go to the case of observing the outcome data that we have, we don't really know what is creating the actual diminishing returns in the real world. Is it some of these psychological factors that don't actually allow us to reach, um, you know, the local, the local muscle fatigue that we're, that we're after. So that mechanistic explanation is great, but what if, what if there is these other factors in a practical sense that are changing? What is the predominant factor there? And then also to what degree do those occur and how do those influence outcomes? All of those things I think are from a well-controlled, high quality human data. I don't think that that exists. Um, and, and that's what makes these kinds of things, um, so interesting because you can create really high quality conceptual models that get difficult to test and difficult to tease out these things. Um, but I, yeah, I just, I just want to paint that picture because I think that's a reasonable way to think. Um, and it's, it's almost certainly right. Sure. And just the degree of its relevance. Yeah. Degree of exactly. And that's comes back to put a bow on it. Maybe coming back to our drop set results is like, there quite literally are two ways you could do it. Right. It's like the results are practically equivalent based on our, you know, subjective threshold that I think is pretty reasonable or there's a small difference there. How do you, how do you square that circle and how does that influence the way that you train? There's a lot of different ways you could take that and a lot of different, I think reasonable applications. One person might say, Hey, the time saving benefits that I get from drop sets, I might be able to apply those to the majority of my program and close to multiply the amount of total work I'm able to fit in in a given amount of time. That's a net positive for me. Other people might say, Hey, the, uh, effective fatigue is showing up here. That's something I definitely don't want to, you know, put too much of my, um, eggs in that basket and what if it has a cumulative effect that the research really doesn't, you know, paint super well because of the limited application of this in a ecologically valid holistic training program. Both of those are totally reasonable, uh, opinions, which is why we need, um, some of these, you know, other designs that start to build on the drop set literature a little bit more collectively with, uh, time equated set equated collectively multiple conditions all at once. Um, and just kind of continue to take steps forward, um, their different volumes, um, et cetera. So, yeah, I'm with you, man. I, I'm excited to see this area develop. Um, oftentimes I think what matters less is like the data itself, but maybe what it can inspire next, if that makes sense. Um, and you know, there's tonal, there's other companies that use like similar technology. So in other words, there's improvements in technology to test things that we're interested in from a conceptual perspective. So, um, I'm excited to see what people come up with and I really, really hope that this podcast shows some excitement for conceptually what we did. And I'm not, I'm not saying like there's not limitations or like this. We, we still want to study the study design was like perfect for answering a question, but instead of just saying, Oh, another drop set study versus straight set study. Yeah. Um, not really relevant for me for X, Y, Z reasons. What is this? What, what more does this tell us? That kind of, right. Oh, it's another one that'll go into the next meta analysis showing no difference or, or whatever, which of course we're in favor of that typically. And we're not trying to over extrapolate one study, but the, I think the, the journey of this is, is the thing that's the, like the journey of the ideas and the hypotheses and what kind of went into the design. That's the part I think is the most interesting. And then you pair that with our results, given the hypotheses and just like, I would say our prior beliefs coming in, I would say the prior beliefs of many practitioners in general, that's what is interesting. And that's kind of what pushes the next questions further. Um, yeah. So I, I honestly think there's tons of meat on the bone in this area. And honestly, from a practically relevant perspective, both for optimization and efficiency, I think this area is super, super impactful. So I hope more people continue to build on this because like I said, whether you're doing a sarcopenia RCT with, you know, tons of people, a multi-center clinical trial, that's looking like a, uh, GLP one or something, understanding that drop sets can decrease the, uh, the, uh, staff burden to carry out those large trials by literally less than half. That is huge information, right? So like, there's just so many, there's so many downstream benefits of like understanding the efficiency and the optimization perspective of this, that I just hope people continue to chase this, this path down for sure. Yeah. I'd love to see. It makes me think of looking in to the affective response of drop sets. And that's where I think you can, I think you can set them up for success. That's, that's, that's where I think the work for that side of things. So what I mean by the affective response is just more generally speaking, like the experience of doing them. Minimizing the perception of discomfort essentially. Yeah. And also how that might influence like intention to exercise or things like that. Yeah. Um, because if you want to apply this to general population, that's a huge consideration. It's like, Hey, you can save time, but if you're not going to do it because you dread that sort of training or whatever. Yeah. Um, or it increases injury risk, something like that. Yeah. Then that's a concern. Um, but in a lot of ways, maybe it would decrease. I was going to say, you're using, you're getting to fatigue with a lower load. Right. Like to me, it's like the, the quote unquote optimal configuration would be basically the heaviest load to start with. That is like in that Goldilocks zone of like, it's heavy. So it's close to failure basically immediately, but it's not so heavy that it's kind of aching on your joints kind of thing. And then you basically drop the load to try to elicit those conditions again, essentially. So like, let's just say for sake of argument, sweet spot is, I don't know, six to 10 RM or whatever. And then you hit that first set with like two RAR. It's like eight reps with two RAR. You drop the load, whatever the low drop is to elicit those conditions you're doing, you know, somewhere in that range again. And then you drop it and do that range again. And I think that's for the most part, as long as the repetitions don't get too high, I think that perception of discomfort could be minimized, um, along with the RAR. So yeah, that's, that's a whole nother conversation. And like, we have no research on my reps. Yeah. Um, I think the first one's going to be coming out soon, but I mean, I guess there's like some rest pause stuff that's kind of relevant, but I don't know. I think there, there's a lot of promise for my reps, um, for some reasons that we don't need to get into right now because we got to wrap this up here. So if we're all good, we'll, we'll wrap it up here. Leave us a comment, um, on the YouTube video. That would be awesome. Show us some engagement. Let us know what you're interested in seeing from us in 2026. If there's any topics you want to see us cover, maybe you've seen some of our work and you have a follow-up question or a practical application question that we could, we could discuss on the show. Um, yeah, we, we'd love to hear it or just drop, drop a nonsense comment so that, uh, we get the, uh, that algorithm boost from it because Hey, we're not doing our job with an hour and 25 minute podcast. So we need you to do your job and, uh, help us out. So be sure to subscribe, um, go to data driven strength.com, sign up for the newsletter and we'll see you in the next episode. Peace. Okay. Okay. Okay.