 n Training tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid tid We hit 10,000 subscribers. What a way to say it. Five figures. That sounds awesome. Yeah. How much? So you went to a relatively small high school. What was your graduating class? 126, baby. That's crazy. Yeah. You played basketball as well. How many? Do you know about how many people did the basketball arena? Oh, no. I don't know that. I don't know that. No? No. Okay. They weren't coming to see me. They weren't coming to see you? No, they weren't. They weren't coming to see me either. But I went to a much bigger high school. And our gym still didn't hold 10,000 people. So basically what I'm saying is we're huge. Although I will say there was one high school. And it was actually where Jalen Brunson went to high school. Their gym was huge. Yeah. So we're at Florida Atlantic University these days. And the gym that he or the high school he went to, their basketball arena held, I think, more people than Florida Atlantic University. Yeah. And I will say, Jalen Brunson was a little bit older than me. But they had another guy that ended up being, like, he went, he ended up being a multi-year starter in the Big Ten. And they were really good as well. Like, basically just the entire time. And we did upset them one year on their home court in a packed house Friday night. What was the stat line? The stat line. So I had to guard the guy that I mentioned. I think he's playing overseas in, it might be Israel these days. And he, and I had to guard him. So that was my role is I, I'm not. Three and D, baby. I'm not, I'm not making anything happen on the offensive end. But you better believe I'm setting picks. Yeah. You better believe I'm. A glue guy. Big glue guy. A glue guy. And basically what that means is pray that the guy that I'm guarding does not hit his first three-pointer. Because if he hits his first three-pointer, I got to get up on him a little bit. He's blowing by me. Not that quick. I hope he misses the first three, which he did. And I was able to sag off, you know, get in his head a little bit. Yeah. And, you know, hold him to 20 points instead of 40. Let's go. And then pull off, pull off the upset on their home court. I think that kept us at about 500 for the year. Well, you didn't mention your stat line. That's what I was asking. Oh, yeah. I danced around that. I don't remember, but I guarantee you that rebounds were higher than points. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Let's go. But anyway, yeah, 10,000. I think 10,000 is like the sweet spot. Yeah. I don't think I want to get much bigger than this. Yeah, that's actually why. Yeah. That's why we haven't gotten to 100,000 subs. Yeah, we've arrived. Yeah. I think we're going to retire. Yep. Yeah, that's the reason we're not at 100,000 or at a million is because we don't want to. Oh, yeah. Otherwise, we would be jewelry, for sure. Yeah. We could do that if we wanted to. Yeah, definitely. No problem. Definitely. But no, I think we're like under the radar such that we could just kind of say whatever we want. Yeah. Yeah. So we're just going to make a bunch of stuff up today. Yeah. And we're going to use this as an opportunity to tell you to subscribe. But if you subscribe, you just need to tell a friend to unsubscribe so that we remain at 10,000 subscribers. I would be interested, partially for engagement purposes, but also genuine curiosity. If you've been listening to the show for this long and have been here for the 10K episode, tell us why you listen. What do you like about the show? Is there anything you want us to double down on? Anything you'd like to see us do or anything you'd like to see us change? I'd be very curious to get some feedback. You just got way too serious. I'm curious. Yeah, I know. We've been doing this a long time. I remember recording episodes. I think I recorded episodes from the couch a couple times with the camera directly upwards into the double chin. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, we've been doing this for a while. And definitely, hopefully, I've upgraded a lot of things along the way to make things better. And mostly our opinions have upgraded. I know the reason why we lost some listeners along the way. Why is that? Because we had some serious audio issues for about two and a half years. Hence the reason we're recording with a better setup these days. So we lost some people along the way due to the audio issues, but maybe some have come back. But if you come back, don't come back now because we want to stay at 10,000. But if you're listening on Spotify, which I know a good amount of people do, or if you're on Apple Podcasts or some other podcast player of choice, head over to YouTube, subscribe there. You can see some visuals. You can also see the visuals on Spotify. So no matter how you want to consume your data-driven strength content, we got you. Whether you just want to listen to audio, cool. If you want to listen to video, check us out on YouTube. Or you can check out some clips of the podcast as well on YouTube. And yeah, we appreciate your support up to this point. And today's episode is going to serve as a nice little... What's the word I'm looking for? Stopgap. Stopgap. That's actually exactly what I was looking for, and I'm surprised he's... It's a nice little stopgap podcast for us here. And we have some good questions lined up. So we're going to discuss... Yeah, I don't even know how to preview it because we have a very long list and we'll see what we get to. Yep. Did you watch the NCAA National Championship last night? No, I did not. I just caught up on... Florida Gators versus Houston Cougars? Yeah. I just caught up on the Duke loss in the Final Four. I just saw that this morning on what happened. That was a tough loss. I used to love watching March Madness. It was like my favorite time of year. I still like it quite a bit, but all that I watched this year, was just a YouTube clip of the last three minutes of the Duke-Houston game and a YouTube video of the last three minutes of the Florida-Houston game. So I watched about six minutes of March Madness this year. Big fan. Yeah, big fan. But, I mean, it looks like really good games in the Final Four. I also think there was a big thing that just happened yesterday with NIL stuff. Yeah, there's a massive court case. I can't remember the exact name, but it's something versus NCAA. Yeah. But, yeah, I don't know the particulars of it, but, yeah. Yeah. Dang. You should have went D1. But, yeah, go Gators, I guess. Oh, yeah. I guess we have some brand allegiance there in theory. Yeah. Based on our state. Yeah. Go Gators. Yeah, go Gators. Okay, cool. You ready to dive in? Let's do it. All right. So first question is from Marcus. Okay. Marcus asks a relatively simple question, but I think there's going to be a little bit more to dive in here than what meets the eye. So Marcus asks, would you rather do, or which would lead to more muscle growth? One set to failure or two sets with multiple reps in reserve? Which of those two options is going to lead to more muscle growth? What do you got for Marcus? So I think ultimately this question is lacking some clarity in the way that it's asked, which will drastically influence the answer to it. So anytime you talk about a set or set volume, you need to clarify at what unit that is occurring at, right? So we could have one set per exercise and perform multiple exercises. We could have one set for the entire session for a given muscle group. We could have one set for the session in its entirety for multiple muscle groups. So we could have one set. One set per year. Per year. You could literally in any increment that you would want, that is going to be a pretty big contributor to the way that this question is answered. If we take this in the way that I think it's intended, I assume this is probably getting at per session volumes, if I had to guess. So one set to zero RAR versus two sets at three RAR per session. And let's assume we're completing, you know, one to two exercises per session for a given muscle group and performing two to three sessions per week for a given muscle group. So to do some quick math on kind of what we're looking at there, you know, let's take the low end on each of those. So one set multiplied by two exercises would be two sets. Multiplied by two sessions would be four to six sets per week to failure. Versus we're looking at four, eight, eight to 16 sets. Or sorry, 16 to 24 sets at three RAR. So a pretty decent chunk of difference in volume there. It's essentially going, is that a doubling of volume? But it's nonlinear because of the sessions I just said. So the math gets a little bit more. It's always going to be doubling no matter what, right? I think so. But I think I was saying two to three sessions. So let's call it two sessions. So then it would just be a straight doubling. So then it'd be four sets versus eight sets at failure or zero RAR. So I think if I'd answer this directly based on the research that we have, I would probably lean on the side of volume there because the fact that this is occurring at such low volumes, going from four to eight sets is going to be a pretty substantial effect. However, if this gets to substantially higher set volumes, I would probably then start to go a little bit more towards the proximity to failure side of things, partially for the diminishing returns effects of volume and the presumably semi-linear effects of proximity to failure. But also if you factor in any sort of practical implications of this as well, I think closer proximity to failure, particularly for hypertrophy oriented training with moderate to high repetition ranges, particularly for some exercises, it just kind of helps as an internal gauge of accuracy and makes sure that we're actually obtaining the proximity of the failure that we are intending to. Otherwise, if we're training a bunch of sets at three RAR with 12 to 15 reps, let's say, that's going to get over time. That can get particularly for like multi-joint exercise, let's say, you might go a little bit lower in reps for there, but the point is kind of similar. Three RAR can be kind of hard to gauge if there's no time in which you're ever kind of going closer to failure. Now, that's existing within the question. Now, if we kind of exist outside of the question, we don't have to pick a single set per session range or a single proximity of failure. I would absolutely blend these together. I think kind of my stock standard hypertrophy kind of potion at this point is to do relatively moderate volumes. So you're existing on the positive, but slightly diminishing returns ends of the volume relationships that we've recently quantified. And then having a good mix of non-failure and failure training pretty much for every exercise. So for your heavier exercises, I'm probably going to live in the one to three RAR range for most of my sets and then take the last set to whatever the closest proximity to failure is for a given exercise. So for like a bench press, I'm probably not going to have somebody fail a rep if they don't have a spotter. But if you're doing something like a machine chest fly, obviously I'm going to have you do maybe even some length and partials kind of at the end to take that to quote unquote as deep of failure as possible. And I think that's a pretty good kind of hypertrophy recipe there to kind of coalesce all that information into one general prescription and not existing within the bounds of the question. So probably slightly annoying answer. No, I think that was my initial thought when reading this question is like, I don't know why we should dichotomize it of like, are you going to do less sets to failure or more sets a few reps shy of failure? I think the cop-out answer, if you will, which I think is kind of accurate is why not both? But it is hopeful, I think, to kind of force a choice between the two. And if I'm understanding your answer correctly, you're basically saying the effects of volume are going to be more potent in lower volume ranges. So if you're doubling volume at low volumes, you should probably double volume. But once you get to higher volumes, let's say above 12 sets per muscle group per week or so, at that point, it does seem there's a positive effect of additional volume, but the marginal returns get smaller and smaller. And we do know there is a benefit to training closer to failure, so long as there's not obvious practical issues with that. And then at that point, maybe it makes more sense to train closer to failure. And I think the principle to take away so that you can apply this broadly is that the dose response between volume and hypertrophy is nonlinear in the sense that there are diminishing marginal returns, as I just outlined. And then on the other hand, the benefits of training closer to failure are linear, right? So in other words, at some point, it probably doesn't make sense to just continue to pack on the volume. If you can handle more, lean into proximity to failure. But broadly speaking, I think most people can do, moderate volumes, get the lion's share of the benefit from additional hypertrophy, and then train as close to failure as they can kind of tolerate, sometimes even past failure. And so long as it doesn't take away greatly from your performance within the session, or completely tank your ability to train a muscle two times per week, just train to failure. Yeah. Cool. Hey, maybe this will end up even being another kind of segment. So let's, let's talk about this, talk about this for strength as well. So I'll ask the question again for the listener. So let's say someone's interested in maximizing their strength development. I want to get, I want to squat a house and kind of break it into two different programs, right? One option is to do a single set all the way to failure or two sets, a few reps shy of failure. Which of those do you think will lead to greater strength developments? Yeah. As a person interested in squatting a house. So again, let's assume that they're talking about this on the per session level and they're going to perform a given exercise or, or, or whatever, let's say twice a week. Um, the lack of clarity this time is that there is no specification on the load that we're utilizing. And so for strength, really the name of the game for the most part is just the principle of specificity. Um, when we're dealing in, you know, the, the timeframes of kind of thought experiments, I think these typically exist within, which is going to be similar to that, to which we have the studies on is, you know, somewhere in the range of, you know, six to 16 weeks, something like that. So more so in kind of the, the late end strength expression kind of phase is, is kind of where we're, we're talking about this. So if we're dealing with higher repetition sets or lower load sets, I would probably take the single set to failure, which is going to be counterintuitive from a neuromuscular perspective, but that's mostly coming from my coaching experience. And I think you have to factor that in a lot more when you interpret strength data than you do with hypertrophy data, just based on the, the kind of the, um, limitations of the training interventions that are utilized. So the big reason I have here is that otherwise with high rep sets, you have no experience with grinding repetitions. And I think that experience of things and getting the, um, the experience, understanding what it feels like for your black back to flex under load for you to have to slightly change the joint angles at which you are, um, uh, moving through to complete those last couple of repetitions. Um, all just all the experiential things that come along with, uh, taking a load very close to what you're capable of handling. I think a set to zero RR is going to better prepare you for that in the thought experiment with only training with high repetition sets. Now, if we're talking about with low repetition sets and more in the realm of, uh, training loads that you would actually use for training strength, I'm probably going to take the two sets at three RR for a variety of reasons. One, I think the neuromuscular adaptations that you're going to get from non-failure training is probably going to be superior, um, compared to failure training, uh, long list of things that I think that's going to benefit. Um, and then ultimately just from the research that we do have the, if, if the repetition range or the rep max that we're using as a percentage of one RRM that we're utilizing is equated here, the benefit that we're getting from the quote unquote intensity side of the spectrum is already kind of maxed out at that point. Um, taking that set closer to failure doesn't really seem to offer any additional benefits. Um, so that is kind of how I would think about that from the strength perspective, which is definitely going to be, um, contextual on, on that variable. Funny. So give me the elevator pitch for hypertrophy versus strength in terms of your, your answer here. Sure. So for hypertrophy, I think, um, I would definitely take the volume at lower weekly set volumes, but the closer that we get to the higher weekly set volume end of the spectrum, I start to shift my answer more towards the proximity of failure end, both from theoretical and also practical arguments, um, for strength. On the other hand, if we're dealing with high rep sets, um, then I would probably favor training to failure to get some of those, um, experiential things on, on what it feels like to grind and just, and kind of, um, intangible effects of, of, of training hard. Oh, one or I mean, yeah, training hard. Exactly. Um, but for, you know, more reasonable training loads, I would definitely favor the, like, like eight rep max or less. Exactly. And then if you factor in volume for the strength, uh, the question as well, I'm probably just going to continuously move towards the three RR example because 50, uh, strength is more fatigue sensitive. Yeah. So basically for a high purchase. So like the answer is shift depending on other variables. Exactly. And the variable that matters for hypertrophy is, where are you in terms of total weekly set volume for strength? It depends on where are you in terms of like average loads. Yeah. And ultimately those are the two variables hypertrophy for, uh, or sorry, volume for hypertrophy and load for strength. I don't want to say those are the drivers. That's not really how I view it, but those are probably the most. Pie chart. Adjustable. They're kind of the most modifiable variables to some degree. Yeah. Um, granted frequency is, is pretty modifiable for strength and that seems to be pretty important, but nonetheless, yeah, those take up a big part of the pie chart. Big part of the pie chart. Exactly. I like that. Um, um, for each of those adaptations and those are also quite modifiable and therefore other variables sometimes kind of fall around those. So I like that framing. Um, okay. So, so at this point, you know, this is, this is just for, for podcast listeners. Um, um, do you think that like, uh, what do you think of kind of the trend recently? If I were to just take a step back, um, and I, I think some of the work that we've done has contributed to this in the hypertrophy space, things have kind of just leaned towards fatigue is less of a thing to worry about. At least I would take that position. And I don't know if you would, I think it's just more polarized. I think some people think fatigue is like the most important consideration. Okay. I'll, I'll put my cards on the table here and I'll at least, I'll at least say that for me, sure. When just thinking about maximizing hypertrophy, one of the biggest changes I've made in my mindset over the last few years is that the fatigue boogeyman is not a massive thing to worry about. And I think I've held myself back. I think I've improved in this in terms of delivering it to clients, just prioritize training with a pretty high dosage. Right. And training with a pretty high volume. And like we answered a little bit earlier, why not lean into both volume and proximity failure? So long as there isn't a clear bottleneck in terms of practical constraints, injury, you know, clear inability to tolerate it, et cetera. What do you think about for strength? Because if we look at the dose response relationships for approximative failure and volume for strength, there doesn't seem to be that big of an effect. Um, so just to get the lifter up to speed, Zach published a, uh, meta regression on the dose response relationship between how many reps in reserve a given set is, or just, I should say average reps in reserve that a program is and strength gains. And it's basically a flat line, right? So in other words, at a given load, right? If you're lifting on average with your eight rep max load, um, across a training program, and you do an average of one RAR sets versus an average of five RAR sets, it doesn't seem to be a predictable increase in strength gains. For volume, our group also pre-printed meta regressions indicating that there is a dose response relationship between additional sets per week and additional strength gains, but it plateaus pretty quickly or at least any additional marginal benefit of higher volumes is very, very small. At least that seems to be the case, which is quite different from hypertrophy. Um, so on one side for hypertrophy, it's like, all right, just train hard, kind of do as much as you can within practical constraints. What about for strength? Yeah. I mean, honestly, my, my opinion for the strength stuff is just relying on the research is just so, so, confounded in my opinion for the way that people actually apply this stuff. Like the training interventions for hypertrophy, I think are relatively like overlap relatively well with what people are asking about in the real world. Whereas the training interventions for strength are more general guideline resistance training interventions that are happening to measure maximal strength. If that makes sense. Whereas the general guideline resistance training interventions more so kind of overlap with principles that we've come to believe optimize hypertrophy. So for strength, the average repetition range we're looking at is going to be somewhere around 10. For the exercises that you're looking to maximize strength on, that's obviously not the case in practice. Um, and then you layer on, um, just all the other kind of ways that training interventions look like for like an average power lifter right now. And we just don't have very much close to that at all. Um, I think you can use some of like PAC stuff, for example, to verify kind of some of the volume stuff in terms of, is this an effective range for, for power lifters completing relatively low volume programs? And it seems to map decently. And, and just to get the listener up to speed, you're, you're referring to, uh, to Dr. Pack's PhD thesis in which he used pretty well-trained power lifters, a minimum effective dose protocol. So just think of it as a low volume protocol, but with pretty high specificity and relevance to how power lifters actually train. And you're saying that was good. That's good. Very good verification that these relatively low doses within a more realistic power lifting program are indeed effective. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So that, that's useful, but yeah, ultimately in terms of the fatigue boogeyman, the first thing I would say for hypertrophy is that I still think the fatigue boogeyman is absolutely a really important consideration. But the, when you pull the mask kind of like in the scooby-doo kind of situation, you pull the mask off the fatigue boogeyman, it's no longer this theoretical consideration that I'm getting worse gains without knowing it. And it's more so the clear practical limitations of, Hey coach, my pec tendon is hurting me. Hey, I don't have enough time to do this. Hey, I'm getting extremely burnout. Like it's very clear things that all kind of fall under that general umbrella of fatigue or, or limits that it's not this constant, uh, anxiety or worry that like I'm doing too much and I could be getting more if I was doing less from a hypertrophy perspective. What you're saying is, you know, kind of some of this research has, you know, taking the mask off the boogeyman, which I don't know if that makes sense, but whatever, we'll roll with it. And it's like kind of just a friendly guy saying, Hey, if I pop up and you know, you, training fatigue is so high, it's disrupting your sleep. Or there's clearly an ache or a pain that's kind of holding back your ability to train hard. Or it's, you know, bleeding over into other areas of life that aren't compatible with your values, your lifestyle. That's when you're doing too much. And it can be pretty obvious. So long as you are at least being mindful and relatively objective with yourself. Exactly. Yeah, exactly. So it's not this like super insidious thing for strength. I do think it can be more nuanced than that. And I think, um, this is why I think there's just in a way less evidence-based content for strength. Yeah, for sure. Cause it's harder. I think it's genuinely harder to have concrete answers because, and to be clear, I'm not saying there's anything wrong with content that isn't evidence-based. In fact, I think it's vital. Yeah. And hopefully we can bridge the gap a little bit and be honest about where it does and doesn't apply. And some of the, uh, uh, potential benefits or potential drawbacks of extrapolating not only the strength research to powerlifting training, but also some of the hypertrophy research to powerlifting training, which is kind of a hobby horse of ours. Um, but yeah, I'd say the average bodybuilding coach probably keeps up with the evidence more than the average powerlifting coach. If I had to guess. Yeah. A hundred percent. Um, yeah. And, and that's probably, again, for a good reason. Like I think the, the two factors that make that so massive is like the specificity of the training is just not up to snuff. And then also the, I think there's a greater likelihood that the absolute strength of the individuals substantially influences the potential training intervention that you'd give somebody. Um, yeah, I'm not entirely set on that, but I think that it's at least a reasonable. Yeah. So like the, the overarching principle in terms of fatigue that I think is interesting for strength that like, I don't have great evidence for this, but I do kind of believe it is that we are trying to get as many darts on the dartboard of exposures to what I just call like this maximum theoretical performance. That's, that's like the term that I've like kind of referenced with some of my clients before is like, we're trying to get as many darts on the dartboard in specific exposures to this maximum theoretical performance. So if I'm training for squat one or M there is a theoretical number that on the perfect day, perfect conditions, perfect neuromuscular readiness, I can hit this number and any given day you're not going to be able to achieve even with your best effort, your maximum theoretical performance that you can't achieve it. And so in terms of fatigue for strength, our goal is to try to set up the program so that we can have as many hits at that maximum theoretical performance as possible. But there's multiple inputs that we have to do enough training to make sure that our maximum theoretical performance isn't decreased. Right. We have to make sure that our fatigue is in check so that we're not, you know, potentially developing a bunch of these adaptations, but we're such a fatigue bottleneck that we're not able to even get remotely close to our maximum theoretical performance. And then also we need to program things in a way that allow us to hit those really high levels of performance and then not have a massive downturn. So where the net effect of getting close to it is not beating out something that's just marginally closer. Yeah. So it's, it's basically this big jigsaw puzzle optimization problem of, okay, there is a band of the most. And the reason this is relevant is because unlike hypertrophy, I think that strength kind of, I don't, I, again, these are not super well-thornized thoughts, but I think it kind of operates on these threshold effects of like, there is like, once you, I hate you and your dang threshold effects, man, I'm going to, all right, keep going. Like this has to do with the discussion we were having before the, before we pressed record. I feel like there is a, a level at which like things jump up substantially in terms of their efficacy. So like, can you give me a basic? Sure. So like, let's say our maximum theoretical performance is 300 kilos instead of gradually improving. 300 kilo, uh, straight bar curl, right? Yeah, yeah, for sure. Sweet. Gradually increasing the, uh, efficacy of the set in terms of the strength stimulus. I think there's a threshold in which that jumps up substantially, meaning there's a point of specificity. It's nonlinear in the sense that like, okay, I can get on board with that. I thought you were kind of getting into something different. Oh, okay. I'm on board with that. So point being like, if you screw up fatigue management badly, you never really get to get in that window. But if you nail it, you get to have a lot of exposures to that threshold of really, really beneficial effects. And this is where I just think like a perfectly dialed program is like allowing you to really accelerate those rates of progress. And those can kind of align to anecdotes of like people being able to just churn these programs out when you're, your environmental stressors are all dialed in and you're able to just hit those performances week after week and really get those optimized neuromuscular adaptations. And then if you support that with all the other things, you can continue to do that and continue to have that maximal theoretical performance trend up. But if fatigue management is really poor, then we may be developing some adaptations in the background. But if we're literally never able to hit any darts in that window, then our theoretical performance can start to dip. And then you might have some questioning of whether I'm doing the right thing. And it's just this whole different kind of equation. Even if kind of the contributing adaptations from a, I'll call it a structural standpoint. So that would be both structural adaptations, main one being hyperachvee, and also ultra structural adaptations relating to the specificity of the training on the target tissue. Those could be improving, but your ability to get darts on the dartboard is not there for non-training related factors. And that can take away from displaying the potential of the structural and ultra structural adaptations that are occurring in the background. And I think that reasoning there, and I said non-training factors, I think it could be training factors as well, like just training phase dependent. I think that reason there can, to some degree, explain why powerlifting progress seems streaky. And when I say streaky, I mean, you know, you're kind of chipping away, hit a two and a half kilo PR here or there, which is great, right? If you do that every couple blocks over the course of a year, that adds up for an advanced lifter. But at the same time, it's not all that uncommon for a block to occur where you hit a 10 kilo PR, right? And that might only come every couple of years, but it can sometimes be, I like to call it like, for lack of a better phrase, like the stars aligning. And I like to use that phrase quite a bit with clients. It's like, dude, we're chipping away. Everything's moving in the right direction. And the stars are going to align at some point. You're going to, you're going to express this right. And, and good things are going to happen. So, yeah, I like that. I like that getting, getting darts on the dartboard. Yeah. And I think like, if you just kind of, I was like these kinds of concepts of strength, you more so have to like validate them with observations of like very large trends in terms of like how people have trained and what's theoretically been successful. If you zoom out, this is why I think like auto regulation has been so, so positive. So if you kind of go back to how people were training, like you basically just kill yourself like every session. Um, and, and they wouldn't, you know, manipulate things into, you know, your daily readiness. Um, and also just your, your performance on a given day as well. And doing that is going to make sure you're not, you know, decreasing your ability to get darts in that range, um, more frequently. So I think that's one of the reasons auto regulation has been really, really, um, powerful and like tons of people have like benefited from that. And that's one of the contributing reasons. In addition to the exploding of the sport, why powerlifting totals have just auto regulation is just also brutal to study. Yeah. Oh, it's so hard. Yeah. Cause to me, the, the key, you're standardizing non-standard. Exactly. I was just going to say the thing that puts that gives value to research is control and standardization and kind of clear lines between two protocols. Yeah. Auto regulation is literally the complete opposite of that. Of course the clear line could be auto regulation versus lack of auto regulation, but then you could have that. Like, I'm not saying it's not worth studying. In fact, we're doing a volume auto regulation study right now. I think there's, there's benefit to it, but like to me, I think auto regulation, at least for power lifters is like, I don't think I need this. It's one of those things that like, even if there was a ton of research that showed there was no benefit to it, I'm probably never going to move away from it. I'd have to really shift my stance a lot on that. I'd be shocked if you could show that it was worse and anything that like standardized the relevant variable. So like that, that's, that's always telling to me too, like having something that is never maybe theoretically better in the context of a study, but I have a very hard time even remotely imagining something that would be worse. Yeah. So that, that's, that's telling within itself to me. But yeah, ultimately I think like fatigue management for strength is like pretty much the name of the game in terms of manifesting or expressing your strength. Yeah. So the example that you use of like how you communicate to clients is exactly how I frame it is that like my goal from like the strength side of things when I'm in like development phases or hypertrophy blocks, work capacity blocks, whatever you want to call them, um, is more so just about let's make sure that our maximal theoretical performance isn't tanking. Yeah. Um, and obviously we can't know that we can have proxies of that, but let's make sure that's not tanking and let's try to slowly edge that up over time if we can. But the reality is our accessible or our accessibility to that range of throwing darts in that range when we're targeting those adaptations is, is necessarily going to be less. And so because of that, that's going to directly influence what we're going to observe in terms of the performance that we're going to see for a given client. So when you're communicating with them, this is expected. This is how we expect things to go. and some clients are really interested in kind of the decision making of this and want to have the full conversation. And so things that they may ask are like, okay, what are you looking for? Yeah. And I, I think I cut you off, but I'll just, uh, I'll jump in and say that I think shifting the goalposts can be really helpful there. Like, uh, I was initially pretty resistant to like leaning into this quite a bit, um, with like capacity blocks, um, such that the goal, I, I think volume load is pretty bad for basically anything, but there's honestly nothing better in some contexts. So like, uh, kind of a goal being, or let me just make it. It's a good, it's a good metric of work. Like that's, you don't think so? Within as so long as there are certain things with, uh, reasonable bounds. I guess I'm saying within a fixed training. Yeah. Within a fixed. Sure. Okay. I guess I'm saying within a block. Yeah. It's okay. Um, but I'll just, I'll just keep it even more general than that. It's just kind of like, uh, ability to use a moderate load for higher reps across multiple sets and kind of maintain your performance. So like, Hey, your best set of eight on squats is 300 pounds, right? Let's see if we can't get 300 for nine for four sets by the end of the block. Like that can, for some people, well, a lot of people hate that. Um, or at least, uh, it isn't quite as appetizing or quite as palatable, I should say. Um, but at least it's something to kind of chase after a wall. It's like, Hey, we're not doing really heavy singles right now. Um, or some people really like it and it's just kind of a different kind of pain that they can chase after and improve upon. Um, and I've had a, like I have like, you know, there's some guys that just eat volume on bench press and working them up to like six or seven back offs by the end of a block. Um, with, you know, in like the eight to 10 rep range with a load that they have previously only hit for seven reps before. That's pretty cool. That can kind of build the psychological momentum. Um, it's not to say we regularly program six or seven back offs, but something to build up to in a certain, certain training phases. All right. We do that one justice. I think so. All right. I think we can move on to Carl's question. Okay, Josh. So good question from Carl here. Carl asked, let's say we're talking about hypertrophy for lifters who have been lifting for 10 years. So these lifters have been in, you know, in the game for a while. They've got callous on their hands, you know, definitely started the experience of the diminishing returns in terms of, um, you know, seeing, seeing actual progress in the mirror and maybe even in their, in their, in their lifts. Is there any specific advice that you would give to lifters that have been in the iron game for that long that would allow them to continue progress? Um, maybe, you know, anything just related to that journey to continue having, um, you know, additional fruitful years of training. Yeah. That's a great question. And where my mind initially goes is I always like to ask the question of like, has it been 10 good years? Um, I think baked into this question is that it has been 10 good years, but I, I do think it's worth starting there because I think, some people might be like, Oh, I've been training for, even if it's five years, right? I'm past the new phase or I've been training for 10 years. I'm even past the intermediate phase. I often find that's not always the case. Um, and there's a lot of, a lot of juice to still squeeze out of, out of their training career. So I would, I would start off on an optimistic note that I think some people are less advanced than they think. Um, and the, the next point that I'll make, I think can also lead to a lot of optimism is that I don't think the principles change all that much. Um, I don't think someone's been hiding the secret recipe for gains after year 10 and, you know, it's, it's behind a paywall somewhere. I think a lot of the principles we talk about on this show, um, or you find from other, you know, credible or, or, or people talking, uh, you know, exercise science or hypertrophy training, whether it's, it's evidence-based or not evidence-based. I think a lot of those principles that are kind of common across folks, they're going to apply. And I think that can lead to a lot of optimism such that you just need to kind of get better at applying those principles is the way that I think about it. And we could, of course, dive into those principles a little bit more, but there's a reason we have full podcast episodes that are often multiple hours long is how we arrive at those principles and how to interpret those principles. But I don't think that there's some secret sauce that's, you know, kind of been, uh, hidden in the ivory tower or in, uh, you know, some, I don't know, some, some locker room at an LA fitness that, uh, that no one's willing to reveal to you. But like I said, I think you do need to get better at applying the principles. Um, and, and there's two things that come to mind for me in terms of common principles that can be applied better in a lot of these cases. Uh, the first is ensuring that training is specific and that might kind of be like an underwhelming answer, but I think it's worth really making sure is the case. Um, our company data driven strength. We often have a lot of clientele that are interested in strength development. We also have a lot of clientele that are interested in strength development, work with us for a few years. And they're like, Hey, I'm, you know, kind of interested in giving this hypertrophy thing a shot. So pretty common for those things to kind of shift. Um, and maybe they have been doing some hypertrophy training for a while alongside their strength, uh, their strength goals. And maybe they have been training for 10 plus years, but they haven't really been doing 10 plus years of very specific targeted hypertrophy training. So there might be a time when you are advanced enough where it does make sense to become more specific and more targeted towards hypertrophy. If you had concurrent goals before now, let me add a very clear caveat here that it can very much be a sliding scale such that I don't think if you still want to have some strength goals, or you still get fired up about increasing your powerlifting total that you can't continue to, uh, see very robust hypertrophy gains, but at least being cognizant of that sliding scale of, you know, very concurrent goals. Maybe I have some endurance goals, some strength goals alongside my hypertrophy goals, right? Versus the other side of the scale where it's all hypertrophy, you might need to slide that scale a little bit. And the degree to which you slide that scale might depend on your level of advancement. And alongside that more specific and targeted recommendation I'm giving, I think being very specific and targeted with exercise selection just becomes more and more important. Uh, we've had some content recently, uh, kind of that's like a tier list of things that drive hypertrophy outcomes or, or the variables that are most important for, um, hypertrophy outcomes. And I think number one was exercise selection slash exercise execution. So again, the principle here is the same. I think that's true for a beginner or an intermediate. I think it's also true for an advanced person, but just making sure those are very specific and very targeted. It's just more and more important. It could be the difference between spinning your wheels for a couple of years in the advanced status versus, uh, seeing meaningful progress. So that might mean ensuring that all of the musculature you want to grow is actually being targeted appropriately, right? Maybe just doing like, like a powerlifting program might have some back work, right? Um, but maybe it's just four sets of rows on Monday and four sets of rows on Thursday. You might need a little bit more specificity. You might need a little bit more targeted training, depending on the exact row you're doing, um, to, uh, target the lats a little bit better, right? So you might need some vertical pulls. You might need, um, some different attachments that influence your, uh, the exact way that you're gripping the, the implement and therefore your elbow angle. And therefore where in the back musculature, you know, the, the stimulus is going to, to drop a little personal anecdote in here is I started actually doing some pullover training and I'm also cutting right now. And granted, there's some, uh, helping the detail come in. Yeah. Yeah. No, I mean, I, I think that that's a, and, and long story short, I feel like I am noticing some slight visual improvements in terms of new begins almost. Yeah. Like some newbie gains. So I think that can apply for someone that is advanced. Is there probably tissues that are less advanced and you can kind of get some newbie gains, right? Maybe you've only done flat pressing for a while. Um, and you're like, man, things are really slowing down. You should maintain some flat pressing, right? But if you add some other pressing angles, you might kind of get some newbie gains there. And that can be a way to continue to move in the right direction. Um, so that's the first recommendation I would have is, or I guess the second one, the first one is the principles are still the principles and don't feel like something is being hidden from you. The second one is ensure that specificity is high and ensure that exercise selection and execution is very targeted. The last thing I'll say, again, this applies to all training statuses, but I think it just becomes more important. And in a way, the window becomes smaller in terms of like what you can get away with and still progress as you become more advanced. And that is appropriate execution of whatever nutritional phase that you're in. Let me caveat this by saying, I don't think that you can't make gains as an advanced person in a maintenance period. But even if you are in a maintenance period, you shouldn't accidentally lose four pounds in two weeks because you forgot to eat. You forgot to eat, right? Um, you shouldn't, if you're, if your goal is to bulk and a good ballpark for rates of gain is about half a percent to 1% of your body weight per month. If that's your goal and you weigh 200 pounds, quick math, your goal is to gain one to two pounds per month. I think that's a pretty good recommendation. Nice, slow, steady rates of gain. If that's your goal and then you accidentally gain five pounds in a month, next thing you know, you have to spend more total time in the calendar year or whatever cutting, which again, you can probably still make some muscle growth progress when cutting given certain parameters or at least maintain, but you're taking away from time. In a surplus, that is probably at least a little bit better for muscle growth. Same idea. If you're cutting a good recommendation here for, um, folks on the advanced side, and this is a pretty wide range just because there's so many different variables here, depending how long you've been in the cut, what your current, uh, body composition is, but a pretty wide range here would be a 0.33 to 1% of your body weight per week is a good target rate of, of weight loss when cutting. If that's your goal, but you know, you, you accidentally spend five months where you lose only one pound total, but the goal was to get that body fat off to get back into a bulk. It's just going to be harder to get away with those things, right? I don't think that's wasted time. I don't think you're going to make no progress, but the progress could just be slow, slow that you poke your head up after year 12 of training, right? So two years later, you're like, man, it's just, I'm just not all that pleased with results. I can't really detect any results. Whereas I think if you keep the principles in mind, you just execute those principles very well. And again, the two that I'm highlighting here is just specificity of training and appropriate execution of whatever the target rate of gain and loss is. I think those things are just going to ensure that you still move in the right direction. And then you also just need to accept that progress is going to be slower. It's just kind of is what it is, but it can add up. And I think there are plenty of examples of people that are very well-trained and maybe even quote unquote old, right? And a lot of people kind of get in there. They start thinking kind of things are stacked against them, but there's plenty of examples of people that are well-trained deep into their training career that continue to make detectives. They're not going to be predictable progress. So long as they adhere to those things I mentioned. Sweet. Is there a, is there anything? So let's say someone has been training for 10 years with really, really good execution. Um, so basically the most of the things you, you, you mentioned there are more so about taking the principles principles that we have and executing them better or essentially optimally. Um, is there any, is there any principles that you think should be leveraged particularly for those that are really advanced? The answer could be no, but yeah. So maybe an example here is like, well, wouldn't that presuppose that the principles change to some degree? To some degree. Yeah. Or, or maybe a principle becomes more relevant. Yeah. Um, that's the kind of thing. I guess I'm just saying, is there, so you mostly focus on execution. Is there any particular strategies that you would change? And again, the answer could be no. Can you give me an example? Not saying you have to make a specialization, for example, like is that is so like, for example, if we say that all the muscles in my body have slowed to a rate that is essentially not very detectable for somebody who's been training for 10 years, are there things that we should do to potentially try to get some of those muscles to have detectable rates of, uh, increases? That's just an example, but there could be others. There probably is. Um, like, I don't even know if I want to get into this, but like there might be slightly different mechanisms by which muscle grows. Um, if I had to guess, a lot of those things are probably most relevant at the very start of training, right? So the initial, uh, call it three to six months of training compared to, you know, year five to 10 versus year 10 to 15. So the short answer is I don't think so. I don't think that there is, you know, once you hit year 10 of training, you have to do specialization training, uh, such that you kind of prioritize certain muscles over the others. Um, I think at the same time, I can't say from an evidence-based perspective that there isn't anything that changes. That's just such a specific narrow research question that we don't have answers to. Um, and we probably never will at the risk of being a little bit pessimistic. I was going to say, is there any just speculation? Cause I don't, I don't even think that's a, yeah, in terms of speculation, it's a research, uh, I don't even, I don't know if that exists in the space of something that could be really that way. Um, I do think that even if the principles still apply, the applications of the principles can look a little bit different. So let's take the dose response relationship between volume and hypertrophy as an example. Um, if you are untrained, you're going to probably benefit from very, you are going to benefit quite a bit from very low volumes. The question is, can you maximize your progress with very low volumes? When I say very low, I'm talking like two sets a week per muscle or something like that. I think that the floor probably rises quite a bit. Um, I think using something like, uh, like cardiovascular fitness can be a nice like analogy here. Obviously there's differences that I'm, I'm going to kind of, uh, not account for here, but for broad strokes, just in terms of physiology and adaptations, if you take someone that's been more or less sedentary, they're getting 2000 steps a day. Um, and they're just generally cardiovascular unfit. I don't even know exactly what a VO two max for someone like that would be, but let's say it's quite low. Let's say it's like high twenties or like 30, which again, don't, don't read too much into that number, but it's low. Then they go from 2000 steps a day to 8,000 steps a day. They're almost certainly going to see an increase in their VO two max, right? Let's say it goes from 30 to 35. Okay. If they want to go from 35 to 40, or let alone from 35 to 50, which once you get to 50, it's like, all right, now we're, now we're pretty well trained. Um, they're probably gonna have to do more than just 8,000 steps a day. They're probably gonna have to do some sort of more moderate intensity exercise, whether it's resistance training or some sort of cardiovascular training, some sort of cardiovascular training beyond just step counts. I think the same general concept would apply for muscle growth, right? In the sense that if you take someone that's never trained, they start training a little bit, they're going to benefit from it, but what got them there might not get them to the next step. Um, the question is to what degree does that apply? Which the short answer is we don't know, but I'm sure it applies to some degree. It could apply to such a little degree that you can maximize long-term development, even beyond year 10 with quite low volumes. It might apply to a greater extent, such that you need at least moderate volumes to continue to benefit deep into your training career. Um, so that's an example of kind of the, the floor rising a little bit in that dose response relationship, such that one or two sets per week is not going to be a positive adaptation. It might just be enough to maintain, or it just might be attenuating atrophy. And maybe on the top end, just because, uh, you know, strength is higher. External loads are higher. Maybe even changes as someone ages, maybe life stressors generally go up, or maybe, obviously there's exceptions to that, but maybe the top end kind of comes down a little bit. So now the window of benefit just becomes a little bit smaller, right? So it's still the same concept. Hey, we have a dose response relationship, diminishing returns, but that window just kind of gets smaller. Um, so I think that is how I typically think of things. And I think that that concept can apply to the rates of gain and rates of loss, right? If someone messes around and is kind of off quite a bit in terms of their target rates of gain or rates of loss, or even target of maintenance, and they're a noob, it doesn't really matter. But I think that window just kind of gets smaller as you go. You have to be a little bit more precise, a little bit more targeted in order to take advantage of that principle or apply that principle. Good. I like it. Um, I think I did that one justice. Yeah, I think that's good. I think we can move on to Alex's question. All right. Switching gears a little bit. So another good question from Alexander, um, specificity for power lifting in terms of the hypertrophy work. So let's say we have a power lifter. They obviously are going to perform some hypertrophy oriented work in their program. And their question is, okay, so I have, you know, a ton of different tools at my disposal in terms of what can, what I can do that, um, additional work with. I can use machines. I can use, um, a belt squat. I could obviously do it even on the competition movement, maybe with some higher repetition ranges. Is there a consideration for specificity when you are programming this work that is mostly dedicated towards, you know, accessory work hypertrophy for a power lifter? Yeah. The short answer is you can't just view hypertrophy and isolation like we do for hypertrophy only training, right? So in other words, if we're looking at the hypertrophy research, literally what is often done is an ultrasound probe is put on someone's skin and you're looking at the, the distance between the muscle fat interface and the muscle bone interfaces is typically what it's shakes out to be. So you're literally just looking at the thickness of the muscle, uh, for, for a study looking at, uh, hypertrophy using ultrasound. That's great, right? And if you're comparing leg extension to leg press in a hypertrophy study, you can, you know, look at the thickness of the vastus lateralis and see how those two different exercises influenced increases in the thickness of the vastus lateralis. But when you are doing a one rep max squat, you're not just using your vastus lateralis, right? Um, the vastus lateralis being kind of, uh, the lateral, one of the, the, the most lateral muscle of the four quadriceps muscles. You're also using the other quadriceps muscles. You're also using your adductors. You're using some erectors. Um, you're using glutes. You're, you're using a lot, right? So broadly speaking, you have to kind of think of hypertrophy a little bit differently when you are thinking of its application and its transfer to strength development, right? And that basic example can be made even more basic by thinking about, Hey, getting bigger pecs probably isn't going to drive up my squat a ton, right? So in other words, you need to grow the muscles that are being used in the strength task. Beyond that, there are some really interesting adaptations that you might not be able to pick up from just a muscle thickness assessment. Let's say we looked at muscle thickness everywhere, right? Let's just say we theoretically could do that. We could look at the entire length of the vastus lateralis, the entire length of the adductor muscles, which might get a little bit weird if you're doing that, but let's just say you could, you could do that. What you're looking at is again, just the thickness or sometimes a cross-sectional area, depending on the methods between that muscle fat interface and the muscle bone interface. But there's some things that you either can't or are very hard to pick up using an ultrasound that probably influence the transference from that hypertrophy work to the strength task. Okay. So for example, there could be increases in muscle thickness that occur. There could be hypertrophy that occurs, but it's due to, uh, what's called sarcoplasmic hypertrophy, which the existence of that can be debated, but I think it's a good example for folks just to address the possibility of that because there are other examples as well that, that might occur. Um, and basically what sarcoplasmic hypertrophy indicates to us is that the protein, the actual contractile proteins of the, the skeletal muscle that contribute to contraction, those can of course grow and increase in number. Um, but other things could grow as well. Okay. Um, another thing is the exact way that the muscle grows can be a little bit different depending on the contraction type. So concentric versus eccentric adaptations, um, presumably, uh, joint angle could also be a thing. So at what point in the movement is the tension on the muscle, the highest, right? So in a leg extension, that's typically at the top, right? When the leg is the most extended. Okay. In a squat, it's the opposite, right? It's at the bottom when the, the quad is a little bit more lengthened that could have impacts on where exactly the muscle growth occurs, how exactly the muscle growth occurs. And to some extent as well, what muscles are growing into, to what extent, right? So that's kind of the, the rationale. Now let's actually talk about the practical application of that and how do, to think of it on a principle, from a, from a principle based perspective. I like to frame this as, uh, kind of a, the task specific hypertrophy continuum, right? So if you want to drive up your one rep max squat, in theory, the way that you best do that is by doing a bunch of one rep max squats, because in theory, the hypertrophy you get from that is going to be the most specific to the muscles and the, uh, ultra structural adaptations that are going to lead to more pounds on your one rep max squat. Okay. On the other end of the spectrum might be bicep curls, right? Those are probably going to have like no benefit to your one rep max squat because, uh, like the, the term that you might see in the research sometimes is called like indiscriminate hypertrophy, meaning that hypertrophy isn't really relevant to the strength task. And then of course, between those two extremes, you have a bunch of other options. Okay. And you basically work back from the extreme over here, which is just doing a bunch of one rep max squats based on practical constraints. Okay. A lot of people aren't going to do enough volume to maximize, to get a meaningful amount of hypertrophy from just doing one rep max squats. It's pretty unrealistic. So you kind of walk back a little bit. Okay. Maybe I'm going to do some back offsets with squat. And I'm going to do some sets of, uh, three to eight on the competition squat and leave some reps in the tank because that's, uh, I can do more work with that. Right. Even that might be difficult at times. So therefore I move on to something like a belt squat or a leg press, right? Even that might pose some constraints. So you move to something like a leg extension, which now we're pretty far from a one rep max squat, but we're still closer to one rep max squat than we are to bicep curls. Right. And then that continuum, you just kind of move along it based on practical constraints. And you kind of put the big rocks in first, right? So if you were to imagine your power lifting program as a jar, right? First, you put those heavy strength exposures in first, then you probably put some back offsets in, right? And those back offsets are probably slightly smaller rocks than those, those heavy exposures. Then you put in some more specific accessory work like leg press or belt squat or hack squat, right? Those are slightly smaller. And then all you have left now is these smaller rocks like leg extensions. Right. And those kind of get sprinkled in to kind of fill off that bucket. Right. And once you, if you were to overflow that bucket, that's when you run into recovery issues. So you're kind of working in within those practical constraints and you kind of work down that task specific hypertrophy continuum to ensure the hype, the structural and ultra structural adaptations you're getting are as relevant as possible to the task, but you're also filling up your jar as much as possible. And to wrap up here, I'll give a shout out to a review paper that now I'm blanking on. Kyle Travis. Kyle Travis. Thank you. That is really, really good. And basically all of my ideas on this come from, come from that review paper from Kyle Travis. So that's what I got for specificity of hypertrophy for, for strength development. A few, a few followup questions. So the first question would be in terms of the factors. So obviously from a visual perspective, a leg extension is very different than a squat, but the underlying factors that are, that are actually being manipulated there. So things like muscle length, muscle action, resistance profile, range of motion, et cetera. If you had to pick one or two of those, that is maybe the most, like the biggest contributing factor to what is actually resulting in the transference. Do you, do you have a opinion there? So like, for example, let's say we had, instead of just belt squat, let's say we have belt squat of all kinds of different varieties we have. And this may not even be theoretically possible. Let's say we could a belt squat that is in all ways similar to the squat, a belt squat that isn't always similar to the squat, except the resistance profile and belt squats, all similar ways, except the range of motion, et cetera, like that. So you basically were able to manipulate the machine to isolate, um, some of these variables that you theoretically think are the most important for the actual transference of the hypertrophy. Do you have an opinion on which one of those would be the most important? Yeah. So I would say the first thing is, um, the general joint angles, which kind of overlaps with just the general movement pattern. I think exposure to joint angles is key, right? So the simple way to think about that is if I'm trying to drive up my squat, the accessory work I'm doing has simultaneous knee flexion, hip flexion, right? Um, that's probably the most important factor. Then from there, I would have to imagine that where the resistance is the most, where the most challenging portion of the movement is, is probably after that. I'm curious if you disagree with that, but like, so I mentioned indiscriminate hypertrophy, which is okay. Bicep growth for squat, probably isn't going to do a ton, but, um, I would say kind of a similar concept is regional hypertrophy, which is basically saying, okay, the vastus lateralis grew from your quad accessory movements, but not all vastus lateralis muscle thickness increases are the same because it seems that regional hypertrophy is a thing. And regional hypertrophy just means, okay, um, along the length of the vastus lateralis, as you go from your hip to your knee, um, different exercises can grow, uh, different sites to different degrees. Right. And I think that is probably largely dependent on the joint angles when the resistance is, or I should say just the, the hardest part of the movement or the point where you fail and therefore like kind of the microscopic or the, uh, instantaneous proximity to failure is the highest. Yeah. Right. That's how I think about it. Yeah. So one thing I think it's interesting with this question is like the strength limiter thing kind of gets hidden in it. So like when we talk about accessory work for powerlifting and the immediate place, you know, the, even this question automatically goes to is like for squatting, we go to things that don't have the, uh, the spinal extensors loaded. And so the inherent assumption there is that the spinal extensors are not what's limiting my squat performance. And so I think you can do that pretty much all the way down the line. And so in terms of picking the optimal exercise, a long net continuum, it would be from what I'm hearing from you. It's basically taking the theoretically, the exact joint angles, joint action, resistance profile, et cetera, as the competition movement that we're trying to match. And then doing that in a way that isolates that action as much as possible. I think that's essentially the optimal exercise from a stimulus to fatigue ratio perspective. Now we may have to make some, uh, compromises in terms of what that looks like, whether that means adding in another joint or another segment of the body that's getting loaded to make sure that we're matching most things as possible, or the alternative perspective, maybe we're unloading more joints, maybe making the joint action a little bit less, uh, specific to what we're trying to target to make sure the thing that we think is actually limiting the movement is getting a really adequate training stimulus. Yeah. And so just another place where strength limiters and making sure that the exercises that you are choosing are overlapping with what you think is actually limiting you from the actual competition movement. And it's just another really, really key, um, thing that I think this question, um, can be answered from a principle based perspective, but it takes that piece of information to make sure you're doing it in the right way. Yeah, totally. Um, and that's kind of like something I left out was what is the strength limiter? Um, cause I think you can kind of take that continuum I outlined and just kind of put a big wrapper on it saying, what is the strength? exactly. Meaning what is kind of holding this individual back? Um, I didn't do that. I was just making it clear. Yeah. Yeah. No, I think, I think that's key. Um, I, I, I do think that's key because, you know, I use the example of the quads for the squat, but sometimes it's not the highest leverage, uh, like hypertrophy target for lack of a better phrase, um, for driving up someone's squat. It's probably the most common one, but sometimes it's not the highest leverage and sometimes hypertrophy isn't even what's holding someone back. Right. So sometimes you might use a belt squat. I think that was one of the examples I gave, but you're doing it for reasons beyond muscular development. Yeah. Right. Um, maybe there is something with the belt squat, depending on the build of the belt squat, it kind of pulls you forward at the bottom that can teach someone kind of drive their knees forward a little bit as they descend into the hole, because they're having a hard time doing that with their comp squat. Um, that's a load of heavy. It's yeah, it's just, yeah, there, there, there's a lot that goes into it. So I think that's a good way to end. This is kind of put the strength limiter wrapper on it, but also recognize that the strength limiter isn't always muscular and accessory work isn't always just targeted at muscular development. There can be other things that you kind of want to prioritize. Yep. Money. Cool. All right. Um, with that, let's move on to a question from Ryan. Ryan asked, I think that's a really interesting question, especially to ask you. Um, so Ryan asks, what are some fringe extrapolations we don't really have evidence for? So in other words, what are some things that people say to be true? But when you really dive in a little bit, you see how the sausage is made. Like, ah, I don't know if we, we really have evidence for that. Curious what you think, maybe in terms of examples or your philosophical perspective on that. Yeah. I think the hot take here ultimately is that I think people do this way more than they actually realize. And I don't think that's necessarily a bad thing. Um, so I think if you zoom out and kind of think about what we're actually testing with research and what things we say we have evidence for, and ultimately what, at what level those kinds of claims exist, I think it ultimately turns in a direction that I think people don't really realize. So basic example, it says to start, and then we can kind of get a little bit more philosophical. I can't remember who actually gave this example. I've heard this somewhere, so I can't attribute credit, but someone definitely kind of brought this up as a good example. There's tons of powerlifting coaches that prescribed pause deadlifts, for example, to my knowledge those have never been researched, but a tons of coaches utilize them, including myself. And that doesn't mean that that is a fringe extrapolation and a negative connotation. It is a fringe extrapolation of the research, but the way the question is framed, it's kind of in a way that downplays that decision making or, or makes that seem lesser than, um, maybe not intentionally, but that's kind of how I read it. I don't view it that way at all. So to me, really what we need to ask ourselves is like, what is the goal of research in the first place, particularly in our field? So in different fields, this is, this is a kind of different application. So in my view, there's kind of like two main kind of buckets that research findings ultimately, um, can kind of contribute towards. One of those is principles. And the other one is kind of what I call methods. And so a method study, or essentially, which is a combination of a ton of principles into any applied decision that I'm going to make. That's what I would consider a method. So we could use a medical study as an example there. So we have a target population, a target disease, and we have an intervention, a versus B or placebo versus, uh, the experimental drug. And we're looking to see directly in the population that we're interested in with appropriate levels of statistical power and measuring the exact outcomes that we're, that we're looking to measure. Whether that's safety or efficacy or maybe long-term, um, side effects or long-term effects on mortality or disease progression, whatever it is, we're directly assessing that method. And obviously that has a principle that's derived within it that we can make further extrapolations from. But at the heart of it, the goal there is to say, we have a method that we want to test. Is it, uh, is it efficacious or is it not? And what the alternative side of things, more so what I think exercise science is, is probably more, uh, is probably better utilized for is that we have so many methods. We have so, so many methods that you could apply. And the reality is currently we haven't investigated any one of these methods or comparisons between, uh, training interventions with enough, uh, statistical rigor to be really, really confident about that. And then even then you have to ask yourself in what ways do the studies diverge from the place I'm looking to apply this. In the case of medicine, that's a whole lot less typically in terms of the types of patients that we're looking to, to, uh, apply the medications towards. It's usually a much greater overlap than the individuals in resistance training studies that we're looking to apply the findings to. Um, you have, you know, obviously the, the strength of the participants, the training status, the, uh, types of interventions that we're looking to apply. Things are usually just on a whole different scale. In addition to the fact that we haven't really investigated any one of these, these methodological comparisons in a really, really vigorous way to begin with. So because of that, and because of those limitations, and again, just because of the sheer number of methods that exist to begin with, to me, I view the, the utility of research is really looking at things from a principle based perspective. Let's zoom out. What are the principles that people are asking questions about? And what are those principles contingent upon? So then that's where, you know, obviously we're big fans of evidence synthesis and meta analysis and utilizing all the available data to come to these generalized principles, or at least describe them to the best that we can. And then also see, do those principles depend on any of these other factors in terms of training status, in terms of, um, habitual training, uh, you know, practices like volumes, et cetera, and do that the, the best, the best that we can. And then that's going to inform us the principles, at least from a descriptive perspective, the best that we possibly can. So that when we go out in the real world, we can utilize those principles to help us filter through the methods that probably make the most sense. And that to me is, that is a completely different framing than saying, okay, I do this in the gym. Is that evidence-based or not? Like, I, I don't, I don't really view anything like that because the reality is almost all of the methods that we apply, even a full body training program completed with high volumes, to my knowledge, there's literally no study that's done that. Um, you know, that that's kind of outside of this realm of specialization in the research, but a lot of people are applying the volume research to multiple muscle groups at once. That's a fringe extrapolation that we don't have evidence for, but it makes sense based on the principles, right? We're always extrapolating. Exactly. So because an extrapolation is just like an estimation. It's a prediction. It's, it's a prediction beyond the original observation, right? Yeah. So the fact that I've been training for more than a year and you've been training for more than a year, and I'm sure many of our listeners have been training for more than a year, and you're watching an evidence-based video or podcast right now, that is an extrapolation because there are very few, if any studies that extend beyond a year. So you heard it here first. Nothing is truly evidence-based. Yeah. It's all evidence extrapolated. Exactly. Oh, there's a new buzzword. Evidence. My evidence extrapolated perspective on training is. But, but I think again, if you kind of zoom out, that's literally everything. Like everything's probabilistic. Like we have nothing. And that applies to all fields, but you made a good case for why it might even be, especially the case in our field. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I think, again, I just, I don't think that's a bad thing. I think we take the available evidence that we have. And when we say something is, you know, we have evidence for something or something is supported by evidence, what the real claim that you're making there is that we can make a prediction with a high probability of replication. If I drop a pencil today, the pencil is going to drop tomorrow. That's essentially what you're saying when you have evidence for something. And so in our world, if we have these principles are essentially our assumption or what we think we have evidence for is that we can make an informed prediction about how I design my training today. What exercises I pick, et cetera, is going to make me probabilistically more accurate in deciding how much muscle I'm going to gain, how much stronger I gain. It's going to be better than an alternative. Exactly. Exactly. That's, I think you're spot on. I do think it's interesting how you answer that because I probably would, if you would have asked me that, I probably would have said the same thing. Yeah. But came at it from the other angle because maybe from a more critical angle. Okay. Towards research and towards evidence-based practice and communication. Sure. And that is that I think, man, this is tough because basically we both just agreed that all application of science is extrapolation. But in my opinion, I think the, the biggest critique I have of like the evidence-based sphere is that there's, there's no way to tell what is reasonable extrapolation and what is unreasonable extrapolation. And the way that I would have approached answering this question is I would have highlighted some examples where over extrapolation or unreasonable extrapolation, I should say occurred, because I think that happens quite a bit. Um, I think, yes, no matter how much research you have, when you apply it, you're going to be extrapolating. But I think it's quite common for there to be little research or maybe even irrelevant research in a way such that you can't even derive a principle, but people still try to derive principles from that and then extrapolate it. So maybe that's like the kind of the happy medium between our two perspectives here is like, yes, you're always extrapolating. You need to accept that, but you should only extrapolate when there is sufficient and relevant enough research to actually inform a principle. Because I think like, I'm trying to, it's just hard to define that criteria. That's it. It is impossible to define that criteria. Yeah. Um, I'm trying to come up with an example that isn't too, uh, like hotly debated right now. I mean, one example I was going to bring up just like in something that I do believe, but I also don't totally trust it in terms of like, it's being tested is like, to my understanding, we have one study on the seeded versus lying leg curl. Um, it was an extremely well done study. Yeah. And I, I generally agree with that and how it fits in the overall scheme of the research, but like, you don't suspect the opposite, but yeah. But if you were going to hold my arm down and said, do you 100% expected this to perfectly replicate? I don't think I would say yes. Yeah. Like, um, I think a lot of people would just make the claim that seated leg curls are better than lying leg curls. Yeah. That's not the correct way to view that. That's not the correct way to view that. The principle there is when you collate all of the research, not just that study in isolation, looking at the, the exercise selection, research, range of motion, resistance profile, you collate all that together. And it seems to tell a similar picture on average. Maybe there's a, maybe there's a small effect leaning towards a beneficial effect. towards training practices that lead, uh, kind of create more tension or more difficulty when the muscle is not at its short and at its most, at its, uh, most shortened length within the range of motion, right? Like that's the appropriate conclusion, not saying, Oh, this study exists. Therefore, seated leg curls are better than lying leg curls. And the part of that study that people often don't talk about is if you flipped on the other side of the body, the sartorius as an example, so I'll better hypertrophy in the lying leg girl. And is that another part of the, the experiment that would replicate upon seeing that again? I don't know. Would that, would that, that further, you know, the question is, would that replicate? Exactly. Another question is, yeah, you could replicate it using the exact same methods. Or slightly different methods. Yeah. Yeah. But I was going to say slightly different methods with different machines, higher volumes, higher volumes, RDLs involved. Yeah. Everything. Um, yeah. Like the, the machine, the exact leg curl, a seated leg curl and lying leg curl they use definitely matters. Last time I, I tried going looking for that information. I couldn't really iron out exactly what the machines were and that could influence the resistance profile. All these details, what we're currently saying right now is exactly the point. And why I'm saying that like the role of research is not to delineate between these methods. That's not what it's for. It is, is to, take a zoomed out position on, okay, what are these overarching principles in which these things and these different methods seem to align on. Now, obviously if you want to test the method, you can, you can do that, but the method itself needs to be aligned in the population with the intervention. And you have to compare it to something else. And therefore you're only making an A to B comparison. But in practice where you're comparing A to not just B, but A to infinite other options. Exactly. And that's what I'm asking. And that's why studying methods, I don't think is the best use of resources. Exactly. And that's what, and that's what I met with like the delineation between that and medicine. Obviously you could take different types of medications, different doses, et cetera. That's, that's clear. It's not that you have, you know, only two options, but like in, in the medical context, I'm going to take the drug or I'm not. And, and it's, it's much, it's much clearer to define. It's a little more A versus B. Exactly. And, and, but in the world of training, you have to, when you design a study, you have to have a training volume. You have to have a exercise selection. You have to have a frequency. You have to define your training population. And all of those things could be in direct opposition to how you're looking to apply it. So it's just, it's not to say that they're operating in completely different spheres or completely different sectors. They're not. All research operates on these principles of methods to principles, but the exact context in which exercise science is typically applied, I think is much more strongly on the principles end of things. Yeah. And I think that just, yeah. And again, just to wrap things up, we're making fringe extrapolations all the time. And I don't think that's a bad thing. It just needs to be done at the appropriate level or made with the appropriate information in mind. And evidence-based fitness, in my opinion, you can let me know if you agree with this, would be a lot more fruitful. And also the trust that consumers have of it would be much better. If the degree to which we're extrapolating was better communicated and we didn't, we, the Royal, we didn't get in trouble with that one. Don't make claims that appear to be these really strong principles when the research is either. They're derived from methods. Yeah. Yeah. Or when the research is just, there's just too little research or the research is irrelevant. Because what we see quite frequently happen is there's a little bit of research. There's two or three studies. There's four studies. They lean in a certain direction. You have a couple significant, uh, P values pop. Cool. Now we're going to run with that. But then, you know, naturally things kind of are a little bit less, uh, exciting when you get a ton of research, the pendulum kind of swings back. And then it's like, Oh, the evidence-based people were wrong. But I think if you actually understand not only how to interpret it, but adhere to certain, uh, communication standards, I think that the trust would be a lot better. And upon reflection of evidence-based fitness, so long as I've been aware of it, that would be my biggest critique is over extrapolating on small bodies of research. And I think to, to, I guess, add one more final thing to this, to like say how this could be done formally is like in very rigorous fields of science, like physics, not only do you go through these steps of, you know, methods and principles, but then the final step is to actually test your principles to make sure they have verifiable predictions. That's, that's the part we never do. So we've just gotten to the stage recently where, you know, we have a little bit more robust methods of quantifying our principles and, and saying, what do we actually think this looks like? Now we're getting close to the stage where we could take multiple of these meta-analyses and combine them and the estimates thereof to say, this is what we would expect would happen if we try this training intervention versus this training intervention. And then we would go and see, is this actually what's happening? And if it's not, guess what? We have to re we have to, you know, make sure. Revisit those principles. Exactly. Revisit the principles. And, you know, each level that you go down that chain and you go down to the methods, the likelihood I'm going to be able to take the information from a study that's, you know, mostly dedicated towards methods using the, like the leg curl study as an example, but here, this is a good thought experiment. Let's say we only have the leg curl study, right? And we're looking to make an inference about the muscle length conversation from that individual study. The predictions you would make for that study are going to be verifiably false for a vast majority of the studies that have just come out recently. And that's the point is that individual studies that have this individual context about them is going to influence the way that you would view them in the context of other information. That's in the other studies, different training interventions, different exercises, different populations, et cetera. So the point being, we need a ton of these studies to get this holistic picture of these principles, but then the story still isn't over there. We need to try to make further predictions to make sure that those are verifiable in the first place, which I still don't think we're at that point yet, but it just goes to say using methods to make those kinds of recommendations is just not the way to get it. Really, really what we should do is we should, before we say that something is truly a principle, and the exact way to do this is subject to debate. And I wouldn't probably be the best guy to, to take a position on exactly how to do it. But really what you should do is you should have some sort of dose response model. And then the point at which it becomes a principle is when you say, even if we doubled the research or even if we increased whatever the research by 50%, it wouldn't change the model. Right. Or it wouldn't, it could change it, but it wouldn't, um, change a fundamental aspect of it. Um, and we're just not there for basically anything. Yeah. Yeah. I think you essentially need like, I mean the gold standard is like the predictive quality you have in like physics of like predict, predicting an outcome. And we are not only do we not have the principles, granular enough to do that. And the second stage, putting the resources together to actually test them in a manner that would actually be able to detect the differences that we may expect based on different combinations of variables is probably a study that will never get done. So we're, we're in a, we're in a weird spot, but yeah, I mean to put a bow on this, like we make fringe extrapolations all the time. I personally think that's like something we should be totally fine with because that's the reality. And that's, that's the way, you know, science is applied. You take your information, your prior beliefs, the data available, you combine those things to what you would expect. And then you kind of put your best guess forward. It's always probabilistic. It's nothing we're ever going to be set in stone about. Obviously some things we're more certain about than others, but that's always this continuous quantity. That's never, that's never finite of always certain or absolutely not certain. Um, yeah. All right. You want to do some more? Let's do it. Um, we haven't talked about velocity in a while. I feel like my mind hasn't changed that much since we last talked about it. Yeah. Um, I'm curious. We haven't talked about it in private all that much. So I'm curious. We, we did get a question from an account called stance fitness. Um, he or she asks is velocity, a good tool to stop you from overshooting. So I think traditionally I would have viewed this and like, all right, let's go down the, you know, I think pack always talks about that. Boop, hit the recorder button and kind of have your, your, your, uh, your batched answer on something. Um, I would have played my like top set, you know, here's why velocity is useful for top sets answer. Actually, I I've, I've started to find more utility of it for like secondary days. Um, and that's, that's been the place that I've, um, I'm thinking of one client example in particular, like we've dialed in, um, his secondary day to be, um, you know, um, anecdotes, you know, obviously a rye here. So just keep that in context of the way that I'm saying this. You over extrapolating. Yeah, exactly. Like this is obviously in the example of one person, but, um, velocity has been really, really useful as a tool to give a gamified objective for a secondary day. That is extremely manageable in terms of fatigue. That, that has been like, it was challenging to make a three, four RIR volume session fun without, you know, looking for like, okay, what's my, what's the objective. I'm trying to increase load. I'm trying to increase reps to like have that progressive feeling to make myself feel like I'm taking steps forward, but also managing the, the fact that, Hey, we want to make sure this doesn't impede our performance on the most important session. And velocity has been, and specifically velocity loss in this case has been, um, yeah, it's a super useful and that. And I think it's been extremely, extremely helpful for not overshooting the workload you're trying to accumulate in a non priority training session. And that's like a slightly different context that I've used it traditionally. Um, I've mostly used it on it. Like, okay, let's optimize our load selection for the most important sets in the week. And that's like mostly the framing that I've looked at it for, but this has been much more in the framing of like, Hey, this session on paper is kind of boring. How do we, how do we, uh, make that more, more gamified. But also I think that directly has improved the, um, the intended aspect of the overall training program, because when he's headed into those primary sessions, we're able to put in the output that's actually desired, as opposed to having that kind of what I call secondary day drift where, you know, it starts really manageable week one. Yeah. I got a coach like this. Give me more. Give me more. Yeah. Got to keep it conservative. And then over the course of the block, you're naturally going to try to improve. That's what power leaders are designed. Other way around. But yeah, it's, this is verifiably keeping you in check to make sure that that secondary day is staying at the exact, you know, intended overall workload, which is substantially less, but like staying at the appropriate workload such that you're not overdoing it. Exactly. But also getting the most objective, getting you the most you can out of that workload that is more manageable by using maximal intent and kind of gamifying it. Exactly. Yeah. I, I mean, the short answer to the question is, yes, I think velocity can be a good tool to help you for, for, for, the short answer. Nice. Overshooting. Um, I would say, you know, like kind of probably the most typical way that it's used, or at least the initial thought when someone buys a linear position transducer, or, uh, I think the apps are getting pretty good these days in terms of tracking velocity. By the way, I have a, I have a client that deadlifts in the 700s. Like that's his max is in the 700s, but his, uh, linear, uh, model based on warmups often predicts a one or M of over a thousand pounds. That's sick. Yeah. Um, so yeah, I think, I think trying to like make big extrapolations from velocity data, it's just not all that helpful, but it can be a helpful tool in working up to, to like top singles. Like, okay, I usually hit something in his case, maybe around five 90 or 600. This is about how it moves. Oh, this was notably higher or notably, sorry, notably faster, notably slower than normal. Maybe that's some indication at the same time. We kind of don't want to always like over, um, index on those because those are, can lead you to a rate, like, like long story short, it can be helpful for top sets. Um, just needs to be used wisely. Um, but I'm with you. I think these days, I kind of think they're more helpful for back off and volume work, secondary days to kind of gamify things a little bit, keep it more, uh, keep it more engaging to take your medicine. It's kind of the way that I see it. Yeah. A hundred percent. That's the best way to put it for sure. Cool. Um, all right. How about this one? So I'm going to frame this slightly different than the question actually asked it, but we were kind of talking about this before the show. And I think it's kind of an interesting kind of thought experiment to kind of go through for the listener. Um, so Chris asked in normal strength training, which produces more hypertrophy, the concentric or the eccentric part of the rep? So that's the question. But the real question is, okay, this is something me and you have not really going to do a Q and a answer, or what we want to ask ourselves what we want to. Yeah. Yeah. So we're just going to, yeah. Sorry, Chris. Um, hopefully this is useful. Um, neither of us had like looked into this and like a ton of depth. So like one thing, don't get me wrong. I could give you an answer. Of course. Yeah. Yeah. Like I could say something. Yeah. But the, that's kind of the point. Yeah. That's kind of the point is like, we're kind of going through the thought experiment of like what goes through our heads when something we maybe aren't super well researched on, like things we want to verify or, or like things that I've given, I've, I've, uh, I've given, given, I've dug into this. I don't know. I've looked into this, uh, three years ago. Yeah. Right. Um, and I, I kind of, you know, spent a couple of days going through the research or, uh, whatever. Was it for a webinar? Yeah. Whether it's for like a webinar or for, um, for whatever project it is. Right. Um, one approach is just to kind of draw on that, but at the same time, you kind of have to revisit all these things every so often because your perspective always shifts and you kind of look at things from a new angle, not to mention there's new stuff that comes out, new perspective to consider. So one approach is to look back at my notes or to just draw on memory about, uh, the conclusions I came to about concentric versus eccentric contractions and which are more important, um, um, for hypertrophy. And I could do that. Like I said, there's no problem. Yeah. Um, and honestly, we probably do that pretty regularly with the exception. Eh, I don't know if we do that that regularly. We try to talk about things that we keep up with quite a bit. Um, but there are probably, we're not, uh, immune to this is what I would say. And sometimes you think you're up to date when you're not. Yeah. That happens. Yeah. Um, or you don't understand the limitations of a certain measurement method because it's not like fully in your wheelhouse. Sure. So I guess the, the point we're making here is we're not going to give you an answer, like at least a very clear one. Um, we can maybe give you the, the typical narrative or the knee jerk reaction is to say that they're pretty similar because that's what many of the meta analysis for force plot show. Yeah. I just pulled up a 2025 meta analysis. I'm not going to put it on the screen because it's not very, uh, um, enlightening, but it's ultimately the point estimate is right around zero. It might slight, like the point estimate is on the eccentric side of the line. Um, but I guess to me, the, uh, part of that is like, that's the most interesting of just like immediately thinking of like things that could influence this question that I think people maybe don't like go to think about when they talk about this. Like immediately, with eccentric and concentric training, like I think one of the big things people talk about on, cause this is like a pretty polarizing topic recently for whatever reason. I haven't followed it that much, but I know enough to know that people are pretty polarized on this. Um, the big kind of point is like, Oh, you're way stronger on the eccentric than the concentric. So because of that, the, you know, like the, the, uh, the, the, the range of motion, it's not range of motion. It's the rep. What's the rep part? What's that called? Uh, like the, the component of the rep. What's like half the rep called? Uh, that would just be a certain range of motion. So like the concentric specific, specific proximity failure, the eccentric specific proximity are very, very different is ultimately the point. Yeah. when you fail. So when you fail, when you fail in normal strength training, it's typically concentric failure such that, um, you go to do another bicep curl and you can't finish the concentric portion of the movement, but you can, in theory, if someone helped you with the concentric, you have more eccentric force production to produce those contractions, which by the way, we've had some subjects that literally fail eccentrically. Oh, interesting. I feel like I'm not going to obviously say any participants, but I would like, I've seen eccentric failure before for what it's worth. And I've been like, you try another one. Like you can't fill in these. That's not how it works. Like, no, like it's eccentric. But I guess, yeah, I guess the point I was, I thought it was interesting for this question is just like, I don't hear these like other things discussed that like, it's just like, kind of like let's appeal to what we have and look at it. And like, Oh, there doesn't seem to be a difference between eccentric and concentric. Presumably, you know, we're getting a little bit of both or the eccentric does contribute some growth, at least based on that. But like, for example, there's probably isokinetic, uh, interventions in this data set. I'm not 100% sure, but it's my guess. Consistent speed of contraction. Consistent speed of contraction. But more importantly, that means that the eccentric is being loaded in a relative sense. It means that the loading is relative to the eccentric maximum rather than the. So like there's two ways to explore the question. One is to say, okay, if we want to understand what occurs in normal isotonic resistance training, where if you're lifting the 50 pound dumbbells, you're lifting the 50 pound dumbbells on the way up and the way down. So therefore I'm going to do a study with one group, just doing concentric contractions with 50 pounds and the other group, just doing eccentric contractions with 50 pounds. That's totally fine. Another way that's totally fine is to say, well, no, they could use 70 pound dumbbells for the eccentric contractions. And that better isolates and matches effort between the two contraction types. Therefore, I'm going to have one group that does concentric contractions with 50 pound dumbbells. And one group that does eccentric contractions with 70 pound dumbbells and compare the, the high pergity differences. Um, and that kind of, that's the reason we're not going to like make a knee jerk reaction to this, um, without taking the multiple days it takes to dive into this stuff and really wrap your mind around it with your current perspective, because that shifts over time. Yeah. Yeah. We could, we could belabor that too much. We'll probably just leave it there. TLDR. Eccentric seems cool to me. I don't know. Yeah. We'll, we'll see if we want to dive into that in the future. We have our work cut out for us for, for things to cover coming up, uh, here pretty soon. Any more on the list you want to knock out? Um, you want to do the grip strength one? I feel like that's a good one to finish on. We've probably talked about this before and I feel like I've changed my mind. So the question is from, uh, Alex. He's asks how to improve grip strength for deadlift besides just holding onto the bar for longer after a set. So it's probably like the most common way to address a grip issue is to, okay, I'd finish my set of three at the top of the third rep before I finished the set. I'm just going to hold it either as long as I can or for five seconds or 10 seconds or whatever. I think that's fine. It's very low hanging fruit. I think in my experience that often isn't enough for someone with grip issues. And this typically becomes more of an issue for a competitor. So someone that can't, uh, just throw on straps, um, because they, they can't use straps in competition. And B, when someone gets strong enough, such that grip is reasonably a limiter, right? So once you get to a certain level of strength, you can lift the weight, but you can't hold the weight. Um, my go-to is twofold. And then I'm curious your take. The first is looking at grip technique. Um, so I find the grip issues are most common with, uh, this isn't totally true, but whether someone's using mixed grip or hooked or hook grip, um, there can be some details you want to look into in terms of where exactly kind of the bar is catching your skin or catching certain like joints in your thumb, for example, and make sure that's reasonable. Sometimes you can play with like internal rotation of the shoulder to kind of catch the bar a little bit better. And sometimes that is enough to just fix it outright with a little bit of practice. Um, so the first is looking at some basic grip technique. And I would say the, the most common issue just to make this practical is over gripping, over gripping and the bar being too much in the palm and not enough in the fingers. Um, which kind of seems a counterintuitive. The second thing I do is heavy holds. And, um, this can be very simple. Basically, let's say someone's max on deadlift is 500 pounds. Um, I would put this slot in there. I typically do it once a week, but I've, I've tried it twice a week before as well. Once a week seems sufficient. It doesn't seem you need a huge dose of this, but, um, at the end of a session, once a week, start with, in this case, uh, like 450 pounds, and then try to progress up above their one rep max by the end of the block. So maybe you progress steadily from 450 to 550 for heavy holds in a rack. So you just put the pins in the rack such that you lift the bar off the pins, but just barely, right? You're not actually doing like a block pull. You're just training your grip and then you just hold it. For as long as you can. Or sometimes I like to use like seconds in reserve. So it's like, okay, lift 450 pounds or hold 450 pounds until you feel like you only have five seconds left and then put it down. Um, honestly, just one side of that can be plenty, especially for someone that can deadlift, like load up a ton of weight to load up. That's always been the issue for my, it's a, it's a pain. Yeah. And when I have someone do that, I often have to, uh, keep them honest with doing it because it's not fun to do. Yeah. It's not fun. And oftentimes like for someone that can deadlift over 600, over 700, one set is plenty. Yep. Especially if you're working up to one 10% by the end of the block. I found that to be very, very successful. One thing I've tried specifically because I've had clients that just despise, uh, doing the heavy holds. Cause I agree. That's in theory, that's the best way to train the quality to bring it up. Um, is thinking about it from the opposite end of the perspective. So grip is something people don't think about with a ton of nuance in my experience. Um, it's just kind of like, can't grip what do. And it's just like pretty, pretty, uh, caveman like, but yeah, we don't really treat it with the same like fatigue management, uh, principles that like you would do with other things. So one thing I've had clients do in the past that seems anecdotally to work a pretty decent amount is essentially saving your grip strength for the sets that you actually want it on. That's a great one. Um, so I am very, very like adamant of wearing straps on literally everything except top sets, which seems extremely counterintuitive. I'll typically say the top set and the final warmup. She had a little bit of practice. Something like that. Sorry. I'm including warmups to the top set. I guess I'm just saying, so you say throughout the week, back work, any, any other accessory, save the grip for the only the sets that you need. Would you ever change that? Like, so maybe you're far further, further out from competition. It's like, okay, we're actually going to kind of do the opposite such that theoretically. Yeah. I mean, it's, it's there. It's periodization for your grip. It's like periodization for your grip, but it's kind of hard. Cause you really need to be proactive about thinking about that. Cause when you're in those blocks, maybe you're lifting lighter weights and the grip is an issue. Yeah. Um, that's interesting. Yeah. I, I've always just come at it from like, I came to those kind of, uh, ideas just because I had clients that didn't want to continue to load up the weights that you're kind of talking about at the end of the session. It's, and I usually save it for like, when it's, when it's, exactly. And that, that seems to have been a good, probably to use another word we used earlier, stop gap before, Hey, this is really an issue. We got to address it. Um, give it a shot. Like ultimately just again, saving your grip for anything where that is not 100% needed. So essentially just for your deadlift top set or multiple top sets throughout the week. Um, you can kind of play around it a little bit with the wiggle room there, but like specifically like things that you are, maybe aren't thinking about are like all your back work, make sure that's strapped all your, anytime you're like, you know, lugging stuff around in terms of any other dumbbell accessories, when you're bringing your groceries inside, put on the versa grips, right? Yeah, definitely. Um, RDLs like those kinds of things. Like sometimes people, you know, they do use straps. They do don't use straps, like making sure you're using straps for that kind of stuff. Dumbbell RDLs, like everything that's not your top set. I think that just gives a little more. Some people would definitely say the opposite for sure. Yeah, for sure. I, but I strength to me is always, getting darts on the dartboard. Exactly. Yeah. With maximal exposures. It's very different than endurance. Um, yeah, that's a good one. I'm glad you brought that up because I, um, you've, you've recommended, I, I try, I, you've recommended to me that I recommend that and it's been, it's been successful in the past. Um, I, it's a good reminder as well. Cause the, maybe I'm a little bit too quick to use the heavy. It's a weird one. I mean, like I literally, like I said, I only came to it because somebody, but that's a very common question. It's like, Hey, can I use straps on my back off? So it's like, uh, yeah, kind of depends. Well, using straps on your back off, your secondary, secondary day impact, your ability to hold your top set. If yes, then it, you maybe want to put on straps, but if no, you probably want to keep straps on so you can kind of build grip capacity. Bigger issue with straps sometimes too. And this is like a completely unrelated topic, but there's strap literacy I find for how to set them up to mimic your starting position. Like it honestly, it's pretty finicky. Um, if you overgrip the straps, you will be closer to the bar. It could be a difference of an inch or something. Exactly. Exactly. So there's that that's a important component of it to think through, um, when you're using a, I'm definitely going to timestamp that. What do you mean? What I just said, please, somebody, please. So many times. That'd be awesome. Well, that's, that's pretty good way to go out. Yeah, that's a good way to go out. Thank you for tuning in to season two, episode eight. We'll see you in the next episode. Um, thank you for the support. Thank you for viewing. If you haven't already subscribed, please do so. Yep. Send the show to a friend. Yeah. Send the show to a friend, post it on your Instagram story. Reminder to leave any feedback. Like I said, at the start of the episode, I am interested in reading that. Um, let us know why you watch and especially if you watch the end, let us know why you watch. All right. See you in the next one. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.