 naringin, unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking unlocking we're looking at getting into for today's show. But first and foremost, Josh, where are you recording from today's episode? Not the usual location, I suspect. No, not the usual location, man. I am Twisted Fitness in Madison, Wisconsin. Great gym. It's really helpful because when I'm coming up here to Wisconsin to visit my family and I want to train with one of my family members, Twisted Fitness has everything, man. They have good powerlifting equipment. They have weightlifting equipment. They have CrossFit equipment. They have a good amount of machines. And I'm like looking around right now. There's like a boxing ring, jujitsu mats. I think that's what they're called. I don't know how all that works, but it works out well, man. It's a really nice gym. And I'm just like in this dark upper deck recording the podcast here. But yeah, back in not my hometown, but this is where my family is now. And yeah, getting it done. And I'm going to go hit a training session right after this and then go spend some time on the lake. Awesome. So clearly by, you know, committing to this podcast and committing to this training session, you're trying to maintain, you know, some sort of training frequency, it seems. So with that said, you want to give a short introduction to your kind of recent Instagram posts and kind of touch on what makes this topic kind of difficult to parse through from a scientific perspective before we kind of talk about it more from a coaching lens. How do you train when you're on vacation? That's a good question. I think it was actually one of the questions. Or also, what do you do with like, with this on the coaching front? If a client asks, or if some, if you know, a vacation is coming up or work trip, whatever the case may be? Sure. I think, I think my first question typically is what is this kind of travel occasion? So typically I would view vacation differently than like travel for something, if that makes sense. So if it's vacation, typically my mindset is like, Oh, okay. This person's probably wants to enjoy vacation as much as possible. So that's usually where I'll make pretty large concessions to what we're doing, whether that be immediately go to a deload or immediately change the training structure to accommodate those things to just maximize time efficiency, getting a little bit of something, but nothing crazy. Maybe go to all machines, but similar patterns, et cetera, stuff like that. If somebody is traveling and it's kind of something that is a little more accustomed to, it's like something that they're used to dealing with or somebody who travels frequently. That's where I think you over time kind of build the skill of trying to look for the gym that has the equipment you need, you know, try to make small adjustments, but for the most part, let's try to keep most things the same, um, those kinds of things. So I think, um, for me, if I'm thinking vacation, I'm thinking on, Hey, let's go try out any cool toys that they have that may fit the rough kind of pattern of what I'm thinking to do for my session. But for the most part, I'm just trying to get something in, enjoy it, um, get the more short-term benefits of exercise rather than thinking about my training, um, in a longer term, obviously that'd be, that'd be different if you have like a competition on the, on the timeline or something like that. But, um, that's usually kind of the way that I think about it. What about you? Yeah. The number one thing that I've just really emphasized over time is planning ahead with these things. Like now you can't fully plan ahead for every single trip, but most you can. So like every single time I'm going to map out a new block for a client, I try to get some input into like, is it what's on the calendar? Um, and ideally like if it's, you know, right now we're recording this in July, if they have a trip in November, I kind of want to know about it like as soon as possible. Um, especially for powerlifters, I think being able to plan ahead is helpful. Um, and I'll try to time it up the best I can. So it's like, we're not having the last week of the block where we're trying to, you know, really a spend a lot of time in the gym and be, you know, try to hit some PRs or whatever. Um, when away. So I kind of, ideally it's like an intro week or a deload week. And also I really encourage folks to like, let me know their preferences in terms of training on vacation because man, the last thing I want is to like, make it seem like, Oh, you're working with a coach. Therefore every single week that you're working with a coach throughout, you know, the calendar year, you have to have programming from the coach. It's like, no, sometimes it's like the best thing to do is to say, Hey, go, go do your thing for a week. Enjoy not tracking things. If you end up, if you end up training, you know, four times and pretty similar to what we've been doing. Awesome. Uh, if not, and you end up doing some pushups, you know, or, or nothing at all, like obviously it depends on the situation, but, um, I've just become more and more lenient on vacations because I think that often leads to better net training over like the year, let alone multiple years, especially if that individual, uh, if, if it helps to ensure that individual doesn't resent training. Um, but for me personally, I like training on trips. If it's a ski trip though, I am not training because skiing absolutely smokes me. I think it smokes everyone. Um, but for me, like you said, the short-term benefits, like, I, I just like the way I feel when training and going a week without training. I just, I feel like I don't sleep as well. I feel like I disturbs my mood a little bit, which I don't think that's a problem. Um, but yeah, like today I'm just going to rip. I'll probably do like upper lower supersets. Um, ideally thing, like I might, I do have my BFR bands, so I might try to do like some BFR stuff instead of like having to load up heavy leg press, just get done full body session, like 45 minutes. And then I have some dumbbells at my parents' place where I'm staying, probably do some, some arms the next day. That way I only have to like leave and make the trip once. Um, but yeah, I think it, it depends on the goal, but I've, I've definitely shifted on that. Cause I used to try to stay exactly on track every single time, which I think, uh, can be a net negative at times. Anyway, frequency. Yeah, man, I think this is a good example of just the role of research in general. And, um, I was kind of reflecting on this when, uh, you kind of mentioned that, you know, this would be a good topic to talk about on the podcast. It's like, I think this podcast has kind of evolved over time to being, uh, more and more about what we can and can't take away from research and, uh, where we're more or less confident and how to apply this stuff, which I'd like to think is more helpful than it was in the past where we'd probably just say like, Oh, on average of the five most recent meta-analyses, there's no effective frequency. Therefore, don't worry about it. Like, eh, you gotta, gotta dig a few layers deeper than that. And, um, think about what we're actually looking about, looking at here and obviously layer in our experience and just kind of collective experience of, of the community. Um, the meta-analysis that I reviewed, I think it was published in 2018. It was from Gergic. It's not the most recent meta-analysis on training frequency, but I think it's, it's one of the better ones in my opinion, because they treat, they don't dichotomize between low and high frequency. Um, in other words, they did, I believe they technically did a categorical meta-aggression. So they looked at frequencies of one versus two versus three versus four plus, um, a decent bit of research has been published since this was, um, since this paper was published, but nonetheless, again, I, I, I like their methods just kind of subjectively the most. I think it's probably going to be the most likely to detect an effect if there is an effect. Um, we're in progress of kind of, you know, updating this and hopefully giving, um, you know, some further insight on it. Um, but I think for the time being this Gergic one is kind of like my go-to, but anyway, they had a total of 22 studies that, um, manipulated frequency in some way. Now, not all of those 22 studies were volume equated. So some of those studies had, you know, group A and group B. So lower frequency, higher frequency, but higher frequency also trained with higher volumes. And when you pool the volume equated studies together and the non-volume equated studies together, this is a pretty clear dose response relationship between those four categories of frequency that I mentioned. Um, you'll have to, uh, give me a break. I'm not in my normal setup, so I don't have the full text pulled up in front of me. I think it was technically significant for, for whatever, whatever that's worth. Um, but then they also, uh, looked at just the, uh, studies that were volume equated and the effect basically completely disappeared. So you could come away from this study. And I'll also mention that that is the general vibe of the handful of meta-analyses we have in the last, you know, six to seven years is that, hey, when volume is equated, you might have the analysis here and there that, you know, reports slightly greater strength gains from higher frequencies. But again, on balance, most of the, most of the meta-analyses do not find an effect. So I think it'd be fair to say there is not a consistent, robust, identifiable benefit of higher frequencies for strength gain in the research. But man, like, I just, I don't know. I'm, I'm skeptical. Like we're, I think we're a lot slower to come to strong conclusions like that. Um, Zach, at this point, by the time this is released, will your video on rest periods be out? Yes. Yeah, I think, I think it will be. That's a really good example, man, of just like understanding how hard it is to detect these small effects and arguably these effects that I think are, um, are going to be practically important for most lifters. In the case of rest periods, it's kind of the opposite, right? Maybe we thought we detected an effect that actually isn't there, or maybe the state of the research is actually just like, you're so green because there's still not a ton of studies and people really grasped on, grasped onto, um, a single study that had positive effects of longer rest periods. So anyway, it just, just makes us very skeptical of, of these sorts of findings. And we're obviously very, very pro research, um, but very pro research in terms of, uh, understanding, like not saying that, oh, we have some indication that frequency doesn't matter. Therefore that is what your practice should be in the short term, but more so like just scaling that confidence with the, the level of evidence. So anyway, like specifically in this case with the Gergic meta-analysis, um, most of the studies did use untrained participants, um, which, uh, we could go back and forth for a very long time about, you know, whether we think that matters for each training variable. I'm pretty inclined to say it's, it's fine. Like, I don't, I don't think that would be, uh, the reason we don't detect a difference if there is one, but probably what's more important in the case of the frequency research is that the per session volumes were very low. Um, if you want to go back and dig up this post on my Instagram, um, I just put together a super simple like density plot or, or more technically an area plot of sets per session. And the number of times, like a study had that number of sets per session in, in, of the 22 studies. Right. And it's the, the most common occurrence is three sets per session. So it's like, yeah, if you're doing low volumes, um, let's say you're doing six sets per session and you do, uh, two sessions of three sets, uh, man, two sessions of three sets or three sessions of two sets. Like it's probably not going to make all that, that big of a difference. Um, and if it is, it's going to be a small effect that, uh, is going to be very hard to detect in, in, in these sorts of studies. So all that's to say is I feel pretty inclined to say it's, it's inconclusive, at least from this Gurgic meta-analysis. Um, I think we could definitely discuss the fact that it seems to be neutral to positive. Like I'm not aware of a ton of effects that lean strongly in favor of lower frequencies. So I think there's something to be said about that. Um, I think there's something to be said about just, you know, some of the other meta-analyses that haven't detected an effect, like that could just be a result of not treating a continuous variable as a continuous variable. Um, so there's a lot of, there's a lot of possibilities here from kind of a, uh, scientific perspective. If we want to put our scientist hats on, um, or we can put our coaches hats on and say, hey, neutral to positive effect here, in what cases would we kind of lean the higher frequency direction? And in what cases will we lean the lower frequency direction? So, um, with that, Zach, I don't know if you have any, any follow-up thoughts on my rambles here. Um, if not, maybe you can decide if you want to kind of go the scientist hat route or the coach's hat route. Yeah, not really. I think, I mean, I largely agree. I think like you just always have to consider the space in which a meta-analysis exists, right? Like, I think that's the way that I always like to frame it is like, you know, the studies that we have access to are always going to be, you know, a solid snapshot. It's going to be able to tell us, you know, most of the picture, but the fewer of those studies that you have, some of those kind of eyesore details, like in this case, the lower per session volumes, I think start to stick out more. Um, and you just need more studies, greater sample sizes, et cetera, for those things to really start to get, um, picked up, like you said. And so I think it's just a big, big, uh, thing to keep in mind. And then the other part of my brain just goes to kind of looking for the counterfactual. So do we have any available evidence that seems to suggest like pretty meaningful effects of frequency? And that's where I kind of just jotted down a few, uh, few things that do seem to be pretty strong, uh, proponents of higher frequencies for strength. There's more going on here than just that. But, um, you know, you have things like the Norwegian frequency project. Now that's like, uh, for people that don't know, it's like this kind of mythical, um, unpublished data that took the Norwegian powerlifting team that compared the same, uh, weekly volumes of three versus six times a week, I believe, and showed like pretty striking effects in favor of training six times per week. So, you know, pretty well-trained individuals, pretty high training volumes, splitting that up three versus six times per week. And there was a pretty meaningful effect in favor of six times a week. That's kind of hitting on all of the limitations that the, the available evidence kind of seems to have the training status, the per session volumes. Um, and then potentially some of the, uh, the, uh, kind of the training directly for strength. Like this is powerlifting oriented training, right? Um, and then to build further off that, we have the daily one RM study from, uh, our lab before we were, you know, a part of it obviously, but, um, you know, that's daily, daily, uh, training of one RM and five sets of volume work after that, every single day, there wasn't a comparator group, but it was pretty striking strength gains and really well-trained individuals. Um, and obviously there's a lot going on there. You have the very, very high peak intensity. You got, you know, pretty high volumes. If you were to calculate those per week, um, you're talking like 30 sets of squats. Um, so it's a lot, there's a lot of stuff going on there. Um, but maybe a more moderate version of that would be all of pack stuff, um, with the minimum effective training dose stuff where you're, you know, the, the frequency was, you know, relatively low, but it's kind of high in terms of the, the peak exposures that we always kind of talk about, like the heavy exposures, the frequency was pretty high and they still were able to make meaningful strength gains for, um, for, uh, pretty well-trained folks. So I think not only is the evidence that we have pretty limited in some important ways, I think you can pick out quite a few counterfactuals that do point to the pot, the potential upsides of higher frequencies. And I think when you have both of those things in place and the existing evidence seems to pretty much every time it's a not meaningful difference, it does kind of lean in favor of higher frequencies. I think that's like a textbook example of not picking up, uh, small effects typically. So I would definitely tend to agree with you that like, there doesn't seem to be a large downsides to higher frequency. It's rarely worse. There's some decent theoretical upside. And then, and the examples that we can point to where, um, it seems to meaningfully kind of address some of these limitations. Um, we do see some benefit. And then even if you just look at very high level powerlifting, obviously bench press comes to mind immediately where people are regularly benching four or five, six days a week. Um, and so to get, to get to that level, it seems like that is required to some degree. Um, so yeah, there's, there's a lot going on there from a scientific perspective, but, um, I'm curious kind of, if you kind of put that stuff aside and we kind of, um, say that the scientific evidence for the most part is relatively unconclusive. How do you view frequency as a tool? Like, what are you using to justify increases in frequency? Um, those kinds of things as a coach? Yeah, I think, um, I don't, I don't know how much I want to say here. I'll just say subjectively, when you look at the general research on dosage, so volume comparison studies, frequency comparison studies, and you kind of pull them together, keep, and then you also have studies that manipulate both, right? When you pull them together, if you have a, if you were to take a random group out of that hat and you have one that's on the higher volume side, it probably has a decent chance of being on the higher frequency side. And if you have one on the higher frequency side, it probably has a decent chance of being on the higher volume side. So I think that's important to keep in mind is like most of the discussion from a research perspective. And I think how it's communicated in, um, kind of our, our niche is the effects of frequency when volume is equated, but I don't think that's how most people leverage this variable in practice. And, um, I actually think previously in my coaching practice, I was like too strict and kind of manipulating volume and frequency independently. So I was like, Oh, lifter John Smith has, you know, a bench plateau. He's benching three times per week. He's doing five sets per session. Okay. My next step is breaking those 15 sets up evenly over four sessions. It's like, ah, most of the time people are benching with higher frequencies. Yeah. The frequency itself might have a, an effect like we've been talking about, but probably the, the more important thing is it's allowing this lifter to get in more additional work. Right. I don't know. Like if, if I'm trying to squat with more than 15 sets a week and I'm trying to do that in one session, things are going to be cramping by the end of that session. And like, it's just, it's not going to be all that enjoyable. Um, and the, the quality might fall off as we've talked about the performance itself of training seems to matter a decent bit for strength, whereas for hypertrophy, it doesn't seem to matter quite as much. So if your performance really, you know, takes a dip near the end of higher per session volume sessions, um, you know, that might be a time to, to kind of spread it out a little bit and you might be able to bump up the overall dosage a little bit more. So that's a long way of saying that, um, I think frequency can be dosage in disguise. And thus, when we kind of casually say, you know, four times per week benching is going to be more effective on average than two times per week benching. I don't really know the, the effects of frequency itself there, but that's definitely going to permit higher volumes or yeah, permit higher volumes, higher dosages and higher quality as well. Like if you have someone that let's just, let's say you want to have them do, you know, four total top sets per week. Um, and you spread those out over four sessions compared to over two sessions, you might get a nice bump in quality, let alone if you want them to do, you know, 20 sets on the main lift, um, throughout the week. So I think it's, it's kind of a dosage tool in disguise. And, um, I don't know how hopeful it is for practitioners to think of frequency as an independent variable, even though that's how science kind of typically goes about it. With that said, I might kind of, we both might be kind of coming off as like higher frequency proponents in a way right now, but I would say, uh, we're pretty, we're pretty, probably pretty moderate. And, um, in my experience, higher frequencies do seem to enhance the likelihood of aches and pains and niggles. Um, now again, is that an effective frequency itself or is that an effect of the higher dosages that typically come along with those as a bit of an anecdote, um, from myself, when I went from benching three times per week and I tried out four times per week. And now my training skill was not very good at the time. I, I had some pec tendon issues that, you know, and then again, my training skill wasn't very high, so I didn't get through it as quickly as I probably would now. Um, you know, that, that definitely took away probably 12 to 18 months of solid bench press progress because I went from three times per week to four times per week and mismanaged things. Um, I w again, I would do it a lot differently now. So I think there, I think this is an important variable to individualize, to be honest, um, as an independent variable, it seems to be neutral to positive. Um, but it typically is just a way of modulating the overall dosage. And, you know, sometimes you got to bump it up. Sometimes you got to bump it down. And, um, I don't know how helpful that is for the listener, but I do think it's probably one of the most important things to, to kind of manage, um, for both the overall dosage you're, you're applying, but also fatigue management within the week. Yeah, it's funny. We haven't talked about this. Um, but I think I've had the very, very similar, um, observations to you. So just a little bit of background on our personal experience. I am somebody who can bench six, seven days a week, even I've done before. Um, and typically I'm totally fine. And when I was hit, hit my best bench of my life, I was benching, uh, six days a week. So typically I've, I've been a higher frequency advocate. Um, but mostly that's come at the, at the, uh, the result of me typically seeming to, to require a greater dosage than most to, to make progress. Um, whereas as I've, um, just got more coaching experience and stuff, I think I have started to pick up, as you kind of mentioned that on average, the Nixon niggles, just for whatever reason seemed to crop up. And as I kind of think back in my experience, even when I was seeing bench progress, I, I think I had a lot of that, that I was just disregarding because my performance was increasing. Um, so, you know, my shoulder was like very regularly kind of aching. My elbow is like always giving me issues. Um, and just, you know, again, non-scientific opinions here, this is just total, total coach talk, but continuously loading that up session after session just seems to never give it a chance to kind of calm down. Um, and so that's, that's something I've, I've, you know, from a coaching perspective, I pretty much keep per session volumes, like pretty moderate always now. And then, like you said, I kind of just manipulate those two things together just because that seems to make the most sense. So like if, if somebody's doing, you know, uh, three to five sets per session on a given exercise and we're not making any more progress, like I'll probably just add a session with the lower range of that. Um, if we hit that plateau and we're looking to go up, it's a decent increase in volume. It's a decent increase in frequency, all things held equal and they're able to tolerate that. Typically I expect good things to happen. Um, and, and anecdotally, at least thus far, that's been going pretty well. Um, and I think people are, I've just, I've just become much more, um, observant of the nicks and niggles and consistency end of things. And I think pretty much my entire programming approach has been re-tailored to respect that first and foremost. Um, just because I really do think consistency is the name of the game and the more you can continuously stack weeks on top of one another, that's where there's, what's going to get you to go where you want to go. Um, so yeah, it's, it's interesting to hear you kind of come to that kind of, uh, position in me as well, kind of coming from opposite ends of the spectrum. Um, so I think that's, that's interesting. Um, but yeah, I, I tend to think just purely from a bet hedging perspective. Um, I do think it has a neutral to a positive effect, just like you said, um, that I think, uh, is all things held equal, probably something when we talk about stacking these small effects that were, you know, in practice, you kind of have to write something down on paper. You have to train, you have to make a decision whether this is worth it or not. And I, I, I tend to think that that's going to be a worthwhile investment, um, in most cases for strength. Um, definitely biased by my personal experience there to some degree, but I think, um, it's just a matter of degree to what that ends up being, like what people can actually tolerate. Um, and I think, I think there's a lot, a lot of the more that I, the more that I've looked back on training anecdotes, I think biomechanical explanations just are really, really, really powerful. Um, you know, I can arch substantially more than you. My range of motion is substantially smaller. I can, I use a wider grip. Like a lot of those things, I just think start to add up when you take, you know, the extremes of the, of the training prescription and kind of just our different bench experiences is something we often compare and contrast. So, um, so yeah, I don't know. I think that's, it's an interesting kind of thing. We both came to different ways. Yeah. I think like it's, it's so like cliche, but, um, even, even if we're saying these things, this variable is neutral to positive, um, that is all things held equal. And I don't think practically it's a neutral to positive. I think it is very much a negative to positive in practice. Um, but again, all things held equal and aches and pains, these niggles are kind of accounted for theoretically, then yes, I think it's neutral to positive. So to make this as practical as possible for the listener. And I, I guess just to summarize probably where our heads are at, um, Zach, you can, you can let me know if you agree with this, but I would think of frequency as a variable that should be as high as possible, but without taking away from performance in the short term or overall dosage in the longterm. So let's start with the, the end of that, right. Dosage in the longterm, if going from like for me, three to four times per week benching, and that causes, uh, you know, 12 to 18 months setback, higher frequency was a negative for sure. Same idea with, um, the, the former, right? If it takes away from performance in the short term, frequency is probably going to be a negative cases where that would be is like, if you're, you're trying to do very high volume squatting or deadlifting and you go into your heaviest exposure of the week, very fatigued, that's going to take away from your performance in the short term, probably again, causing a net negative on strength gains. Most of the time, higher frequencies is probably going to enhance your performance because the within session fatigue is less, but that's only going to be a positive. If the between session recovery is, is sufficient, especially going into that primary day. I see Zach nodding. So I assume he generally agrees with that kind of mental model. And I'll finish with a quick anecdote from my client, Dustin. Dustin is a very interesting case study because we, when we started working together, the gains were, I'd say good, like he was making good progress. Um, I somehow talked myself into starting to work with him like about seven to eight weeks out from a meet, um, which is not really my preference, but we let it rip. And within that, those first that ended up being two blocks, um, he hit multiple PRs on the platform. Um, and then after the meet, we kind of stuck with a similar training approach, but you know, blocks were kind of getting cut short or we had to deload early aches and pains were pretty high. Um, and then recently probably starting about eight weeks ago, I'd say, um, I was just like, man, I'm, I, I'm worried that like this will cause something more serious that will, you know, lead to a bigger setback. Um, and also if we're deloading earlier than whatever, whatever we're doing right now is not, it's actually taking away from total dosage because it's not totally sustainable. And it took a couple blocks of tinkering, but basically where we're at right now is he, we didn't actually change his frequencies, but we like kind of did. So basically what I did is his secondary days for squat bench and deadlift are extraordinary, extraordinarily light. Um, I'm talking like 50 to 60%. Um, and like in a way it's a reduced frequency. Um, again, it's not technically a reduced frequency, but I, I, I encourage him to think of these sessions as like recovery promoting. Uh, whereas before, you know, if we're doing like a pause deadlift top set of four followed by two back offsets of seven, like that's not really recovery promoting. Whereas now it's like, let's do percentage base deadlifts for three sets of six at like 60%. And, um, like, I think I actually sent this to you, Zach, like just progress has taken off like within two blocks, um, probably in the ballpark of like 60 to 70 pounds on his total. So I think he was like, he was adapting under the hood. Um, but he just could not perform on those primary days consistently. And now it's really taken off. Now, I guess to play devil's advocate against myself is like, how long are these really solid gains going to last? It could be a short-term peaking effect. I don't think that's the case though, because again, if anything, the total dosage is the same, or maybe slightly higher because we haven't had to miss sessions because of aches and pains and we haven't had to deload early. And this is just a lot more sustainable. So, um, that's an example of a theoretical neutral positive variable, um, actually being a negative in a way from a practical perspective. And that's just where the, you know, I guess, to some degree, the art of coaching kind of comes in with the fundamental understanding of what these variables are and where the evidence leans in these kinds of theoretical situations. Not that research is theoretical research is done on humans, but it is controlled for people that make it through the studies and people that are willing to commit to the protocols. So it is controlled for completing the study. Whereas, Hey, maybe if Dustin was in one of these frequency studies, um, maybe he would have been the person that's like, Oh, that's like, there's no way I'm not signing up for that. Or he's the one that's, uh, you know, maybe the researchers decide like, Hey man, like it's not smart to continue if you're, if you're feeling this way. So, um, yeah, very, very important variable is, is, is what it comes down to, even if it is dosage in disguise. Beautiful. Well, I thought that was very interesting. I have very similar coaching anecdotes, but I'll save that for another time, but yeah, it's a, it's, it's a really good way to think about things and kind of always see both sides of the sword with respect to how that kind of influences people's progress. But, um, yeah, we'll, uh, we'll wrap it up there. We will see you guys on the next episode. Um, don't forget to plug the discount code, the discount code for, for target. Oh, right. Right. Yeah. We had a lot of, uh, a lot of positive 22. There we go. JP lifts 22. Look me up on huddle. Um, 20, 22 is my high school basketball number. I think if you find me on huddle, I think the only video left is me hitting three threes in one game. I was a stretch power forward. Um, I think that was like a, a season high nine points. So go find me on huddle discount code for target jeans, uh, JP lifts 22. Beautiful. See you guys.