 curofTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTuTu a bit to just like some higher level principles about specificity and it kind of being something that you have reflected on not only in the strength data, but also in other data sets as well. So I'm curious your thoughts about just like high level principles about how it's impacted how you view programming and coaching. Yeah. I mean, as far as looking at basically all the research that we have in terms of principles for strength, I think specificity essentially shows up at every corner. I think everybody knows specificity is important, but I don't know. I expected it to be to the degree that it is. And I think there are areas in practice that have been explored that haven't been explored in the research that just further shine that light to be the case even more. So whether you're looking at volume, frequency, proximity to failure, load, exercise selection, any of those variables, whether they're meta-analyzed or individual studies, whatever the kind of the highest tier level evidence that we have, I think every single one of those variables, if you think about it kind of on a principle-based perspective, kind of leans in favor of trying to essentially accumulate as many maximal force contractions as you can. So just briefly going one by one, you think about load. If you're training for a one rep max, the closer to a one rep max you're training with, those are going to be higher forces that you're ultimately producing, which are more similar to the maximal force one rep that you're performing for your strength assessment. For frequency, you're essentially saying, I want to split up the amount of work that I'm doing so that the performance for any given set that I'm doing is higher, which inherently comes with greater force production, which again is more in line. Volume, initially, obviously you have to do some contractions to be able to produce high force contractions, but after a certain point, that may start to take away to some degree in the short term, how many truly high force contractions you can do. If I'm doing a ton of training volume, that might in the short term not allow me to have as much performance under the curve. That may be offset by the fact that that has some positive effects, but in the short term, maybe that's not the best strategy. Approximative failure, if you put a given load on the bar, the closer to failure that you go, the more I'm going to be dropping my force production throughout that set. And that also probably has greater implications on the rest of my session and the rest of my training block in terms of the fatigue that may be accumulating, which is going to be less overall force production in that block. So you can basically pick out any single one of these training variables. And from my perspective, that's the story that comes out through dramatically. And then further, when you take all of those principles and put them in the real world, I think every single one of those is also coming through. And whether you look at Louie Simmons, we got a comment recently that someone mentioned that I didn't give enough love to Louie Simmons. Anyone that listens to the podcast regularly, I try to make it clear that Louie Simmons had a lot of these principles that we use from modern kind of strength programming down early with kind of a different way of application. But you have your heavy singles, your top sets from the max effort method. You have your kind of lower velocity loss back offsets from the dynamic effort method. You have the training close to failure for hypertrophy from the repeated effort method. And then you also have trying to really specifically isolate the strength limiter or the area of the weakest link for a given lifter to make their total progress the fastest and the shortest amount of time with his exercise selection and the rotation of the variations and all the things that he did. So I think these principles have been kind of distilled and you look further into today, modern powerlifting is trying to essentially maximize the specificity over the course of a calendar year in different ways. And specificity doesn't just mean the training that you're doing. It also could mean the adaptations that you're trying to seek. So long story short, I think if you zoom out and look at the research from a very high level and take the considerations and limitations on board, like you mentioned, I think that's really the story that it paints to me is that specificity is king. Everyone knows that, but I think it really, really is the case and can be thought of on deeper levels as kind of that primary principle we can use to kind of derive our decision making in a lot of different ways. So, yeah. And then in the case of volume, you could make the case that like excessive volume could take away from variables that permit greater specificity, you know, so volume is probably the, one of the bigger, potentially the biggest lever to just bury yourself in fatigue. And if it's making it really hard to recover for the next session, you're not able to express as much force output and perform as well for training. It's probably going to cause issues for your ability to train specifically for the next session. So I would say my observation is like when people go extreme with powerlifting training, these days they don't really go extreme with volume. They tend to go extreme with frequency. Is that a fair observation? I think you can crank up the volume, but at least right now, as of recording, there's kind of a trend towards higher frequency. It seems, I do think that squares somewhat with the data and that kind of leads me to the way that I've kind of reconceptualized dosage specifically for strength athletes. I would say before I probably conflated like basically direct and indirect sets quite a bit. So what I mean by that is if I'm thinking of someone's deadlift training, I would not only think of their deadlift sets, their close variations, but I'd also probably layer in like their hamstring and their, their glute training or potentially training for the spinal erectors. I would say that for the reasons we've, we've discussed and understanding the role of specificity, I would probably split that up into two these days. And I would think of it as specific dosage. So that would be basically the sets per week with the main movement or a close variation and then non-specific dosage. So it'd be sets per week to build the musculature that is contributing to the main movement. So it'd be basically what people would think of as their accessory work. And the way that I think about it is that non-specific dosage is going to have I would just have minimal expectations of this enhancing short-term strength development is the way that I would think about it. Enhances capacity but non-expression. It enhances capacity and not necessarily expression. And in these short-term strength studies, we're really looking at expression more than capacity or at the very least, because of all of those factors that we mentioned before, the study duration, the novelty of the strength assessments, the low specificity of training, potentially fatigue as well. Those are all things that basically just move volume down the list over the course of a 10-week study in terms of what you should prioritize and what's going to be the difference between me gaining 12.5 kilos on my deadlift and you gain 7.5 kilos on your deadlift or vice versa, right? Volume is probably going to be really low on the list in terms of what's describing that, especially the non-specific dosage, because specificity is so important, especially in the short term. And then this is a little bit beyond the exact discussion we're having right now about just volume for strength. But when we combine the volume for strength stuff, when we combine it with the frequency for strength meta-analysis and also the per-session volume meta-analysis that we've done, we have a full podcast on the frequency for strength one. We don't have a podcast yet for per-session volume on strength. But when I kind of triangulate all of those, personally, I think that kind of your specific exposures, so basically the number of days per week that you're doing the main lift or close variation is a primary input to manipulate in practice. So before I might've thought of it more in terms of volume, right? So, okay, if I'm going to make a change, if I'm going to dial things up, I'll go from 12 to 18 sets per week. That's A-50% change. Whereas now if you're going from 12 to 18 sets, but you're staying at a two times per week frequency, I probably have lower expectations that that's going to move the needle a ton for strength. I think it might increase strength capacity, but I also think it might have some negative effects on short-term strength expression. And I think in terms of short to moderate term strength development and expression, I think the specific exposures and keeping those specific exposures within pretty narrow bands of per-session volume, kind of the way that I think about strength training these days is really the, one of the main dials I'm playing with from like a volume and frequency perspective is just the number of those specific exposures. So the number of days per week you're doing the squat bench or deadlift or a close variation and less of an emphasis on total weekly volume. In a way, I think that is kind of volume in disguise is the way that I'm kind of conceptualizing it. If you consider the quality of those exposures. And that, and when you say in disguise, that wouldn't show up in our analysis. Correct. It's essentially saying the effect of frequency to me in a roundabout way kind of is volume. If you say that the quality of the exposure determines whether it counts or not. So let's say I had six sets of squats, right? That's six sets of squats. But if I split those up into two sessions now, and that first set now exceeds some sort of, you know, threshold of performance that's relevant, that's really specific, high enough force, et cetera. Now I have two of those exposures that count towards this, this really specific performance instead of just one, because the fatigue within the session of doing six sets of squats makes those later sets. They, they obviously contribute to some degree, but maybe substantially less so. So that, that, that's exactly how I kind of think about it too, is like, all right, we have this bucket of work. This bucket of work is going to provide stimulus for strength expression via multiple routes, neuromuscular adaptations, just sheer number of repetitions for practice. It's going to provide some stimuli for the actual strength capacity, muscle size, other adaptations, work capacity, et cetera. It's going to provide some fatigue. And then that's all going to play out into the performance dynamics that you need to manipulate on what's the goal right now. Are we trying to optimize our ability to express our strength capacity, or we're trying to optimize our ability to develop the capacity to later then express it. And I think that has pretty meaningful implications on how you would set things up and the quality of the work that you're ultimately going to do. But yeah, I think, I think fundamentally the, uh, the, the frequency analysis to me is kind of indicating that quality matters for strength. And I think that's true. And I think the potentially the more aggressive diminishing returns than, than expected for strength is because the quote unquote quality or the specificity of that training is so low that, you know, the, the positive stimuli that you're going to gain from it after a certain point is going to be kind of washed out. Whereas frequency may preserve that to some degree.