 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 백 There's a very simple takeaway for folks. I think primary days make a lot of sense. I think, and just to define that, that would be like one day where you try to set things up so you're the most recovered. Doesn't mean you have to be fully recovered and tapered every time you do that, but well recovered enough to perform pretty dang well. And that's going to be your heaviest day or at least have your highest peak load that you use throughout the week. Yeah. Intentionally backing off those other days to the extent that it may not seem like the most productive. Like you're kind of like taking at face value that like, oh, this individual session is intentionally lower of a stimulus than it could be theoretically. Right. Like even then you may be able to tolerate, which is just completely different than hypertrophy training. Like hypertrophy training, if you can tolerate it for the most part, do it. Whereas with this, you basically are saying, even if I can tolerate it theoretically, there is ground to be gained that may be meaningful by setting things up so I can achieve maximal performance in one of these sessions, which is just fundamentally different. And I think it's like a sliding scale of to what degree are you willing to sacrifice that peak performance based on long-term or short-term outcomes. Exactly. Bingo. And that's periodization. And that's periodization in my mind. Bingo. And that kind of leads me to another quick point is that I wanted, we didn't talk about this beforehand, but I find myself often programming lower frequencies in more off-season type training. So kind of what that'll look like is like more exercise variation for hypertrophy reasons. Because if I can move away from the competition list, maybe we could do something a little bit more hypertrophy friendly. Also just seems to build the athlete up for lack of a better term and just make them strong in other movement patterns or other pressing angles or single leg movements, whatever the case may be. And because I'm kind of twisting that volume dial up and because I'm also twisting probably the proximity to failure dial up and having them train closer to failure, because I'm kind of making that investment in their long-term development. Um, I still want them to have a primary day and I still want them to regularly touch decently heavy loads. It might not be quite as heavy. I find it hard to kind of concurrently have decently recovered or decently high for force production days plus the higher volumes when I'm also using high frequencies. So that's why I might have someone that benches four times a week in more strength focused blocks or when they're peaking, but pull them back to three times per week or just three times per week of pressing training in general, maybe even two times per week for a little bit, because I actually find that a little bit more hypertrophy friendly. Does that thinking check out to you? And do you find yourself ever doing the same? 100%. That's, it's hilarious. We haven't talked about this, but I've, I've started to do that too. Um, the, the predominant thing for me is just viewing things more so from this principle based perspective, rather than I need to nail this person's optimal frequency or they're going to detrain and they're going to get weaker and they're, or they're not going to progress. Viewing things more from a much higher level principle based perspective just has given me a lot more freedom. I feel like, and I'm not nearly as scared to change things from what has worked. Yeah. And it just allows you to hone in on the thing you're actually trying to progress more. Um, and I think the key there is just, again, having very clear outlines of what you expect, communicating that with the, with the individual, but clear example. One of my awesome clients right now is going through, we just finished up a meet going through a work capacity block. Um, and that's again, a topic for another episode. I think those are useful for a variety of reasons, but basically the whole goal of it is to say, okay, the quality of this work is going to be like easy to moderately challenging. Let's just scale that up to improve how much work you're able to handle, um, in a, in a given block. And then, um, increase that, um, the, the qualities of that towards whatever adaptation we want to kind of go towards later down the line. Um, and to do that, we kind of generalize the, the, the program a little bit to kind of do similar to what you're saying is, you know, reducing the frequency of variations that are, you know, seen as kind of strength exercises and kind of push those more towards like belt squad and things like that, that kind of reduces that fractional frequency, um, button a little bit to be more friendly to the thing that we're trying to do. Um, and that'll change later down the line. And I would have never done that. Um, cause he is coming off a very successful, that worked exactly very successful training cycle. And I never would have made those changes. He's got to bench four times a week. Exactly. Whereas it's like, bro, there's a reason body, almost all bodybuilders don't train chess four times a week because when you need, when you need to maximize hypertrophy, um, you're going to be doing some fatiguing stuff and there's kind of that Goldilocks zone in terms of frequency from a practical perspective. And I think the key, the key ultimately is just, like I said, once you have the expectations clear on what we're trying to do, then it comes, okay, this is what I expect to happen in your terms of your, your, your strength or your estimated one or Ms or whatever. But then also what do we need to do to maintain whatever we want to maintain? And so I think viewing it that way, as opposed to, okay, what is the optimal frequency for this individual to make them progress? It's just like much more liberating. Like, okay, if I have somebody hit single at seven once or twice a week on bench, even though there are four times a week, venture, are they going to get dramatically weaker? Probably not. That's okay. Like if that's okay for whatever you're doing. And I think that's really what it comes down to is like, okay, what are we trying to progress set up the training to do that? And then what qualities are we trying to maintain or marginally progress like minimum effective dose kind of thing and set the training up that way. And that can be substantially different phase to phase and that's okay. Yeah. So I often find myself using the phrase, I'd be stoked if some PRs fall in our lap, but it's not the focus right now. So kind of to, I think to summarize what you just said is like long-term development perspective, we have certain priorities and therefore certain variables to prioritize short-term strength development and strength expression. We have other priorities and other variables to focus on. It's a sliding scale, right? Just because you're 10 weeks out from a meet doesn't mean you don't need to maintain the muscle you've, you've gained up to this point and doesn't mean that additional hypertrophy isn't going to contribute at all. Same idea with when you're on the, in the offseason mode, if you will, um, or improvement season mode in which I don't want you to forget how to squat. Um, I don't want you to not hit PRs in the offseason. So the way that I'll, I'll phrase it is in more developmental blocks, if you will, or offseason type blocks say, Hey, we're doing triples and we're, I'm going to let, let you let it rip at the end of the block and see what's there. I would be stoked if some PRs fell in our lap, but we're not going to define the success of this training phase based on whether you hit a PR or not. And then it just kind of shifts a little bit, right? So it's like, Hey, now we're in a strength block. I am going to define the success of the block based on your per your general performance. Um, I'm not as worried about, uh, looking at, uh, potential physique changes or an overall performance composite of all of your pressing exercises that might give us some indication about hypertrophy. I'd be stoked if that fell in our lap. Um, but I'm more focused on that top end performance. So it's just kind of this sliding scale. And I think, um, to use a, uh, OG strength and conditioning, uh, terminology, you, you kind of need to do like a needs analysis based on like what the 100% what, what the athlete needs in terms of what, what do they need for long-term development? Um, how quickly do they detrain in these various, um, qualities and where are you going to fall on that sliding scale to what degree you're going to change it? I have some guys where I side that scale, like crazy, man. Other people, it's just like, Ooh, little nudges. Um, I think the scale, basically the way that I think about it, two things that I'll say off that, sorry to cut you off, but two things, the scale to me expands, the more advanced you get. That's the number one thing. That's exactly how I think about it. Um, the sliding scale expands as you get more advanced when you're, and I think just for honestly, bigger people. Yeah. Yeah. The higher weight classes, the scale seems to expand to the, yeah. So the, the training that you're doing is probably hitting all the qualities necessary early on. And then over time that kind of expands where you might need to specialize to push the needle a little bit more, at least at a relative rate that you can notice. That's the biggest thing I always think about is the time oriented aspect of things. But the other thing that you said that I, it's hilarious. Again, you said, we haven't talked about this. I revisited a ton of stuff from, um, classical strength conditioning. The more that I've kind of viewed things from this kind of principle based perspective. And I've started to just view things a lot more like that. Um, and the needs analysis, the longer term planning that's flexible. Four year template in the description so that you're, you're ready for your next Olympics appearance. Yeah. A lot of that stuff I, I, I definitely used to poo poo on and not bro. Got to see what they did last week. And, and, and I, obviously there's, there's a middle ground and there's, there's loyalty to both. But like I, I personally absolutely fell way too hard on the side of like immediate results are all that matters. And that's what's determining my training structure. And I, I still, I still, uh, hold the position that you could set things up to get just as, maybe just as good as results. If again, you kind of, again, set things up so that that data is as informative as possible. Yeah. Because I've thought about the short term stuff. I thought about this too. The way that you get a short term approach to work is that you are basically finding the training intervention at all times that maps with the quality that is the, is the, is the limiter. That's essentially what you're doing is a classical periodization approach or a, like kind of the one we were describing. It's like kind of shifts in bias and stuff. You're kind of just, it's kind of making sure we do it all. And then over time you might notice, ah, this guy's seems a little under muscled relative to other clients that I have. Maybe we'll spend a little more time doing that, but you're kind of hitting all the qualities and taking time to really develop and specialize those. So it's kind of a catch all in that time. And you might individualize the amount of time spent in different phases based on kind of the rates of progress or your, like another thing I was going to say is I feel like I'm pretty big on KPIs that differ between what I'm trying to do now. Kind of one of the things you mentioned was the kind of composite score of all the exercises related to a muscle group. I kind of view that as like a hypertrophy esque kind of measurement and strength oriented phases. You care about the task you're trying to maximize and then like work capacity already in phases. I'm kind of like, how much work can we handle without feeling terrible is essentially the goal. So you kind of shift those KPIs around and in a approach where you're really trying to maximize that short-term performance. You're basically just finding the organization of all the training variables that are hitting on whatever the limiting adaptation is. And then that's going to, because it's that limiting factor or that weakest link in the chain should allow for the short-term performance improvement. So I think that's where those can kind of coexist. Um, and I think the, um, yeah, just the, the, there's strengths and weaknesses to both approaches. I think they can both kind of fall too far in either direction and kind of something in the middle ground, uh, makes the most sense. But yeah, I think, uh, it's an interesting conversation of kind of coming full circle in terms of how we've coached that maybe deserves his own episode. kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of kind of