 I think this is close to the most important variable for long term progress, is making sure your external factors are as optimized as humanly possible. I think I have completely reformed how much I think this matters. I used to think that, hey, make sure you're getting your sleep. Hey, make sure you're getting your protein in. Hey, make sure you're managing your stress. It goes without saying that certain things are what I call pseudo-modifiable. We'reh, buth, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, terms of like why and how to individualize training. And I think this is a good opportunity to have a practical segment about what are the things that would actually change what you put on the program, because we regularly emphasize the importance of principles and the fact that those principles probably apply to you as well. You're probably not a special snowflake in terms of how your physiology responds to a change in a given variable. But we would still hold true that individualization is key. So Zach, tell us what are some of those factors with the principles in mind, actually applying those principles, how would that manifest into different programs for different folks? Yeah, so I, in the process of painstakingly writing up my dissertation, which has been a long process that I'm sure we'll have the whole saga on another episode at some point, I've continuously come back to thinking about these practical things and like, ultimately, how a potentially slightly revised version of how individualization works, what it means, why we do it, how does that interface on how we actually coach, how we actually assign training programs. And this was a good opportunity to kind of reflect on that and think about the things that I think, you know, you give it give me two twins, essentially. And if you're able to kind of have like some avatar where you can kind of pull and prod on a few of these variables, they would tangibly influence the way that we would actually write a training program for somebody. I guess the first thing to say is, what isn't the case? Probably to start. Again, we'll have a full length discussion on this at some point. But I think the biggest thing that I would probably say, at this point in time, which again, is subject to change with more evidence, etc, that goes without saying, but I think, and this is going to sound like a non-controversial statement. But I think what it means is something that's very important is that I do think the principles and the kind of concepts that we derive training programs from are kind of evergreen qualities that kind of apply to everyone. And so what I mean by that is just the general physiological principles of how the training variables interact with different outcomes, probably at risk of being a dead horse. Generally speaking, more volume is going to lead to greater muscle growth. We can debate on what that exact relationship looks like. But let's just take that as a principle. I think that is happening. That principle is occurring under under the hood for everybody. But the way that actually is going to manifest on an individual training program requires a lot of additional context. But I don't think that that fundamental training principle is going to be completely different for Josh than it is for me. And that again, sounds trivial, but I don't think it is the more you really sit and think about it. And so that's just the first thing is that kind of underlines all this. So it's not that for Josh, actually, less volume is actually going to be better for him for muscle growth than it is for me. Now, I might give you a lower volume training program than I met other clients, but that's going to be for different reasons than me trying to find the magic combination of variables that optimize your progress for reasons that I can't totally articulate. It's for other reasons that we're going to get into here in a second. Does that kind of make sense? Anything to add there? No, I think I think it's perfect. And that's another topic, but that is a massive shift. Yeah, I think. I think not only in the evidence based community, but I've kind of noticed it. Yeah, you just got to do what works for you, bro, is is a common phrase. But hopefully, our show can kind of help you actually conceptualize what that means and when that could also lead you astray and when it wouldn't apply. So yeah, I think that's spot on. Cool. Okay. So with that kind of assumption understood, I think there's kind of five main pillars of what is going to influence these, you know, theoretical twins programming. And the first one is probably the most obvious, but I think this is one that I've grown more appreciative over time in terms of how seriously I take it is just someone's goals and their priorities. I think at face value, someone's goal can seem superficial, you know, I'm a powerlifter, I'm somebody who's interested in hypertrophy. But at the end of the day, like you can really shape a training program in a more customized way, the better that you understand someone's priorities. And I think that comes from a dialogue that can be a lot deeper than people maybe do. For the most part, at least I knew I did for a long time. So just as an example, it's like, it was almost sacrilegious coming up in the kind of iron game for us to like not want to train legs, for example, just things like that. And that is a valid goal. And it's a valid priority for somebody that genuinely could have massive implications on the rest of the training program. If you make that a very clear and understood priority for somebody, because that's going to free up training time, that's going to free up potential other overlapping parts of your organization of the training week that you maybe thought was something is just kind of your base, you know, principle that you can completely change for this individual because you more clearly articulated what matters to them and what doesn't. So just as a basic example, as we often talk about the principles to maximize hypertrophy, but it's also helpful to understand what's going to allow them to make some progress. But if it's a muscle group that they genuinely just don't care about, then you can architect the training program in an entirely different way than you maybe would if you're trying to make sure all the boxes are checked. And so I think really, really deeply understanding someone's goals, priorities, and what is actually important to them is like absolutely foundational part of the process, because that's going to set the initial constraints to which everything else can kind of filter through. I couldn't agree with that more. I think the goal of a coach is not to say where the ship is headed. Instead, it is to provide the map or some of the hurdles or some of the implications of where the lifter chooses for the ship to head. And then once that's been made clear and maybe revisited at times, you need to confirm the ship is moving in the right direction at an appropriate pace. And when you do veer off track for one reason or another, intentional or unintentional, that it's not going too far off track. That's the way that I think about it, because in the case of not wanting to train legs, like sure, you could joke about it being like a free pass to skip leg day. But that also is the reality for some people is like they just don't care about how big their legs are. So the approach that I would take is I would, you know, have a conversation about that and say, hey, like, yeah, we definitely are not going to like have you do three leg days a week, super high volume. At the same time, there might be some like low effort ways to just to make sure that like from a health and longevity perspective and, you know, just kind of getting ahead of the curve in terms of the inevitable sarcopenia that might happen in 20, 30, 40, 50 years, we should still do this. But here's how we can make it nice and easy. What do you think? Right. And they still might say, I don't I don't want to do that. That's not really something I care about. That's not for you to decide. So I think that is easy to like overlook and say, oh, their goals are hypertrophy. Cool. Well, here's hypertrophy program. Yeah, it's a lot. There's a lot more to it. 100 percent. Yeah. That example is a good one. Exactly. I think I think that, like you said, it's just something that is taken as a much simpler variable than I think it really is. And I think, again, the reason it's so important is because it sets the constraints for literally the entire rest of the training program. Just as a basic example, let's say you can only train four days a week and you don't want to train legs, but you do really want to prioritize your arms. That fundamentally changes the probably the total amount of training that you can fit in for your arms if you have a cap length of your session. And given we just made the assumption that, you know, generally speaking, more volume is better for hypertrophy. That kind of unlocks a training prescription that with those additional constraints of I have to squat, I have to do RDLs, I got to fit these things in as well. Now we don't have to leverage those mile reps as much for the arm work that we just talked about. Like there's there's other other things that kind of those those pillars influence all kind of one another if you don't set that constraint with a much enough nuance initially. So that's the first thing. The second thing, this is probably more so geared towards strength. But I do think this does like the more that I've grown to appreciate hypertrophy, I do think it has a good amount of carry over there as well in certain regards. And it's honestly just the leverages. So like the biometrics, if you will, of an individual, I think that it was, you know, very easy to say a squat as a squat as a squat or a bench as a bench as a bench kind of coming up particularly with like me coming more so from the strength side of things and kind of just assuming that leverages and segment lengths and torso lengths and femur lengths and, you know, your humerus length, all these kind of factors that are just kind of going to come all out in the wash and it doesn't matter that much. I honestly think that that is like such a fundamental aspect of providing the stimulus in the areas that you want that cannot go overlooked. So I think that is just something that is really, really important. It becomes more important as you get more advanced because I think it's going to show up in quote holes in your development, either from a strength perspective or maybe potentially a physique, but it's something that I think needs to be taken seriously. And that's another aspect of the customization game. Here's an example. Let's say you have a long femur and short feeder individual, and they both really like squats, but they're trying to bring up their quads. For the shorter femur individual, that may be a totally suitable option for him to, you know, reach failure of his quads during that exercise. And that's not something you need to violate his preference in order to reach his goal of maximum progress. Or for the somebody with really, really long femurs, there's a good chance that that's probably not the best exercise to develop their lower body, particularly their quads. And so that's where, again, these kind of big things change. And the reason, again, that's so, so important. It's not just because of exercise selection. It's because of this entire game of balancing the entire training stress across the week. If I'm using a less specific tool for the job to train his quads necessarily, then I might have to increase the number of sets that I'm doing to achieve the stimulus to make the needle budge on the area that I'm looking to develop to have these downstream effects that I'm looking for. So it fundamentally changes the calculus of the entire process. If you're using a spoon to chip at a rock rather than a pickaxe, and that's just fundamentally a different math problem. And so I think understanding somebody's leverages and the pros and cons that come with that in terms of the way that it interfaces with the exercises is absolutely key, both for strength and for hypertrophy. Anything to add there? No? I think a good, someone that's just seen a lot of reps can do this pretty intuitively. Like they can look at someone barbell benching and just pretty quickly recognize whether or not it's a good pec stimulus for them. That could be subjective feedback, that could be based on forearm length, it could be based on like the angle of their sternum, whether it's flatter or kind of creates like a natural incline for them. Sometimes it just means you have to be a little bit more in the weeds, helping them out because the movement might end up being good for them. Like you could, like I have long femurs, I can get a high bar squat to be a pretty dang good quad stimulus. I just have to work. I just have to make sure that certain things are in a good spot. I might elevate my heels using multiple things. Like I might wear heeled shoes and even slight elevation beyond that. So it just, and stance width tends to matter a lot more, whereas someone that's, you know, it tends to be shorter folks just can sink into it really easily. So sometimes it is outright exercise selection changes. Other times it's just, okay, we need to intervene here because the starting point is not sufficient for where we want them to go. Yeah, exactly. And I would call those modifications essentially to me, that's different exercises, but yeah, you're spot on. And I think that can, you know, even go one step further in terms of kind of also considering injury history for this reason. If you, even if you have a fixed structure, but you have, let's say an injury history that prohibits a certain joint from moving as expected. One that comes to mind for me is I have like tons of ankle sprains in high school and my ankles just don't bend like you would expect. And that influences the way I do a lot of exercises in terms of the stance width I need to use and how much dorsiflexion I can reach. And again, that's just going to have fundamental downstream consequences on the entire way that the training program looks because of it. And that can obviously apply to different joints, areas, muscles, et cetera, for the injury history. So that's, that's number two. Number three would be training history. And so this will be your, essentially what training history equates to is your relative strengths and weaknesses, both from a strength or force production perspective, but also again, from your physique, the way that you've trained in the past is going to influence the way that your current goal needs to be reached. So just as an example, super, super basic example, let's say I have a cyclist, somebody who is super, super well experienced on the bike, their quads are massive and they come to me for improving their squat as a powerlifter. The way that I intervene there is going to be substantially different than somebody who maybe comes from a physique background that is entirely dedicated on their glute development. Let's say that fundamental difference in training history, even though let's say they've been lifting for a similar amount of time, all those other factors are the same, except maybe their training history, that's going to have meaningful, different training prescriptions that are required to reach even maybe the same goal in this case, squat one room. So I think understanding the training history and ultimately what that has led to and how that ties in with their current goal is also really, really important. And so the reason I kind of put those two together, again, coming back to strength is the combination of leverages and your training history basically creates what I'm going to call your strength limiter. And your strength limiter is essentially the weakest link in the chain. You've probably heard tons of people talk about that in the context of strength. When you're reaching limit loads or your maximal force production and some sort of task, what's the thing that gives out first? Typically we think about this on a muscular level because that is typically one of the most modifiable factors we can make for strength in the long run. So that's kind of the thing we tend to focus on. So let's just say again, using the same example, we're training for the squat and let's say somebody's quads tend to be kind of the weakest link there that's giving out for their ability to complete a one or M, but they have a really, really tough time increasing the training volume because of their conditioning. Let's say theoretically, that's another limiter you have to consider when trying to address the real thing that's holding them back from their strength. So that kind of entire picture of their leverages and their training history are going to create what I just kind of call this picture of your limiters. And you could apply this to physique development as well, although it's not as specific that create a really specific target for you to address with the training intervention. And that's kind of your expected target that's actually going to lead to progress in the short term. If we improve the rate limiter, that should result in an actual moving of the needle of your goal. And this can kind of be iterated upon every time you're kind of designing a training program. The next one would be external factors. And this is something I think, again, with kind of a slightly reformed position on what reasons we're doing individualization for, I think I have completely reformed how much I think this matters. I used to think that, hey, make sure you're getting your sleep. Hey, make sure you're getting your protein in. Hey, make sure you're managing your stress. I think this is close to the most important variable for long term progress is making sure your external factors are as optimized as humanly possible. Now, it goes without saying that certain things are what I call pseudo modifiable sleep. Let's say I have two or three newborns all at the same time, to some degree, I'm not going to be able to sleep all at the same time. Let's say let's say you got triplets. Are they triplets? Or are those like coming from different sources? What's that? Like, I mean, there's a lot of ways you could have multiple. Yeah, yeah. Oh, I see what you mean. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Maybe it's a compound of a different lifestyle. Maybe it's triplets. Who knows? I'm not to judge on the different preferences. I don't even think it needs to be multiple, man. I think it's just one newborn. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, I'm an uncle now. Oh, and you're also a dog dad. Yeah. I mean, even even that sometimes is like, I mean, it's a responsibility. Say that to somebody with a newborn. It's always my favorite thing. Yeah, exactly. It's like classic. So I know that that's that's nothing we're compared to someone with a with a newborn. But yeah, long story short, people very close to me having children. I can't fully relate. But I'm like, Oh, yeah, that's a that's a disruptor for sure. So yeah, if you're if you have two or three newborns with one or multiple baby moms, man, you got a lot to deal with. But yeah, how would that affect your potentially your sleep? Yeah, exactly. It's to some degree, you can modify your sleep, you can improve your sleep hygiene, you can try to improve your sleep practices to try to really make that as best as you can within your current lifestyle. But to some degree, there's certain factors that are going to get in your way. And I think the biggest change I've thought about this variable is that I think to some degree, the reality is if you cannot improve those external factors that capture the the return on investment you can have from training to some degree, that degree is hard to know. It's hard to study. I don't know if I could totally an easy thought experiment is like, if you are truly time constrained, there's only so much training, you can do there. Therefore, therefore, so only so much progress you can make. I do think it's important to acknowledge that a lot of people have gotten very far along even with these constraints. We mentioned Brian Whitaker at the very start of the show, family man, ambitious career got to the highest level of natural bodybuilding. So yeah, that that's just it's controlling what it's like, I've heard it framed as kind of be a little bit neurotic about what you can control, but then fully accepting, which I think can be very easy for someone that is neurotic, fully accepting of what can't control, and not viewing that as a reason to reduce your effort elsewhere for the things you can control. Because even if you can, for whatever reason in this season of life, only sleep a certain amount, not have consistent training times, whatever, or even miss sessions, that's not a reason to train with less intent when you are training. And that's like an element of training skill, in my view, is controlling what you can control as often as it is repeated. Yeah, I don't try to view them as like, so like you could think of sleep as like an absolute scale. So like zero to 100%, let's just say 100% is 10 hours. That's a perfect sleep. I don't think people should look at it on that scale. Like where am I at relative to like a professional athlete, let's say. I'm sleeping seven hours, I'm at 70%. But yeah, I don't think you just think about it like that. I think you'd think about it more so in a relative sense of like, hey, external variables matter. And to the best of my ability, let's try to improve them as much as I can. But more so from the coaching side of things, the reality is, if somebody is only able to sleep five to six hours a night, that alone in isolation doesn't deterministically tell you what their program is going to be by any means. Like you said, it's not a death sentence by any means. But the probability is they're going to probably have a lower volume training intervention that's sustainable for them and allows them to make progress. Because the reality is their internal, their external environment is just capped in a certain way. Or at the very least a flexible program. Exactly. Yeah. And again, it's not it's not a black and white. If their sleep is this, then the training program looks like this by any means. All I'm saying is that the external variables being aware of those is going to probabilistically push you in the right direction of what a successful or optimal training intervention is going to look like for an individual. If you know, they have a pretty erratic sleep schedule, they work a manual labor job, they have a pretty high stress lifestyle with a couple newborns. The reality is, you're probably that's hilarious to me, the couple newborns is so funny. I mean, it's just an extreme example to kind of make the point. But the reality is you're pushing yourself in a direction of the most sustainable and quote, unquote, optimal training intervention for that person in that season of life is going to be probably on the lower stress end of things. And that's not because they wouldn't benefit from higher stresses necessarily. But in that time, that's physically not capable of capitalizing on so it's essentially suboptimal, because they can't actually benefit from that training intervention, given all of the factors in their life. And that's really the point I'm trying to make is that when you take into account these the various aspects of recovery in their external environment, along with their availability to train as far as time wise, that's going to probabilistically kind of push you on around the chessboard to a spot of that is going to probably lead to a better overall starting design of the training program for that individual and probably lead you to something that's going to be more successful on average. And so understanding those external factors, instead of just saying sleep check, recovery check, stress check, and kind of being aware of those maybe more on a continuous basis, I think is a helpful piece of information that I used to think was maybe less important. And now I think is quite important to the extent that I'm sometimes wanting to make changes because preemptive or expected changes of those variables might get in the way of what we have been doing and things like that. So I think, again, it's not a deterministic aspect of if you know your sleep, your stress score, and your, your availability to train, I can pop out your training program. It's not like that, but it's probabilistically pushing you in the right direction of each one of the core principles. That'll probably be a little bit more realistic in that individual case, and probably more successful and sustainable over the long run over the calendar year. And then finally, is just the personality of the individual. And I think that's essentially just short for as a coach, or as someone writing the training program, even if it's yourself, you have a desired execution of what's on paper, right? But sometimes, you know, we're all human, and we all have aspects of training that we enjoy that may not be totally related to the quote, unquote, optimal aspects of progress on paper that influences how you're going to best milk out what's ever on paper. And so I think being aware of those aspects of personality is going to make sure the effort bar or the actual intent in each training session is maximized, which is an assumption anytime you write anything on a piece of paper, anytime you write a training program down, the assumption is this is going to be executed perfectly and with perfect intent. But if that's not actually the case, because of the individual's personality, or the way that they actually like to interact with the training process, that's no longer a safe assumption. And we should probably make some changes to make sure that that's the case. And then we can go back to kind of making the theoretical, you know, stimulus optimizing game that happens with the rest of the program. But I think that's another thing that I've grown, you know, really, really, I'm not fond of, but I've just valued. Yeah, I've valued more because I think, again, I try to think about variables, not in the eight week study length timeframe, I try to think about what's going to make the biggest difference over the calendar year, and taking somebody's effort from 80 to 100%, because they're really engaged with the training process. And it's set up in made a few compromises in in ways that we don't think are going to have massive detriments to progress, or maybe you have no detriments to progress, but are slightly more in line with our preferences and their personality. I think that can have massive positive downstream effects. Little things you may think of are somebody really, really likes top sets. And maybe sometimes you think it's a good idea to take those out, but leaving those in keeps them engaged with the training process. Maybe that's a benefit for them. Other things could be the way the protocols are designed, the rep ranges you pick, certain exercises, etc. The list goes on and on that making, you know, some theoretical compromises based on those grounds, I think can be a net positive in a lot of cases. Yeah, I think you nailed it. I'll give an example. I have a client who's had his first kid, and his daughter turns one pretty soon. So over the last year, the approach to training has had to change a bit. Specifically, there's a lot more flexibility. In his case, instead of four sessions a week, it is basically two required sessions. The other two sessions can be skipped outright, and things are kind of set up so that the program flows smoothly, even on his worst week, if you will, while still having two required sessions such that those are priority enough to get some training in and kind of move in the right direction a little bit each week. Another thing is just kind of shifting the goalposts in terms of like what we're getting out of training or what he's getting out of training and just how to psychologically approach it. Because I think that's important. And luckily, we were able to discuss those things ahead of time, which I think was, in hindsight, was a really good thing. And you mentioned like personality and how someone like interfaces or interacts with the program, or even just like conceptualizes a program. I think it's really helpful. I find that some people, you know, we work with folks interested in strength, hypertrophy, or both. And when I say hypertrophy, I should probably just say physique in general. So some muscle gain and or fat loss. There's obviously like a lot of overlap there. So I find that some people, when maybe we are a little bit less focused on top end strength for a period of time, such as this client that I'm talking about, depending on like their flavor of training and kind of like how they got into training and what resonates with them can kind of inform the style of training I provide in kind of a minimum effective dose program. So I have some people that they would love a single at five, just as a way to kind of get up and touch something, even if they're really time constrained. And we're not too worried about, you know, maximizing top end strength in the immediate term. I have other people that would absolutely hate that and would rather take a different road to Rome to achieve the goal of a minimum effective dose for strength and or hypertrophy. So ultimately, like sometimes explicit questions can help with this. Other times it is just implicit things you pick up. Um, so I like to ask two things on the front end when working with, with someone. The first is, what are you looking for out of a coach? And almost always they're like kind of surprised to hear that. Like, Oh, why would you actually think to ask that? That's a good question. And it forces them to reflect that information is helpful because like you can get insights right away. Some people it's less about the programming. They kind of just want someone to like celebrate wins with and pick them up when they're down. Other people, it's all about the program, right? And that can kind of slightly alter what things you emphasize with them. Um, the second question that's more relevant here is like, what gets you excited to train? Um, I think that can be very insightful as well. We were talking about this at the very beginning of the show. We may be at various at times, but tend to be pretty excited about performance, beating what you did last week, hitting a new PR, chasing a new five rep, max, 10 rep, max, or one rep max. Um, even if training for hypertrophy, those are things that excite us. Some people are like that. Some people are not, and that can give you good intuition or that can, uh, be quite informative in terms of how to, yeah, ultimately achieve the same flavor of stimulus, but get a, but a different flavor of programming. So we were on, um, me, you and our colleague Jake, we're on Steve Hall's podcast recently. And Steve really likes to use the, uh, the phrase, there are multiple roads to Rome. I think this is a perfect example of that. It's like what road, what road to Rome is going to resonate with them the best and keep them engaged with the program and keep that excitement to train there. And I think again, a combination of explicit questions and implicit, implicitly picking up on things as you go can go really, really long way over time. 100%.