 Welcome back to the Data-Driven Strength Podcast. My name is Josh Pelland. What's your name? What's your name? My name is Zach Robinson. My name is Zach Robinson. Dr. Zach Robinson. I've been looking forward to this podcast for a while because at least once a month I wake up in cold sweats from a dream in which I get a Google Scholar notification and the Norwegian Frequency Project has finally been published. But it's almost 2025. This might even be released in 2025, if not the very end of 2024. Like, how are we going to enjoy Christmas 2024 with the Norwegian Frequency Project still not published? It's one of the greatest tragedies, I think, in our Strengthsport history. Strengthsport history. It's been just this fog. I feel like I've been carrying a weight. It's been at least 10 years. It's been a long time. But Zach, there's no file drawer problem in... Zero. Zero. No such thing. ...in exercise science. Because if you do a training study, you're going to publish it. You're going to publish it. You're going to get the data out there. There's no such thing as publication bias in exercise science training studies. For those that aren't aware, the Norwegian Frequency Project... First of all, mad respect to the authors, the researchers themselves. I'm sure they're great people. And you can find a good deal of information on the Norwegian Frequency Project somewhere on the internet. On multiple blogs that have just kind of been like screenshots passed along through like multiple middlemen. I think you can even find interviews about the project itself. And this was... I don't even know what year it's from. And obviously, I'm joking here. Because it has been decently discussed. And there was a conference abstract, I believe. Oftentimes, with conference abstracts, you can find that abstract. Like the actual website of the organization, for example. Or they're on ResearchGate. You can't find it anywhere. You can just find it on blogs. But nonetheless, this was a study that was presented at a conference. And again, was kind of discussed in evidence-based fitness at the time. Comparing lower versus higher frequencies. That was volume equated on strength gains. I think the abstract is now gone. Yeah. Yeah, it's been gone for a while, bro. Okay. If it ever existed on the internet. There's a... I'm not sure if you ever listened to the Iraqi Nutrition Podcast. That was a really, really good one back in the day. There's an interview on that, I think, from one of the people that were involved. So that's probably... Yeah, there's an article on Stronger by Science. And I think the guy that ran it, or one of the guys or gals that ran it, was... Helped with that, if not wrote it. I think Mano Henselmans has an article on it. And there's at least one other that I'm not thinking of. So the data's there. The data's there. The data was collected. We just have never gotten it actually published. One of the great mysteries of our field, the Norwegian Frequency Project. Is that... Is this just like a foray to say, like, one study just beats what we just did? Yeah, yeah. So basically, we just... We did it. Because it's new? Because it's newer? Yeah. Well, once that's published, then that's obviously the thing, right? That's gonna be how I change my program for the next week. That's gonna be my content for the next... For the next week. For the next week. That's actually what periodization is. Periodization... Evidence-based periodization is changing your training based on the newest study. Holy shit. We just cracked the code. I think that's it. I think that's it. Imagine adding sets and then going to all length and partials the next week and then training to failure, but then doing low load BFR. It'd be pretty sick. What would that look like from the last month? Okay, so let's start with when our preprint was released. At this point, I can't remember exactly what it was. Let's call it six weeks ago, eight weeks ago. Sure. Okay, so we had that. Not 52, because the data set didn't go all the way up to that because it was average volumes. It wasn't peak volumes because the NS study did not train at 52 weeks the entire time. I think it's 45. 45. Boom. 45 sets. Getting after it. Getting after it. Yep. What came out shortly after that? I'm trying to think. We've had a couple other volume related papers. We had one from Moreno and colleagues. I was going to say, you've got a couple papers that don't show a benefit to increasing your volume. So you're keeping it at that 45. Yeah. Oh, there we go. You're just staying there. Yeah. So there was a study from University of South Florida. And like, as of recording this, like two days ago from Tampa, both looking at a similar research question. So basically maintaining previous training volumes or increasing training volumes by a certain amount. Again, each study had different designs and broad strokes. There weren't any effects there for maintaining your previous volume versus increasing. So we're at 45 sets. We're staying there. We're cooking. We are in our chill zone if you listen to the Buckner podcast. Oh, yeah. This is a random topic now. We were talking about this a little bit this morning. I wonder if you could reanalyze the relative change in training volume papers based on the number of sets that they actually did. Well, you would have to have an effect for each participant. Is that what you're saying? No, I'm saying you can't do it now, but I'm just like, conceptually, like, is there a dose response if you were actually looking at the absolute number of sets that they did rather than the conditions they were assigned to? Yeah. Yeah. But that could be as little as n equals one for each effect. So I'm not following. I'm just saying like, instead of them being in their groups. Yeah. Remove them from the groups. How many sets did they actually do? And then reanalyze. So, so what Zach is saying. Oh, so like a participant level meta-analysis. Yeah, basically. Yeah, yeah. Okay. So what Zach is saying, and Zach and I have gone back and forth on this a little bit. We're on a tangent all of a sudden, but it is what it is. So when you look at these studies where they compare like, okay, I'm going to stay up, stay up my same training volume versus increase it. There's basically three studies on that now. There was one from Scarpelli, which saw, I can't remember exactly how much. Talk about changing your training, baby. That was the one. Yeah, Scarpelli had an interesting design and it was like exciting at the time. Oh yeah, 100%. And hey, of the three, it was only that used MRI. So. And within participant. And it was within participant. But you know, we beat the dead horse all the time. That's your one study, especially when there's 10 participants probably shouldn't change your training when you have meta-analyses with like a hundred times that. And yeah. Anyway. The issue, like the reason the Scarpelli study couldn't be used in our volume meta-analysis. The reason the Moreno study, which is the new one from South Florida. And the reason the, is it Rosh was the lead author? No, I have it right here. One second. The one from Tampa, from Eduardo. Go for it. Barson. Barson. Barson. B-A-R-S-U-H-N. Yeah. So the reason you can't use those in a volume meta-analysis, or at least the reason we chose not to, is because it's based on pre-training volumes and those weren't necessarily standardized. Right? So if I, if I took Zach off the street to join my study with a design like that, he could have been doing 50 sets a week. And let's say he maintained his training volume because that was the group he was allocated to. He continues to do 50 sets a week for the measured muscle group, but maybe the average for that group was just 10. Right? So it wouldn't be appropriate to include his hypertrophy within a group level effect in a meta-analysis for an effect of 10 sets. You could make a practical argument and be like, ah, that's kind of an extreme example, and most of them are probably clustered around the average because that's what an average is. And that's kind of what a meta-analysis is anyway. But that is why we didn't include it. And in a lot of ways, when we decided not to include the Scarpelli study on the front end, it was kind of like a, like, that could tip the scales in favor of volume, of higher volumes because, because of the effect that we saw in the Scarpelli study. But anyway, we're at 45 sets. We're coasting there. Right? We're just coasting because I'm not going to increase. There's no benefit. Within 48 hours, or maybe it was like 72 hours, we had three muscle length studies added to Sport Archive, the preprint server for exercise science. Let's see what we got here. One where the esteemed James Steele was a part of, as well as the esteemed James Fisher, Luke Carlson, and the first author, I'm going to let you do this one. I'm not looking at it. David G. David G. David G. David. The infamous. Schneider. There we go. David Schneider. What was the, what was the sample size in that? Was it like 100 or 200? Yeah, it was a lot. Basically, I think they got, no, I've got to check now. No, I'm curious. Should dwarf everything else though, ultimately. Within 48 to 72 hours, we had three muscle length studies. Yeah, that's crazy, right? You wouldn't even, you wouldn't even expect three training studies in that time about five years ago. Yeah. Um, so it was 163 people assigned to length and partials and 134 people assigned to full range of motion. Wow. So, almost 300. Close to 300 people. I don't do public math. It might be a little over 300. I'm not going to try to do the math in my head, but. It's just. No. Okay, wait, hold on. We got to go back one study on support archive because the one before that is by Herman and colleagues from Lehman College, um, which showed, um, or they did a, a volume equated single set. Not single set. Okay, hold on. I was going to get to that. Okay. I'll let you do. I'll let you go for it. Each exercise was performed with one set. Um, the per muscle volumes were like, what? Four to six. Minimum dose. Right. Right around four to six sets. One group trained at two IR. Yep. I have only skimmed the paper up to this point in the other group trained to failure. Um, and there were, you know, a little bit of leaning towards the failure condition. So we were at 45 sets. This new Lehman College paper comes out. What are we doing with our training for this week's periodization? Clearly there's, there's, there's leaning. We must go to failure, right? We must go to failure. Okay. So we're at 45 sets to failure, but because this was obviously a volume study, I have to change my volume, right? I mean, they totally used volumes and measured hypertrophy. So therefore it's a volume study and they saw certain hypertrophy. Man, dude, we need to do a whole podcast on this. Cause we've been talking about this a couple of times. Like if you don't realize that there are between study factors that influence the amount of growth, strength gain, what have you, that completely changes the picture between studies. I would ask you think about that pretty, pretty, pretty deep. Like just, just sit in the thought, right? Like just sit in the thought, feel your big toe touch the ground. Take your grass preferably. Yeah. What you should really do is ground. Yeah. Just really feel the earth feel, feel your bumper, feel your, your rear end in the seat. And just think about the question of within study versus between study comparisons. And just realize that we made the ultimate sin with that by doing a meta regression, right? No, no. Okay. At this point, everyone is lost. Yeah. But we're, we are kind of memeing because we just did, you know, 45 sets. Okay. Now we see a low volume study produce pretty good hypertrophy to failure. Now I just changed all my protocols from let's call it six sets per exercise to one set per exercise. I was going to say, this is a basic example. I literally just thought of. Okay. Take this low volume study that we just had. The one that was an RER study, but it's low volume, right? What, what has it been the predominant narrative about training for the past year, year and a half? What, what has it been? Wait, rephrase. What's been the main topic of conversation for the past year? Range of motion, range of motion, range of motion, exercise selection. Uh, those kinds of things, right? Yeah. Do you think some of that thinking could have pervaded into the training study that they designed with the low volumes that would have been a different comparison than a training study performed 15 years ago? Yeah. You know what I mean? Like, it's just like, there's so many things like that, that just make the between study comparison different there that you have to. Yeah. You just really have to focus on things within study. Like the, the, the best example of this, and this is a point that you like to bring up. So I'm, I'm absolutely stealing this from you. This is not, uh, my thinking here, but like, if you knew an effect was there and you were to, um, put in some priors regarding what we generally expect in terms of variance from resistance training studies. And you simulated 10,000 iterations of studies with low sample sizes, reflective of what we have in our field. Um, and you, you got that mean effect that you knew was going to occur. You're going to have a normal distribution of effects, crazy concept. And like, let's take an extreme example. Zach, you can course correct me here because I, I largely defer to you with, with a lot of these concepts, but let's say we did something we know works like not training versus training. And let's say you had, um, just a, a basic program of resistance training versus a time matched control. Um, that, that doesn't do any training. We know that there's going to be an effective training, but let's say we had a million studies each with eight participants per group. So eight participants in the training condition and eight participants in the control condition. Would there be any instances in those million studies where the control condition sees a greater increase in muscle size compared to the training condition? I'm almost positive. That is true. Um, even just think about measurement error. If a study doesn't actually have muscle growth occurring, or if it's very, very minimal and measurement error is poor or, or measurement sensitivity is poor, you could definitely have basically everybody in the control group swing in one direction. And just by chance, especially with eight participants per group. So looking at the infamous steel meta-analysis, uh, on variation, if I'm going to go to hypertrophy, basically. So you can see. This is a meta-analysis that, uh, looked at the pooled effect and variance thereof of non-training control conditions in resistance training studies. Basically I would say there's, I mean, a good portion of this. I can't really show it to you. Let me just. I mean, I, I know what the effect, I know what it looks like in my head. There are, there are literally effects on the left of the zero line, which indicates that for hypertrophy outcomes. For training, for training groups. For, yeah. Favoring the control. Yeah. Yeah. Is showing a superior outcome. And obviously there weren't a million studies in that. Exactly. So I just think of like, that's an extreme example in a lot of ways, but it's kind of not an extreme example. And that's actually a real, that's a fantastic way to demonstrate this. Yeah. I never thought about that. Like a very good way to point it out. Be like, you know, that's not true. Like, dude, we, we had a meta-analysis with a thousand participants. We spent five freaking, I, so I try not to cuss on the podcast because we got a comment one time, like, Hey, thanks for not cussing. So I can listen to the show around my kids. So I try not to cuss. Um, we had, uh, like we've talked about all the limitations for, for countless hours of that analysis with a thousand participants. We literally met and analyzed it depending on how you count it dozens of ways for volume. Um, and are still very hesitant in our responses. And then you get a new paper with that literally wasn't even a volume study. Let's look. And, and, and they saw more hypertrophy than a high volume group in a different lab, or, um, it didn't find an effective volume. It's like, cool. We like, I hope it's come across very clearly in previous podcasts. We've literally had multiple viewpoints on, and I've even said dozens of reasons why I am skeptical of high volumes from a practical, uh, perspective. Now, all of a sudden, like, it's just like, it seems so obvious to me why you just like shift your, your, uh, your priors or you shift your beliefs a little bit based on new stuff that comes out. A new way to look at the question, maybe a new measurement technique comes out. That's way better. And that study only has 20 participants. Okay. That's a time to definitely shift things quite a bit. Um, but like, let me take a step back. I'm, I'm, I try to be quite optimistic just in general, even if it's like, I'm kind of lying to myself because I believe in the placebo effect and try to have good vibes. You know, Christmas is coming up, yada, yada. And I do think the field is very much like improving, moving in the right direction. The average practices of strength coaches, personal trainers, absolutely moving in the right direction. The average scientific literacy and how to interpret research is very much moving in the right direction. But I just like, I want to rip my hair out at times. I'm, I'm usually not very reactive of some of these things, but I'm, yeah, I, I just, for most of 2024, I didn't spend much time on the internet. I found myself on the internet more than I want to be recently. Um, yeah, I don't know. Hopefully you catch my drift. It's, it can be frustrating. No, I get you. I think, um, I just think having done a few big projects, you here's, here's, here's like a, a practical example. Maybe where this stuff starts to get developed in our brains. Let's say we make a small error in our data extraction, right? Seems like it's a pretty big deal, right? Seems like we made, oh, this is going to completely change things, right? It's going through every single study and have some small systemic error. Let's just say we added a comma somewhere, added a zero somewhere or something like that. And it really doesn't change things that much. And you start thinking about all these little individual studies compared to a meta-analysis with so many things. So many participants, so many studies, already a very high variety of effects. Like just, just the ability for one study to move the needle in the absence of it truly breaking new ground. Like you said, of a different measurement technique, uh, completely new study design. Um, looking at completely different population, which I think is few and far between this day. And that's, that's a tougher one. Cause it's like, cause things fundamentally change. And it's kind of some of those instances, it's hard to say, but unless it truly breaks new ground in some way for the most part, man, it's just gonna slowly inch things over time. It's just, um, yeah, I just, uh, and we, and we try to be communicative of that when we were talking about the, the, the outcomes that we've talked about so far and saying that, you know, it's not the, the, uh, the end all be all. It's not the final book on volume. There's all these things that we personally have slight skepticisms on and probably slightly different, just like personal beliefs when we kind of manifest on those limitations. But the world goes on the content stream of social media. That's what I was trying to make a post about. And just in terms of talking about how that reactivity can be quite a negative thing. And I don't think that's how reality should be operating, but it sure seems that, and this is probably a larger discussion on just like how science is communicated nowadays. And ultimately how to strike that balance between being effective in the, in the landscape of information, but also, um, trying to get across beliefs that we believe to be accurate. So it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a long conversation there, but we're, uh, we're 30 minutes in probably pretty far off of, uh, strength and frequency, but what, what, what, anything else? Yeah, we're going to, so today's podcast is going to be kind of our explainer episode for outcome three out of four of our, um, big meta regressions project. Um, again, the, the independent effects of weekly frequency on strength gains. Um, so we'll get, we'll get to that and dive in here in a second. Any other reflections on how folks have interpreted our work up to this point? Um, some of the, yeah, net, like when, when something new comes out that begs more questions, um, what do you think of those questions up to this point? I mean, for the most part, I think people are interpreting it like, I don't think people are being malicious in the way they're interpreting it. They just genuinely value different things. Um, and probably come with a pretty strong different set of beliefs into the, into the equation. Like if you come from the background of like, just genuinely, there is no possible way that 30 sets could be beneficial for muscle growth. You're just going to have very different view on the table versus somebody who maybe comes in with a really positive experience with higher volumes. Maybe that's broke their bench press plateau or something like that. Like there's some sort of personal anecdote that aligns with that in the opposite direction. But at the end of the day, I think that just my, my, my daily grumble at this point, I think that just kind of, you know, makes me feel a little bit disgruntled is just like, this, this, this constant pinball of the state of the evidence that is essentially a drop in the bucket and people view the impact of an individual study. Like, let's say I have literally a glass of water and putting a drop into that glass of water is going to dramatically change the surface of that glass of water. Right. But in reality, what you're doing is after you put that drop in, you take that glass of water and then go pour it into the ocean. And so the impact of that is like, it seems like it's being very overstated and obviously that's part of social media. But I think, you know, just having done some of these larger scale projects, I think that's just probably something we have a little bit of a particularly vested interest in, in terms of just knowing every individual study, the amount of variability, things like that, that just, yeah, I think I wish the world was a little bit less reactive to things in kind of a news oriented format. But I also understand that's kind of how the world works. Yeah. So it's, it's challenging, though. I think that probably ends up confusing more people, particularly people who are maybe less scientifically literate and kind of feel like things are constantly changing, going back and forth. And that's just not how things really operate. But yeah, I could go on that for four hours. But yeah, that's where I'm at. And I want to be clear about something, even though we get frustrated with like, certain ways that people communicate new findings of studies or whatever. Like, in a lot of ways, like the way I said that it might have come off as like holier than thou, which I want to be very clear. Like, we do things the way we do them for a reason, because we think they're the right way to do them. But like, I'm not saying our shit doesn't stink. Oh, no, and we've definitely played into the whole, like, looking back, like I would make posts about individual studies and really glorify the findings and try to figure out the puzzle by looking at these, you know, different, different study level characteristics that are going to tell me some grand story. And I thought I could put those pieces together when in reality, if you zoom out, there's just a lot of between study variability that is kind of already expected. So without formal procedures to do that, it's just really hard to say when something is kind of a coincidence versus a systemic factor that really needs to be taken into account when interpreting things. So I just, I, we absolutely have contributed to that. And I think that's part of the reason we've changed the way we've communicated things. And we're probably doing stuff, we'll look back in five years now, that we'd also say that maybe I'd do things slightly differently. So in no way is it, is it saying that we are above other approaches to doing things. I think it's more so just a reflection of us looking back how we used to interpret things and how we used to explain things and maybe how we used to go about certain aspects of content. And probably just cringing a little bit on how we used to do it. And I think when you kind of see that aspect of other people maybe trying a similar approach, I think it's less of a reflection negatively upon them and more so like, oh man, I wish I didn't do it that way in the past. Because I think there's probably a more effective strategy. So I agree, it's not holier than now by any means. Yeah. And kind of the point I was getting at there is I'm very encouraged by, okay, we have these updated meta-aggressions, meta-analyses. I'm actually very encouraged by the response overall. And from a high level, people like the community row in the boat in the same direction and kind of, okay, what are some questions beyond this? We got to understand Adima a bit better, right? We need to consider some of the time courses here. We need to, you know, the list goes on. Yeah. I think the best way to kind of describe what I think these types of projects do is it basically makes the barriers between different modes of interpretation extremely clear. So like when you have something that in theory, if people get on the premises of science and cumulative science and things like that, which I would hope most people kind of do, then the issues that certain people have with taking those conclusions or that data or those results, maybe not face value, but you know what I mean? Well-informed interpretation. They have to make those vocal because it tends to get a lot of traction by the nature of the project, right? It's an overarching cumulative project. Typically, those are viewed as the kind of the top of the evidence pyramid kind of thing, which there's been some discussion on that. But nonetheless, if you're not going to go with what is theoretically perceived as the highest quality evidence on a given research question, you've got to kind of put your flag in the sand. And I think that's helpful because it's not saying that that is an appropriate view of view of things. It's just saying that is the thing we can go after next to clarify this further. And I think it just makes those those positions very, very clear. And once we tackle a few of those questions, we can continue hopefully uniting people to say this is now that we've addressed some of these limitations, maybe things dip and dive a different way than would be expected from our kind of original part of this. But I think that clarity is really, really big to push everybody in the same direction and get people rowing in the same direction. Like you said, that is a fantastic point, because I was going to come at that from a more pessimistic view. But I think you just shifted my mindset to be more optimistic, because what I was going to say is. The feedback or like the discussion on it hasn't been, hey, what do you guys think about this adjustment to your methodological approach, which is what I was hoping for, to be honest, because, you know, again, we've we've published a lot of podcast content discussing those. There's limitations and those decisions that have to go into this. So I was like, man, I think this is going to open the floodgates to like other researchers or even, you know, well-informed content creators like, hey, what if you did this instead? And we can we can have some really fruitful discussion. So I was going to come at it from a pessimistic view of like really the only like discussion is around do we accept the underlying data or not? And that that feels frustrating to me because it's like as a scientist, that's really all you can do is just try to describe the underlying data the best the best we can. So it's kind of like a point in terms of the meta analysis itself. But the reason you've shifted me to be a little bit more optimistic on that point is like, OK. Now we just describe the data we have the best we can. How do we get better data? How do we better understand the data itself and like what we're actually measuring? Because that allows us to answer more that allows us to answer higher level questions. So I actually really like the way you frame that. Yeah, I think I think for people who maybe are just less in the academic scene, that kind of is what they're trying to do. Probably is like they're trying to describe the methodology to the extent that they best know how. For example, let's say, hey, you need to take the measurements at 96 hours. What they're kind of implying in that question is that, hey, can we make an adjustment in your meta analysis model or meta analytic model to account for the time in which the ultrasound measurements were taken? And that would ultimately be an additional variable that would be modeled to account for the difference in muscle size. That's like a formalized opinion on that. But somebody's like, no, no, man, might be like might be swelling. That's essentially what they're saying. It's just a more like formal way to go about that. And you take kind of a collectivist view on people saying that from different angles. And like that creates that metaphorical flag in the sand of like we have to address this before I'm willing to step forward and kind of everybody get walking on the same path. If that makes sense. So I think it's just it's just that and hearing people from different perspectives, different backgrounds and getting at the same idea to ultimately, you know, push things forward. Like you said, get better data, acknowledge limitations, R&D limitations. Or if that's just fundamentally, you know, an area that does change the change of the game in terms of the way that we have to answer the question. So, yeah, I'm with you. The only other thing I'll say about what I've been disappointed about is at disappoint is not the right word. Just just a little bummed is hearing the discussion kind of. Let's say there are two sides generally to how you interpret like the volume dose response. It seems to me there's a lot of straw manning going on, to be honest, in terms of like one camp talking about the other. And I think I think it goes both ways, which I understand like why that kind of happens, because, you know, you want your own tribalism. Yeah, tribalism and you want your own stuff to seem obvious or seem correct. And that's just not how I like to go about things, even if it comes with certain costs. And in a lot of ways, we were kind of joking a little bit earlier about, you know, a new volume study comes out and it doesn't show a benefit. And now you're going to flip the script. I want to be clear, like that is not a straw manning other perspectives. And so like a part of me feels a little bit of cognitive dissonance or like a internal conflict there, because I was just joking about a little bit. But hopefully we've come across from a from a high level as very open to other perspectives. And hopefully we can play a small part in nudging people towards, hey, it's cool to have disagreements. It's cool to if you don't accept the underlying data, I might disagree with you. But hat tip, let's let's see what other research we can do to either provide additional support or not or the opposite of support or or question the validity of the underlying data. We can keep moving forward. And I think it'll be a net positive for everyone. Bingo. But you're the hero because you did the RER meta regressions and training to failure. You know, it's really, really tough, really, really, really hard. It's very masculine. Yeah. Yeah. But, you know, by the time you're spamming the sixth set of something, man, it's not all that cool. So, OK, OK. Back to the joking around for a second. My favorite is when people don't realize that the same group. Oh, that's the best. The same group did Zach's the the Robinson RER meta regressions and then the the Pelin slash Remmert volume. Yeah. The noble intensity researchers versus the the soy volume researchers. Yeah. Basically, people are like Dr. Robinson. Absolute Chad. Failure is better. Train hard, brother. Pelin did all super cringe. Clearly, they're not training to failure. OK, dude. Like. All right. And then like. Oh, the the average volumes in the Robinson meta regression. That is that is what you should use. Yeah. Which. Cheer point. Maybe they're getting at something and like that they're not actually directly saying. It's just funny that some people haven't realized it's the exact same authors just kind of jumbled around a little bit. But and hey, it's not a dichotomous decision to train to failure or train with high volumes. Let me quadruple check this this moderator analysis for the. Hypertrophy in mind. We're going to have to add timestamps to this one. Oh, yeah. Yeah. It's fine. Imagine the Norwegian frequency project gets published on air. Get a Google Scholar notification right now. All right. So what I'm looking at is. So I have seen the interpretation that Josh has so eloquently mentioned. Yeah. OK. So the interpretation Josh is mentioning is that like, hey, these super Chad researchers that actually get it, you know, they're not trained like soft like these volume researchers. They look at the average number of sets performed in the meta analysis we did on proximity to failure and essentially use that as the volume recommendation, which in how you even arrive at that. I'm not entirely sure. But let's just. Hey, absolute steel man on this podcast. Absolute steel man. Sure. So, OK. I mean, ultimately, if you just are assuming that the proximity to failure studies by the nature of them being that variable, if you're trusting the training quality of that, I guess that is the steel man is you're just assuming that these studies are executed in a higher quality and the proximity to failures paid more attention, which is the. If you're doing a proximity to failure study, you're aware of how to train to failure. So we see good growth in these studies. Those are the set volumes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And so you would basically look at that. Right. Problem is when you look at the moderator analysis that we did for proximity to failure, the dose response proximity to failure alongside training volume, you see a positive effect of volume just just like you do and everything else. So the effect at eight sets at failure versus the effect at 24 sets at failure is greater than 24 sets. Oof. I mean, it's just. Oof. Yeah. It's just. Yeah. To be fair, that one hasn't been all that common. It's just hilarious to me. And I just love that you're the, you're the scientist that gets. You're the white knight. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe. Not saying 24 sets is a good amount of like that. Yeah. Just to be clear. That's not a recommendation. Honestly, those, those moderator analyses are extremely limited for a variety of reasons. We've already discussed. Don't use that as an endorsement whatsoever. I'm just saying that if you're going to be internally consistent and say, oh, okay, this is, let's use, let's use this data. It would still say that higher volumes are probably better. Anything that could have been perceived as shots fired over the last 50 minutes or whatever it's been are not actually shots fired. I don't know. We. Trouble we've made clear. Yeah. We're, we're, we're very, honestly, I enjoy just hearing different perspectives on this. Yeah. Like, I, I don't take it personally. Yeah. Like, if you want to be, you know, like flying your flag for low volume to failure, like, I think that's cool. Yeah. Like, go for it, dude. Like, part of, part of what we get out of training is like, kind of feel like you're figuring out the puzzle. And like, if you're, if you've got a flag that you're like really flying high and you really enjoy. Your belief in that flag. It matters, man. It's probably stronger than the effect of going from age to 16. 100%. This, if anybody has a master's project that they are looking to do, I still want somebody to do this study because I think it would be fascinating. You're basically looking at like the expert or like the white coat effect in training. Basically would take one cohort of people and like take all their biometrics. And like, you'd have to do people that maybe don't have the best idea of like what's going on. So you might have to do some sort of screening of like exercise knowledge or something like that. But take all their biometric information. Like really, really seem like you're paying attention to every single detail and then give them some training. Stool samples. Everything. Stool samples. Stool samples. My, my, my brother, my brother's done stool research. And, um, those refrigerators are not where you want to spend a lot of time. But you take, this is the cool thing about this study is that you take the stool samples, but you don't have to do anything with them. Yeah, exactly. So you get all this information just to really make them, uh, psychologically feel like they're every like inch of their physiology is being accounted for. Then you give them training program A, right? And then you have a second group of people. Maybe even bring them in all at the same time so they know it's not individualized. It's like group-based training or something. Yeah, group-based training. You give them training program B. The catch is they're the same training program. It was training program A all along. It was training program A all along. You just see what happens. I, I, and, and there'd also have to be some like continued encouragement kind of aspect. Like maybe like daily or every session like you're checking in with them to really, really, really feel like they're being personalized and just see what happens. I'd be very, very curious to see if that would make a huge difference. Kind of goes back to the spirit of those, uh, those steroid studies. Yeah. Um, the placebo steroid studies, but yeah. Um, that'd be interesting. We can move on to, uh, let's move on. Let's move on. Topic of the day here. Frequency, frequency and strength. Um, but to summarize, Hey, no matter your perspective, we appreciate you. We, we think it's cool. We think everyone is, we think it's all cringe and, um, yeah. Yelling at each other is dumb. Yeah. Just lift weights, have fun. Yeah. Figuring out stuff's fun, which there's probably an answer, but we're not sure. That's, that's basically it. And with that, we're going to tell you some more things we're not totally sure about. So we're going to, we're going to talk about the methods from a pretty high level. Cause if you want to get into the details, I'll link it. Yeah. Uh, uh, Dr. Robinson will get a PhD so that you can make sure the description of a YouTube video is dialed in. And then people complain that there aren't timestamps. Like we, we need to get, um, man, we're really going off the rails here. We need to get like, you know, our little name cards in the, in the bottom. Can I get like a, like a motorcycle and cross, like crossing skull bones and like an American flag. And then you can have like Jell-O or something like really lame. Wait, because I'm, cause it's, cause I'm volume. I'm volume. Yeah. And the best part is like, yeah, you're sarcoplasmic. I'm my own. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm just a big sack of fluid. We should make like a star Wars. And the best part is I definitely train with lower volumes. I don't know why I just kind of envision like the Michelin man there. Perfect. Perfect. Okay. Um, before we get into this, because now we're going to kind of get into more of the, the academic speak, um, if you will, again, huge shout out to the entire team. Um, Zach and I are going to be discussing one of the, one of the four outcomes today, the effects of frequency on strength, but, um, everyone on the paper was a played a huge part. So, so shout out to everyone. It's very much a team effort. Okay. So before we dive into the effects of, um, frequency on strength, let's, let's start with a little bit of, a little bit of background. Um, there in my view, kind of similar to the previous episodes we've done on the effects of volume on hypertrophy and the effects of frequency on hypertrophy. Um, things kind of swing naturally. And I think, I don't think, um, this topic is an exception. I think that's also been the case here. Um, so the idea is, okay, we, we know that you have to do some degree of, of volume, some amount of volume to, to see progress. Obviously you have to do more than nothing. Um, we're going to have a whole nother discussion on the dose response of volume on strength gain. So, so stay tuned for that one. Um, but you know, there's probably some sort of dose response with, um, the effects of, of volume on strength. But what we're interested in here is to what degree is there benefit if at all, to breaking up that given dosage or that given number of sets you're doing for strength gains. Um, we know it has to matter to some degree. You can't do all your volume for 2025 on January 1st and, and call it a year. Um, you could also argue the other extreme that you probably don't want to break it up into one set every hour. You know, there, there needs to be some, some amount of recovery at some point. So the question is, okay, at what point is there kind of a sweet spot if there is one? And, um, what is the independent effect of frequency? So in my mind, there have kind of been shifts, um, back and forth between higher and lower frequencies for strength gains. Um, so Zach, if you throw up our first slide here, what I've put together is what I'll call some high frequency propaganda. So in the top left of the, the image here, you can see that is a study from, I think, Dankle and colleagues is that one. Um, it's definitely from, uh, I know, um, Jeremy Leneke was on that study. I think therefore it was from Ole Miss. Um, oh wait, no, no, no. The top left one is from our lab. Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's from Zordos and colleagues. Nice. The, the Dankle one is the bottom one. So the top left one is a case, a case series from our lab. This was before we got to the lab and it was daily one rep max training. Um, and these were pretty well-trained folks. And you can see, obviously there's some variability there in the loads lifted on a day-to-day basis for this daily one rep max program and the back squat. But for trained lifters over the course of, I think it was 36 days, we definitely see some strength gain, right? So you could extrapolate that and get, get pretty fired up and say, okay, um, frequency matters quite a bit because we see well-trained people get, uh, quite a bit stronger in just over a month. Awesome. Um, on the bottom there, you also see a daily one rep max sort of, uh, program here. So there are two lines there over the 21 weeks or sorry, 21 day study. Um, this was a within subjects design, meaning one arm was in one condition. The other arm was in another condition. So the solid line is what's called the testing arm. Um, and every day they did a one rep max on the bicep curl. The dotted line is what they called the training arm. So they did a one rep max every day on the bicep curl, but they also did some volume work after. I want to say it was a few sets of, uh, like 70% of one rep max. So like some quote unquote hypertrophy work. Um, and what you can see here is that, Hey, both of these conditions, um, got quite a bit stronger. Um, again, just in, in a few weeks. Um, and they trained every day. There wasn't even like a clear benefit of doing those additional back offsets or, or hypertrophy sets, if you will, in that training arm compared to the testing arm. So, Hey, maybe there's something pretty cool here in terms of the effects of frequency on strength gains. Um, and then again, in the top right, we have the, uh, Norwegian frequency project, which isn't actually published. I would have loved to include this data in our meta analysis, which we'll be discussing in a minute, but we can't cause it's not published. Um, but I believe it was presented as a conference abstract and it has been discussed on the internet. And this was kind of at the, the infancy of evidence-based fitness in my mind. Um, it was a volume equated study and power lifters, and I believe they were quite well trained. Um, and one, the only difference was how many days per week they trained in there for the lift specific frequency. So, um, you can see that one group trained, uh, each lift, I think it was three days per week and, um, one group trained with a higher frequency six days per week. And, you know, just from a high level, those, those effects are quite striking, um, in terms of additional benefits of higher frequency training. So right now, man, I, I can't remember when the Norwegian frequency project was, was popular. Um, but I want to say the Zordos case series and the Danko, uh, case series as well, because that only had five subjects. Um, I want to say that's like, we're talking 2015 to 2017 range somewhere around there. Um, and in my mind, I think there was a time when higher frequencies were kind of like, Hey, in vogue, in vogue. Yeah. What do you think is that? Yeah. A hundred percent. I think. So you have kind of a couple of collecting narratives. I think you have this data, obviously. I think you have the Bulgarian method from weightlifting, uh, John Burroughs squat every day kind of situation. Um, the, the DUP, uh, you know, manifesto written by our own mentor, Dr. Zordos. You also have the Greg Knuckles in-house meta-analysis, which I'm not sure what year that was from. I can't remember either. It might've been a little bit more relevant to some of the anti-frequency stuff in terms of when exactly that was released. Yeah. Um, but that, I remember people using that quite a bit to say, Hey, higher frequencies are better for, uh, better for strength. Yeah. Yeah. No, I, and I think you're basically, um, collecting all that stuff in addition to like the trends that started to emerge from raw versus equipped powerlifting. I think all those things kind of collected, um, into a ship that kind of pushed the, the high frequency kind of narrative. Um, but then you had from the scientific part of things, which like you said, excluded the, um, the Norwegian frequency project, um, a couple of meta-analyses that came out that kind of maybe dampened that a little bit, excuse me, and maybe kind of flip the, flip the discussion at least from a scientific end of things, which I'm sure you can discuss at length. But I think from, from the kind of the iron culture part of things, if you will, um, you have all of those different kinds of vectors all pushing kind of in a similar direction. Um, but then that kind of, I think got maybe, um, attenuated by some of the scientific stuff that came out after that. Yeah. Um, and you might say, Oh, Josh, the ones you just discussed were scientific, but those were case series. Yeah. Um, and there was no comparison group. And I think they were more like lifter spirited, if that makes sense. Like it was less, Hey, let's test this well formulated hypothesis. Yeah. Um, it was more like talking out of experience. I haven't, after talking to Dr. Zorda's about this at length, like they didn't do like a lead up period of like, Oh, I'll try three times a week max. And it wasn't that. Let's just take it to the extreme. Let's take it to the extreme and see what happens. And that, yeah. Yeah. And it's that it was more like that. Um, and I think, um, that was kind of, like I said, that was kind of the, the vectors of those pushing things in that direction is like, Hey, powerlifting is becoming really, really popular. Hey, aggressive training interventions seem to be pretty, pretty successful. I want to improve my squad bench or deadlift practice. Like you play, let's do it every single day. Yeah. Stuff like that. Yeah. Yeah. Then kind of the, the high level shift, at least in my mind has been a little bit more recent. Let's call it, uh, 2018, 2019 up until honestly, pretty recently. I think it's, uh, kind of been the opposite take. Um, so the, the next title blocks we have on the screen here are relatively recent meta analyses from Ralston and colleagues from Gergik and colleagues and from Cuthbert and colleagues from 2018, 2018, and 2021 respectively. And from a high level on a volume equated basis. So, um, if you're doing 10, uh, 10 is hard to break up. If you're doing 12 weekly sets, whether you do that in two sessions, so six and six, or you do it in three sessions. So four, four, four, there didn't seem to be an effect. And of course, various iterations of, of, of that question. And that was kind of, um, confirmed in three separate meta analyses. Um, and I would say my favorite analysis, if you will, is probably the Gergik one. Um, they did effectively what's a linear meta regression, which we've discussed why we think that's a good way to look at a question like this in the past. And again, on a, when only looking at studies that equated volume, as you can see here, um, there was no significant effect. So, um, you can see that if you look at the rows labeled all studies, um, that P value on the right hand side is 0.003, which would indicate, okay, this linear meta regression is generally positive. There there's potentially something going on. And then if you look at the, uh, effect size column, you can see that it generally goes up as you go from one time per week to, uh, four plus times per week. However, those were not just volume equated studies. So in other words, probably what's driving the effect there, um, is the additional volume that can come alongside studies that are investigating, um, higher frequencies. But then if you go down a little bit in this table, you can see that in volume equated studies, that P value becomes 0.421, meaning there isn't a consistent or reliable, uh, linear effect as you go from a frequency of one time per week to a frequency of four plus times per week. The only thing I wanted to mention is cause it may not be entirely clear. If you actually look at the numbers, I think they did both a linear meta regression where they treated it as a continuous variable, but then also this would be the categorical effects. Um, and you can see, I think it was just categorical. Okay. So, yeah. So the weird thing about categorical meta aggressions is essentially treating every category independently. So it does kind of allow for like bumps in the room. You can see that when you go from one to two to three. Um, so yeah, that, that, that, that's an interesting one. Um, that, that makes things a little bit more, uh, it just exposes the area. One of the areas we ultimately wanted to kind of build upon. Totally. Yeah. Right on. So I think the, the narrative, at least in my mind might be different in different circles or people that get their information elsewhere or whatever is that frequency is just a tool to increase volume, um, even for strength. Right. So in other words, you know, sure you, maybe on average, you do each power lift two to three times per week, but it's not because two to three times per week is better than one time per week. It's because that allows you to do additional volume. So, um, it's not to say people were pro low frequency. They were just only do only add the higher frequencies. If it's feasible for you, if it's required to get in the volume you need. So in other words, if you are in a low volume program, let's say four sets per week for squat, you could do that all in one session. And the data wouldn't necessarily indicate that that would be worse than breaking it up into two sessions. Seem pretty fair. Yeah. A hundred percent. Cool. That's never sat totally right with me, to be honest. Um, even just talking about like coaching experience, I think is helpful here. Like, um, I think our backgrounds in coaching are probably different. I think we've probably both kind of, uh, converged over the years, but I know for a while, like there was absolutely a benefit of like frequency for the bench press for some of my clients, even when volume was fixed, that seemed to like break like a considerable amount of plateaus. Yeah. Coaching experience, anecdotal limitations, of course. But like when you talk about being a little bit skeptical of that, like, man, that helped me personally. So that kind of started that off for me. Um, and then having a couple of clients that just, that really seemed to, to really, really help. Um, seems to seem to like kind of always be in the back of my mind of like, Hmm, this seems, it seems a little bit, you know, different than I may expect. Yeah. In a lot of ways, I think, I don't, I don't think we were unique in that perspective. I think there was kind of a disconnect to like, if you were to make the evidence-based recommendation for frequency and strength, it's like, Hey, as, as long as volume is equated, there doesn't seem to be a significant effect, but also at the same time, every coach knew like, yo, this is something you gotta, you gotta kind of dial in. And the biggest thing we'll come back to this. I'm not going to harp on this too much, but I think that extrapolating research into very, very niche down strength training slash strength athlete programming or training is very challenging because I think you're skipping, you know, you're skipping, but you're, you're not ecologically valid in a lot more ways than maybe hypertrophy training is sometimes. Like just, just to name a few examples, like no one in a training study is going to use extremely specialized powerlifting technique for the most part, pretty much no one's going to be as strong as most of the powerlifters were kind of thinking of that have been in the game for a while. That's an obvious one. People talk about that a lot. Um, and all of those kinds of things kind of collect and manifest. And then the most important one is the training programs that particularly of older studies do not reflect how powerlifters train. Like the, we'll, we'll go into the, some of the descriptives in our, our, uh, our project here, but the average training loads are just probably considerably higher than what people are doing. Um, when you're training for strength, which is ironic because I, I went back and kind of thought about the periodization question again, when I was thinking about this and the retort for periodization, not mattering for hypertrophy is that, oh, these are strength studies. But then you look at them, you're like, no, they're not. You know what I mean? Yeah. Um, so that, it is funny you say that whenever you don't like the outcomes, just say it was designed for another outcome and it'll probably work. Always hits. Yeah. But we do that all the freaking time. All the time. Like we meaning Zach and I. So, so it is, it is kind of funny. Yeah. Um, and, and you mentioned like maybe the ecological validity of strength research is a little bit worse than the ecological validity of hypertrophy research. Um, we, we can get into some, uh, some discussions on, on that later on. Um, I think, I think that'll naturally come at the end. But returning to the research and, and kind of where the state of the evidence was, at least in my mind, to be clear, those analyses were, you know, there's nothing wrong with them. It's just steps in the right direction, but just, just didn't really sit right with me. And, and something that I always recognized with the volume research and the, uh, frequency research is there's not a very clear, like definition of what frequency is. Um, so for example, I'm trying to think back to the knuckles, um, analysis he did for, for strong by science. Um, and it's all getting mixed up in my head. So I'm not going to use that example right now, but I want to say the Gergic meta-analysis used kind of like muscle specific frequency. So let's say that, uh, squat one or M is the outcome of interest. Um, but they did squats on day one, leg press on day two and leg extension on day three. To my understanding, I think the Gergic meta-analysis would have counted that as three times per week. I could be getting them messed up in my head. Maybe that was the Ralston one. Um, and then I can't remember exactly how Greg Knuckles did it. Um, which it's bothering me because I feel like it's on the tip of my tongue. I want to say that, uh, anyway, I'm not going to try to remember that and then misquote it. And I might've just misquoted Gergic, but, but the, the point here is that there's kind of been a definitely inconsistencies. Are we talking about the lift itself? If we're measuring squat, are we, are we talking about how many times for a week you squat or how many times per week you train glutes, adductors and quads, right? Um, so it's been inconsistent. And also if, if I am going to be a little bit critical, if you will, of previous work, which, which I don't like to do, it hasn't been very clear to be honest. And that's been something that, um, has just been like, man, I, I, Zach and I kind of joke that when we see someone, we're just like, we want to do it ourselves so we can, we can feel good about kind of the, uh, the nuts and bolts underneath. Not that it's perfect by any means, but just, you know, understand the decisions very, uh, intimately to, to get to the outcome. Um, so that, that, I think that was a big driving force for me in terms of wanting to look at the effects of frequency on strength is doesn't really seem to align with what we see in practice. Um, I want to kind of come at it from like a powerlifting coach perspective of how would I actually think about frequency, um, in, in a practical setting. And importantly, even though Gerjik did a great job doing a meta regression and the knuckles, uh, in-house meta analysis also did a great job of doing various, um, meta regression type work as well. To my knowledge, there hasn't been any projects that have looked at it potentially in a nonlinear sense, right? Which I think is quite intuitive. You would have to imagine that if there was a benefit of frequency going from one to two times per week is a larger effect as going from five to six times per week, right? That's pretty intuitive. Um, so therefore I think there's room for improved statistical modeling, um, to better understand the nature of that relationship. If there is one, what do you think? I just looked up, uh, Greg's analysis and I just, um, I, uh, keyworded defined and it just says the biggest drawback of this analysis was defining frequency was somewhat subjective. So it's, it's a, it's a perfect, um, thing that, yeah, it's all, it's ultimately, um, one of the limitations and the same thing goes with set volume, right? It's just, it's just challenging, but yeah, no, I'm with you. Um, coming at it from that perspective and then just really digging into all these assumptions that are sometimes probably unintentionally for the most part until you realize how many decisions need to be made in the, and when you're kind of doing one of these projects, probably just get swept under the rug a little bit. And you probably, as a reader, don't appreciate how much those can impact things like changing the definition of your dependent variable or your independent variable can absolutely, completely fundamentally change things. Case in point, if we didn't do fractional direct and total for hypertrophy, we probably have a pretty different discussion on things, right? So it's just, it's just, it's so important to kind of go through all of those assumptions and make sure that it fits our scientific brain, but also, Hey, as a coach, am I actually asking the question that would actually help me with my clients, right? Yeah, totally. And that's a perfect, um, transition to actually specifying what we mean in terms of quantifying frequency and what we did differently compared to previous projects. So, um, Zach, you can pull up the, uh, table 1B. Yeah. Beautiful. Yeah. Right there. So this isn't all of table 1B. It's about four times as long as that, but I just put like the first few rows of the table. Um, so again, previous meta-analyses might've counted anything that trains a muscle for the outcome of interest. So again, to use squats as an example, the prime movers are going to be the quads, the glutes, and the adductors. You can make the case for, for all three of those. Um, if I do any exercise that trains one or all of those, that would count as, you know, an exposure or like a day of frequency for squat outcomes. And in our mind, it's like, man, it's, it's quite a bit different to do leg extensions on Friday versus doing squats, um, in terms of what you would expect to see, uh, in terms of an effective frequency, if there is one. Um, so what we did on the front end, when we were extracting all the research is we said, let's look at this in multiple ways because we're not sure which is best. Um, so we, the step one of this process was to look at each outcome. So, okay, we, we, we measured, not we, the, whatever the lab group was, uh, measured squat one rep max. Let's look at every single exercise in that program and let's categorize it as either direct or indirect. And the good news here for strength is that direct sets are very simple because it has to be the exact exercise that was tested, right? So in other words, if you do squat one rep maxes, the only direct exercise is squats. Um, you know, a hack squat would not count as a direct exercise. That would be an indirect exercise. So you can see here on, on the screen, if you're watching on Spotify or on YouTube, um, leg extension, barbell split squat, dumbbell split squat, Bulgarian split squat, hack squat, dumbbell lunge, leg press, um, leg extension, those would all be, um, indirect exercises for the back squat. So let me give you a practical example. Let's say I had a study in which actually I'll use an example. I think that I used before, at least it was close to this squats on day one, leg press on, um, day two and leg extension on day three. Um, one of our quantification methods was the fractional method. So a day of squats would count as one for frequency, but a day of, uh, leg press would count as half. And so would a day of leg extension. So in the example I just gave, that would be a fractional frequency of two, even though the muscles contributing were trained three times per week. Okay. So we did that fractional method where indirect exercises counted as half a day. Um, we also did just direct frequency. So only days where you train squat in our example would count as a, uh, uh, an exposure. Lastly, we did total frequency. So anytime you trained that muscle, um, that contributes to the outcome of interest, that would count as a day of frequency. Now let's say you did some direct training. So in our example, squat and some indirect training on one day. So squat and leg press on the same day that would count as one, right? That would, that would be a full exposure in terms of frequency. So, um, this allows us to, I think, look at the question with more granularity because we ultimately distinguish between specific and nonspecific or direct and indirect exercises. Um, that was a lot, but I think it's important to, to explain on the front end. Anything to clear up there, Zach? Nope. Honestly, I think that was great. Cool. Um, so we have total frequency, fractional frequency, direct frequency. And the cool thing here is we were able to statistically determine, um, which we'll, we'll circle back to in a little bit. Once we get to the results, which of those was best, right? Which kind of described the underlying data the best, which, which again, we'll, we'll circle back to. Okay. Now, um, for the sake of scientific thoroughness, we're going to go through the inclusion criteria of the, um, of the study. So we're all good on, on that table. Um, and we can just chat through these and see if there's anything worth pointing out. So, Hey, how do we, how do we determine whether a study was eligible to be included in our, our meta-analysis? Um, ultimately there was a total of 66 studies that met our inclusion criteria. Um, and that inclusion criteria is that it had to be a randomized design. So for example, um, the case series from our lab from a while back on daily one rep max training would not have counted, right? Or would not have been included because it was not randomized. There were three participants and they all did the same thing. It was just kind of a case series sort of thing. So it had to have multiple groups and folks had to be randomized to each group. Um, it had to train in a dynamic fashion. So if it was isometric training, it wouldn't be included. Um, and the intervention had to be at least four weeks long. Um, the study itself had to be the same in terms of every training variable, except for volume and or frequency. Um, and it's important to note that every single study had equated load and equated proximity to failure within reasonable bounds, because you can imagine scenarios where maybe a higher frequency condition could train with slightly heavier loads because they're less fatigued for some of those later sets. Right. Um, so we, we had some criteria for making sure those were reasonable bounds because in a lot of ways in a higher frequency condition, you want to allow them to train with. Um, you know, like slightly heavier loads or slightly more reps, um, because of that's kind of inherent benefit to, to frequency. But another way to think about it is we only included studies that should have compared volume and or frequency in a fair way. So everything else about the program was the same. Um, and then in the case of strength outcomes, it obviously had to measure strength and it had to be maximal strength. So if it estimated, um, wonder at max from velocity, something like that, it would not have been included. Um, so it had to use a maximal strength assessment. Um, if it used, um, like a dynamic traditional exercise, it could have been a one rep max. It could have been a five rep max. It could have been anything up to a 10 rep max. Okay. We also did look at isometric and isokinetic outcomes. Um, iso isometric, uh, strength assessments just mean you're basically pushing against an immovable object. Um, and the researchers can see how much force you're producing. And then isokinetic is similar in concept where you're looking at force production. Um, but it is against an implement at a fixed speed, um, which on one hand you could say, yeah, I'm a powerlifting coach. I don't really care about, uh, isometric or isokinetic outcomes, which is fair. Um, but we just wanted to kind of get everything we could, and we will have some figures at the end here where we just look at one rep max training, uh, to kind of confirm our main analysis does apply to, to powerlifting coaches. And then lastly, we did not include elderly subjects. So participants had to be, um, or no study could have been with participants older than, than 70. Anything dad? Cool. I'll keep blabbing on here about the methods a little bit, but the good news here is that if you want to dive deep into the methods, we're not going to do that right now. Cause you can refer back to our podcast on the effects of, uh, volume on hypertrophy in which we discuss a, what a multi-level meta regression is, because that's very important to understand here. Um, and we discussed the decision-making that goes into that and why that is better than some other approaches, or at least why we think it's, uh, an important step in the literature again, compared to some other approaches. Um, but the, the TLDR of that is that we get this nice curve, right? We get a nice curve in terms of the independent effect of frequency on strength gains, but the analysis itself, the effect, uh, the effects themselves focus on within study between group effects, right? So as a, as a basic example, just because, um, my study used untrained participants and therefore saw really big strength gains because, um, you know, they have a lot of room to grow because they're untrained doesn't mean that the, the frequencies I used inherently get an advantage, right? So, um, it focuses on the fact that, Hey, all these studies are going to have inherent things that allow them to have more or less strength gain, but we're focusing on the within study effects between the two conditions, um, compared in, in terms of frequency. So we directly accounted for training status. So whether the participants were trained or untrained, um, we directly accounted for study duration, you would expect greater strength gains from a longer study. Um, and then we also directly accounted for the effects of volume. Um, so, um, if there is a direct advantage for volume, theoretically, our model would have been like, okay, um, this study had a benefit here and we need to kind of correct for that. And once you do all that good stuff in the statistical software, the, uh, the modeling process is basically looking at candidate models and giving and kind of ranking them, right? So specifically there were seven different model fits. For example, one of the model fits is a linear, uh, model where it's just Y equals MX plus B. And it kind of forces the data into that. Um, there are other ones as well and that are non-linear and considerably more complex. Um, for example, there were various spline models that could have indicated an inverted U if that was the best fit. Um, so anyway, there's, there's seven best model fits, um, or seven model fits. And then the computer tries to determine which of these best describes the underlying data, but also keeps things pretty simple or pretty reasonable, right? Because you kind of need to balance, Hey, what is actually a reasonable physiological effect and what describes the underlying data quite well here? Um, and then we also did a couple of other meta-analyses just to kind of confirm our main meta-analysis. So the main meta-analysis had 66 studies, which is quite good, but some of those were volume studies. And again, because of the methods we used, that should be no problem. But we also wanted to acknowledge stricter inclusion criteria where we only look at frequency, uh, studies, right? So we did two secondary meta-analyses to again, kind of confirm our main results. And we'll display those here in a little bit. Um, so the first of those two secondary analyses is a kind of a traditional contrast-based meta-analysis where you say, Hey, these groups trained with higher frequencies and these groups trained with lower frequencies. Where is kind of that pooled effect size in terms of higher versus lower frequencies? The second of the secondary analyses are probably better characterized as the tertiary analysis is, um, a two-stage meta-aggression, which basically creates an intercept and a slope for each study. Um, so let's say I have a, uh, a study comparing one versus three times per week frequency. Um, it's going to look at that effect, right? It's going to look at the difference in outcomes between one and three times per week, um, calculate a slope and an intercept for that study. And then those intercepts and slopes are meta-analyzed. So you can kind of get an overall slope. Um, and again, these two secondary analyses, the contrast-based meta-analysis and the two-stage meta-aggression are great for confirming directionality and to some degree, the magnitude and consistency of the effect in studies that only looked at the effects of frequency. Um, and some people might even like those more than the main model. Totally cool. It's there for you. Um, we wanted to make sure you were covered on that front. Okay. Um, that really covers us in terms of methods, I think, but do you want to add anything? No, I don't think I need to plug in the method section now. Yeah. Imagine that. Just like, just like link out to the, the day's room shrink podcast. No, I'm saying, I think you just did it. I don't think you went through it again. It was good. Oh, nice. Well, I wanted it to, I wanted this to kind of stand alone. Yeah. It's tough. Uh, so hopefully that wasn't a too much of a snooze fest. That was good. Um, okay. Now we can go to our next lovely figure and this is important, right? And we're probably going to circle back to this quite a bit because while we are pretty bullish, we're pretty excited. We really like meta regressions. We think they're helpful for looking at the effects of a variable, um, the outcome of interest, whether that's strength or hypertrophy. It has to, you have to keep in mind like how that data was generated because training variables don't really operate in isolation. So, um, we, it's, it's important to understand that context, right? So this figure, um, is just for strength effects and it provides a visual overview of the distribution of the set volumes used in the studies, the frequencies used in the studies, the reps per set used in the studies, the rest period used in the studies and the proximity to failure using the studies. So you can look through that in a little bit more detail if you would like. We'll point out a couple specific figures here. So for these strength studies on average, the, uh, duration of the studies was 10.42 weeks and a little over a half of the studies used just trained or yeah, use trained participants. So it was kind of half and half between untrained and trained, um, which again, we'll kind of acknowledge that a little bit later as well. Cause, um, you obviously you can't do exercise science research on untrained people. Okay, cool. Um, so for the specific, uh, variables on the screen here, the average effect for set or sorry, the average set volume was a little over eight fractional sets per week. Again, that is fractional sets. So if you were to add up all sets, it would be a little bit higher than that, but nonetheless, pretty low volume. The average frequency was around two fractional days per week. So again, if you were to just add up every time a contributing muscle was trained, it would probably be a little bit higher than that, but nonetheless, let's say pretty moderate frequency. Average rest period was a little over two minutes. Moderate rest periods, maybe a little bit on the lower end for, for strength training. And here's the big one. The average reps per set was 9.85. So I don't think that's terribly off from the average reps per set that someone would use in a piloting program, but it's, it's, it's kind of on the high side. Um, lastly, 78% of studies used some sort of failure definition. Does that mean they trained to bone crushing failure? Probably not, but 30% of them did train to momentary failure. So they, they actually tried to rep and didn't, but nonetheless, I feel pretty confident saying that the majority of studies trained within one max to RIR. Not in your meta analysis. What do you mean? I mean, we know who you stand behind me and my, me and my crew over here at Dr. Robinson at all. Team, team, team 50 RIR, a million sets per week. Obviously the bar chart on the far right side of proximity to failure. Fabricated. Fabricated. Fabricated. Fabricated. Fabricated. Fabricated. anything a good a good enough a good enough prompt imagine that how how long do you think it would take folks to if i just like did a trying to think of how to chat gpt generate a what would be the best way to become pro vault pro pro failure the best way to become pro failure from a chat gpt generated manuscript probably just like met like how about a how about a letter to the editor about the volume oh yeah there you go there you go yeah docs yourself that'd be pretty cool yeah man maybe i could be accepted at that point would be pretty cool zach anything to say on these descriptives of the the training programs no i i think i mean it's more of just an overarching no yeah yeah yeah right yeah no right yeah no um yeah no i got nothing i'm gonna be really uh hyper vigilant about that now um i think this is just the component of things that kind of hits on my point earlier in the sense that i just i think the overlap between the person that is reading this and the training that they do is much less for strength than for hypertrophy essentially you know somewhere in the 8 to 16 set range moderate rest periods moderate frequencies training relatively close to failure with a moderate repetition range that's most people's hypertrophy training right like that's going to overlap pretty well um now you could take issue with the training status the participants are they actually training to failure all those questions are reasonable but from the nuts and bolts of the training it's going to overlap pretty well with hypertrophy training because most studies are generally designed right you're kind of just designing a general training program and hypertrophy is more of a general adaptation whereas strength and specifically like strength sports which i think most people are reading this kind of coming from that direction like power lifting strongman weight lifting um or i want to get my one or i'm chin up up whatever your kind of avenue is for what you're defining strength as i think it's the average person reading this is probably more in that direction that's a pretty niched down definition of what that means and so things like the average training load utilized like there's no singles at eight in this in this uh you know this data set like that concept doesn't exist and so i i think it is very important to realize that and so i i view this more as like what are the muscular slash local neuromuscular effects that would influence kind of a power lifting program that we can be aware of and then our practical line of things in terms of practical interpretation will obviously utilize this but it just needs to be more heavily colored with experience because there is few and far between studies that utilize training that looks like that now i will say the good dr pack has done some really good stuff that i think kind of helps us put together some pieces here and and kind of look at a a second verification of kind of the main principles that come from both our volume and our frequency meta that i think makes sense and so it it does kind of translate a little bit there to me but i am always hesitant to use the strength data in particular as a really really strong emphatic statement to say hey go run with this into your next meet kind of thing i think there's another layer of interpretation that needs to happen there whereas hypertrophy i think is a little bit more directly transferable yeah we we talked about in the hypertrophy podcast why we're hesitant to like give exact numerical recommendations which which which we stand by um but i think that applies even more so here for for strength basically any limitation of the hypertrophy training like for example not training multiple movements um you probably are training more muscle groups and strength studies on average you're going to test strength on multiple exercises but i think the same thing kind of applies you're not doing a squat bench and deadlift in any of these studies um that we're including and then again basically you're not doing squat bench and deadlift concurrently concurrently exactly just pretty much there's all those limitations like one or two exactly but you know what i mean like the general study here yeah yeah and deadlift just isn't studied all that much very little yeah very little free the deadlift um i yeah we'll we'll i'm sure we'll get into this more with the interpretation i still think it's a great way to look at like you said the neuromuscular response to lower versus higher frequency and to be clear it could be perfectly generalizable i don't know it's just my personal experience and then also just thinking about that more from a rationalistic perspective i'm like okay what's the overlap here and how well would i expect this to generalize in my gut the hypertrophy data seems to overlap pretty strongly with my intuition for the most part like the ones that we've done whereas this one i am a little bit more hesitant on terms of like okay here's what i expect the training and the people that are applying this to look like here's what it was in the studies i think there's a little bit a bigger barrier there again doesn't mean it's useless by any means i just think that there's an additional layer of practical interpretations that would make me quadruple down the fact that the exact numbers that come from this is not the important component of it yeah it's the directional effects that we basically always talk kind of double down on the limitations and the fact that the goal is to understand the best estimation of the nature of the dose response between the independent variable in this case frequency and the dependent variable in this case strength yep okay so let's move on to what we found the good stuff um so if we go to the the next image here beautiful we can see kind of the first step here of this analysis which is as i mentioned before we quantified frequency using just direct training fractional the fractional method which kind of weights indirect training as half of a of an exposure or frequency counted in the total method so anytime you train the um the contributing muscle or muscles it counts right in terms of an exposure so step one here saying we don't know which one is best we could guess we could tell you what we think as coaches but we kind of need to prove that in research if you will and our intuition was right here in the the case of strength so you can ignore the one on the left that is for hypertrophy but the one the the grid on the right labeled panel b you can see basically you can think of them as like uh scores comparing the numerator to the denominator so if you look at let's look at that really dark circle comparing or really dark square i should say with the number 54.8 so on the top you have the numerator and in this case it is the fractional quantification method and on the left hand side you have the denominator which is the direct quantification method um and if you do numerator over denominator you get 54.84 and if you look at the key at the bottom that would correspond with very strong evidence in favor of the numerator so let me just simplify that the fractional quantification method for frequency was considerably better at describing the underlying data compared to the direct method and then if you look up at the 31.27 number that is comparing fractional to total and that is not quite as strong but still very strong evidence that the fractional method is better than the total method so long story short here the fractional method best describes the underlying data um therefore it is what we should use at least in our analysis and arguably going forward and in future meta-analyses um and future studies as well in the sense that additional exposures count and contribute even if they're not the exact exercise trained but they don't count to the same degree as if you were to do another exposure of the exercise trained um that's not really a prescriptive claim i'm making there it's more of a hey in order to look at the dose response relationship the best we can we need to make sure our uh independent variable is quantified the the best we can so therefore going forward we're going to focus on the fractional quantification method fair to say fair to say cool then if we go to the next plot and you look at the right hand side because the left hand side is hypertrophy so we'll focus on strength for now um long story short this is a way to get an idea of what is the best number to use in terms of the fraction to use for indirect training so again to use our example of squat and leg press if i just train leg press on one day should that be counted as half of an uh of an exposure like we used in the the fractional method or should it be something else um and this indicates that about half is is reasonable and that's what we used um this analysis has some limitations that i'll skip over for now but this is largely confirmatory that we're in the right range because we see these aic and bic values um peak right around i think it's like 35 or 36 percent um and again we use 50 percent so again this kind of is confirmatory that hey we're we're on to something with the fractional approach and um therefore it's going to give us the best dose response relationship in our main model money cool all right we can go to the next slide which is the main results here what you've all been waiting for and we kept you at the kept you at the edge of your seat for uh over an hour and a half i think at this point so let me pull up my uh my exact numbers here okay so what we see on the left hand side here is that pretty curve i alluded to before um so if we just look at panel a and we look at the x-axis that is the frequency per week and quantified in the the fractional method right and then on the y-axis we have exponentiated response ratio which is basically just our way of uh calculating the effect size for strength gain what you can see here if you look at the solid red line is that as you increase frequency your results tend to improve so we do see a dose response relationship here but you can obviously see that it kind of tapers off right so there are very strong diminishing returns and for completeness sake this is the best fit model here was a reciprocal model then on the right hand side in panel b we see the estimated effect at the mean frequency in the data set so the mean frequency was two times per week or or just about um so basically we're taking the marginal slope at a frequency of two times per week and we're saying hey what is that is that positive so this is from a high level the the goal of panel b is to say can we say with decent confidence that the dose response relationship is positive does it go up is there an effective frequency and the short answer is yes because that entire red diamond is on the right side of zero the exact marginal slope is 3.27 percent so if you were to kind of over interpret it that would mean that going from a frequency of around two to around three or more accurately one and a half to two and a half um you would expect to see all else held equal an increase in strength gain of 3.27 percent don't over interpret that but that that's basically what that means so short answer here is it goes up there are diminishing returns um and we can say with with pretty strong confidence there is a dose response relationship here anything to add zach nope i don't think so i think uh ultimately the the uh the slope plot is kind of we we acknowledge that summary statistics are helpful for people to kind of conceptualize things and it's ultimately kind of our best faith representation of like okay if we were to try to figure out what's the best way to represent a dose response metoregression and kind of that nice summary effect size you get the bottom of the forest plot that's essentially what we're trying to do there which again like you said is like just on a very very high level is the overall relationship heading in some sort of direction in this case positive um so yeah cool and if we go to the next figure you might have listened to all the mumbo jumbo uh about the different methods for quantifying frequency and said cool science schmiance statistics schmistics i like the total method better cool we we got that for you no problem and the good news here for simplicity's sake is that it was still a reciprocal model best fit and it looks indistinguishable if you aren't paying super close attention you're like oh it's the same figure yeah i couldn't figure out which one was with yeah exactly so um and then same idea if you're like hey i don't really care about i don't like the fractional or the total i like direct boom very similar the slope is a little bit smaller that's because there's a good amount of studies that had no direct frequency which again we'll probably circle back to because of those isometric and isokinetic outcomes um because we did while we did take isometric and isokinetic outcome data we didn't include studies that trained via isometric and isokinetic training so reciprocal model best fit there's a dose response relationship it seems and uh there are diminishing returns but let's let's dive a little bit deeper into those outcomes um so let's move into those secondary analyses we discussed before so again now we've collapsed the data set a bit right and we said i only want studies that compare lower versus higher frequencies i don't want those volume studies in there that might confound things they probably won't but it's good to confirm that that's the case um so if we look at the top right panel where you kind of see those um individual dots kind of in a vertical orientation those are basically the individual effects from any uh i think it would be on the would that be on the study level or the effect level zach i think i think it's the effect level it's the effect level and then the partial pooling would kind of adjust it for the the study as well and i think that's um kind of what's a little bit more around zero there but long story short you can see that any individual effect is gonna vary right there are some that leaned in favor of lower frequencies there's uh more that leaned in favor of higher frequencies right so if you look at panel d in the bottom right and you look at that diamond that is the average effect if you were to just again kind of categorize it put into buckets lower versus higher frequency on average higher frequencies did outperform lower frequencies and that was a relatively consistent effect um but of course you know as with any body of literature there's going to be some variation and some effects in some studies that did lean in favor of lower frequency um not the best way to look at the question in my opinion but it is helpful to see again just kind of uh get an idea of the consistency of the effect um then in panel a in the top left that is the two-stage meta-aggression so that is a basically it's forced to be a linear effect here so we did not look at linear models here but again it's helpful to ensure the directionality and to some degree the magnitude of the dose response relationship in just frequency studies um and it largely confirms the main model in the sense that hey it does go up and um in this case it's deep pretty pretty strong um which how i come to that conclusion is a little too in the weeds i think for for now but um again this whole all these visuals here are largely just to confirm hey that main model is is legit and um it's it's probably not driven by indirect effects yeah the simplest way to say it is that these essentially remove uh between study um variables from impacting things so you're essentially isolating things to within study comparisons in the most uh isolated way possible yeah um the mathematic approach the main model still does that but it's clearer to see um and in this way i think for most people to kind of understand like okay the four spot type situation it's group a versus group b in this one study all those things are held equal except the variable that we care about let's see the difference there and then we're pooling those which is yeah that's just it's a more pure way to do like i said sweet next figure is describe or this is actually a table is describing the estimated effects from that main dose response model so now we're kind of going back to the main model now that we've kind of confirmed it's it's legit if you will and we want to understand the estimated effects and kind of how those diminishing returns occur if you will so um if you look at a frequency of one um the estimated effect is estimated increase in strengthening is 12.72 percent go from one to two that increases from 12.7 percent to 17.3 percent so pretty pretty meaningful increase and then from two to three it goes from 17.3 to 19.7 um so as you can tell that return just kind of diminished so um those that increase from one to two quite meaningful that increase from two to three okay that's might be within measurement error hard to say um three to four now we're getting to you know some pretty small effects so that leads to the next figure which are basically a way to say okay i see that it goes from 12.7 to 17.3 but is that meaningful is that just kind of noise um to what degree is is that practical and on the left hand side here you have two different frequencies right so if we look at the first row it is a higher frequency versus lower frequency so two versus one in terms of frequency and then i will um draw your attention all the way over to the the column on the right hand side which is labeled p dot sd es which stands for the probability that that difference is greater than the smallest detectable effect size so the smallest detectable effect size has been covered in in our first episode um discussing the effects of volume on hypertrophy um but you can just think of it as hey if we were to factor in all the noise that goes into strength research um we we don't just want to look at we don't just want to see a numerical difference and assume that it's always better right um so in this case there is a 61.85 percent probability that the estimated effect at a frequency of one time per week is greater than the effect at two times per week so if you want to you can look at this figure kind of look at all those comparisons um the way that i interpret this is as you go from one to two seems decently meaningful as you go from two to three it's hard to make the case that that change in isolation is going to be a big effect so again it just kind of underscores and emphasizes the diminishing returns here right so while it does look relatively strong at first glance in terms of that dose response relationship between frequency and strength the strongest effect really is from going from one to two times per week beyond that from two to three okay maybe practically meaningful for some people but i can't with my scientist hat on say yes this is you know very much a consistent effect that i would expect to play out if we had a million more studies um is your interpretation pretty similar yeah i think for the most part um i i tend to view these as like is there a cumulative difference that could be considered practically relevant and basically once you have achieved a frequency of three times a week there's no longer a cumulative effect that could that would lead to a detectable difference essentially so i view it as like up to three times a week there seems to be pretty positive evidence um two versus three is kind of a a close um a close call but like two versus four for example that would tend to lean in favor of four so like it's those cumulative effects that are kind of tricky to um work around so i view it up to like three times a week um you could make a case that could be particularly relevant like you said most importantly directionally it's increasing and pretty strongly diminishing towards moderate frequencies but of course there's less research at very high frequencies etc there's a lot of limitations so i really like the directional focus of directionally positive diminishing returns using both of those principles even me just saying that i think is pretty practically helpful yeah totally now you might have listened up to this point and been like exercise science cool in theory but you're using untrained people um you looked at some isometric isometric strength outcomes isokinetic strength outcomes i want trained people i want one rams um and i i kind of want to constrain down the data that i'm looking at so it's only relevant for my client base or if i'm a lifter if uh what's relevant to my my training i would respond and say hey i wouldn't really think about research in that way i want to look i want to kind of extract the principles and and to get the best principles possible you you it's nice to have additional data um but also acknowledge that other perspective and we want to i think it's good practice to confirm there isn't something jumping off the page at us in terms of if we were to just look at one rams for example so we have some like additional exploratory um models here to to show you for the effects of frequency on strength gain and each of these are quite limited even more so than the main model but again are good to confirm that we're not missing something huge and this nature of the relationship isn't just driven by the fact that it's untrained people and if it was only trained people um you know everyone would get weaker with six times per week training right something like that zach do you want to work through these or do you want me to i can do a little bit and then you can let me know if you're thinking something different but um to start here this is basically just visualizing essentially what's happening um from a high level in terms of the multi-level meta aggression so essentially each one of these very faded lines is a within study slope and you're essentially aggregating those based on the the weighting that they are allocated based on the number of participants how variable were the effects observed those kind of things um and ultimately aggregating those to form the kind of the primary dose response relationship what i did with the with the red line here is i fit essentially a model that just kind of entirely ignores the the nesting structure that we went through all the steps of doing in our kind of our main project here but what that does is usually it just kind of gives you a very very high level look of like what what's the rough shape we're looking at here so that when i go into a more formal modeling procedure what are some good shapes to potentially try um or you know essentially is is a super flexible approach necessary and so you can see a model that essentially looks like our main model right it's got some pretty uh you know aggressive uh gains early in the frequency relationship but then strongly diminishes and then due to very little data at the end there kind of comes back down i don't over interpret that by any means because again this is ignoring a lot of aspects of the data structure but it's just helpful to see that a lot of those within study slopes look exactly like our kind of main model which is what we'd be expecting given that's what it's doing under the hood it's aggregating those within study slopes yeah anything on that one so like i mentioned before that the modeling process values describing the data but also something that is simple um because you don't want to overfit the data so this is an example of purposely overfitting the data would that be fair to say i think i think so not necessarily um overfitting date overfitting the data would be as you've described before it would be basically going through every single little data point and the line would look like a massive zigzag w where it's essentially going through every single point but you're absolutely right the goal of this is not necessarily to exactly map the studies that's not what we're trying to do we're trying to say okay we believe there's an underlying effect kind of up in the clouds that we're trying to know about that we're trying to use the data that we have to approximate that we believe follows some structure the issue is if you overfit your data that you have really really well that's not going to generalize the new data very well because you're essentially calling your sample this theoretical thing in the clouds that we're trying to approximate so um that's why you don't want to overfit but this is this is i would say not doing that entirely because the way that it fits that kind of squiggly curve is a balance still between complexity and simplicity so it's more flexible in the sense that it is just treating all the data points the same um than kind of a formal modeling approach but um isn't like infinitely flexible if that makes sense but very flexible yeah so the main model is more representative of something that's more likely to occur in physiology based on the underlying data but this is a good exercise i think in recognizing just the possibilities if we get more data where there is um not a ton of data right now specifically at high frequencies so in addition to us saying hey the strongest effect is going from one to two times per week maybe there's something practically meaningful from two to three times per week hard to say um beyond that the effects are small i would take that last part beyond that the effects are small with a grain of salt because we just don't have a ton of data there i mean if you stick the norwegian frequency project in there because those are pretty not we would basically get a slope here from three to a frequency of three to six and if you just visually look at it it's you know there's not a ton of slopes there exactly so it's just there's limitations there in terms of the the amount of data that we have in the high frequency department that limits things a good bit yeah totally um okay next one we can move to is isotonic only training so this would be uh or i should say isotonic outcomes only so isotonic training just means a constant resistance right so this is your normal lifting at a gold's gym or your powerlifting gym or wherever you lift um and if you're start the set on bench press with 100 pounds you finish the set on bench press bench press with 100 pounds so this would remove isometric and isokinetic strength outcomes um and again this largely confirms the main model so the the nature of the dose response that we described in the main model does not seem to be unduly biased by the fact that we had some less specific strength outcomes would you tend to agree yeah 100 cool um next one is just one rep max only so this is taking all the outcomes on the last uh with the last figure we looked at just isotonic training so basically one to ten or m strength outcomes now we're collapsing it even more to just one or m um outcomes and again we can generally see it's it's similar not a whole lot of changes going on so um on the front end for the data collection we kind of debated is it even worth extracting isometric and isokinetic outcomes people really care about one or m um we all obviously ended up extracting everything um but we need to confirm that hey this this does indeed apply to to powerlifting training because one or m is is is what you do on the platform um so that is good news and it kind of worked out well in the sense that we have a better powered analysis that confirms the one or m only outcomes that's kind of the way that i view it okay um zach you want to take the next one on training status sure sweet so like josh said same exact kind of concept here um we took the kind of main overarching model uh injected a ability to kind of separate the effects of trained and untrained individuals to kind of take a look at here and you can see there's a little bit of diminished uh effects here for trained individuals though this again comes back to some of the limitations that are associated with these kind of things is if you look at the effects at zero uh frequency per week you can see that in the untrained graph there is a lot of those and in the train graph there are none of those because all non-training control groups are by definition untrained so it's one of those things that conceptually helpful um to know that you know maybe the the returns that we're getting early on are maybe a little bit more aggressive um for the untrained folks but another issue is where the frequencies are being explored in the different two types of groups as well i think there is um you know a little bit more data at the lower end of the frequency pool which is going to again uh kind of um over index the early parts of the frequency curve that makes it look a little bit more steep so again the point here is that while the curves are a little bit different i think you could look at those and say ah maybe it's a little bit stronger for untrained individuals i don't view that as like something that fundamentally changes the interpretation because of the 17 layers of things that kind of go into that you're starting lower and you're also finishing higher because you're starting lower because you're anchored to those non-training controls and also untrained folks are just going to see greater training gains so you're getting to a higher peak so that kind of makes it look like the effect for frequency is stronger for untrained folks um i view that and i'm like oh it's it's the same thing it's just a result of trained people not getting uh quite as strong as we'd expect because you know gains and that's why in our main models we're controlling for what's called the intercept of trained and untrained individuals where you're basically just accounting for that vertical offset and the amount of strength gains that you would expect but not necessarily expecting an interaction to occur and also look at the the y-axis here right um what's identified is zero and 25 so like even if on the left hand side it doesn't look like a super strong slope um might be quite practically meaningful um if you were to actually like extract those those estimates at at each frequency but long way of saying the general nature of the dose response it's not like it's negative you know what i mean it's not like it's negative exactly yeah um okay next we have upper and lower body training so if we circle back to the gergic meta-analysis and also the knuckles in-house uh meta-analysis stronger by science i think both of those i know the knuckles one did i'm i i think the gergic one as well saw stronger effects for higher frequency with upper body strength outcomes um and i think that makes that like kind of passes the sniff test for a lot of folks right um you're probably going to recover in terms of upper body musculature a little bit faster than lower body musculature for whatever reason um so therefore you might benefit from higher frequencies so um i wanted to take a peek and see like hey is there anything clear going on um we didn't really see that granted did we spend you know a whole week trying to make sure we accounted for all the confounders like we did for the main model no um but it was worth taking a peek and they were pretty similar um so i wouldn't say these disagree with like the knuckles or the gergic one but um it's consistent at least between the upper and lower outcomes the biggest thing i always come back to in like comparing across papers or analysis here is just like fundamentally just a completely different data set yeah and that matters so much when you're when you're doing this type of stuff so i think that's like the biggest thing that comes to mind for me um we have more data just it's been longer since those have been published and in importantly like research has just gotten more popular in that time too so i think some of those uh those uh aspects of things just kind of fundamentally change the equation you're working with i remember when we saw the main outcomes for for frequency and i'm kind of jumping the gun here because we're going to talk about um the effects of volume on strength gain in another episode but i mean the short answer is the the relationship was stronger for frequency compared to volume which was a little bit surprising based on on previous analyses and just the state of the literature like we talked about at the beginning of the show and i remember you asking me you're like like why have recent meta-analyses not really picked this up um and i was like dude i don't even know where to start everything is different we have more data like you said because it's just been more time and also we have uh we had a slightly wider inclusion criteria um we did a different quantification method um or quantification methods plural um we looked at non-linear functional forms um and and and those one of those in isolation could change outcomes let alone all of them all together so um that's just an example of why we might not find the exact same moderating effect of upper versus lower outcomes compared to previous meta-analyses um and also there's just a ton of limitations to moderators in the first place anything to add there not at all cool there is one more if you want to let that one rip because i know this is one that you're particularly interested in if not i can i can do it yeah um just wanted to take a look quickly at the um the impact of rep range sass load because i just think that is the biggest thing that comes to mind in terms of what doesn't seem to map to the way people would train that are ultimately going to apply these results is that um the average repetition range is around nine um and i think that standard deviation was relatively low compared to the rest of the training variables and just on a um very basic level here the slope for um lower repetition ranges is probably a little bit higher for um frequency than higher repetition ranges but due to limitations of moderators and a ton of other you know just taking a quick look at this and not like you said take spending the same amount of time that it would be required to essentially do this effectively um again just to rehash this similar to the rest interval situation that we've had for hypertrophy in order to look at this question directly you would need a study that has different frequencies but then also within those different frequency buckets training with a different average training load that would be the way to directly answer this question um to have a within study slope to actually aggregate and when that is the vast minority or if you don't have any of those at all you're really kind of shooting in the dark in terms of effects now when you have a ton of data you can be pretty confident in that and in terms i'm talking like big data um that's when you can start getting some of those um those those questions answered even if you don't have within study relationships but in our case when we're dealing with a lot smaller uh data sets than like medicine and other areas where they've been able to kind of validate um uh more uh of that kind of uh observational meta-analysis versus like the meta-analysis of rcts and kind of can buy or compare the estimates that you're getting from those um we're we're operating in a very different landscape so i'd be very cautious taking this um too literally but ultimately it kind of fits with my intuition in the sense that i think heavier training that is more reflective or more specific to the strength outcomes you're actually trying to train for probably is a little bit more potent just in general for all these kind of dose response relationships um because it's just more specific and closer to mapping toward the thing that we actually care about um i can't remember what the proximity to failure ones show for hypertrophy um but similar ish to that in the sense that let's take it on the extreme if we had a bunch of volume studies and says that five rr versus a bunch of volume studies that to failure um i would imagine that would impact the relationship a decent amount um and it's kind of the same thing here is like you want the quality of the training to match the outcome that you're actually training for and then let's look at the dose oriented variables with that actual style training matched it would be like saying i'm a sprinter and how does the frequency at which i train for a marathon impact my sprint times like that concept just doesn't really track too well obviously an extreme it's extreme example obviously but it's a similar similar concept um in theory yeah i i think that's a good point um but from this little moderator the quick peek is there's not a whole lot going on there but not a whole lot but the directional kind of thing is but again that's only because the range of repetition ranges that were explored is so small that it was doomed to fail yeah doomed to fail doomed to fail directionally leans in kind of what i was thinking but doomed to fail yeah um do you have anything to add on what we did what we found before we kind of properly move into uh tinfoil tinfoil hat interpretation cool so how how do you view this analysis in terms of its use case for powerlifting because i think one of your i don't want to say a hold up but just something i've heard you say a few times in preparing for this podcast and during the podcast itself it's like you're a little bit less interested or or or or less willing to take the results at face value um because you know these studies aren't designed like a modern powerlifting program so if you try to directly apply the face value outcomes to a modern powerlifting program um you you might be led astray a little bit right but obviously we still see value in them and and we think in a lot of ways this is a lot better than just um you know asking some random coach what their their methods are that has place but um this is quite a bit more powerful than that and gives us some good insights so if you were to summarize it um and and you know a 30 second elevator ride what would that be i think the number one thing that this project as a whole has done for me is i view frequency and volume as separate levers i think that's the biggest thing is that there appears to be separate and potentially independent effects of frequency and volume for strength but probably only primarily volume for hypertrophy but the point is that they do seem to be separate levers to pull um and and that ultimately uh influences practice quite a bit right if i'm a coach and i'm troubleshooting somebody's program and i understand that they do have separate effects or and then they're both levers that i can pull that changes your management quite a bit whereas if you view that kind of the old narrative of frequency only impacts things so far as it influences volume that's a different decision making and troubleshooting kind of algorithm you're running as a coach so i think the biggest thing this project has done to me is just that they are indeed separate levers um at least to me that's kind of the way that i've viewed it i i tend to agree even though like we mentioned before like i don't think any powerlifting coach didn't think there was no effective frequency um even like before our meta analysis came out despite the evidence at large not not showing a strong or consistent effect i think in a lot of ways like this still has shifted me towards okay frequency is something i i should think a little bit more about and should maybe prioritize more in the individualization process compared to set volume um again with with kind of the caveat that we'll discuss volume a little bit more in depth in a future episode so like you said it's an independent lever why do you think it's an independent lever like this this is an outcome oriented analysis we didn't look at mechanisms specifically yeah but from a high level or from a nitty-gritty level does anything come to mind for you regarding why a higher frequency all else held equal would would help yeah og podcast listeners go ahead hit the role track of the og data driven strength podcast appearances on force production specificity baby let's let's go if you know you know at this point yeah right we okay there have been a good amount of people that have been like yo when's the strength cook yeah strength stuff coming right um so we got we got to keep strength stuff cool 100 percent um and i mean at the end of the day i think that's still i think intellectually both of us like the one of the reasons we're interested in hypertrophy is because it it creates this kind of grander interplay of strength ultimately at least to me it's it's a more complicated puzzle it feels like to some degree but ultimately you know jokes aside like for hypertrophy this is extremely simplistic extremely um the there's two routes to getting the stimulus you can turn the like the uh i don't want to use the word intensity but it's the word that's coming to mind you can turn the intensity dial all the way up or the magnitude dial all the way up or you can turn that intensity dial down and turn up the duration dial both of those seem to be reasonable approaches duration being volume volume right and so i can use a squirt gun all day long or i can use the power washer exactly yeah there's multiple routes to accomplishing if we if we take an assumption again i think it's an assumption i'm not saying this is the way it works but let's say there's some sort of like sensor on the fiber level that's essentially uh measuring impulse of the on that fiber it's how hard am i contracting and how long am i doing that um and that ultimately is related to the signaling and the growth of the fiber that's extremely oversimplified but it kind of helps me illustrate the point yeah and you can't actually use a water gun you need to probably use at least a hose yeah exactly and the the hose might wash the driveway if you do it long enough but i don't think you're presenting those as like independent things like you you could use the power washer for six hours and get a really clean the point the point i'm making there is that there are multiple routes to achieving the hypertrophy stimulus and that's that's part of uh that's part a part b with strength is that i think that ultimately what you're trying to do is achieve maximal levels of force output is essentially what you're trying to do and certain training variables allow you to do that more frequently and other ones kind of take away from it um with frequency if i'm increasing frequency at the same at the same volume i'm essentially decreasing the interest session fatigue that i'm accumulating and making the overall amount of work that i'm performing with near maximal force outputs increasing put in non-scientific language if you increase frequency at a given volume or performance over that volume probably is going to improve which in my brain you know from a mechanistic perspective is increasing kind of the average force output you're doing and so that's that part of it and then volume is influencing the amount of stimulus that you get whatever local mechanisms are occurring for that strength level but it also is kind of actively decreasing your ability to achieve peak force in the next session so that's why they're different is that with volume there probably are some positive effects associated with that directly but it also has a cost and frequency i think is kind of a positive effect in a in a in a kind of unidirectional way right like obviously there's an amount of volume performed at a high frequency that wouldn't allow you to achieve maximal force output in any one of those sessions but at a fixed volume frequency is always going to help um to some degree um so that's kind of how i've arrived to it there i don't know if that makes sense or if there's more follow-ups that need to occur but i really just come back to it in terms of like most training variables i try to at least use that mental model because that seems to explain pretty much every other training variable to me and so there's a amount of training you need to do to actually train with those high force outputs and frequency is going to make those force outputs probably be even higher for that amount of volume and then after that it's just trying to make sure that doesn't take away from your performance and so there's kind of that optimization problem about how much can i do while still maintaining the quality of my performance and then again from a practical perspective i think about this predominantly on the strength expression part of the program yeah not necessarily the the strength development um the long-term aspect of the program like there's a lot of those kind of things that are challenging but then you could also ask the question why are you informing the strength expression strength uh kind of peaking part of the equation with studies that use 9 rms for for 1 rm outcomes and i think that's a reasonable critique and again i try to view these kind of um directionally for that reason but that's that's kind of what i'm thinking when i'm trying to rationalize these outcomes with my experience and kind of just the way that i think about uh training for strength in a nutshell yeah i'm going to go through a few training variables and i want you to rate them one two or three one being you don't it does it's not a primary focus just don't screw it up yep two is be cognizant but it's not like the primary thing driving the outcome um but like really don't mess that one up three is this is literally what drives the stimulus and this is what you should be prioritizing in terms of program design okay rest periods for strength for strength two rest periods is a two proximity to failure two trying to think the order to go in here for effect volume what context are we talking about just peaking kind of situation you can give two answers like one one for long-term development and one for short-term strength expression for short-term strength expression i'm going to for long-term my bias would be like two and a half maybe three long-term development yeah okay exercise select uh specificity of exercise selection about this one i so i care i care about squat one or m strength yeah um how important is it that i train squats versus other squatting patterns versus other just movements that train so it's kind of like the specificity continuum of exercise selection how important is it to be more specific yeah i'll say two but honestly i think i'm more of a variability is probably okay kind of guy give me an example of variability that's okay because there's a spectrum right you can go squat or pause squat yeah you can go bench or close grip bench i think i think basic yeah no i don't think that like to me ultimately what you're trying to do is train the neuromuscular quality essentially and i think as long as the exercise achieves that there's probably a place for it so like do i think every single slot needs to be the competition movement no do i think there can be pretty wide bounds on things even if it's not totally mapping the specificity yeah i think accommodating resistance has a place i think very partial range of motion lifts have a place i think overload stuff has a place like i honestly think all that stuff can be effective for kind of a variety of reasons that kind of fit my mental model of strength now chest fly i don't think you're trained like you probably can't do a one or m like true force output in your muscles that are contributing to that movement due to the instability due to the implement due to the loadability like there's this limitations associated with the exercise that don't allow you to do that um but i would say my net's probably wider than most people how about how about like the chest fly so moving away from specificity in terms of exercise selection from a larger time scale larger time scale oh that one's tough that one's really tough so you're saying specificity of exercise selection is a two in the short term or do you say did you say three yeah i said two two is kind of a cop-out answer you should have given me hot or cold kind of kind of deal i think i think too because i think as long as you're training the neuromuscular quality i think and getting some exposure in the short term yeah and getting some exposure long term i think it's probably the same thing like as long as you're getting some exposure to the task you're trying to improve you're probably good but then i think you need to be training the neuromuscular quality like quite a bit how about volume allocation so volume allocation for the listener while zach comes up with his answer is how much is how much of of your volume is on the specific movement that you care about so for probably your squat bench deadlift we can also include very close variations like a tempo squat or pause squat or whatever versus movements that are clearly targeted for muscular development so something like a pec fly or deficit push-up or chest press or an rdl i might i might go two and a half on that one i kind of think that's probably one of the under thought on variables i would say just because i do think both of both directions of that probably have pretty meaningful short-term effects that can stack up over the long term um yeah i'll say two and a half on that one maybe in the short term and the long term yeah okay and but in opposite directions kind of how about periodization this is a this is like an impossible one let's just say it's like good periodization so more like more so biasing and this would have to be a long-term only question i would say i'm pretty pretty firmly in the camp of if you're taking textbook definitions of periodization i'm pretty firmly in the camp of concurrent periodization in the sense that you're essentially trying to target all qualities all the time that are relevant for your activity so it's not concurrent in like a global sense like i'm not necessarily worried about the maximal aerobic capacity of a power lifter but insofar as the quality impacts that sport in some way training those pretty much all the time so in that case periodization is like meh but if you're talking about the exact proportions of those things over time i would say that's maybe underrated personally so one two or three oh man we should have done a tier list yeah s-a-b-t yeah maybe we could revisit this idea i kind of like thinking through it this way um so periodization i would say short to moderate term probably doesn't matter all that much like one and a half long term underrated so i probably like 2.5 2.5 yeah so you're taking the the three point scale and just turn it into five super cool yeah okay load three three yeah in the short term yeah how about the long term the difficult thing with that one is i think that's probably the biggest pitfall of typical block periodization and the reason people got away from that is that they weren't able to to use the fancy periodization word transmute their adaptations i thought it's transmutate transmutate yeah yeah transmute's not a word i'm sure it's a word yeah transmutate they weren't able to transmutate their adaptations from the lower load blocks into momentum into their kind of their strength oriented phases because you were just so uh you know foreign to the concept of of those adaptations so in the long run i think people kind of get that now though um so maybe i'll go to for a long run transmute is definitely correct nice yeah you were right wait why is transmutate transmutate transmutation is it transmute was the yeah transmute is a word i don't think transmutate is a word maybe it's a made-up word by some scientists oh transmutation transmutation transmutation is a word yeah transmutation is a word for sure huh but like transmute i got more hits from transmute interesting so the the verb form is transmute yeah okay um okay so so load and load in the long term what's your answer i think i said two two yeah yeah i think that's fair all right frequency short term short term short term two and a half three probably okay long term two two two okay dang that's interesting so kind of what i want to get at here is to me when when we think about all the variables we just went through and i'm sure i'll listen back to this and be like why did i forget some obvious variable i might be missing one but um frequency was kind of bumped up in the list for me just just a little bit i didn't go from like a one to a three overnight but it's like oh okay this like you said is this is probably an independent lever here yeah um yeah that's the key to me and to me where i think it gets really interesting practically is like when to use higher frequencies when not to use higher frequencies at what cost does it make sense to use higher frequencies because there are obviously other things you need to consider when moving the chess pieces around the chessboard because there were a lot of twos in there right and and strength kind of to your point about um the ecological validity or the um ease of taking these outcomes and applying them directly to powerlifting training is tough because we operate under the assumption that this is a little bit of a different game in the long term because hypertrophy's contribution or its importance for your performance is only going to increase with increased training duration the thing i think that fundamentally separates strength from hypertrophy in this regard is that strength requires constraints to measure and compete in the task that are fixed across individuals that are not up for negotiation i think that's the number one thing that changes things basic example for hypertrophy if a high bar squat gives you an awesome quad stimulus great you can use that if you need a hack squat to do that do your segment length or whatever you can use that and there's literally no restrictions for strength there are so many different variables that influence it and ultimately you're still trying to fit a square peg in a round hole in terms of what you're competing with and i think that just leads to so many different manifestations of the thing that you're ultimately trying to optimize for in terms of practical solutions just based on okay if you get on board for a second just for the thought experiment that um the quads are the primary limiter for the individual that i'm talking about to push their squat up but their squat doesn't really train their quads super well when they use heavy loads let's say then some of these other variables that we're talking about like maybe the frequency of squatting isn't going to help them in the long run um but the volume allocation maybe is really really important to push it towards some of these other exercises like the the fact that it's a constrained task that is the same across people who vary in you know pretty fundamentally different ways and particularly with respect to biomechanics i think is what makes strength there's a couple things that are kind of across the boards and to me i relate those to kind of the neuromuscular experience that is kind of irrelevant of the actual task but when you apply that that maximal strength assessment into a task now everything else needs to change to account for that the fatigue associated with a set of squats based on your segment length is probably going to be way different how much carryover is there between your squat and your deadlift how are you performing those tasks to where the predominant limiter is in terms of the muscle group and how does that interface on the rest of your training like there's so many little things like this that are kind of impossible to contextualize that make the way that those other variables that don't really map to just like again like the neuromuscular task that you're trying to perform i think that's what makes it considerably messier if that makes sense i don't know if that even addresses what you were just saying but that came to my mind no i i think it i think it makes a lot of sense um and that's kind of why like you said the hypertrophy stuff is interesting because it if i i i recall you kind of playing around with like a power lifters composite uh model for this project in terms of the dose response relationships of volume and frequency because they do differ for hypertrophy and strength um but if you adopt the position that additional hypertrophy is going to contribute to additional strength which we do um you kind of need to keep it both in mind um and and that's where i think just extracting the principles from the research we have so again yeah you could say two to three times per week that's the goldilocks zone based on our meta-analysis whereas we would say consistent identifiable effects of additional frequency with diminishing returns that's the principle um and probably an independent lever right that's the principle now how do we apply it given the other principles from the other variables that's really all research can do and if you try to take it one step further that's where people just get frustrated with research and they're like what's the point whereas um to me to me that's a huge finding in a lot of ways that it isn't an independent lever um whereas i think maybe in the past that that wasn't really the viewpoint adopted by some so i think what might be hopeful because this is such an art in a lot of ways and that's why there is no evidence-based strength program it's just you know extracting those principles and trying to to move the chess piece around the chessboard is when it would make sense to use higher frequencies and when it wouldn't um so our recommendation for volume and hypertrophy was that more is better with a smaller and smaller payoff until it starts working against you right so it acknowledges the diminishing returns but it does acknowledge that more volume does tend to lead to more hypertrophy but it also acknowledges the fact that these studies are short-term and they might not fully account for potential injury risk or unsustainability of high volume training do you think that same concept that more in this case more frequency is better for strength with a smaller and smaller payoff until it starts working against you how do you feel about that recommendation for strength so it's kind of the this the same recommendation we gave for volume and hypertrophy but now for frequency and strength i think the biggest thing that would change is like you'd have to adjust the terminology of smaller and smaller payoff to be slightly more aggressive would probably be where i would be um to a much smaller uh payoff something something to that extent to just acknowledge that the diminishing returns there is a plateau yeah there seems to be a little bit more aggressive diminishing returns um but other than that i think it makes sense um um the biggest thing i struggle with is like the absolute numbers just simply don't reflect what you know i've had some pretty good success with in practice in certain ways um so i think those numbers are even more kind of thrown out in my mind and so i would even quadruple underline using the more principle based kind of takeaway um because of that um but in terms of so yeah first and foremost i agree with the way you said that as long as the diminishing returns are maybe a little bit more emphasized so much smaller and smaller payoff given that the dimension trends are a bit stronger and may even slightly plateau from a practical perspective on when to adjust frequency it's tougher there to me because of the fact that um i think it could like i'm just trying to compare it to hypertrophy um there really is if you if you accept that a set can be considerably lower performance and still benefit hypertrophy i think there there isn't too much of a downside as long as you're not getting hurt right in concept i'm not saying that go do 100 sets but just in concept for strength the issue in my brain is that again i always try to think about okay what is the way i can achieve this kind of maximal force output expression um and if you're doing things too frequently that theoretically could harm it so that does kind of create this weird goldilocks zone that you would be expecting from a practical perspective if i bench five days a week and i organize that in some way and that allows me to get in the most frequency but the also the highest average quality of work great but if i go to six maybe the average quality of work dips down even though i have a higher frequency and so so it started working against you exactly and it's just what working against you means in the strength context i think is slightly different because before for hypertrophy is more practical things exactly and this is i do think somewhat stimulus related and i would expect if we had infinite data there might be an inverted u ish for strength if we had a lot of high frequency data strong people like uh i guess to me like dude in the deadlift you would like six times for deadlift exactly right exactly well you just get a lot of dropouts and then you'd have but it's also dependent on the loads you're using right like but i guess the point i'm saying is like whatever population we're studying and whatever training parameters that we're studying um i would imagine if you had a bunch of high frequency research at some point it probably is going to be inhibiting you in some way and the specificity that you're able to achieve throughout the week both from a recovery standpoint of tolerating like a protocol that is highly specific so doing singles or whatever that is being impacted but also like your absolute performance which we haven't really done a podcast on just like going over that concept but i think that is very underrated for strength in terms of is oh can i cut you off or get a good starting point or a good stopping point so absolute performance matters how how important is it in your mind that each exposure allows for maximal or near maximal performance so let me give like a practical example for the listener to make sure they're they're following and maybe this helps clarify the question too is like i could maximize my frequency within the constraints that you're saying of ensuring good performance and maybe for me that is deadlifting once a week because if i deadlift twice a week i don't have maximal performance on the second day or is there a certain threshold of good enough performance that i can do you know four sets of four on pause deadlifts on my secondary day and i'm still benefiting from that additional frequency not burying myself into a fatigue hole and now by the time i circle back to that primary deadlift day that is a little bit heavier do you think that makes sense in terms of like hey the let me just give you a dichotomous question would it make sense to have a slightly lower frequency program that allows for that doesn't allow for quite as heavy loads every single time does that make sense yeah i i'll answer the question directly load versus frequency to some degree yeah i think i think load matters so i would answer that question if i had to choose out of those two options i would pick the option that does allow you to achieve a peak load some of the time some of the time yeah because because so this is the second part so i don't think that so very clearly to me particularly from our analysis based on fractional being the the the best method there are positive effects of frequency that go outside of the exact exercise of your training and that probably also generalizes a little bit to the maximal absolute performance i think there are probably benefits to that even if that's not the case which i think is self-evident not every single session a elite powerlifter does is in perfect recovery most of the time i think that's self-evident so i definitely think there is um you know benefits to free to frequency even if you're not in a perfectly recovered state so just to make that crystal clear there's a program two times a week where both of those sessions i'm perfectly recovered and i can perform maximally for whatever i can do on that day versus three times a week where one of those sessions i'm not perfectly recovered but i'm pretty recovered and so the the stipulation in my mind is that i do think there is a unique training effect to actually achieving maximal performance some of the time i don't know why that is the case this is honestly just my opinion at this point um but i do believe that and the trade-off and the optimization game for strength is how often can we achieve that without sacrificing the overall dose of training that is within the relevant specificity window to push everything forward that is to me that's the game for strength is like i could take 20 days off and be crystal clear and recovered right um but clearly there's a there's a trade-off there at some point where there's this optimization game that we have to play of packing in stimulus that doesn't take away from our performance too much but i still think there genuinely is like i don't know if it's absolute levels of motor unit recruitment or some sort of neuromuscular thing that um i kind of view it as like if you don't wake up the very very top end of the motor unit pool um very often those don't get the neuromuscular adaptation something like that where you need to just like specificity of fatigue state exactly exactly that concept i i do think matters quite a bit and i think this is kind of sort of where the whole primary day secondary day stuff comes from um and so ultimately the game of managing frequency volume load and your protocols and your exercise selection all that is basically just saying okay i want to achieve this state a good amount and probably as much as we can but there's also a amount of work and requisite adaptations that i need from the other stuff that's not that's also detracting from me being able to reach that state how do i do all the math to get that together and that's why i think there are 7 000 different well um well um reputable strength programs that people have had success with that just get to that in different ways based on segment lengths and um lifting styles and just like all these different factors of shoving people in a round hole to say do these movements train them at a high load for one or one or m this is the constraint now all these other variables that are a little bit more negotiable to the kind of overall neuromuscular tasks that you're training make those work and i think that's kind of why there is so many different ways to get strong ultimately and kind of where the pervasive kind of overall narratives of you have people that push tons of sub max volume you have people that run really low volume really specific uh programs you have you know west side and and and the conjugate method and and you have um the super specific dup guys and just like all the different provisions of training that you have for strength i think is way wider than it is for hypertrophy or hypertrophy we basically everyone agrees you can have variable exercise selection everyone agrees you can you know what i mean it's just there's a lot more agreement and it's just a little bit of the camps in terms of the variables but fundamentally the process is so much more similar than strength to me in the hypertrophy world it's funny even though like there is disagreement the programs that people suggest are often like basically the exact same thing exactly exactly all right bro you're doing push pull legs and he's doing like push pull legs upper lower you know what i'm saying exactly exactly people generally agree like hey select an exercise where the target muscle is going to be the limiting factor um train pretty close to failure um whereas we're kind of past the point of do we need one or multiple sets everyone's on board with multiple sets it's a question of two to four per exercise crazy crazy uh but in strength and this isn't like the majority by any means and honestly i do this from a good faith perspective people genuinely disagree what is the prime mover the limiting factor in the bench press people disagree on that yeah fundamentally and i and i think i think that's again i have a pretty nuanced view on like strength limiters and like how that all can manifest i'm not saying one side is right or the other but you can see how that completely changes the training picture on what you're trying to optimize for whereas for hypertrophy it's just not that way yeah um so but some things have become i would say commonplace at least from my perspective um more specificity primary days um um top sets of some kind year round specificity of force production yeah that's what it all comes down to and and i think that that very much aligns with what we see in the research is specificity of force production and then okay more specificity of force production is better with a smaller and smaller payoff until driving those variables takes away from your long-term development takes away from your long-term development or doesn't allow you to have regular specificity of force production and that's why i think very high volume powerlifting programs don't end up working that well for most people is because it's hard to get those regular exposures to high force output sets right um i.e. primary days so i think if there's a very simple takeaway for folks i think primary days make a lot of sense um i think and and just to define that that would be like one day where you try to set things up so you're the most recovered um doesn't mean you have to be fully recovered and tapered every time you do that but well recovered enough to perform pretty dang well and that's going to be your your heaviest day or at least have your uh highest peak load that you use throughout the week yeah um and intentionally intentionally backing off those other days to to the extent that it may not seem like the most productive like you're kind of like taking at face value that like oh this individual session is intentionally lower of a stimulus than it could be theoretically right like even then you may be able to tolerate which is just completely different than hypertrophy training like hypertrophy training if you can tolerate it for the most part do it whereas with this you you basically are saying even if i can tolerate it theoretically there is ground to be gained that may be meaningful by setting things up so i can achieve maximal performance in one of these sessions and i think it's fundamentally different and i think it's like a sliding scale of to what degree are you willing to sacrifice that peak performance based on long-term or short-term and that's periodization in my mind and that kind of leads me to another quick point is that i wanted i we didn't talk about this beforehand um but i find myself often programming lower frequencies in more off-season type training um so kind of what that'll look like is like more exercise variation for hypertrophy reasons um because if i can move away from the competition list maybe we could do something a little bit more hypertrophy friendly also just seems to build the athlete up for lack of a better term and just make them strong and and other movement patterns or other pressing angles or um single leg movements whatever the case may be and because i'm kind of twisting that volume dial up and because i'm also twisting probably the proximity to failure dial up and and and trying to having them train closer to failure um because i'm kind of making that investment in their long-term development um i still want them to have a primary day and i still want that them to regularly touch decently heavy loads it might not be quite as heavy i find it hard to kind of concurrently have decently recovered or decently high for force production days plus the higher volumes when i'm also using high frequencies so that's why i might have someone that benches four times a week um in more strength focus blocks or when they're peaking but pull them back to three times per week or just three times per week of pressing training in general maybe even two times per week for a little bit um because i actually find that a little bit more hypertrophy friendly does that thinking check out to you and and do you find yourself ever doing the same 100 that's it's hilarious we haven't talked about this but i've i've started to do that too um the predominant thing for me is just viewing things more so from this principle-based perspective rather than i need to nail this person's optimal frequency or they're going to detrain and they're going to get weaker and they're or they're not going to progress viewing things more from a much higher level principle-based perspective just has given me a lot more freedom i feel like and i'm not nearly as scared to change things from what has worked and it just allows you to hone in on the thing you're actually trying to progress more um and i think the key there is just again having very clear outlines of what you expect communicating that with the with the individual but clear example one of my awesome clients right now is going through we just finished up a meet going through a work capacity block um and that's again a topic for another episode i think those are useful for a variety of reasons but basically the whole goal of it is to say okay the quality of this work is going to be like easy to moderate really challenging let's just scale that up to improve how much work you're able to handle in a in a given block and then increase that um the the qualities of that towards whatever adaptation we want to kind of go towards later down the line um and to do that we kind of generalize the the the the program a little bit to kind of do similar to what you're saying is you know reducing the frequency of variations that um are you know seen as kind of strength exercises and kind of push those more towards like belt squad and things like that that kind of reduces that fractional frequency button a little bit to be more friendly to the thing that we're trying to do and that'll change later down the line and i would have never done that um because he is coming off a very successful that worked exactly a very successful training cycle and i never would have made those changes four times a week exactly whereas it's like bro there's a reason body almost all bodybuilders don't train chess four times a week yep because when you need when you need to maximize hypertrophy um you're going to be doing some fatiguing stuff and there's kind of that goldilocks zone in terms of frequency from a practical perspective i think the key the key ultimately is just like i said once you have that expectation it's clear on what we're trying to do then it comes okay this is what i expect to happen in your terms of your your strength that you're estimated one or m's or whatever but then also what do we need to do to maintain whatever we want to maintain and so i think viewing it that way as opposed to okay what is the optimal frequency for this individual to make them progress it's just like much more liberating like okay if i have somebody hit single at seven once or twice a week on bench even though they're four times a week bencher are they going to get dramatically weaker probably not that's okay like if that's okay for whatever you're doing and i think that's really what it comes down to is like okay what are we trying to progress set up the training to do that and then what qualities are we trying to maintain or marginally progress like minimum effective dose kind of thing and set the training up that way and that can be substantially different phase to phase and that's okay yeah so i i often find myself using the phrase i'd be stoked if some prs fall in our lap but it's not the focus right now um so kind of to i think to summarize what you just said is like long-term development perspective we have certain priorities and therefore certain variables to prioritize short-term strength development and strength expression we have other priorities and other variables to focus on it's a sliding scale right just because you're 10 weeks out from a meet doesn't mean you don't need to maintain the muscle you've you've gained up to this point and doesn't mean that additional hypertrophy isn't going to contribute at all same idea with when you're on the in the off-season mode if you will um or improvement season mode in which i don't want you to forget how to squat um i don't want you to not hit prs in the off-season so the way that i'll phrase it is in more developmental blocks if you will or off-season type blocks say hey we're doing triples and we're i'm gonna let let you let it rip at the end of the block and see what's there i would be stoked if some prs fell in our lap but we're not going to define the success of this training phase based on whether you hit a pr or not um and then it just kind of shifts a little bit right so it's like hey now we're in a strength block i am going to define the success of the block based on your per your general performance um i'm not as worried about uh looking at uh potential physique changes or an overall performance composite of all of your pressing exercises that might give us some indication about hypertrophy i'd be stoked if that fell in our lap um but i'm more focused on that top end performance so it's just kind of this sliding scale and i think um to use a og strength and conditioning uh terminology you kind of need to do like a needs analysis based on like what the 100 what the athlete needs in terms of what what do they need for long-term development um how quickly do they detrain in these various um qualities and where are you going to fall on that sliding scale to what degree you're going to change it i have some guys where i slide that scale like crazy man other people it's just like little nudges um i think the scale basically the way that i think about it two things that i'll say off that sorry to cut you off but good two things the scale to me expands the more advanced you get that's the number one thing that's exactly how i think about it um the sliding scale expands as you get more advanced when you're and i think just for honestly bigger people yeah yeah the higher weight classes the scale seems to expand too yeah so the the training that you're doing is probably hitting all the qualities necessary early on and then over time that kind of expands where you might need to specialize to push the needle a little bit more at least at a relative rate that you can notice that's the biggest thing i always think about is the time oriented aspect of things but the other thing you said that i is hilarious again you said we haven't talked about this i revisited a ton of stuff from classical strength conditioning the more that i've kind of viewed things from this kind of principle-based perspective and i've started to just view things a lot more like that um and the needs analysis the longer term planning that's flexible four-year template in the description so that you're you're ready for your next olympics appearance yeah a lot of that stuff i i i definitely used to poo poo on and not bro got to see what they did last week and and and i obviously said there's there's a middle ground there's there's validity to both but like i i personally absolutely fell way too hard on the side of like immediate results are all that matters and that's what's determining my training structure and i still i still uh hold the position that you could set things up to get just as maybe just as good as results if again you kind of again set things up so that that that data is as informative as possible yeah because i've thought about the short-term stuff i thought about this too the way that you get a short-term approach to work is that you are basically finding the training intervention at all times that maps with the quality that is the is the is the limiter that's essentially what you're doing is a classical periodization approach or a like kind of the one we're describing it's like kind of shifts in bias and stuff you're kind of just it's kind of making sure we do it all and then over time you might notice this guy's seems a little under muscled relative to other clients that i have maybe we'll spend a little more time doing that but you're kind of hitting all the qualities and taking time to really develop and specialize those so it's kind of a catch-all in that time and you might individualize the amount of time spent different phases based on kind of the rates of progress or you're like another thing i was going to say is i feel like i'm pretty big on kpis that differ but between what i'm trying to do now kind of one of the things you mentioned was the kind of composite score of all the exercises related to a muscle group i kind of view that as like a hypertrophy-esque kind of measurement and strength oriented phases you care about the task you're trying to maximize and then like work capacity already in phases i'm kind of like how much work can we handle without feeling terrible is essentially the goal um so you kind of shift those kpis around and in a approach where you're really trying to maximize that short-term performance you're basically just finding the organization of all the training variables that are hitting on whatever the the the limiting um adaptation is and then that's gonna because it's that limiting factor or that weakest link in the chain should allow for the short-term performance improvement um so i think that's where those can kind of coexist um and i think the um yeah just the the the their strengths and weaknesses to both approaches i think they can both kind of fall too far in either direction and kind of something in the middle ground uh makes the most sense but yeah i think uh it's an interesting conversation i'm kind of coming full circle in terms of how we've coached that maybe deserves its own episode tldr on frequency more is better considerably diminishing returns so considerably smaller and smaller payoff unless it takes away from other variables that are more important for the quality you are trying to maximize in that training phase and that could be one time per week it could be six times so helpful yeah that was a super level but but yeah conceptually i mean it is kind of similar to more is better with a small and smaller payoff until it starts working against you but in this case working against you is more so it's expanded to what is what are the other things trying to do it doesn't meet your needs maybe is a better until it doesn't meet your um strength limiter in a lot of ways yeah i mean that's what it comes down to yeah yeah should have worked on that one beforehand but uh shopped it a little bit should have shopped it a little bit but hey yeah that's what these are for and we gotta go we do leave us a rating and review uh some nice little christmas present for you we came in your data-driven dad we're like ah basically yeah barely two hours sounds good yeah three as always a little extra yeah hey you're welcome um leave us a rating room review uh subscribe on podcast uh subscribe on youtube and on your podcast player of choice you might think you're just subscribed but you might not be yeah um so double check leave us a subscription that'd be great and we'll see in the next episode take care peace