 I started around 230 pounds in March, it's now late October, and I weighed in 199.6 this morning. So, from like peak to lowest, looking at about 30 pounds. The basic principles that we know are just necessary to lose weight, you have to eat less calories than you're expending. That component of it is extremely simple to get to the goals that you want, but actually putting it under practice is sometimes extremely challenging and sometimes near impossible for some people to actually adhere to long term. Oh, I Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну I think there's a lot of interesting questions that we can discuss. We're going to frame this around practical dieting strategies before we press record. Just like, I don't know. I don't like this being about me. Yeah, I get that. But at the same time, I do think that's pretty useful for people at the same time. I understand the uncomfortability, though, because that is how I am. But I think it's useful to frame it through a personal lens. Yeah, yeah, yeah. People like stories like that. I always laugh when I see pieces of content on the internet where it's like a case study or, if you're lucky, two participants in a little experiment. And that gets way more engagement or eyeballs than, you know, properly accounting for variants and having a sample size beyond one. But I think that's just a good example that like storytelling is quite engaging. I'll also say on the front end of that, there was a time early on where I like, like right when we started Daydream Strength, this was kind of around like COVID time. Where I was like posting every week of training, like a recap and stuff like that. And then I noticed I was like, like some people really like that. I noticed. Killed your love for the process. Yeah, like the more I do training for myself because I'm intrinsically motivated to do it, the better. At the same time, I think there's like a healthy balance. I was going to say, the only thing I'd say is that when pilot training is going really well and you have that pseudo linear progression for a little bit, I do feel like it kind of helps. Essentially, the week four effect that we see now, right, is like when you have that kind of that positive expectations of like got to post the week four update, you kind of check those boxes a little harder to make sure that you show up for that. Yeah. Not necessarily for the gratification on social media necessarily, but it is kind of like a, it's just an external factor that like kind of makes sure you check your boxes. So it's, I've thought about this a lot because like I used to post training all the time and I think it had a lot of benefits. I think it prevented me in some ways from kind of getting complacent with certain things. But at the same time, like you said, for a very long term view of things, I think it definitely harms internal intrinsic motivation. So like there's like that catch 22 for it for me that I've tried to strike a balance with a little bit now. Yeah. Yeah. I remember like recognizing that and making a conscious decision that I was not going to like post training at least consistently. And I was just like, you know what? That's when I would say like DDS was off the ground, but we were still trying to make it like a feasible business, things like that. Sure. I was like, you know what? If I need to like, I was like, I want our ideas. I want the things that we contribute to the community to be what people are interested in consuming our stuff or hiring us or buying our products or whatever. I want that to be the reason. And I was like, and if that if we are unable to do that, then so be it. Do you think it's do you think it was slash is important to some degree to demonstrate walking of the walk a little bit to get those ideas to hold out hold as much credence in terms of I guess this is where you get into kind of. I think I think it ensures you have like I think it's a component of experience, if that makes sense. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But at the same time, like I, I, this might sound like kind of blunt or pessimistic, but going to grad school to study strength and hypertrophy was probably one of the worst things I could do for my own strength and hypertrophy progress. Now, like I've learned a lot and I think we talked about in the last podcast that like the work that we've done has changed my view completely on training in a lot of ways. Um, so like I think it'll have a long tail of benefits for myself, but at the same time, like we're contributing, like we're contributing a relatively small amount. Like any lab group is going to contribute a very small amount to the way any one person conceptualizes and applies training principles. So like all of that is to say is like, to answer your question is I think it's an important thing to do. I think it helps you relate to people. But at the same time, like I'm very confident that I would be considerably stronger and more jacked if I like did things that, if I would have avoided things that have built up the degree of expertise that I do have now. I more so meant it from the perspective of, um, so let's say, let's say your goal predominant, I'm not saying this is the case, let's just say this is the case, um, that your goal was to spread your ideas as much as possible. The, Oh, from like a utilitarian standpoint? Exactly. Like the idea that somebody knows that you walk the walk to some degree allows buy-in for the same ideas, even if the ideas are right no matter what. You know what I mean? That's the, that's the, um, there's a second. People steal our ideas all the time. There's a section of the community that kind of needs to see it in action to, you know, actually think the ideas are worthwhile, which I think is an interesting. No, no. I think, I think there's a ton of truth to that. Yeah. I do kind of view it as like a ripple effect though, because, um, and like whether this is best for the actual people creating these, the ideas or not is another discussion. Mm-hmm. But like, I've always conceptualized it as like, we don't have like the biggest audience, but I think in a lot of ways, the goal is to more so have the right audience. Yeah. Um, and I, I, I, I'm pretty confident that some of the audience has a big audience themselves and, um, maybe we can give ideas. And like, again, maybe that's not the best thing for us because we'd probably benefit from not having, from having a more direct line and, and having a bigger audience to your point. Yeah. Um, so I don't know. I, I, I don't know if I've, uh, fully come to a conclusion on that. Neither have I. I just, it's something I think about sometimes. I'm like, yeah, like obviously I think some of our ideas have been pretty decent, but then I wonder was the, uh, the posting training every single week kind of necessary to get those ideas off the ground in the first place. You know what I mean? I kind of think. Um, cause I think the fact that. I, I don't, I don't think so. I don't think so. Yeah. I don't know. Um, I, here's what I would say to answer your question. I think training hard is important. I don't think it has to be, I don't even think it has to be like the same discipline. Yeah. Like, um, as we'll probably get into a bit for the last, definitely the last like seven months. And I'd say in a lot of ways, the last 12 to 18 months, my training has been almost exclusively dear towards hypertrophy. Um, and, uh, at the same time, uh, at the same time, we still talk about powerlifting training and we coach powerlifters. Um, and I think the biggest thing to help you relate and kind of like keep your head in the game in terms of being able to do that stuff is training hard. And I think I would say the same thing if I was like training for an endurance event. Um, obviously there's benefits if, um, the discipline is the same, but I think what matters the most there is having some sort of discipline you're getting after. Yeah. That's my, I think on an ongoing basis, 100% that's accurate. I think you do need some skin in the game at some point. Yeah. There's just certain things that you just like, just don't know. But yeah, no, I'm, I'm with you. Yeah. Yeah. Like I'm, I'm, you've done powerlifting for example. I'm glad I like had the phase where like powerlifting was what I thought about when I woke up and when I went to bed. Yeah. And when your elbows hurt really bad and. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. What do you mean you can't squat three times a week? Like, dude, my elbows don't do that. You know? Just like rewatching your training footage. Oh yeah. In insane amount of times. Yeah, exactly. Like almost compulsively. Those are the days. Yeah. I look back at it fondly. Yeah. I still remember, like, I was thinking about this the other day. The fact that I did an experiment that I was really, really excited about to do 32 back off singles with 30 seconds. Right. You did some crazy stuff. Dude, I was like, I just like, I was so dedicated to that. Like, I was juiced up every day to set that tendal up, sit down and hit. Dude, I was crazy. You did do some crazy stuff. Crazy stuff. But anyway, with that preamble out of the way. Yeah. I think there's a lot of practical and just like kind of frameworks we can draw from your experience. I'm more so looking at the principles that underlie a lot of your decisions, what you went about the process, and any lessons learned throughout this kind of cut that you just went on. And so I guess my first question is to kind of maybe give the audience some background. You already mentioned a little bit, kind of transition, I'd say a little bit less than a year ago into like kind of full head of steam into the more hypertrophy or an interaction. Maybe give a little more context there, kind of what preceded the cut, if you will. And then we can kind of go into more of the dieting experience. Yeah. I'm trying to kind of think on the fly a little bit here in terms of timelines, but at the same time, it probably doesn't matter all that much. Let's see, we're recording this in October of 2025. I trained pretty hard for powerlifting, I would say up until around this time, 2023. And then, so I'd say the last two years, my mind shifted a bit more towards the hypertrophy side of things, if that makes sense. But it wasn't like, okay, I'm flipping the switch, I'm no longer doing squat bench deadlift, and I'm just training for hypertrophy. Right. So maybe let's call it like a year and a half where hypertrophy training was top of mind. At the same time, I would say there was like a transition period there, let's call it for about a year, maybe a little bit longer, where I kind of, I don't want to say I was like directionless, but I didn't, I kind of had like, oh, I still want to, you know, bench a couple times a week. Classic. Yeah, I'm going to do high bar squat, I'm going to do stuff like that. And I don't regret that necessarily, but I do think that caused me to, like, I'm kind of speaking out of both ends of my mouth right now, because I actually love when people have multiple goals at once. It's really fun, and it's a fun way to kind of periodize training and change things up based on what you're interested in. But I think given constraints, it wasn't the best call to try to do both. I probably should have leaned into one or the other. But I would say, yeah, the last year, I really heavily leaned into hypertrophy training, and I haven't really done squat bench deadlift in any serious manner for about a year, probably a little bit longer. And then, so yeah, that's kind of the background. I've been training, I was trying to do the math before we started recording. So I remember going into my sophomore year of high school, I would ride my bike on the highway. It was just like maybe like a quarter mile spot, so I didn't have my driver's license yet. Had to get those curls in, though. Yeah, no, but the thing is, so going into my sophomore year of high school, which I might have the year off a little bit, but I think that would have been the summer of 2013. Sophomore year of high school, I knew we had a strength conditioning class, and I knew there were boys in there, I knew there were girls in there, and I definitely didn't want the boys or the girls to see me not be able to squat at least a 25 on each side, at least 95 pounds. Elite. So I drove that quarter mile stretch from my house to the LA Fitness, so that I could make sure I could squat at least 95 pounds to start the semester, so I didn't embarrass myself. Like, that was genuinely my goal for the summer, was to be able to squat 95 pounds. I've never been, when I started lifting, I was not the person that was just able to pick it up really easy and just get to a 135 bench. I trained my ass off for a 135 bench, and I remember being so hyped when I got that. Whereas you talk to other people, they're like, yeah, first time I deadlifted, I deadlifted 500 pounds. It was not me. So anyway, 2013, obviously there were years in there that it's like how productive was training actually, and the goal was more so sports performance throughout high school. So I would say like roughly 10 years of training. And then, yeah, once I made the shift to hypertrophy, it was more of a constraints-led decision where I was like, you know what, I'm very confident I could still progress in powerlifting, but I am recognizing it's going to get harder and harder, and that's not a reason to stop, but I just had to be objective that I wasn't in a season of life where I could make that commitment, and I wasn't going to be satisfied with a really slow rate of progress, and that wasn't going to keep me engaged, which I think is, like, and something that helped me a lot with that decision once I did kind of like actually consciously make that decision was that it's not a final decision. Now, I might never train for powerlifting again, but I can if I want to. And I was like, you know what, I'm in a busy period, and I kind of feel that stuff crowding in on training, and I want to enjoy training. I like lifting. Like powerlifting itself never really, like, got me super fired up. It's just the fact that powerlifting is a way. Objective. It's an objective thing, and I just like lifting. Like, that's the simplest way to put it. I just love lifting, and powerlifting itself helped me love lifting for a while, but because of the constraints that were kind of, like, adding up, if you will, and the external variables that were kind of adding up, I was like, you know what? I can love lifting and do things that are a lot more time efficient, and in an endeavor that I think I can make meaningful progress quite a bit more. And then I've always been pretty damn consistent with training. Like, I've had months here or there where it's, like, I might have averaged two or three sessions a week, and I have skipped sessions before, and I have, like, not had great periods. But overall, like, I've never taken, like, a year off or six months off. But I would say early this year, early 2025, I was in one of those periods where I was like, I'm probably not progressing right now. I'm, like, I like training when I'm there. I never, like, enjoyed not being in the gym, but I got to a point where I was not enjoying the process overall, if that makes sense. And, again, like, I've never regretted training. I've never regretted being in the gym when I'm in the gym. I've never not enjoyed it. But I was not enjoying the process overall, which I think is, in a lot of ways, more important than the training itself. We're joking about, like, compulsively pulling up your training footage and rewatching those things. Obviously, you can take that to an extreme. But I do think you're excited about it. You're thinking about it. It's meaningful to you. It's meaningful to you. Because you're going to put it, you're going to prioritize it, right? You're going to think about when your pre-workout meal is so you feel good, so you can have, so you can focus appropriately. You're going to make sure you have some mental energy left for your training when you get to it, that sort of thing. And I was like, man, I just feel, like, swamped all day, every day. It's the last thing on the list. It's the last thing on the list. I'm not, I'm maybe training three times a week on average. And then I was like, okay. Basically, the way I, the reason I feel that way is I'm accountable to other people in other areas of my life, which everyone has that, right? Like, if that's life, in other words, I had normal adult responsibilities. But I was like, I kind of need to have an adult responsibility in the training side of things. So I was like, you know what, I need, and also, I was just like, I literally, this is my primary source of income, is doing this for other people. And I'm recording check-ins on a weekly basis, talking. You think you provide value, right? Right. Yeah. And I was like. You see the value in your own work. Like, I hope this doesn't come off like too proud. But I was like, damn, I wish I could hire myself. Yeah, right. Because I'm like, I'm literally talking. Right, right. I'm literally communicating with clients right now, saying things that I wish someone was like saying to me. Yep. And I'm providing the accountability that I wish someone was providing to me. Yep. So I was like, you know, I need someone I trust. I need someone that I don't really like, we probably think similar enough. But I also like, don't know them well enough. Like, I would love to hire you. But like, I know you too well. Yep. I know our other. Separation. There's not enough separation. You kind of need that like. Yeah. That relationship that it's like, I don't want to let you down. Whereas like. Exactly. It's a lot easier for me to let you down. I know exactly what you mean. Compared to someone that you don't know quite as well. Which. Yep. So anyway, I hired Steve Hall from Revive Stronger. I'm sure a lot of listeners would. Will be familiar with him. And the reason being is. I've always loved the way he thinks about things. And I think we just like think very similarly. I mean, I've been listening to his podcast since. I don't know. Like definitely 2018, maybe even 2017. Shoot. Maybe even before that. I don't know when he started it. But I've been listening for a while. Always thought he. Always liked the way he thought about things. So anyway. I was like, you know what? I need someone in my corner. I got to. Take this more seriously. And at that point. I was intentionally bulking. But I had taken a little bit too far. And definitely got loose with things. And I was fluffy. And I was like, you know what? Let's. Let's reset my body fat. Or kind of my body weight range. I'd say. I've mostly hung out. In like the 215 to 230 range. Over the last handful of years. And I was like, you know what? Once I get above 222, 225 for sure. I just. There's not much reason to do that anymore. So I was like, you know what? The goal is just to. Try to like. See what's under the hood. From 10 years of training. So we started cutting. It wasn't like completely linear. I took some. Some diet breaks. I took. You know. We kind of slowed it down. Those are all things we can talk about. But yeah. I started around 230 pounds in March. It's now late October. And I weighed in. At 199.6 this morning. So. From like peak to lowest. Looking at about 30 pounds. I've. Training performance has been going pretty well. Some of the metrics I've taken. Photos. Things like that. I'm pretty confident. I've held on to most muscle. I'm. Maybe can even trick myself into thinking. I've gained some muscles. In some spots that were under trained beforehand. But nonetheless. Training is going well. Lost 30 pounds. I think most of that is. Is body fat. And. Yeah. Probably the leanest. I've been. Since I was riding my bike on the highway. To LA Fitness. What a way to bring it back together. Yeah. Excellent. Yeah. Yeah. I mean. So many. So many different levels. We can go down. I kind of want to break it up into. A couple different parts. I'm curious about the training. To kind of start. So you mentioned. Coming from a pretty strong. Piloting background. And obviously. You mentioned. Maybe. Initially. Before. You and Steve. Started working together. You kind of were playing around. With different. Kind of. Percentages. Of the power lifting. The hypertrophy spectrum. And kind of how that changed. I guess. When you. Started working with Steve. Or maybe when you. Kind of. Put more baskets. Or more of your. Effort in the basket. Of hypertrophy. What would you say. Have been the biggest. Changes. X's and O's wise. To your training. And I also have some follow ups. In terms of more. So like the. Mental approach. To training. That you kind of adopted. So. X's and O's wise. With training. Nothing. Crazy. In terms of like. A change in training style. Or anything like that. Obviously Steve. Took over my programming. Which is really nice. To just like. Yep. Not think about it. And I do think. There's like. Just an inherent benefit. To that. Basic example. Training back. Three times a week. I wasn't doing that before. I think that. That had a benefit. Like. I was doing. I was doing weighted crunches. Once a week. On my own. Like cable crunches. And. We moved. To. Machine crunch. And. Lying leg raises. Like. One of those. Abs twice a week. Using those two exercises. And like. So I was training my abs harder. So it was just nice. To turn your brain off. And just. Ensures a nice. Balanced physique program. And just execute it. Basically. I've trained. Dang near. Every set to failure. Since. Steve and I started working together. That was the case beforehand. It was really nice. To. To. To. To. To. To. To. I haven't recorded. A ton of my training. But. The training I have recorded. And. You know. Just a couple. Like. Little blind spots. With. Execution of things. Was really nice. To get feedback on. So I would say. Nothing. Revolutionary. The absolute biggest thing. Was accountability. On the nutrition side. For me. Yeah. And. Implementation. Of like. Refeeds. And just managing. Kind of the psychological. Aspect of it. I think. Was. Was really. Really. Big for me. Training. Had some nice wrinkles. And improvements. But. It was just. Good. Balanced. Hypertory training. I think you mentioned. Moderate-ish volumes. You mentioned. I think you mentioned. I think you mentioned. In a text the other day. You basically. Haven't lost. Any strength. If not. Gained a little bit. On some exercises. How. Yeah. What do you attribute that to? How did that process go? Yeah. So. A couple things there. I. That's. That's accurate. But I'll. Really irks me. When people say like. Oh I hit. A PR. Hit. A bunch of PRs and cuts. But it's like. Exercises they introduce. During the cut. Yeah. Yeah. So that is something. To keep in mind. Is like. Sure. I. Definitely not at my strongest. Like. Low bar back squat. Right now. And that's an exercise. That I've trained. For many many years. Yes. Um. The. The exercises that I was training. Consistently before the diet. And. I'm up to at this point. And still haven't at this point. For the most part. Have continued to. To get stronger. With the exception of exercises that. Uh. Being fluffier. Mm. Genuinely adds a benefit. It. So. Leg press. Did end up falling off. Mm. And. I was kind of skeptical at first. I was like. Man. Maybe I am like. Losing. Muscle. Or like. Maybe we're dieting too quickly. Or whatever. Sure. But I looked back at footage. Of leg press. When I was. Mechanics are just way different. The mechanics are just way different. Like. You don't have as much. You know. Meat on your hamstrings. You go down lower. You go down lower. And like. Your quads are less supported. At the bottom. It's not like I was like. Super. I mean. I was. I was. You know. Decently high body fat. But it's not like I was like. Yeah. It's 30 pounds. It's nothing like. Yeah. Insane. But it's enough. Such that. It does make a difference. Mm. RDL continued to progress. From like. 230 down to like. 208 I think. And. I actually was like. I think this is going to start. It started to feel like nails on a chalkboard. Mm. If that makes sense. So we ended up like. Proactively swapping that out. So we made some swaps. Because in a lot of ways. It's. I think. What did you swap to? Uh. What did we do on that day? Uh. We took out. Two sets of RDLs. And we put in two sets. Dumbbell RDLs. And one set of. Front foot elevated split squats. Nice. So. Um. Probably like match. Like pretty similar stimulus there. Honestly. I think in a lot of ways. It's just. Uh. What you got to do in a diet. Is like. At least for me. I. I really like the performance aspect of training. And it's. And it's. Not necessarily on any specific movement. Yeah. Yeah. It's just. Feeling like you're progressing. Sure. And like. I do think there's something to be said. That you don't want to put. New movements in. Such that you have to like. Spend a bunch of time relearning them. Mm. But like. A hinge is a hinge. Like. Sure. If you're well trained. You might. It might take you a session or two to really nail it. Sure. So. That was a case where I was like. Psychologically. This just kind of sucks. And I think we can get just as good of a stimulus with something else. And I'll be more excited about training. Mm. Leg press. We ended up just swapping to a different leg press. Again. Really just for psychological reasons. What. What I. What probably makes the most sense on paper. Is just drop the load by like 10. 15%. Reset your progressions. Whatever. Continue to fight for progression. Even though you're probably going to get weaker. I was like. I don't really want to do that. I want to feel like I'm progressing. Sure. So anyway. Movements like that. Some pressing movements did fall off a little bit here and there. But. Single joint stuff that isn't influenced by like just how big you are. Continue to get stronger. So I think. Overall. For movements that are like. Like I'm the strongest I've ever been on single joint movements. Right now. Despite being in a deficit for like seven months. Wow. Compound. Compound stuff has fallen off a bit. Hard to say how much of that is due to what. Interesting. Yeah. I mean. Like you said. The training stuff. There's not too much. Honestly. One of the reasons I wanted to ask is that. That's always kind of a. Funny thing when people like see transformations or whatever. They're like. Oh my God. You must have like. Locked. Changed. Changed everything. But in reality from the training side of things. It's like. I had a few people ask like how much volume I've been doing. And. I think. This wouldn't. This will cover all. The volume. The volume king's going to give away the secrets. Yeah. I think this covers all muscles. Six to 12 sets per week. Oh man. So you. So you. You're buying into this high intensity training propaganda. Actually. No. Cavs is. Cavs is five. So five to 12 sets. Abs. Three. Before people get confused. You want to mention why that's the case. What do you mean? Like talk through why. So like immediately when people hear that. They're going to be like. You don't even believe the results of your own work. Right. You know what I mean? Like that's. We've talked about that. No. No. No. I know. But I. Like I do. I do think that's. Okay. An interesting. You know. Why? Like how did you. How did. How did you guys land upon that as a general concept? Our. You look at the meta analysis. It's like 40 plus sets per week is best. Right. So that's what you're going to do. Right. Yep. Dude. First of all. I don't have time for that. Second of all. More often. I really only deloaded. Um. When it made sense with my schedule. So like if I had travel. I would just like. Okay. I'm going to. Only train a couple times this week. And this can effectively serve as a deload. Yep. Otherwise. I want to go in there. I want to beat what I did last week. I don't want to leave. Any reps in the tank unless I absolutely have to. Because like it's going to wreck me. Because I am coming off a deload or something like that. So that's just how I want to train. I want to. Take every set as hard as I can. Um. And I also don't want to have to deload. And I don't want to dread the sessions. And be looking down the barrel of like. You know. A two hour session every day. I just don't have time for that. I don't. Honestly. I just genuinely don't have the focus for that either. Like I'll just be honest about it. Um. And. That just leads me to like. Four to twelve sets per session. Beautiful. And in a lot of ways. I think that was like. The most volume I could do. While still keeping. Um. My effort as high as possible. And. I think if I were to go higher. I think the net volume would have been pretty similar. Because I would have had to probably deload a little bit more often. So like. I. It's just the constraints led approach. We've talked about. If I could orient my life around training a little bit more. Would I do more? For sure. That's a. Like. I just. The reason I wanted to ask. Is it's just such a perfect example. I'm like. You're literally not contradicting the findings whatsoever. It's just people don't. Understand how to take those graphs. And actually apply them. And I. I guess just. It's just such a good example. It's like. Yes. He's doing. As much as he can. A very high quality training. That fits within the constraints of his lifestyle. Sessions did not feel easier. Yeah. No. Of course. Like. And I'm. Like. I'm sure that's still. Like. That's still a good amount of work. Like. Yeah. You know what I mean? It's just. It's just a good amount of work. Um. I'm also pretty big on rest periods. Like. I know there's. Kind of a trend towards recommending shorter rest periods. Oh. Man. I think that's. We can. I. I just don't. I. Yeah. I. I'll rest like. Up to seven minutes. Between. Between sets of. Leg press. Yeah. Upper body stuff. I would say on average. I'm resting four sets between. Sorry. Four minutes. So like. Between exercises. But I. I do pair them. Tangent question. Okay. Okay. So you're super setting to save a little bit. So like. If I'm on machine chest press. I finish a set. I'll set a timer for four minutes. Walk over the rows. If. If someone is on the lap pull down. All right. I'll just kind of hang out for a bit. Or maybe I'll start warming up for another exercise. If no one's on it. But if. If no one's on the lap pull down. I'll go hit a set there. And then once four minutes is up. Then I'll go and chest press again. Until I finish. So let's say. Let's say you did two minutes. You find your performance is substantially worse. Yes. Interesting. Like. Notably. Psychologically. Physically. What do you think? Obviously both. But I'm curious which one more so. I think it's. I think it's. Physical. Interesting. Yeah. I mean. Obviously like. Longer rests are going to. Maintain your performance better. But I guess I haven't. Had that same. Experience. Yeah. I. I would say. If I. Like. Could not pair exercises. So I could not go run over the lap. Pull down. Or to another exercise. To knock out some volume. Like. While I'm. While I'm resting. I probably would decrease it a bit. Because like. A little bit. I didn't. I. I said I rest a while. But I really don't sit around that much at the gym. Because I'm always kind of like. Doing something. Doing something. I'm like. Starting to warm up on. Something. And then yeah. I'll sit down for a minute before the set. Get focused. And then do it. So. Yeah. I mean. Sessions had a good flow. Okay. Interesting. Okay. Last. Last training question. Before we probably get into the meat of it. So. Throughout the diet. Obviously. There's a lot of. Things going on. That just kind of. Change your day-to-day relationship. With a lot of things. I'm assuming. And one of those. I'm sure. Is just like. Kind of how you. Motivation for training. Things like that. Was there any. Behavioral things you picked up. Throughout the diet. Related to training. That you're going to try to carry over. In terms of. You know. Whether that be like. Rituals. Whether that be. Anything like that. Like. So like. Things outside of the gym. Yeah. Just like. Just like. Basically like. Habits or behavioral things. That you've. Implemented maybe. As a consequence of the diet. Are you like. Oh man. This actually really helped. I'm going to. I'm going to keep doing that. Oh yeah. Yeah. For sure. That's. That's a good question. There are all. There are multiple things. I do think. Some things become. More important. The deeper you get into. Sure. A diet. So. I would say. The biggest thing. That's like. Impacted my. So. I needed to make. I need to make sure. Like training. And. In. The nutrition approach. Fit within. The rest of my responsibilities. And. The thing that's started. To like get annoying. In terms of the rest of my responsibilities. Has been. Timing of training. And timing of nutrition. I would say right now. If I. Don't have. A similar. Amount of carbs. For my pre-workout meal. Like I will feel it. And that's just annoying. Yeah. Because. It's just. You know. You need to be a little bit more rigid. With your meal timing. Your meal structure. I just don't think. That's going to matter as much. Sure. When I'm in a surplus. And there's just more carbs. To go around. So I can go. I can go to the gas station. Pick up a Rice Krispie treat. Sure. Sure. I can't wait to do that. I saw your eyes light up. Yeah. Or a Pop-Tart. But yeah. Like. But anyway. To answer your question. If it. If it has. A notable effect. If it has a noticeable effect. In a cut. It might have. Non-zero. A non-zero. Benefit. In a surplus. And I just think the structure. That dieting. Forces you into. Is really. Really helpful. For people. Because. Yeah. You. It might not be things. That you notice. On a day-to-day basis. But probably. It will add up. So I would say like. Meal timing is something that. I think I want to be better about. Going forward. Compared to like. Just how I have been historically. Sure. Also. Being hydrated. Because that's another thing. Is I. Again. If hydration was lower. I mean. You could see your pumps. A lot. A hell of a lot better. When you're dieting. Sure. And pumps are just way better. When you're actually hydrated. I feel like I can maintain my performance. A little bit better. Within a session. So I did that. And just. Using like. Gatorade zero powder. Was my way to do that. Because it tastes really good. And it forced me to drink. During my sessions. And before my sessions. So that's. Something I can do. I don't think the sodium in there. Is like a game changer. But. Again. Just like. Making the water taste good. Was a small little behavioral hack. That. That did help me quite a bit. But. And then beyond that man. I would say the biggest thing. Is like. I'm. Very pro. Have someone in your corner. Because. You know. There's times where. It gets to the. The hour. Where it's like. All right. You got to start. You know. Getting your stuff together. To head to the gym. I just wouldn't have done it. Yep. Because I felt. Pulled in different directions. To do other things. But. I also just had the motivation. That. I want to execute the plan. I want. I don't want to let coach down. And. That goes a long way. And. I. Honestly. Will need to probably pull back. A little bit. On training in the coming months. To be honest. But. I want to keep. An element of that. The best I can. And having somebody. That's objective. Like. To evaluate that situation. And know where the best spots. To do that. Is so much better. Than you doing it yourself. Like. Dude. That's the biggest thing. Is. Whether it's training wise. Or nutrition wise. Like. Again. Just having someone. Outside of. Your head. To make those decisions. Because in a lot of ways. There's never like. A right decision. Yeah. No. But it's just the fact. That there's a decision. You put your head down. You get the work done. Is huge. Yep. So like. Decision is almost. The worst decision. Sometimes. Like. I'm. I'm very pro. Refeeds. For psychological reasons. I can make. Great decisions. For other people. On that front. Because. There's times. Where you want to like. Push them. And say like. Hey. No. Let's. Let's hold off. A little bit. Or it's like. Yeah. I see what you're saying. Let's. You know. Bump it up. To two refeeds. A week. Or whatever. But when it's yourself. I definitely could have seen myself going too hard in one direction. If I was making the decision for myself. Sure. Which honestly is just something. Like a skill I need to get better at. Mm-hmm. But. Within this season of life. It was just really nice to not have to make those decisions. Um. Even if. Hunger was high. Energy was low. Or whatever. Just to. Be like. All right. This is the plan. Just execute it. That's the. That was. That. That is definitely the biggest thing. Because that had so many downstream benefits. For training to go better. Yeah. Execute the nutrition plan. That sort of thing. Sweet. Um. Yeah. That. That's already super helpful. Um. Just for me. Like. Kind of listening to your experience. And I think for myself. Something I've tried to implement. Is like a. Just. I've. I've. I've been having conversations. Just more. Some of these. Rituals. Is just what I've been calling them. Is like. Um. That structure that. You've talked a lot about. Being imposed. From the diet. I find a lot of those things. Can carry over. Just implementing some of these. Ritual structures. Which I think a lot of people do. Like you get your pre-workout out. That kind of thing. But I think being very intentional. About some of those things. Has. Helped me a lot. Particularly when life's really crazy. Mm-hmm. Those rituals are very. Like centering. And allows you to. Kind of cut through the noise of life. What's an example of a ritual? I know you mentioned like. Whatever your pre-workout. Yeah. It's like pre-workout drink. Uh. The timing of your pre-workout meal. Like you said. Like. Kind of regardless of what that is. I'm having my pre-workout meal. At this time. That. Kind of generates my mind. And start thinking about what I'm doing in the gym. You know. It's just that kind of. Ritual. For lack of a better term. Is it kind of. Particularly when there's a start. That's early enough. Away from the actual session. To give you a little bit of time. To let your brain. Kind of run. The steam off. And kind of. I'm going to train. And I'm going to. Not. Run. Like. For me. Like. A classic example. Is like. Running into the gym. With my laptop. Having worked on something. Trying to warm up. Between sets. You know. That kind of thing. Is like. Yeah. That's just. That really drains your sessions. More than I think people realize. Answering emails on your phone. Those. All those kind of things. Like. I think can be. Strongly. Strongly. Attenuated. If you. Have a strong sense of ritualism. That's. Something I've. Secondhand. Kind of learned. From your experience. That I've tried to implement myself. That's been. I think something that's helped a lot. So. No. There. Now that you say that. Like. I think that's huge. We're talking about this a bit. Basic. I'm sorry. I'm all over the place. Something we. We. Me and you talked about. Off the air. Maybe a couple weeks ago now. Is like. There are certain. Almost in all areas of life. There are certain. There are principles. Again. This can be training related. This can be non-training related. For example. You need to be focused. To do your best work. Right. That's a principle. So there's these principles. And a lot of what we do. And I think. Also. I think a lot of what exercise science. Should be designed to do. And is. In a way. Designed to do already. Is to make it easier. Or harder. To achieve those principles. So for example. The. If the principle is. When you're focused. You do your best work. It's really nice. To have a ritual. That makes that nice and easier. To have a routine. Or to have a schedule. That makes it easier to do that. At the same time. You do need to be able to. And I think I'm using your language here. Like. Like. Flex the muscle. Just gritting your teeth. And doing it. Even if it's not the ideal. Scenario. And if it's hard. Yep. But. Being able to like. Set things up. To make it easier. To be focused. To train. Was really. Really helpful for me. It's like. Something I started doing. Because that's a big thing. Over the last. And I know. It kind of sounds pessimistic. But one of the worst things. I've done for. My training was. You know. Start a business. In the fitness industry. And to. To do a PhD. And do those simultaneously. Like. Something I've really struggled with. Is just. Not having. Not being present at all. With training. Trying to like. Also do work. Trying to also. Even mentally occupied. Yeah. Just mentally occupied. People downplay. How much that influences things. Right. And again. I'm not saying I'm an exception. I think a lot of people deal with that. It's just the irony that. Yeah. It's my. Yeah. My field as well. Or our field. But in this case. Something I started doing. Was like. I would. I often. I will sometimes do work. Like. At my computer. Like. I like to train at the end of the day. And I'll sometimes go back to my desk. After training. Sometimes I won't. I would always kind of hope. Because I would feel behind. Basically every day. Yep. I would always kind of hope. I'm going to get back to it. So I'd leave everything open. I'd leave all my. Sure. Sure. All the apps on my computer open. I'd leave. Yep. Everything out. Ready to rock. So I could sit back down. Yep. So I'd always kind of feel like I'm half working. Where I was like. You know what? I can come back here. I can always open up Chrome again. I can always open up. Whatever. And get back to work. But if I just say. You know what? I'm going to close my computer. I'm going to wipe off my desk. I'm just going to go train. I started doing that. Yep. That went a long way for me to just be focused on training. And I don't think it took away from the likelihood that I would like. Do another work. Work blocks. Hilarious. You said. I've done the exact same thing. I just train first thing. But I do it at the end of the day. Yeah. The previous day. I do that all the time. Yeah. So I like. If I would have my. Sometimes I'd be working on something late at night. Kind of. Close shop for the day. But I wanted to get back to it. So I'd leave all my stuff open. Saying I'd come to it with a cup of coffee. First thing in the morning. And then I'd say. I'd work on it for 30 minutes. And I'm going to go to the gym. And just like. That process is just. Yeah. It doesn't prioritize the thing that. You want to try to prioritize to some degree. And so I've done the exact same thing. But kind of in the morning. And it's the same exact process. Yeah. Matters so much. Yeah. Yeah. And like. It's not perfect. The rituals aren't perfect. But I do think having those. It's just increasing the probability that you have. Less resistance to make things go the way you want. A more higher percentage of the time. Right. That's the way that I do. When you can make it easier to achieve the principle. Do it. Yep. But like. You also need to simultaneously be like. Hey. If you get a call from someone you need to take a call from. You need to take the call. Exactly. And like. Also not being bitter if that occurs. Yeah. Yeah. That's. That's something I've been. I've been trying to be mindful of. Same idea with like nutrition timing. Yeah. And this is actually something Steve recommended was. Earlier on in the diet. I actually shifted more calories earlier in the day. Some of the chronic nutrition stuff seems to indicate that can lead to slightly better body composition outcomes and potentially reduce hunger a bit. And that actually was helpful for like I'd say the first half of the diet. Now. I'm almost a complete opposite. it and it also works well because training is later in the day for training uh for most of my nutrition to be shifted later in the day so but if i have certain things when i would normally eat i'll sometimes eat earlier than i want to and then i kind of struggle with hunger later in the day and like yeah that's an example of it's nice when i can make it easier to like line things up with the patterns that make things as sustainable as possible but also sometimes not not being pissed off when you have to adjust that i think it's just like a skill that i'm recognizing is something you're never gonna like fully develop you're always gonna it's always there's always gonna be room for improvement yeah well that was good um all right so let's let's move over to the nutrition stuff maybe a little bit more specifically so obviously you gave the outline of the diet um obviously you're in deficit for the vast majority of weeks with some nutritional periodization in there some diet breaks things like that mostly kind of designed around your travel i think the thing that is the most interesting and probably the most practically helpful is just talking about strategies and behaviors that you had throughout that process that you've learned again kind of coming back to a similar theme with training made that resistance less and made adhering to the basic principles that we know are just necessary to lose weight you have to eat less calories than you're expending that component of it is extremely simple to get to the goals that you want but actually putting it under practice is sometimes extremely challenging and sometimes near impossible for some people to actually adhere to long term um and i'm curious if you've picked up any learnings along the way to to to in terms of behaviors um lessons strategies those kind of things that have made that dieting process easier throughout the throughout the time yeah totally i guess the way that i view and the way i like to communicate this to clients is like each time you do it you should it should be like recognizably easier um and i think that was definitely the case here so the last time i did like a extended cut so more than like eight weeks was um 2021 i think yeah 2021 and i probably lost like 25 pounds then okay and this one felt like a breeze compared to that one and my goal is that next time i do a sustained cut it's even easier and then it's just you you become a black belt in it right that's that's ultimately the goal um and i definitely picked some things up along the way and having uh steve's input on things was really really helpful i think to kind of expedite some of those things that um here's here's one question on the front and maybe before you start rolling when you started the diet did you have a rough plan for how long you were going to be going because i guess to me there's a couple ways people approach this in the real world is like you have a time to get shredded for summer kind of vibe which i'm not i'm not saying is good or bad like you know i i get that also is more of AI'm going to try to substantially shift some of my habits and more so not necessarily that it's the take it as it comes yeah not not necessarily that's the new normal but it's more so like trying to chip away to get things out of a lower lower kind of selling point did you have an approach that you were going for this time versus last time and kind of what was your mental framing before you kind of even started this process that's a great question i'm i i was actually very clear on the front end i was like i need to see how this is going to shake out over the next year for me to like be really bought in um now we did stray from that a bit but so i'm getting married uh like early slash mid next year and i knew i wanted to feel leaner than 230 for for that and just in general next year um so that was that was like probably the biggest goal is just make sure by 2026 that i'm like at a body composition i just feel better at um or leaner than leaner than i was and originally the plan was to kind of like take two stabs at the diet so basically i don't remember how much but you know maybe uh do the initial cut then maintain or slightly gain for a couple months and then cut again and then maintain probably for the rest of the year or you know enter a slight surplus but i was like dude i just want to kind of rip the band-aid off i want to get it done before the holidays and um i don't really want to be dieting for much if any of next year just because i have again i'm getting married i have some other stuff going on as well so that was really motivating for me to kind of have like a timeline like i don't want to have a false start here and then you know uh go into that season of my life and uh not have checked the box that i wanted to body composition wise so for me it was really hopeful to like see that mapped out with like external pressure a little bit and and also just see in a spreadsheet hey this is about when you'll be done this is um you know when we're going to deload this is when we're we're probably going to bring calories up for a week things like that were really really helpful for me um but in terms of other things that were helpful for me is um i we leaned into refeeds a lot more than i have in the past and i think that went a really really long way for me so we started with none let's let's define that real quick so like in terms of the context of what you're doing so maybe give me like a rough calorie number on low days and what has a refeed looking like on high days and the frequency of those so i started with like i viewed it as a range but i'll just give the average i started with like 2900 calories and i was able to to lose a good chunk off of 2900 um and then it looks like we did that for like six to seven weeks um and then we dropped to like 2650 for six weeks or so and then we started implementing some uh regular diet breaks and or i should say refeeds so basically it looks like once we got down to about 2600 calories we started implementing one refeed per week around my estimated maintenance or maybe slightly above which was like 3100 yeah um at the time so basically six six low days one uh high-ish higher day yeah um and and you said that was more frequent than what you've done in the past i'm assuming in the past it was more so along the lines of like diet breaks where you were digging for a while and then gave yourself a little bit more of an extended period of time not doing so honestly we're just kind of i just kind of just kind of just kind of stayed at consistent calories which some people really prefer that like i would say my default is to kind of start with no refeeds and then um add refeeds if i think it would help them for some reason psychologically or like put it before a priority day in the gym things like that or a social day some people really uh benefit from that i did as well um some but some people just hate that what what specifically did you find that that was particularly helpful with so the the biggest thing was it helped me like uh adhere knowing that i had like some normal space is coming yeah like i had i had like like almost like a mini deadline it's like hey once you get to saturday like hey you're going to that that party and you're going to be like you obviously can't pick out but having an extra six or seven seven hundred calories you have size speeds there too it's like yeah it's like you know the saying of like this too shall pass it's like it's really nice knowing this too shall pass on saturday and not eight months from now when the diet is over if that makes sense yeah and yeah you're going to get right back into like being a little bit hungry and uncomfortable but you're going to be able to poke your head up so it's just kind of like a nice psychological break and again for um for social things it was really nice okay i'm just going to put the refeed when i have a some sort of social event another thing that was really really helpful is using chat gbt um and then like so what my fiancee and i would do if we went out to eat would we would order like either a salad or an appetizer and one entree to start and then so chat when going out to eat two things chat gbt and um sharing yeah sharing is sharing is awesome it's also like you enjoy the meal so much more with the with the person you're with so that was really helpful because sometimes we would have a salad and an entree together and we're like we don't need any more we're good and then i would just take a picture of it and i would be like hey i had about 60 of this and about 50 of this dish and it would give me a ballpark and that's good enough for me right like obviously right like right now i'm not doing that quite as much because i'm in the last week of dieting but um like just being rough with it and being comfortable with rough tracking uh i was i was happy with um and then of course the nice thing about chat gbt is you can go back and forth with it so i'll be like no there's no way that dish that seems a little low there was like some oil at the bottom of the plate when i was done with it maybe you're a little low on fat and it'll kind of give you a revised version so it's less about like following it blindly but just having like something to give you a starting point it's like an infund dialogue honestly it's literally like i could have made probably just as good of estimates right but it's nice to just like have that process for it yeah um so yeah refeeds were huge for me um being loose with tracking was was huge for me i was gonna say so obviously you tracked um it sounds like you've been tracking for a long time so like that's not a necessarily a new habit you had to adhere to i'm curious how much do you think your subjective hunger signals would have allowed you to regulate the amount that you were eating sufficiently um yes that's a good question because i've tracked for the most part i'd say for like the better part of the last you know five years um at the same time i don't think that's required or for a lot of people like maybe even recommended sure so just to be to be clear about that i do it because it's pretty easy for me yeah um and like if i'm making a meal and i can just weigh it out i kind of view it as like why not um to answer your question though i think pretty good but i know there's some room for improvement like that is definitely an area for improvement i would like next time i die to be more auto-regulated with it um because like i mentioned like i probably the way i've described it up to this point sounds pretty rigid but like i don't think so i always kind of viewed every day as a range and i also like obviously prioritize the weekly average more so than i prioritized any single day so and i and i most weeks were not perfect like i definitely i uh went home for the fourth of july and like i definitely overate for a handful of days and like it's kind of uncomfortable to get back on the horse after that but like it was fine like i was still overall on track um but yeah i think i think i was um a lot more mindful of hunger signals and satiety cues things like that this cut than i have in the past and just being okay with them and not really like like recognizing them but not like just recognizing you don't have to act on it and being more intentional about that whereas i think last like previous cuts i would like have to do so many things to like distract myself but instead just being like you know what i'm hungry all of a sudden like the internet wants to give me a bunch of dieting content and like food content but like i'm just not going to wash that right now because i don't need to think about food right now um so yeah i don't know if that answered your question yeah not it's pretty pretty open-ended um from a food selection standpoint anything it's a good question i have i have a answer that i know you're going to give that i'll leave as the undertone but were any tools any particular foods that you uh really found as a useful tool throughout the dieting process i uh i had m&ms every single night yeah and specifically those m&ms were uh not a mix-in in the ninja creamy but a topping for the ninja creamy so if you don't know what the ninja creamy is look it up it's a wonderful wonderful invention what you're going to need is 180 grams of almond milk 180 grams of fat-free fair life milk about eight grams of sugar-free uh chocolate pudding mix and one scoop of your protein powder of choice you're going to put it on light ice cream mode and then you're going to re-spin it or re-spin it once or twice and you're going to have this beautiful high protein ice cream and you can put little goodies into it and you can put it on mix-in and um it'll mix whatever you want to like um cereal is a really good thing to put in there you put in fruit little m&ms are the best in there and you can put it on the mix-in setting and they'll mix it in there but i don't like the mix-in setting i like to use them as toppings so you just kind of have your toppings that you put them in and then maybe when you're halfway done you put the rest of the toppings in um so to answer your question i was a pretty regular consumer of the uh ninja creamy protein ice cream that was just it was just nice to have like a like a nightcap yeah for sure um beyond that i mean pretty standard stuff like i just i was just giving you an option to talk about your crammies yeah dude i i really enjoy them um they're nice it was also fun to play around with like different proteins different recipes it gives you the it's not the same itch but it's like trying new things is kind of like yeah like i i enjoy food i enjoy trying new restaurants things like that like it gives you kind of a similar itch i'm assuming also the air fryer oh yeah dude i shout out ninja so yeah our we had a cuisinart one for a while oh well there goes our brand deal but no no ours actually are the door broke on it like i use it probably twice a day my fiance uses it like twice a day like it gets well used so it broke we got a ninja one and we got this ninja one where it has two compartments top and bottom it's actually not an air fryer it's like a it's like a freaking oven dude and um we use it all the time but it's really nice because i didn't really meal prep with the exception of uh meal prepping chicken every week um like i wouldn't actually make meals but it's the air fryer is really nice because you could just make like a single serving of uh like i would make potatoes a lot of times or brussel sprouts um or you know it's a great way to make like single servings of veggies and then you're not eating like leftover veggies which are all soggy and stuff so yeah little hacks like that um obviously you know eventually get to the point where you start thinking about like the calorie density of the fruits you're having you're like all right you know probably a little bit less bananas a little bit more strawberries that kind of that stuff kind of like just naturally occurred sure as as i went um yeah fiber on average is probably like 30 grams so actually it got pretty high at one point and i actually had to pull it down because it was causing some bloating that once i got lean enough to recognize that i had to pull it down so it's been at 30 recently but it did get up pretty high so i was having a lot of fruits and veggies basically yeah um pretty standard stuff yeah pretty standard stuff no no weird like like so like going out of your way to choose like hard foods or anything like that like i've heard i've heard like little weird things like um no and i honestly like eat dang near the same thing every day so you're pretty habitual with most of stuff anyway yeah like i eventually i was eating like eggs and peppers in the morning um but then eventually that was too high calories so i swapped it out for just like a bull greek yogurt um yeah pretty yeah pretty like nothing nothing too crazy nothing to write home about all right so i think i think yeah the nutrition stuff's always interesting to kind of just hear different perspectives on how you go about making that the uncomfortable as comfortable as possible but also embracing the fact that it is uncomfortable at the same time so i always think that's interesting funny enough i would say though it was actually most uncomfortable at the start of the diet interesting um i think i had i might have understated this earlier i think i'd fallen out of like just good basic nutrition structure habits yeah and habits goes such a long way yeah so like that's i mean i lost some weight recently as well um and i was way more in the camp of like the second thing that i described of just like kind of just chipping away habits that like i don't need to do this anymore like i had been trying to gain weight for such a long period of my life that i got a little sloppy and kind of reverts it a little bit and there's just like little habits that like you mentioned that yeah i just just change this like eat more fruits and vegetables just like little things that you just don't even realize that you're doing on like what constitutes a good meal like i always think back to what like the average person thinks like a like a good meal is whereas like people who are in the you know the iron culture they you're gonna have protein in every meal you're probably gonna have vegetables those kind of things and like i think the looser you get with some of those things it's like yeah it just has implications on how hard it is to go in either direction really because once you start with that foundational habits of just like solid nutrition i think it just is so much easier to to navigate that spectrum yeah so yeah i don't know it's rambling no no i think that's yeah just eating like an adult yeah a long way exactly um and yeah also something i like to discuss with clients is just and this can even just help expedite being mindful of how hungry you feel is recognizing that like hey when you're dieting you're probably going to go into each meal pretty hungry maybe it's like a 7 out of 10 and you're not going to get to a 0 out of 10 hunger like you're going to finish the meal with a little bit of hunger um again if you can make it easier by having a little bit more fiber a little bit more volume uh voluminous foods um awesome but you're not going to remove the hack your way out of it can't hack your way out of it um so once i kind of like just gotten it got that structure back that i've had for most of my adult life but i kind of again gotten a bit of a rut with i started to feel the momentum and also that coincided with being leaner and the way you get the visual feed you get the visual and the thing the thing that can be tough psychologically is like when you have a good amount of body fat to lose when you lose it is easier to lose the first chunk of it but in a lot of ways the visual improvements get better and better right like going from 230 to 220 for me you could see the shape start to come in a little bit better start to see some more muscle separation but from 220 to 210 like that's in a lot of ways more exciting because you you know if this is the the fat thickness that you're working with you know 220 to 230 obviously it's not like perfectly scaled like this and then if you go from 220 to 210 in my example obviously it's not no fat but um you're getting closer and closer to the muscle bellies basically right so it's almost like an exponential improvement visually so that definitely helps psychologically as well that's another aspect of it interesting all right well we've been going for a decent amount of time here the last thing i want to ask you was more so about your kind of overall subjective experience throughout the entire process obviously you're not entirely finished up quite yet so maybe this is something we can reflect on further in a future episode as well but what um have you kind of just like learned anything from going through the process i think this is like the latest you've ever been is that accurate to say while having some muscle yeah yeah yeah um anything that going throughout this process has you know just like taught you or just any any subjective experience things that you'd take away from it that you'll continue to implement kind of just in general i'm honestly just curious about that yeah um definitely definitely sure i i think it's really fun to like have a hobby you're excited about i know that might not be the necessarily where you're going with the question but that is just a good reminder to have like a goal something yeah something to be excited about something that you're progressing towards is really really nice because it keeps you like kind of present present it keeps you grounded even if there's like stress in other areas or whatever the case may be um or like you feel like something isn't going well in another area but you have something else that you're chasing one controllable kind of thing right and like obviously things aren't they're going to be uncontrollables in whatever your like hobby is but um who cares right like if it ended up taking me an extra month to lose the fat or if i lost some strength like who cares whatever it's just nice to have a goal something to chase um that that was a good reminder of that it was a good reminder of just like and like how nice it is to feel like you have momentum with training i think momentum with training can come in a lot of different shapes and forms we think about it a lot with powerlifting training like oh i'm hitting pr's i'm getting stronger by the end of the block i'm going to hit this number things are really grooving right now and like that used to be my jam with powerlifting training um and i think it's a lot of people's jams and and i think you can do it in a lot of different ways so like i just it was a good reminder because i had momentum with training again really just because i created the structure again for training to be more of a priority in my day um just how much i enjoy that feeling of training hard and like again it's maybe not the same experience as like going into a heavy deadlift or a heavy squat but like going into a tenor m attempt on pendulum squat and the hairs on your arms kind of stand up a little bit like yeah that just is that feeling is is awesome and i um which is a good reminder of the things that like got me into training in the first place um what are other lessons the other lesson i would say man is like it is helpful to keep in mind that good training is good training even if you can't necessarily see what's going on because i've always hung out maybe on the less lean side than um what i plan to do going forward is i have always been pretty brutally consistent with training all things considered again i've had some ruts i was in a rut earlier this year but like i've always for the most part trained consistently and trained hard um and but like going if i bulked from 222 to 230 like i couldn't tell sure visually but now i can tell yeah you put good years in and and i've put good years in even though they're far from perfect i moved forward i moved forward in some way each year and i look way better now than i did last time i was even close to this lean like if you were to compare where i was at the end of that cut compared to the same body weight on this cut you know big chunk of muscle was put on so that feels good um so just a good reminder that good training is good training you don't things don't need to be perfect just move try to move forward each year and things will add up um another thought that comes to mind is even though i have kind of lean on the less lean of less lean side of things and i don't necessarily want to do that going forward i don't necessarily regret it um because i've always just there's an argument to be made that you hanging out there is what allowed you to put good years in that's yeah that was the thing i was going to say like when the structure did fall off at least there was energy around some people the structure falls off and they lose a bunch of weight and there's not nearly enough energy around even if they are training to put on tissue but i always had the energy around like i never went underfed if i if even if i was only trained three times a week and i think that um that allowed me to just even if it wasn't nearly optimal or nearly at the fastest rate possible just move forward a bit at a time um what else there's definitely gonna be things that come to me as we go well moral of the story sounds like to me is like at the end of the day there's a lot of things you can learn from it but the major thing in terms of the positive outlook it gave you is it just gave you a goal gave you something to kind of reignite the flame of a lot of aspects of training and make that more of a priority and i think again kind of just you know talking to you consistently throughout the process and something i've i've learned um or try to implement alongside uh what you're what you've been going through is just yeah just taking those things that we enjoy from the process and just trying to honor that a little bit more and protect it a little bit more throughout the day and that obviously leads to higher quality training those kind of things but more importantly the aspects of this that we fell in love with and that honestly for me when you're talking about momentum i think about it more so not even necessarily from the performance aspect of things anymore like obviously that's a positive aspect of things that plays an important role but it's more so just like just getting excited to go to the gym like i used to and like stacking days where i feel like that i just feel like i'm just like winning and life in general when that happens and like that's the feeling that now that i've been able to kind of take a step back and go through a couple seasons of you know adult life where we're not at jo north for six hours a day or whatever and and kind of have um to experience this a little bit more realistic scenarios i think that's the part that keeps me coming back and i think that's yeah just setting up your life to make that as consistent and something you can appreciate as possible i think is that's the that's the thing i've learned sub secondhand from like hearing a lot of your experiences and that's something i've tried to continue to implement myself but yeah i think this has been uh it's like it's like sleeping yeah in a lot of ways it's like uh if you go through periods with low sleep sometimes you just have to do that it's fine yep but you're like i don't think i want to do that indefinitely yeah in a lot of ways it's the same with training it's like i've gone through periods where it just hasn't been a priority and it hasn't gotten the attention or the energy that i would like to and like it's fine i don't necessarily regret it but like i don't want that to be the constant state going forward so almost it's almost like i don't know it's like a basic need which which kind of sounds ridiculous but um that's kind of how i'm starting to think about it and and the way that's gonna look like is probably gonna change again the last like probably six to eight weeks especially i'm like you know what my risk of muscle loss is pretty high right now so like like if my training sessions end up taking a little bit longer like i'll deal with it right now but going forward i'm gonna probably pull back with my training time a bit i'm probably gonna train like um at a at a closer by gym for at least one or two sessions a week to save some time but like i still wanted to like i still want to get my eight hours of sleep or my whatever seven hours of sleep i want to get that training in and move forward and um keep the momentum in some way shape or form because it just like elevates my experience in every aspect of my life um and i think it's that i think i'm basically just echoing what you said and i think a lot of people resonate with that and i think we see a lot of that with people that reach out yeah to work with us is like hey i want to get that momentum back i almost think it's less about like like you're talking about probably having to dedicate a little bit less time to it coming up i honestly don't even think that's the biggest factor and you know this i'm saying something you already know like that doesn't really matter it's more so like you said protecting the spot and the priority that it has obviously it's not priority number one for you or or me but it can easily get kicked down the priority list even if you've made the concession you're going to dedicate a little bit less time to me that's the that's the lesson is like wherever it ends up being in your hierarchy list that's fine but for people like me and you where it can easily slip down if it's not care is given that's where it starts having those negative repercussions mentally physically whatever um and so just protecting its place wherever it goes in that hierarchy even if you're saying like independent of time yeah yeah i'm just saying like to me that's the that's the important thing like let's say you have three days a week to train that's probably not what it's going to be for you but let's just say that's the case if you can approach that with the same level of care and tension and looking forward to it i still think i can have yeah tons of positive benefits what happens though is if i have to dedicate a little bit less time to it i kind of feel demotivated or whatever and it slides to slip down that priority list and then when it slips down the priority list that's when i'm rolling into the gym answering an email on my phone and like all those things that we discuss to me the the the biggest thing is just like where again wherever it ends up in that hierarchy protecting that spot and treating it like something you enjoy because when you treat it that way it'll have those dividends that come back to you and give you all those positive things that allow you to have a positive momentum in a lot of areas yeah no it's a great point that's gonna be my challenge is like yeah it's easy to feel excited about something when it's like i'm not training every day right now but i'm training five times a week and like so it's like built into my schedule quite a bit but if i do pull that back it's not an everyday thing and like i don't know like i'm i'm totally agreeing with what you're saying just saying it's gonna it is a challenge the biggest challenge at least in my view um is balancing these two things when you are when things are going really well it's very easy to focus on the objectives of it and the the outcomes that you're getting from it you're you're every week you're getting leaner every week you're progressing your your lifts and so the part of your brain is focusing on that part of the experience which obviously provides a lot of benefits but for me when when i had a you know i think i've talked about a little bit on here but i had a little bit of a rut where i was kind of coming out and getting back on the wagon and everything the part of it for me that i really had to focus on initially was the acute and the the non-negotiable benefits that i get from training just how i feel post-session how i feel in the session how it makes me feel presence wise the things that have really nothing to do with whatever weights on the bar and it's it's tough to balance those things when you are getting so positive returns and then you know let's just say maybe that slows down a little bit if you have to dedicate a little bit less time to it how do i get my brain to focus on the positive returns that i'm getting in the moment as well yeah um and that's that's there's a tough balance to to focus on but or yeah or or just or just accept the fact that you don't have that immediate positive yeah reinforcement and i guess i know that it's coming that's kind of what i mean it's like i guess for for you that you think about it that way um i i i meditated a lot on the fact that someday you're gonna hit your last pr and that so that's that's another thing i think about that i thought about it a lot from that perspective when i was kind of getting back on the wagon so i'm like what what can i take away from this that works no matter what is the case on that side of things yeah when you're able to make the harvest and the crops are are yielding well and you're able to you know take those prs for what they are while while we're able to do so awesome and that's just going to enrich the experience but what part of this equation can i continue to take till you know i'm in my grave kind of thing as those are the aspects of things that it's a really interesting conversation that um yeah it's it's honestly i'm glad we're having this discussion because it's something i need to think about is like yeah pretty soon i'm no longer going to have the immediate gratification of like noticing a little more vascularity each week or whatever um or having a short-term goal of of getting to a certain level of leanness so like what what's gonna like not that you always have to be you know 10 out of 10 in terms of execution but what's going to keep me at at least a 7 out of 10 and then what's the thing that's going to keep you exercising and training even if you might not ever hit that next milestone yeah or father time catches up and and sarcopenia is going to kick in yeah um and for some people you know that that changes the dynamic which is totally fine i guess i just i know you well enough and myself as well as like there's a lot of reasons why we love it it's just really easy to focus on the objectives when it's coming easily or not yeah i'm not easily but it's it's it's very apparent and and you're in the you're in the part of the journey where that you know that that's just that's the part you focus on because it's it's it's right in front of your face but when things happen you know constraints change or whatever the thing that allows you to keep putting those good years in like we were talking about is the fact you're able to relate to sometimes other things and i think that just having that conversation with yourself if if you want to be doing this long term if that's important to you then i think that's that's something every every lifter should probably have that conversation with themselves at some point because inevitably it does it does kind of happen whether it's seasons of life whether it's injuries whether it's whatever happens there's there's things that that are out of your control that change your relationship with it at some point hopefully it's short term but yeah sometimes for longer than we'd like can it be as simple as training feels good exactly that that's what i'm talking about that's what i always come back to that's that's essentially what i was saying is like i it's easy to say that but it's it's it's harder to like genuinely be gratified by that and i think that's fair that took me a little bit of time to like really get but i i think over time you can like you just leave the gym and you're like this was good because i had fun and i feel good and and again that sounds that sounds trivial to a lot of people i'm sure but for people who are very into this and you focus on the objective so much and that is where you receive the the positive affirmation from it shifting it towards things that are more what i just call like um in controversial like it's going to happen no matter what is like that's helpful because it creates a long-term environment where you basically can't lose and then anything you get from the other side of the coin is is i'm always reminded of that aspect of things when like i take four or five days off training you kind of feel a little deconditioned yeah you kind of like you're like i don't really want to go to the gym and then but then you get that first session back you're like ah yeah that's why we do it 100 that's why we do it great way to end it um a little bit of a different podcast hope everybody enjoyed it obviously leave us five-star rating review as always um drop any comments you had if you thought this one was interesting um and yeah we'll see you guys next time peace you