 As long as it's playing, lage, overwhelmed, overwhelmed, overwhelmed, overwhelmed, overwhelmed, overwhelmed, overwhelmed, overwhelmed. I don't really care if it shows meaningful differences. As long as it was productive, and it did lead to meaningful hypertrophy. I'm probably gonna end up at the same spot anyway. I don't know if I caused this. This whole swelling stuff is, I don't know if it comes from my paper. I don't know if it's caused by my paper. I was thinking about that over the past couple of days because I've noticed a lot of discussion on swelling and volume research. And we put that as a hypothesis in our paper. And I think I told you guys last time we were together and we were speaking, I don't necessarily think that volume is playing a large role in the volume research or swelling is playing a large role in the volume research. I think it could be. And for me, just based on my experience, I thought it was just as reasonable as a possibility as 0.7 centimeters of growth. And again, that's just coming from the perspective of I've taken that measurement and it's three or four times what I've gotten the change score. So for me, that is a reasonable hypothesis. Is it a likely hypothesis? Maybe not. But to me, it's as reasonable as the idea that you could get that magnitude of growth. And I know I've done different examples to give people an example of how my brain works. The baloney, I don't know if it was effective or not last time I was on a podcast with you, Josh. Um, but I was thinking about other ways to express like how my mind thinks about it. When I see 0.7 centimeters of growth, if you could repeat that three times, I think three times is an example I've used previously. That's 2.1 centimeters of growth. Y'all have measured biceps. Some female biceps are around 2.5 centimeters, right? So if you can experience that much growth in eight weeks, how many times of you could you replicate that? I don't think you could replicate it twice. If you extended the study eight weeks, let's say you extended the study to 24 weeks. I don't, you're not capturing that again and again and again and again. Captured it once. I think it might be the most helpful for the sake of discussion to maybe just think of high volume outcomes in general. And the fact that, okay, in the studies that have explored higher volumes, let's just say for sake of discussion, that's like above 20 sets a week. In general, those seem to outperform the lower volume conditions in those same studies. Of course, there are exceptions, but that was kind of the point of our meta-aggressions is to try to see where the balances lie, if you will. So if we just think of high volume research in general, and okay, on average, slightly greater effects, or might be even worth saying meaningfully greater effects. I think it's a fair point to consider some of the implications of that. Because even if we were to use a smaller absolute change value, so instead of 0.7, if we were to use 0.2, I think you could make the same comment about really any notable or detectable change in hypertrophy over a 10-week study about how often can this actually be repeated. So if it is a value of 0.7, you might say, man, repeating that twice is crazy, let alone over the course of the next year. So repeating that, you know, five times. I think you could even say that about a change of 0.2. Right? You would just have to repeat it more and more times. But obviously, there's kind of this asymptotic relationship between your training career and additional increases in muscle size. So one way to view this, and I think you were alluding to that Revive Stronger roundtable that we did, which I think was quite fruitful. One way to view this is to say, okay, obviously, this isn't just infinitely repeatable. So one perspective would be, if we can get pretty big changes, no matter what the group is, in a short-term study, that can give us some indication of how to train over the long term and reach a higher peak. Another perspective would be, and this could apply for volume, this could apply for range of motion, this could apply for proximity to failure. Another perspective would be, okay, a 10 or 12-week study, I don't really care if it shows meaningful differences, as long as it was productive and it did lead to meaningful hypertrophy, I'm probably going to end up at the same spot anyway. And I think that's a very valid question. Yeah, sure. First, I think your point is great, and I agree with it. You know, this idea that if any research study was repeatable, you know, I think we'd all be a lot bigger. So it's fascinating to me, it's curious to me that you get a group of trained people in over eight weeks, they pretty consistently, I mean, if you look at the average, and I did this, the average change in muscle size for trained people, biceps is 0.23, that's 31 exercise conditions, that's an unweighed average change. That'd be like 6% maybe? They'd probably start around 4 centimeters, 4.2. I don't do public math, so I'll leave that one to you, but we can let the listener do it. But anyway, you know, it's interesting that in a fixed period of time, you can capture that, but the repeatability of that doesn't seem to necessarily be the case. And I gave a talk at UCF a few months ago where we discussed these things and I was really interested to get, there's a lot of great researchers at UCF that, you know, study muscle growth, study body composition. And I was interested to get their feedback as well of like, you know, are we just capturing this moment in time where we have hyper-focused training and, you know, things are made a little bit more ideal and we're capturing growth and that growth is just, you know, a blip that we can achieve it, we're going to eventually lose it when we lose focus and then we can regain it if we focus again. And, you know, maybe this is a horrible view of research, but the more and more I think about it, I lean towards it that, you know, it's not something you can extrapolate linearly. And I think everyone would agree with that. I do think it can inform practices, but I think as a scientific community, like sometimes we roll with something and we'll reach a conclusion that may not be appropriate. You know, if higher volume was better in this eight-week period, is it equalized over a year anyway? You know, because if you had more, a greater rate of growth over eight weeks, what's the likelihood, is that group just going to slow and then the other group just going to catch up to it kind of slow and steady? You know, sometimes research isn't interpreted in the context of a larger picture. And if I can give an example of just how I'm thinking right now, a lot of these training, detraining, retraining studies have become popular. A lot of people talk about them. And sometimes the interpretation is, well, you can take X amount of time off and you're fine. You'll gain it back in eight weeks. I say, well, the actual interpretation of that study is, no, that little bit you gained in this eight weeks, you can gain back in this eight weeks. But if you're a high-level bodybuilder and you take time off and you lose, like, it's different to recapture this small thing that happened here and have it repeat than it is to detrain and have a much different ceiling. Because a lot of these studies are taking untrained people, train them, detrain, retrain. It's like what you're losing and reacquiring is a very small amount of tissue. And, you know, sometimes the conclusion we reach and the thing we tell people may not match the reality because the reality of any conclusion we can give people with certainty is this eight weeks, 12 weeks, 16 week, in rare circumstances concept.