 naringin, sophomores3, Pellant. That's my name. And today we have a Q&A episode for you. So we're supposed to do a Q&A episode a little bit ago that kind of turned into some more topic-based ones. So we're going to kind of zoom back out here, answer some of your questions. Thank you to everyone that's left questions on the question box we post on our Instagram stories. Lots of good ones in there. We have a few lined up today. Today we're going to be discussing, let's see, some various practical things, if you will. The first one is related to how you might control proximity to failure and some of the downstream effects within a session. The second one is related to task-specific hypertrophy. So a good one there for the strength athletes in the chat. And potentially at the end, we'll talk a little bit rate of force development. So Zach, I'll read you into the first question. Um, so this is from Greg, something, something. So thank you, Greg, for the question. He says, love your content. Thank you, Greg question. You stated that hitting failure on early sets can cost you reps on later sets. I agree with this, but if mechanical tension is the driver of hypertrophy, wouldn't less reps on later sets not matter? Assuming we take them to failure too, because the effective reps will remain the same, even if total reps are less on the sets towards the end of the workout. So performance drop off within a session, yay or nay? Yeah, great question. Um, I'll try to maybe explain some of the underlying logic of the question prior to me answering it. Um, so this question is probably coming from some of the discussion that's, uh, we've had and others have had on one of the recent studies I was lucky to be a part of, um, led by Dr. Martin Ruffalo. Um, his study was kind of looking at a within participant design with one limb training, a momentary failure, the other limb training, a one to two RAR. Um, for the most part, muscle growth didn't seem to be largely, uh, different, um, for the most part within that study. But one of the interesting findings was that the results for the vastus lateralis, which is trained predominantly by the first exercise and the rectus femoris, which was trained predominantly by the second exercise within each session, seemed to differ a little bit. And this was a pattern that's in a few other studies, um, as well, um, seemed to kind of suggest that throughout a session, training to failure may, uh, limit the stimulus you're able to provide maybe in the kind of the later parts of the session. So the, the implication of this kind of started to, uh, kind of people started to theorize a little bit as, you know, some of our work, um, may suggest that kind of the, the per set stimulus seems to be highest when a set is taken to failure, which kind of just generally, I think kind of this makes sense. Like if you're trying to squeeze the stimulus out of one set, you're probably going to take it to failure. However, if fatigue is greater with those sets to failure, maybe performing every single set to failure may leave some things to be desired, um, in terms of performance over the cross of the entire session, over the entire week, entire block, et cetera. Um, so I think that's kind of the general premise of like what the kind of current discussion on this is. And the question asker kind of questions this idea, which I think is a, is a good, is a good way of thinking about it in the sense that if we say that the kind of the reps at the end of the set are the ones that really count for muscle growth, which, you know, I'm not going to belabor the effective reps conversation here. I think it's a, it's a totally fine kind of, um, practical kind of way to explain how, um, you know, training volume works. And I even think, you know, out of the predictive models of hypertrophy that we have, um, if you, if you tweak it a little bit, I think it's honestly pretty good. Um, so I think it, you know, the, the nuts and bolts of that conversation have gotten, you know, kind of out there, but I, I do think at the end of the day, it's a really, really effective way to kind of describe to people how this stuff kind of works. So again, the question asker is saying that although that there may be additional fatigue that front that comes from training to failure early in a session that may harm our performance later in a session, if we were to keep the load kind of the same throughout all of our sets, if we're taking all the sets to failure anyway, and we're kind of getting those reps where you would get the biggest bang for our buck in every single set, wouldn't the hypertrophy be the same in kind of the, that, that scenario, assuming that the number of quote unquote effective reps or the amount of volume that we're accumulating with a sufficient proximity to failure is roughly, um, equivalent in each example. So first and foremost, I think it's a good question. And I think there is a couple of different ways that you can answer it. So purely from a logistical slash practical perspective, I do think that as you get fatigued within a session, I think people's perception of effort is impacted. Um, I've noticed this with myself, this literally happened to me today. Um, so I've been, um, kind of performing a, kind of a wave loading approach for some of my main lifts where I do sets of eight sets of six sets of four and sets of two and kind of the fourth week. What that does is it kind of maybe has some little bit of a D training effect in the, the lower ends of the weeks there for the, my, my aerobic capacity or what have you may decay a little bit. So I just went back to the sets of eight this week. And when you just did sets of four and two, I felt considerably less prepared for that. And I'm trying to beat my performance from the last time that I did eights. And ultimately what happened today was I went in and I also took a lot of caffeine on an empty stomach for the first time in a while. Um, and I was just absolutely pooped after I was done doing squats. And, and I definitely felt my perception of effort was impacted later in the session, even though I took time to try to like let things resettle, even though I'm extremely aware of the fact that my perception of effort was probably going to be impacted. I still think that it had some negative implications. So I think purely from a practical perspective, even if we kind of go on here to say, um, maybe a slightly different tone from a mechanistic perspective, I do think like this is a decent thing to keep in the back of your mind. I will say, I always make the point that I think the fatigue kind of, uh, boogeyman is always in people's mind is multi-joint lower body movements. I think that is the example that people always have in their mind of like failure equals fatigue, fatigue equals loss of performance equals all these downstream implications that are bad things. That that's probably the case and could be the case to a much more minor extent in like multi-joint upper body lifts, like bench press and rows and things like that. But in my experience, in my coaching experience, it's just much less of an issue with, as you kind of go further down that trend, down that chain, I can perform a lot of sets to failure on back movements and I can feel relatively okay. My performance is relatively in check. I think that's going to be somewhat of an individual thing, but the point kind of remains the same. Um, okay, back on track. That was kind of the logistical tangent from a mechanistic perspective. I think there's a couple ways you could take this. I do think that there's something to be said for the stimulus potentially decreasing a little bit. Um, as you kind of get more fatigued, Josh, I can't remember what your video is titled where you kind of talk about this, but you kind of tether the absolute velocity of a repetition to its effectiveness more, more or less. Um, I can't, I can't remember the exact title of the video or the context of that comes up in. I don't know if you want to mention it quick. Um, I think I know what you're talking about, but I'm having a hard time recalling it. Yeah. I, I just, I remember the graphic in my brain. Like I can see the thumbnail, but I can't remember the exact way this is brought up, but nonetheless, as you get fatigued, the absolute amount of force that you're able to produce is probably going to be decreasing a little bit. And I think you can see this, you know, in a couple of different area, parts of the research, the drop set research is the one that comes to mind. Um, to me, just the easiest is, is that when we accumulate this peripheral fatigue and our performance drops a little bit, each set is probably a little bit less effective. Um, there's a drop set meta-analysis by Coleman and colleagues. They had to perform roughly, you know, 25% or so more sets to get a relatively similar outcome from the drop set condition compared to a traditional training, um, group. So I think you could make an argument that as you fatigue, each set gets a little bit less productive. Um, so I think that's also where people kind of come into this, uh, question a little bit. Now, the, the premise that I think is the most interesting is that a lot of those conversations have people not adjusting the load set to set between failure sets. And I think that is an important part of things that I don't know if that's always clearly elucidated in these conversations or the research. So I think that's a pretty meaningful, that's a pretty meaningful factor when you're kind of talking about the influence of fatigue on outcomes. So just as an example, in the Rafalo study, I don't believe that they adjusted the load set to set. And so what that does is that if there is an inherent benefit of training closer to failure for hypertrophy, it's probably multifactorial, meaning that part of it is maybe some inherent benefit of a greater relative stimulus, but it's also the, the, a similar or greater amount of training volume that you get from performing additional repetitions, um, relative to what you could perform. So yeah, I, that, that part of things, I do sympathize with the question asker, but I do think that the important thing there is that you are allowing the load to be adjusted such that the same number of total reps is completed on every single set. Now, does the volume load, is that a perfect proxy of predicting the training stimulus? Probably not. Um, I think there's some limitations to it, but, um, yeah, I think that is a meaningful factor that often goes unlooked, um, in these kinds of conversations, similar with drop sets, et cetera. Um, so if I had to boil this down into a nutshell is that for the most part, I think the effects are going to be relatively similar. Um, if you perform four sets to failure, um, on one exercise and then four sets to failure on another exercise, you're performing every single set to failure. Your performance is probably going to be impacted later in a session. I don't think it's going to make or break your results. I think from a logistical perspective, it's going to be much more challenging to actually achieve failure in those later sets, which if you're not able to achieve that and you're considerably farther from failure, I would expect that to harm your results, which is where I think people's practical recommendation oftenly often comes from is that, Hey, if this is going to cost you to even be, you know, close to failure in the later sets, let's not, let's not do it. If it's only giving us a little bit of a, um, boost in our outcomes early on. Um, so I think that it's going to be relatively similar, but if you are adjusting the load, then I do think that you could, you know, largely wash away those mechanistic concerns so long as you're actually able to achieve failure. And again, the volume is going to be relatively similar from a sets and from a volume of wood perspective. That's like a lot of twists and turns, Josh, any other additional details? When you say adjust the load, you're saying just to ensure you stay in the, uh, the quote unquote, hyper few rep range of like five or more reps per set. You're not saying it has to stay at the exact target reps. Yes. Very good. Very good classification. Yes. That's what I mean. Um, making sure that every set is a sufficient number of reps to kind of count for hypertrophy, um, rather than dropping in sets of two, three, four, et cetera, maybe in five, maybe a little bit low for some people, they say six, et cetera, just conceptually, I think as long as you're above like six or so, it's fine. So you're just adjusting the load to make sure that that's the case with fatigue. Yeah. I mean, listen, man, I, the way that I think about this question is very few people have the meat and potatoes of their training with something like drop sets or rest pause training. Um, and that's kind of the extreme of this question, right? Because ultimately the question is how does the fatigue going into a set impact the effectiveness of that given set? So long as proximity to failure is held constant. And again, the extreme of that would be a drop set. If I do, um, you know, a hundred pounds and then I drop it to 60 pounds right after I fail with a hundred pounds. And then I go to failure with 60 pounds. So long as I get, you know, at least five, six reps, whatever, then that set was 60 pounds would have to have the same effectiveness as the set with a hundred pounds. You know, um, again, this is a different example, but Zach and I are both going to kind of the, this drop set, um, thought experiment because it's the same exact concept again, just at an extreme. And what I would say is I just have a hard time believing that drop sets rest pause are really going to, um, like get someone to their genetic potential. If, if you'll grant me using that term. Um, and I think kind of bringing it back to Greg's question here of, Hey, why does it matter if I go into a set more fatigued because I went to failure on my first set? Well, it's because that might matter on the margins. And yes, you basically made your first set less stimulative by not going to failure. That might make the second set more stimulative because you are, uh, less fatigued going into it. Honestly, I think in most practical scenarios, it's going to be a wash. Let me just give a, a basic example of our two options here. Um, let's, let me choose like a moderately fatiguing exercise. Let's say like dumbbell overhead press. Let's say I did 10 reps to failure with the sixties. And then I stayed with the sixties and I got seven and then five and alternative would be to do, um, sets of eight across and fail on that last set. Right? Like that's probably a wash. If I, if I had to guess right in the first example, I think the first set to failure is more stimulative and the last set is going to be less stimulative because of the additional fatigue. But like that last set is still productive. We see that in the drop set research. I don't even, I think it's probably even more than like half as stimulative. Whereas in the second example, I think each set is probably similarly stimulative, maybe even more stimulative, um, by the end of there, because you do get the benefit of slower, absolute velocities if, if you go to failure. So I think it's kind of a given a take. And I think most of the time it doesn't matter, but where it is going to matter is kind of in muscles or individuals or exercises that just cause so much additional fatigue fatigue for the rest of the session that your performance drops off a ton. So, um, like, honestly, it's just like lower body compounds are, are the, the one that come to mind for most folks. Um, so if you take a, your first set of leg press to failure, but you have seven more sets of quads after that, like the negative impact of going to failure early on in that session might really add up over the course of the session. Whereas if you were to just say, Hey, this first set's going to be less stimulative, but it's going to allow me to accumulate a little bit more stimulus under the curve for the rest of the session, then it might be a net overall positive. Um, so to wrap up or to kind of summarize here from a mechanistic perspective, I think so long as you are in the hypertrophy rep range and proximity to failure is truly accounted for. I think that fatigue going into the set is going to have a small effect on the hypertrophy stimulus, but that effect can add up, right? So you get to some of these practical scenarios, especially when just high, uh, like your perception of effort is off a little bit, like in Zach's example of, um, you know, just how exhausted you can feel after, after doing that beyond your ability to truly reach, um, maximum performance. So I think, I think you just got to take it exercise by exercise, um, and, and look to kind of maximize the stimulus under the curve. It's, there's no perfect formula here. I think that just like as a general recommendation, this is why I think last set to failure is just such a good general recommendation at this point is kind of where I sit most of the time is like for most exercises, I think one to two RIR for all proceeding sets and last set, just go there to make sure you're, you know, potentially getting any, um, theoretical benefit from that, but also anchoring things like that, just the logistical benefits of training to failure. And then for compound lower body lifts, which do seem to have these downstream effects for the rest of the session, that's where you just go a little bit farther in my experience. And it basically that takes care of pretty much every single situation. And then as a troubleshooting guide, just like you would for, um, training volume, you know, if we, if we say that 30 sets is better than, uh, 20 sets, just conceptually, let's say you don't automatically go to 30. Right. And I think it's the same way I kind of view it. Proximity failure now is like, I do think training to failure is more stimulative. Um, I think it has some theoretical downstream implications in some cases, but on average, I think it's going to be more stimulative, but I don't think that's necessarily the place to start. It's just a place you can go if you need to troubleshoot. Right. Um, and, and pack in more stimulus and a given number of sets is kind of the way that I, I view it. Um, at the current point in time, but I was all over the place. Thank you for making that much neater. Do you have anything else? Here's a, here I'm going to extend this one because that's what I do. Oh, by the way, um, the video you were alluding to is called the future of hypertrophy training. Bang. That's what it is. A tonal one. Yeah. Where I kind of, I discuss, I discuss what's called the burnout mode on a tonal, which is a really cool, um, a really cool mode because it's essentially, uh, like micro drops that is kind of what I call it. Yeah. It's like a micro drop set because a tonal, if you don't know what a tonal is, Google it. Um, it's basically, it doesn't have a weight stack, right? It looks like a cable machine, but it doesn't have a weight stack. So, uh, the resistance is all electromagnetic, so it can reduce the load instantaneously. So instead of going, you know, 30 pound dumbbells, 20 pound dumbbells, you can go 30 pounds in each arm to 28 to 27 to 26, whatever, continuously all the way down to 20 and maybe beyond. Um, so I kind of discuss the potential utility of that. And I guess the, the summary is similar to the summary of kind of what we've been talking about here is those reps in isolation might get less and less effective because even though the absolute velocity is, is really slow, the fatigue is so high. Um, but that doesn't mean they're not effective just because they're not maximally effective. Doesn't mean that you can't like stack on, uh, some additional stimulus there. Okay. My, I have a practical question for you that I think kind of, uh, gives us a theoretical thought experiment. So the basic practical question is, let's say I'm doing four exercises. I'm doing, um, leg press, RDL, leg extension, leg curl, and I start with the leg press option. A is to go from leg press to RDL back to leg extension. So by the time I, and let's just talk about the stimulus of the leg extension is the stimulus of the leg extension going to be better. If I had some time for my quads to recover from the leg press, or would it not really matter if I just went straight from leg press to leg extension in that session? Again, put it, put away the considerations of hamstring stimulus, et cetera. Um, and assume that performance goes up if you do RDLs first, because your quads had some recovery time with that meaningfully changed the stimulus. Yeah, that's a good question. Um, I would say that, um, if your performance is, I'll put it this way. If your performance is limited systemically on the leg extensions, I would say it probably minorly decreases the stimulus, but if it's only, if you do RDL first, yes. Well, actually let me change my thought experiment because now I'm thinking of just like the overall exhaustion from doing leg press and then RDLs. Let's use an example of, I just sit in the gym for 15 minutes between leg extension, between leg press and leg extension, or I go right into it just after resting for three minutes. So basically the question is like, is it worth it to find a way to improve performance later in the session for something like a leg extension? Yeah. I, I guess just thinking about that example and let's say you didn't get too cold. So like, let's just, let's just say you didn't like your performance didn't go down because you rested too long. So let's just say you're perfectly recovered is kind of the point of that. I don't think your performance would be all that much different if you rested that 15 minutes and got perfectly recovered. It's going to be better, but I don't think it's going to be that much substantially. Like, I don't know, 10 to 15%. Like, I feel like that would be pretty realistic. If I were to go from like chest movement, a to chest movement, B versus a chest movement, a to, um, like back movement, a then to chest movement, B. I feel like I noticed that pretty frequently. If I put an exercise I used to do early in a session later in a session, I'm like, Oh, that's, that's a lot, you know, I'm a lot weaker on this than I normally am. Yeah, it's hard. I think, I mean, if you're going to lean on the evidence here to my understanding, this is an area I'm super confident about with like exercise order doesn't seem to matter that much for hypertrophy. Um, that said the people in the literature obviously aren't people like us who are kind of, you know, probably meaningfully impacted performance by the amount of fatigue they can generate with a early session exercise, um, conceptually. Um, yeah, I mean, it's hard. I guess my gut is going to, if your perception of effort is a similar and you're able to achieve failure, the, the repetition range is roughly equivalent is for hypertrophy. It'd be pretty much the same, but maybe a little bit less, but pretty much the same. Um, as long as the exercise is locally limited, essentially is, is that, that was what I was going to go to with the RDL example is like, yeah, as long as the thing that's limiting your performance, there are resulting in failure is a, like a muscular situation rather than a systemic situation. I think you're basically checking the box for hypertrophy and then performance is simply just a manifestation of your current conditions essentially. Um, but we don't see that great of a diminishing returns effect for like extra or sets within a session. Um, to my understanding, like it's, it's there to some degree, but maybe not as much as I'd expect. Um, and you know, with training volume per week, we also don't really see that all too much with the Schoenfeld mid analysis, maybe a little bit, but I think that's again, a more complicated question I think than people often point to with that analysis. Um, so yeah, my gut goes to, it doesn't matter all that much and it's going to be relatively similar so long as it's limited by local rather than systemic factors. And then in the RDL example, similarly, as long as you're not being wrecked systemically by two multi-joint exercises that are pretty close to failure, um, I think it'd be relatively similar, but as a practical nugget, I've pretty much exclusively programmed things in a way that like flip-flops, um, muscles like that to try to cause a little overlapping fatigue and also systemic fatigue as much as possible. Um, for a lot of reasons, one of them is easy, easy of supersets for in case of, uh, time limitations, but like going from, uh, the first exercise in somebody's session is like squat, then, uh, leg curl, for example, then they may be going to their second pairing with leg extension and RDL. Um, just doing that to again, kind of get at some of these things subconsciously. Now that you're saying this, I guess I do, uh, kind of do some of these things. Um, and the next session you would just flip-flop it. So the RDL is prioritized, um, even though it's kind of second in that session, but it just kind of results in better quality performance throughout the whole session is kind of my, uh, experience. If you kind of flip-flop some of those systemically fatiguing exercises to make sure everything is being limited locally as possible, which I think is kind of what I think is the important thing here for this kind of question. Yeah. Yeah. I think, I think your kind of main point of emphasis here is that so long as the limiter is not your perception of effort, which can happen, um, especially with, you know, something later in a session, um, coming off of like lower body compound movements. Um, that is probably the most, that that's probably the most likely cause of a decrease in stimulus later in a session, um, from kind of a dose response relationship within a session we see in the research from the exercise order research. It seems like that doesn't have a massive effect, but that might be a result of like the average training status. Um, and then I'm, I, I agree with that. And then I would kind of layer in, um, that I, I do think performance matters, but it kind of might be like a symptom, not a cause, if that makes sense. Like the cause might be what you're getting at, which is the perception of effort. Dude. Yes. Yeah. I was just going to say, if anybody wants to do a study for like a master's thesis project or something like that, this is a study that I would be very interested to see would be a high load rest interval study. I think that would substantially change the, um, perception of effort kind of situation compared to like a typical, like hypertrophy rep range project. So like you think of a basic rest interval study is one minutes versus three minutes, um, unilateral leg press eight to 16 reps per set or something like that. I have a hard time believing in every set is to failure. Typically. Um, I have a hard time believing that the, the rest interval, the short rest interval condition isn't running into issues with perception of effort with them actually achieving failure in the short rest interval condition, which is, you know, we have the most recent meta-analysis by Singer and colleagues. We, uh, I did a video on that. I think there's a little bit less compelling evidence to say like short rest intervals are definitely as good as long rest intervals. Um, in my opinion, I think there's, you know, the data there are limited, but nonetheless, like there doesn't seem to be a huge difference there, but I would be, um, I would be interested to see a high load training study. So I'm talking like, you know, four to eight RM type situation, um, on some exercises and one minute versus like four minutes of rest or something like that, to which I'd be much more confident in the high load group in the short rest interval condition, having adequate perception of effort, especially if you're training with like one to two RAR, then I think it's even more so interesting. And if you find that the short rest interval condition does worse than the high load, uh, or the long rest condition, to me, that would be pretty indicative that the, the actual stimulus per set is decreasing rather than it purely just being a perception of effort issue in the sense that conceptually it would be, uh, the same stimulus between one minutes and three minutes, but they're just not able to achieve the same level of proximity to failure as they should. So it's more of like a practical or logistical limitation of that kind of, uh, style of training. But if we see high loads, short versus long rest intervals and the RAR is set up, so both groups can kind of succeed in the short rest interval condition has less hypertrophy. To me, that's pretty, pretty indicative that the, the fatigue from short rest intervals. And in this case, potentially from failure can meaningfully result in, um, you know, manifestations of different patterns and muscle growth, which I think would have a ton of downstream implications. If that was actually the case, I just pretty much every single indication in the research where people would say, Oh, this has downstream fatigue implications. This could hurt hypertrophy. Usually I have concerns with them actually achieving the desired proximity to failure. So that's not saying that that's not an important thing to take into account. It obviously is from a, from a practical perspective, but like, I find that a little bit less compelling as a reason not to, I guess, if that makes sense. Like I want, I want to know if it influences the stimulus actually, and then I can take these logistical considerations as kind of a secondary factor on what to actually write down on a piece of paper. But once I know what it actually does to the stimulus, I can make the cost benefit analysis that I maybe not would be able to otherwise. Yeah. That'd be, that'd be a cool like series of studies because you need a handful of designs to kind of truly isolate the question of, I don't know if you ever truly could isolate the question, but you could get some pretty good hints. Um, whether again, just in isolation, the performance of a set influences the, the outcomes you almost need to like induce fatigue in a non hypertrophic way, but also in a non cardiovascular fatiguing way before going into the set. Um, BFR, maybe something like that, but that's like, would that, would, would just BFR increase like your heart rate though? It probably would a bit. I mean, yeah, I definitely would to some degree. I'm trying to think of any local things you could do. Um, not sure, but dude, the series of study things is such a good comment. Like I did, uh, the YouTube video I did on, uh, uh, a recent study, um, about muscle relocation. I looked into the, like the series of studies from McMaster on the, uh, like kind of the hormone hypothesis, the series of studies are so cool when you're really able to like follow up, um, you know, and see things through like the entire investigation of a theory like that. It just makes me wish, uh, we had more, more lines of research like that. It's just, it's a really, really cool way that they did that. Um, I think there was another series of studies that did that with, uh, like hunger and training performance, if I recall. Yeah. And they had like the, uh, they had like the non-nutritive orange juice or something like that. Yeah. Yeah. Dude, those are, those are cool because you really get to explore the kind of all sides of an idea. So yeah, if anybody wanted to do that with like performance and hypertrophy stimulus, um, that'd be really cool. Well, we, uh, expended pretty much all our time for one question. So Q and A episodes are definitely going to get more beefy. Yeah. Yeah. We, I think next time we should set ourselves a timer. Um, all right. We'll wrap up here in like two minutes. I swear. What, what, what are some quick practical takeaways Zach and from your perspective? Sweet. So I think for the most part, um, training closer to failure is going to be generally a better stimulus for hypertrophy, but the thing you want to be careful is that if you do that early in a session, it can potentially preclude your ability to do that effectively later in a session. So basically the goal of training for hypertrophy, as far as I see it, is we're basically trying to get the most stimulus under the curve from like a pretty long time period. So in this case, we'll talk about the session, but honestly, I think most programming decisions should be maybe even longer than that. But in the case of a session, I'm not trying to necessarily program things to maximize the stimulus of one set. I'm trying to maximize the stimulus for the entire session. So you may choose proximity to failure. That is a little bit less efficient on a per set basis to make sure your entire session is the most stimulative possible. And in this case, um, what we're basically saying is that the fatigue from training closer to failure may not necessarily impact the, the true biological stimulus as much as maybe sometimes as it's claimed. But I think it's definitely still something to take into account from a logistical perspective. And, uh, you would probably want to program things in a way that allows you to account for that in some capacity. To make sure you're not smoked by the end of the session so that you can truly train close to failure. That's ultimately kind of, kind of what it comes down to is, um, yeah, maximizing the stimulus under the curve in this case, within the session. And, um, your perception of effort plays into that a lot. And it's, it's often not a conscious thing. It's not, I think a lot of times it's not because you're, uh, you know, I don't, I don't know if you can totally outsmart this. I think being cognizant of it can help, but I don't think that it's something you can escape. Um, I think it is a, a true consideration for, uh, uh, for programming both. Yeah. Yeah. I'll just, I'll just stop there. Cool. Um, as always, thanks for tuning in everybody. Um, yeah. Uh, make sure to like the podcast, uh, five stars rating and review on all podcast platforms of choice. Keep sending in your Q and a, uh, questions. We're going to set up some system to make sure we can get through more efficiently in future episodes. But as you see, we love talking about it, love diving into the weeds and are looking forward to doing so on more questions from you guys. So thanks as always and have a great rest of your day. Take care. Peace. Peace.