

=== FILE: 5 Things I Prioritize Over Program Design [yK9pk_SVsCA].txt ===

RIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRIRI lifted i had a sprint phase recently with coaching systems where i just kind of like stripped everything down and rebuilt based on those changes and i'd say since we started coaching that's probably like that was probably the biggest overhaul i've done since we started coaching but it was probably the third time or so that i or we have done that so all that is to say is that's an update for me um and i think any coaches out there appreciate how important systems are for not only like making sure you're not spending a bunch of time and energy on stuff that doesn't matter to improve your efficiency but also to ensure you do get the stuff that does matter and basically the way that i think about this and i i jotted this down before the show is implicitly i designed the new systems for not only my personality type and what works well for me but also what i now value as a coach these days which is quite a bit different than when we set up the previous version of the system and that's why i needed kind of that sprint phase and i'm going to put these roughly in order in terms of the things that i now value as a coach and i think that'll give you some insight into some of the things we talked about that have changed throughout the last few years based on new research experience etc the first thing is precisely accounting for the individual's goals and values whereas i think in the past that was a discussion but nothing that was as explicit explicit and i think that is a super easy place in terms of room for improvement if you're like a new coach for example if you're a powerlifting coach powerlifting means something different to a lot of different people right i think just understanding that is really important i set up this little like um at least the way it looks as a grid if someone's goal includes uh muscle growth which almost everyone does be honest about it every single muscle is listen uh listed and then i have different columns that they check off for that muscle so there's i can't remember off the top of my head but it's something to the effect of like i don't care no preference low priority moderate priority high priority and then the last one is like something to the effect of such high priority that i want to emphasize this at the expense of other muscles and just seeing that has been really helpful because again you think oh this client is interested in physique development right i'm going to give them a nice balanced physique program oh they mentioned they really want to grow their packs i'll give them a couple extra sets there but i think like i just really value making sure we're steering the ship in the right direction based on their goals and also their values and how training fits within their life obviously i'm not like proposing you go beyond your scope of practice and intervene in other areas of life but understanding what their lifestyle is like and what like kind of getting a full peek behind the curtain for what drives the athlete i think is really important that's number one and better systems for that not only upon onboarding but long term and kind of keeping those conversations going the second is training execution and notice how like actual program design hasn't been mentioned yet this is higher than program design so just ensuring i have good processes for training execution and keeping my suggestions for improving training execution top of mind while the athlete is training that was something that i prioritize in the new systems third is uh just general motivation and desire to train which is not something we need to optimize for but i think it's important to monitor because i think it can help you get ahead of when those goals or values are shifting which is inevitable i have plenty of people that started interested in powerlifting or physique development and it flipped because we've had discussions about it and and a lot of times i can kind of get an idea when that's starting to creep up and then also just kind of getting ahead of any potential challenges and knowing when i can push them when i can pull them back the fourth is lifestyle and goal alignment so what i mean by that is ensuring that training fits within their life and not the other way around and ensuring that what we're doing is sustainable so just as like a basic example if i know someone's goals include that like it requires them to gain weight something that i'm asking now on the front end is a confidence indicator if your goal is to gain weight how confident are you that you can execute that goal so it's like no confidence low confidence moderate confidence high confidence and that can give you a lot of good insight into like if i ask them if i suggest that they go in this direction with body weight or with tracking their sleep how do i expect this to kind of impact their lifestyle skill yeah and how is that therefore going to impact the sustainability of what we're doing and impact their lifestyle at large and then the last thing don't get me wrong this is still important but the last thing i have on my list is program troubleshooting i still think that's really important and we're going to get into that in the next segment where we answer listener question and i i do have systems for program troubleshooting but it is not necessarily the focus of the coaching process and in a lot of ways you have to tick a lot of boxes to like graduate to that point in my view and we'll get to into that in a little bit like because when you when you need to troubleshoot a program i think you need to be in a really good position to be ready to do so but in a lot of ways if that those other things i just mentioned beforehand are not taken care of like program troubleshooting just it's a non-start it doesn't matter we have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have

=== FILE: Are Drop Sets an Effective Training Method？ [New Research] [1TdSWI-R5XY].txt ===

 How much does the effect of fatigue, or the decrease in our absolute level performance, modify the absolute stimulus we get from a given RAR? Yeah, so 6.5 minutes for both curls and pulldowns in the drop set condition, versus 16.5 minutes in the traditional condition. There was a slight advantage to the traditional sets versus the drop sets. We'll talk about what that may mean here in a second. Welcome back to the Data Driven Strength Podcast. Today, I'm here with Dr. Zach Robinson, and we're going to talk about a cool topic, I think. We were lucky enough to be a part of a new pre-printed study by our good friend, good colleague, Seth Hinson, as a lead author. Shout out to Seth, shout out to the rest of the team at the Florida Atlantic University Muscle Lab. So Seth, Jake Remmert, Scott McCula, Alex Hameed, and Dr. Zordos as well. The title of the paper is Investigating the Effect of the Tonal Drop Set Mode on Elbow Flexor Hypertrophy. So this has been pre-printed for a couple weeks since, as of recording this podcast. And there's been some interesting chatter about it. It's always really interesting when you work on a project for a while to, you know, put it out there and see what the initial responses, see what the initial thoughts are. And I'm not going to use the word disappointed, but I'm just going to say it's been interesting. Our hope is that we can come at this from an angle such that we can show some of the potential, the way that this nudges the field forward as a whole. And hopefully, yeah, contribute to the conversation, if you will. It's a really exciting study, not only in terms of the technology that it uses, but also in terms of what that technology allows us to investigate from a conceptual standpoint. Something that we haven't historically had access to, which we'll get to in a little bit. So with that, Zach, do you have anything here to say on the front end? And if not, I can go ahead and just jump into the general rationale for a drop set. No, go for it. Cool. So we're going to be talking about drop sets today. But again, we're going to use drop sets probably more as an avenue for a conceptual discussion about what makes a set effective, what makes a rep effective. So we're going to get into all of that. So let's take a step back. And I wasn't around when drop sets were invented, but I would have to imagine that the thinking was, okay, I'm doing curls with a hundred pounds. And once I finished that set, because I failed, yeah, I can't complete another rep with a hundred pounds because I failed, but I still have more in me. It's not like I'm completely done. It's not like my biceps are completely toast. I could actually lift 90 pounds, right? I could drop the load 10% and I could do reps with 90 pounds. I could definitely drop the load 30% and do reps with 70%. So the idea is you have more in you. You have more gas in the tank, if you will, in terms of the working musculature. So perhaps you can get a better stimulus from that set by dropping the load and performing more reps. I would say initially some of the mechanisms suggested for why that might be beneficial is just around the fact that you get more work. Again, before we had the luxury of the amount of research we have now, which obviously it's still a growing field. We still have a lot to know, but we have learned a lot over time. Maybe there were some thoughts around the effects that might have in terms of the local metabolic environment and the skeletal muscle. Maybe even changes in some markers that we could measure in the blood. Again, that's kind of turning the clock back pretty far that I don't necessarily have a great historical account of. But you could definitely see how bros and scientists alike are like, hey, there might be something here in terms of a drop set. It might be better or it might be a nice tool compared to a traditional set. But I would say now the general evidence-based narrative around it is that drop sets could be a really awesome tool for time saving specifically. I think that's where most people think of drop sets is around time savings. So with that, Zach, I'll kick it to you. I'll let you maybe give an overview of why that's the case based on where the literature is as of 2025. Yeah, two things I'd add real quick there is like, and I totally think it's validating to just think about the experience of doing a drop set. If you remove all context of what we know about, you know, the process of hypertrophy now, pretty, pretty gnarly, you know, pump when you do a drop set. So all the all the bro based indicators would definitely lead in the in the the side of like, hey, there's probably something going on here. And so then obviously we've just had more context for that now. And then the other thing I'd say in terms of the time savings, I think most people would probably tip their cap to the idea that it may be slightly diminishing the stimulus. But I think that part of things is not discussed a ton, which I think we'll get into a lot throughout today's discussion, which is kind of the interesting component of the study in my view. Yeah. And just to clarify what you mean, of course, correct me if I'm wrong here in terms of diminishing the stimulus. So let's say let's go back to that example of doing bicep curls with 100 pounds. If you were to do two sets with 100 pounds with like a traditional rest period of, say, three minutes, that's like the traditional set approach. You're saying a diminished stimulus would come if you do 100 pounds and then you just do one drop set after that. So you go 100 pounds and then you say drop it to 60 pounds and you do another set to failure. Correct. So the idea is that second set. What you're saying is that second set would be a lower stimulus compared to the second set in the traditional scenario. Is that accurate? Correct. Exactly. Yep. Yep. And so when we kind of take a zoom out and look at the literature that we have, this is a body of evidence that I think potentially seems like it's relatively clear cut. But the more that you dig into the weeds, the more that things get a bit confusing. So shout out to Max Coleman and the team over at Lehman College. They did the initial meta-analysis on this topic, I believe, where they saw that, you know, going by typical statistical standards, effect size was like 0.08 on the standardized mean difference scale in favor of drop sets for hypertrophy, but non-significant confidence interval clearly overlapping zero on both sides. But the drop sets took about 53 less time. However, the one thing that is painting to the kind of some of the conceptual issues with this body of research is that the drop set conditions, if you're counting each individual drop as a quote unquote set, did about 32% more sets on average. So the question then becomes like, are the results we're seeing here totally generalizable in the way that people actually utilize these things where they basically kind of exchange a traditional set for a drop set? And that's where things get a little bit more confusing. And I think it's illuminating to kind of think about why this topic is difficult to study. You have to kind of pick and choose which variables you're ultimately going to equate when you would design a drop set study, right? You have the loads that you want to utilize. So for the traditional and drop set conditions, you have kind of the initial set load and then what's happening in those subsequent sets. For the traditional kind of conditions, obviously, it's pretty straightforward. You're going to keep the load roughly the same set to set, trying to optimize for either a rep range or optimizing for the load itself. But for the drop set condition, obviously, you have to think about, okay, what are we trying to match any of these loads? For strength, this is probably more relevant in terms of like what's the peak load that we're using, which you could think about as like the initial set if you're like matching the loads there. But then you also have to think about what are the percentages being dropped throughout that drop set kind of series or whatever you want to call it. Then you have to think about, okay, what about the total reps that I'm performing? Am I trying to equate volume load with a similar number of quote unquote sets or am I trying to equate volume load over more kind of sets for the drop set condition or what have you? So there's a lot of heterogeneity in the way the drop set protocols are designed. I think that makes the more conceptual nature of the things that we're looking to gain from this area of research a lot more challenging to kind of decipher than maybe it seems at face value. And then, of course, probably the one that's most relevant, kind of what we'll talk about here is the average proximity to failure of the quote unquote drop set series that I think we'll call it from here on out. Essentially, when you do a traditional set, let's say you perform a set of 10 to failure. Each one of those reps is going to get consequently closer to failure. And then, you know, basically the rep number is essentially the inverse of its RAR. So you go 10 RAR, 9 RAR, 8 RAR, all the way down to failure. And so your average RAR there in a traditional set is around 5, right? So if you take every single RAR of every single rep. Now, put that in a drop set case, it's a similar thing going on. But now we've reduced the load to kind of reach a similar average proximity to failure. Depending on the way drop sets are designed, though, that can potentially be modified. And that's one of the things we try to do with the way that we design this mode. So I don't know if there's anything you want to hit on in terms of the state of the literature. I believe there's also another meta-analysis. I forget the lead author's name that largely confirmed. The lead author, I think, is pronounced Sotal. Sotal, yeah, very similar. I think Stian Larson is part of the group. Shout out Stian. Yeah, very similar findings. That was from 2023. Yeah, very similar findings overall, I believe. But yeah, I don't know if you have anything to add on the research there. Yeah, so I guess just to recap, in a lot of ways, if you were to just look at these meta-analyses, which are well done, it's like, hey, you could cut your training time in half and you could get similar muscle hypertrophy. Correct. Now, the quote-unquote downside, we'll talk about whether this is truly a downside or not throughout the show, is that you have to do more sets, around a third more sets, it seems, to get the same hypertrophy. Now, we don't have so much literature such that, you know, we know that that 33% number is accurate, is gospel. But again, that kind of paints the picture of where things stand. Like, hey, yes, you can do this and save time. It just might mean that each of those sets, later on in the drop series or whatever you want to call it, just become less efficient. And yeah, man, the heterogeneity, every time I revisit this body of literature, it's tricky to study because, and we were talking about this before the show, you could just imagine all the different ways to control rest periods, to control the starting load that you use, to control how big the drops are, etc. How much that can change what you're actually looking at. Yep. And then, also, layer on individual differences in fatigability. Exercise-based differences. Exercise-based differences as well in fatigability. We were talking about, before we press record here, just our experiences with drop sets. I seem to be much more fatigable than Zach, such that if I try to do drop sets, my performance just drops off way more than his. It's not a good or a bad thing. No. It just might change the calculus in one way or another. And again, it just makes it really tricky to study. Whereas, if you're a researcher and you're like, hey, everyone's going to rest three minutes before the next set, you can assume most people are going to be mostly recovered. We can move into the new pre-printed study, get into some of the specifics there, what we found, and then how that fits in conceptually with the rest of the research, and just what we think we know about muscle physiology and what we think we know drives muscular adaptation, specifically muscle hypertrophy. Before we get into the specifics of what we did, we should talk generally about the fact that this was a funded study by Tonal, which is really, really cool that a company like Tonal is willing to fund research like this, because hopefully, Zach and I's prep for this podcast got me giddy because of what this technology allows us to do in terms of investigating some of these physiological concepts. So, huge shout-out to Tonal. Huge shout-out to Troy Taylor, who is integral for making this happen as well. And, yeah, shout-out to Tonal. If you don't know what Tonal is, you might have seen some commercials. I know I was first introduced to Tonal with some of the commercials with LeBron James in them. Infamous. Yes. It basically looks like a huge iPad that's installed onto the wall, and then it has adjustable cable arms that, you know, you can do a ton of different exercises on. You can train your entire body on it. But there's no weight stack, right? You can mess with the display, and you can increase the resistance up to 200 pounds. I actually think it might be a little bit higher than that now. I think it is now, yeah. It might have gone up a little bit in their most recent version, but what we used for the study was their first version. I think they're onto their second version now. But nonetheless, it gets pretty dang heavy, which is really cool. And, again, there's no weight stack. So the question is, how does the resistance actually occur? And I'm definitely not an expert in this, but basically there's an electromagnetic motor in there, right? So you can have basically computer-controlled electric resistance based on that electromagnetic motor that basically pulls against the cable to provide the resistance. So what does that allow us to do? That allows us to do two main things. I'm sure it allows many more things beyond the scope of our discussion here. But for our discussion here, there's two things that does for us. The first is it allows for the load drops to be very specific. And secondly, it allows for load drops to be instantaneous. Typically, with a drop set, the quickest possible way to do it would be a pin-loaded machine where you have to stop the set, adjust the pin, and get back into it. Even that is five to ten seconds. But if you're doing like a bench press, you have to get up, change the weight, et cetera. In this case, it is instantaneous. Rep to rep, the load can be adjusted. So the reason I'm so giddy about this project and what it can tell us, and hopefully others take this and run with it, or hopefully we're able to do more work in this area down the road, is it basically removes the arbitrary constraints of those logistics and of those load increments and of the timing. So at least in our view, it makes things better controlled, tighter, more specific, and allows us to look at the question at hand in a more precise way, is probably the best way that I can explain it. We can also, quote-unquote, optimize the drop set protocol, right? So if you think about doing a drop set where you do, again, 100 pounds to failure, let's say you get 10 reps and then you drop the load to 70 pounds. Once you pick up that weight with 70 pounds, you might have to do 10 reps again in order to get to failure. But what we saw as an opportunity here, and what Troy identified at Tonal, is that, hey, we could just kind of remove some of those early reps in the drop set, right? So in other words, once the load drops, we can just drop it a smaller amount such that we are close to failure right away. And then we just do a couple reps and then we drop it again. So there's more drops, there's smaller drops, and therefore the average reps in reserve is lower. So in other words, the average proximity to failure is closer to failure. We're training closer and to failure more often. So that basically allows us to ask and start to answer the question of, can we use a mode like this to save time? That's a big thing that's relevant to drop sets, and we'll give you the actual results regarding how long these sessions took later on. And then can we maybe get similar results in way less time, or maybe even like improve the stimulus compared to a traditional set? Because, again, if you look back at some of the other research that we've talked about on the show that Zach has pioneered in a lot of ways, is that, hey, there does seem to be a benefit to training to or close to failure. So what if we really kind of isolate that part of the equation and let's effectively get a drop set group, or a drop set condition, I should say, where we do the same amount of reps as the traditional condition, but the average RER is lower in the drop set condition, right? So that basically isolates the question of, hey, more of these, quote-unquote, effective reps or more of these reps closer to failure are being done in the drop set condition. So I know that was a lot, but stick with us, because once we get into some of the specifics, I think it'll become clearer and clearer as we go. Zach, anything to clarify in just the general rationale what Tone allows us to do? If not, we can jump into some of the specifics. Yeah, I guess I'd just restate it in a slightly different way. It's like from our perspective, again, coming off of the two meta-analyses that we have, and also I'd say if we're factoring in our practical experience as well, and like I said, kind of just the general maybe prior belief of the evidence-based community, is coming into this, we were essentially trying to design a drop set mode that had the best chance of still saving time and resulting in equivalent or, like you said, absolutely best case scenario, maybe even a little bit more hypertrophy than traditional training. That was essentially the goal. And so by leveraging some of the technology that we have access to, we can try to have more of those reps be performed close to failure rather than kind of having some of those redundant repetitions that typical drop set configurations would potentially result in. And I think the idea there was from this previous research, to get the equivalent hypertrophy, it took additional sets. That's not to say that we have confirming evidence to say that it required it, but purely based on the comparison that we have, there's at least theoretical rationale based on the data we have and the training protocols that were in those studies, and just our practical experience, and I would say just kind of our best bet that maybe drop sets aren't quite as good on a per set basis. So how can we manipulate the variables further to try to regain that ground and maybe even push it even further? That was the idea. Yeah, I think that's a great explanation. It's almost like taking – it's like as a scientist and going to grad school for so many years, you're basically encouraged to rethink everything. And I know it's easy to take this too far. It's like there's a lot of benefits to experience and what's been passed down over the years. But it's almost like taking a step back and saying, hey, most people use straight sets and they use isotonic resistance, right? They use a consistent external resistance until they have to manually change it. It's almost like taking a step back and saying, is there a better way? Right. Right? And you literally can't – like it's one of those things where once we first realized what this technology gave us access to, like you said, is like removing this like blindfold that we have in terms of the technology literally enables things you could not do otherwise, which is just like, man, let's take advantage of this, right? So, yeah. Like I think in a lot of ways things were designed to say, hey, could we get, yeah, equivalent muscle growth with a similar amount of – it's so hard to say total work in this context because you can quantify that so many different ways. But just roughly speaking, similar total work and just, yeah, leverage the technology, leverage the beneficial effects of training at a closer proximity to failure from muscle hypertrophy and what can this lead to. And this we thought was a really good start in terms of our design here. So with that, are you good if I jump into some of the details? Yep. Sweet. I'll give – I'll run through this pretty quickly and then I'll let you fill in any color or any details that you think would be beneficial for the listeners. So we had 29 trained participants in this study, which I think is important to highlight that it was a pretty well-trained cohort. The average training experience was about seven years in that ballpark. So pretty solid sample size, pretty well-trained participants. And it was a within-participant design, meaning the arms of each individual were randomized to either traditional straight set training or the drop set protocol. Okay. It was a semi-supervised study, which I think you can view it in two ways here. One is you could view it negatively and say, hey, we can't like 100% with certainty say that the protocols were executed to a T because there wasn't a researcher watching every single session, right? Supervising every single session. I would flip it on its head and say that there's benefits for two reasons. While fully acknowledging that limitation, I'd say there's two benefits to this being a semi-supervised study. The first is that, hey, a machine like a tonal device is going to be used in people's homes and they're probably going to be training alone or MOs with one other person. Of course, you could use those in like a training studio, but I think a lot of people would use that sort of device by themselves. So it's ecologically valid for that reason. And then secondly, one limitation of research is that there is a researcher encouraging you for every single rep that you do. And with something that can be as psychologically taxing as pushing yourself through the really high levels of discomfort that come with drop set training. If you don't have that for every single session, there's a question of whether what we see in the lab actually would play out in the real world. Whereas here, we're basically jumping to the end and saying, hey, let's make sure some of the sessions are supervised. I think it was four sessions were supervised throughout the study. So enough to check in, remind them, make sure everything is all good with their execution. But most of the sessions were not supervised. So we could, again, jump to the end and see how this actually plays out in the real world. Yeah, I was just going to mention the difference between efficacy versus effectiveness. And in medical trials, this is something that's often kind of talked about. So like efficacy is ultimately saying like in ideal scenarios, is it resulting in the difference that you would expect or what have you? So that would be like in super well-controlled conditions, what happens? But then there's also, you can look at effectiveness, which is basically saying when something is prescribed to somebody, what happens? And so that's different than, so in the case of a medical trial, I could make sure someone takes the medication or I could prescribe someone the medication. And the act of prescription isn't necessarily the same thing as them taking it, right? And so those things can kind of diverge. And the same thing is here. We could ensure the mode is completed exactly, or just the training in general is completed exactly as specified, which obviously has a lot of upsides. But also, particularly in this case, when we have this device that we're testing that is utilized in the real world in the kind of the free living scenario, the effectiveness to some degree is almost more interesting because that is actually how that is prescribed and executed. And what was the thing we actually wanted to compare? So like you said, that is an important distinction. And of course, has implications on how we review the results of the study when we get there. But I do think it's not one of those things that is appreciated, the distinction between those two things. And it's easy to be like, oh, lazy researcher, semi-supervised, no thought into it. And of course, there's pros and cons to that from a laboratory execution perspective. But at the same time, I do think there's important things to realize, the distinction between efficacy and effectiveness. Yeah. And again, just to say it like for the sixth time, pros and cons to each because, yeah, there's, it's tricky. But I think the approach is clear for the listener at this point. So the training itself, eight-week long training study. For the first four weeks, participants trained twice a week. And then for the weeks five through eight, participants trained three times per week. So the volume did kind of progress in a stepwise fashion from week four to week five. Now, every single session was the same, starting from the get-go. Again, halfway through, it progressed. Volume increased by 50% just by adding an extra day per week. Now, what did each session look like? So again, if I was in the study, one of my arms was in the traditional condition. The other arm was in the drop set or drop series condition. Okay. Each session, it was randomized which arm went first. So let's say that my traditional arm was first. In that case, I would do four straight sets, traditional sets with the same load, all the way to failure with about a 10 rep max. But again, they were taken to failure. So the target rep range was about 8 to 12 on bicep curls. And you can check out the paper for the exact like bicep curl variation, but that's not super, super important here. So four sets of bicep curls, and then I do two sets of single arm pull downs. So we did control their back training as well. So we wanted to make sure they weren't just doing their own back training on their own because that could obviously impact the change in muscle size for their biceps. So that was a way to test the mode more comprehensively and also as a way to ensure the participants had some back training so they didn't feel the need to go do that on their own. Then once I'm done with my traditional side biceps and pull downs, I move on to my drop set side. So we're going to call them from here on out drop series because I think calling them drop sets is a little bit easy to misinterpret. So what we used in the paper was drop series. So I did two drop series on bicep curls and one drop series on pull downs. Okay, so basically half the number of again, I don't want to use sets, but you get the idea. Those these drop series were tough. Okay, so there's a really nice figure in the paper. And I think we'll be able to have our fantastic editing team put that on the screen now. But basically the starting load. The idea was to to keep it similar to the other side. So the the different the two sides were progressed individually. So I didn't like just use the exact same load that I use on my other arm. But conceptually, in terms of the repetition maximum used, the idea was to start with a similar load. So to start with a 10 rep max load. Okay, and I'm not going to get into the weeds of like the exact velocity loss thresholds or the exact load reductions. But the idea is, okay, I have a 10 rep max load. And once I get to about one to two RER. The tonal will detect that. And this was, we kind of worked through this whole process during pilot testing to make sure the mode was in a really good spot. And of course, that was mostly the work of the development team at tonal. Once I'm in that one to two RER range or so, there's a low drop. And the idea is that after the low drop, I'm, of course, you know, training with a lighter load now. But I'm not like dropping way back down to like 10 RER. I'm dropping down to like two RER. Okay, then I'm doing a couple reps, dropping it again. So you're basically staying in this zero to two RER range. Okay. So you can imagine that this was quite painful. And I think the typical number of reps per drop series was like 20. Yeah. So basically, think of doing a set of 20 to failure. But it's much harder than that because instead of very high fatigue at the end of a set of 20 to failure, you also had high fatigue like halfway through because you started with a heavier load. It's one of those things you can't really even understand until you've done it. Like I remember pilot testing this like extensively. And it's just, yeah, you don't really grasp it until you do it at first. Like when you do a drop set, you don't realize the kind of, I just call them the quote unquote redundant repetitions. They might not be entirely redundant, but hopefully that makes sense. Those kind of breaks that you get psychologically even. But you're literally, imagine it in the context of like a lower body exercise. That puts it on the extreme of like the experience, but I think you can help understand kind of how it feels is like you do that first set of leg press or what have you. You get into that zero to two RER range and then you basically just surf that for an additional 10 repetitions, which is like, again, it's like hard to even describe until you've done it. But it's, yeah, it feels what it sounds like in terms of like you're basically surfing all of those reps close to failure consecutively. And just dropping off just enough to make sure you can keep going. And it's, it was, yeah, it was a cool experience. Yeah. So again, we'll have that figure on the screen. If you're listening on podcasts, this might be worth hopping over to YouTube and taking a look. Or if you have Spotify, you should be able to access the video there as well. Or better yet, pull up the paper, read that thing from cover to cover. And you could definitely see the figure there in version, in the current version of the preprint that we're looking at. It is figure two. So check that out because I think that's really, really helpful. And again, just subjectively explaining it, watching participants do this, doing it ourselves when executed properly, which does require maximum intent. Because basically what the device is detecting is the velocity of each repetition. So if you are lazy with it and you don't move the weight quickly, if you don't use maximum intent on each rep, then it's going to drop the load too quickly when you weren't actually ready for a load drop. But when executed appropriately, it's tough, it's fatiguing, and the pumps are gnarly. So basically this achieved our goals of keeping the total reps similar between my traditional arm and my drop set or drop series arm. However, we also achieved the goal of having a lower average RAR in my drop series arm, right? Even though the load did have to fall off. Because again, I'm getting this done way quicker. There's no between set rest periods. So that is what we did. Zach, I'll let you clean anything up or add any clarity that you think is necessary. And then I'll also let you jump into what we found. And then we'll get into the good stuff of how to actually make sense of all of that. Yeah, I think in terms of what we did, I think that was really well explained. So I'll just hop. Oh, and we took ultrasound muscle thickness at four time points. And we did muscle thickness halfway down the muscle belly. Yep. And Seth crushed those. Yeah. Very, very well done. And anyone that's used ultrasound knows there's a reason the biceps are studied so commonly. It's because they are an absolute joy to measure. And I genuinely mean that compared to other muscles. They're so much easier to measure. So I feel good about our measure of muscle size. Yeah, 100%. And so that's what we found. And I think the first thing that I want to try to fully explain here is because I do think it's important for the interpretation of the results, particularly on social media. I think this can probably get glossed over and not talk through all the way, was how we set up our research question. So our research question was kind of dependence on two different independent, to some degree, parts of our results. So the first thing we did was we wanted to establish a range of what we were going to consider practically equivalent. And so the reason that's relevant is let's just talk in the conceptual here for a second. If I have an infinite sample size, for example, a supplement that gives me a 0.0001% benefit is still going to be a quote unquote statistically significant difference. And so I think a lot of people hear that and they say, oh, statistically significant difference. Therefore, that must be meaningful. In reality, those two things are entirely different. Those two concepts are not related. Meaningfulness is inherently a subjective endeavor. If you ask an Olympic athlete what a meaningful difference in performance is, is very different than someone who's just getting started with the gym, right? And so that concept of meaningfulness is really, really important to define and do so a priori in one of these investigations where is the hypertrophy practically equivalent is essentially our primary research question. It's been reported that drop sets are basically just as good as traditional training in certain conditions. And we wanted to formalize that. So basically what we did to do that was, again, it's subjective, but a way that we thought would be a pretty decent bet was to take a basically some separate pilot reliability data that we have. Define a region from that. Essentially, that would be roughly what an individual might be able to detect if they were to apply this and kind of measure their own muscle size in this kind of fake universe that we're talking about. And so that's kind of how we defined it. And so if you're looking on the plots on the paper, we'll probably have them on the screen as well. There's that gray band that essentially represents this region that we considered practically equivalent between the two groups. That's just something I want to highlight because you'll see on social media when this paper is being communicated, that kind of concept will just kind of get thrown around. But it's important to understand what that means. And so if we look at the results here, both groups saw significant and meaningful growth in muscle size, which is awesome. That means both the traditional group and the drop set group were able to increase their bicep size with the protocols that we leverage, which is great and gives us a pretty good comparison in both groups. However, where the things get interesting is looking at this comparison between traditional and drop sets. And the reason I went through the whole rigmarole of kind of making the difference between practical and statistical significance is because we had a divergence in our results. And this is what I've described in other podcasts is kind of the equivalence fallacy is that sometimes when people see a lack of significant differences, they say their results are equivalent. You really can't say that unless you have a very precise measurement and some threshold that you're considering a practically meaningful difference. And you can say in high confidence it's within that range. That's what we actually had. So to start, we did see that the difference between traditional and drop sets are what I would consider quote unquote real. There was a slight advantage to the traditional sets versus the drop sets. We'll talk about what that may mean here in a second. But also the precision of our results in the magnitude of difference was within what we consider practically equivalent, which we defined ahead of time. And so basically how you can view this is, yes, there may be a quote unquote real advantage to traditional sets, which again, we'll talk about why that may be the case here in a second. But at the same time, the magnitude of the difference isn't so large that it's outside of what we would consider quote unquote practically equivalent. And so put it put another way, drop sets within the range of what we considered pretty good and pretty similar was within that. And so that's a win for drop sets as far as I'm concerned. Where things get even more kind of in favor of drop sets from my perspective is we also looked at our results relative to the time it took for essentially all the repetitions completed in each condition. And that's where drop sets came ahead in the sense that the difference there was outside of that range of quote unquote practically equivalent in favor of drop sets. And drop sets, you know, just looking at things kind of visually kind of wins substantially. And drop sets took a little less than half the time to achieve essentially what we're considering practically equivalent hypertrophy. So to wrap all that stuff up, drop sets seem to deliver practically similar hypertrophy in less than half the time in the protocols examined. However, there may be a small potentially real advantage to traditional sets if you're looking to optimize elbow flexor hypertrophy from these programs. How'd I do? No, I think that was a great breakdown. I mean, just to add a little bit of context for the listener, the smallest effect size of interest, which like you said, was defined ahead of time, is effectively point. It's like about 0.1 centimeters, I believe. I think, yeah, the smallest effect size, yeah, 0.14 centimeters. So that's a small amount. And it's tricky because when you're doing, you know, we had a solid sample, we had a within participant design such that, you know, we were able to put together what we think is a pretty good study for the field. At the same time, you don't want to like overstate the results beyond what would be practically meaningful. So the difference, so the between condition contrast between traditional training and drop set training was 0.07 centimeters, right? So if you basically take the estimate of growth for the muscle thickness change or the growth for the traditional condition, it was 0.26 centimeters. And for traditional, it was 0.19 centimeters. So basically what you were saying is that difference of 0.07 centimeters, the confidence intervals around that 0.07 centimeters did not cross 0, which means we're pretty confident that the traditional condition saw growth greater than the drop set condition in the positive direction. But it was just really, really small. That's basically what it's saying. And then the training efficiency, I think, is really relevant because we often get into the headspace of optimization. And I think that's good. And we're going to talk about that even more later in the show. But I think it's really important when thinking about a consumer device like a tonal. Someone might be buying a tonal because they don't have time to get to the gym, right? And if they can cut their workout time in half or even more or in that ballpark and get similar results and enhance their training efficiency, that's a really, really hopeful metric. So I am hopeful that we see that training efficiency metric used a little bit more in the research. So when you look at it through the lens of training efficiency, so basically growth per unit of time, drop sets just absolutely crushed traditional training. So, and you mentioned the total training time, right? Yep. Yeah, so 6.5 minutes for both curls and pull downs in the drop set condition versus 16.5 minutes in the traditional condition. Huge difference in training time, right? And, of course, the study here is focused on the bicep training and the pull down training. But if you were to, in theory, apply this to an entire training program, you know, you're taking a five-hour training week and cutting it down to, I don't know, what? Two hours. Two hours. Two hours. Something like that in that ballpark, which is insanely practically relevant, I think. Yep. So with that, with those results, let's get into, like, how to actually interpret this and apply it and where it fits into the research from a conceptual basis. So to start, let's talk about the ways that we can actually view these results and view these data. Like I just said, the first thing is that drop sets are way more efficient, and therefore, you should just do that. That could be a takeaway. It's like, hey, you guys didn't have a group that did 16.5 minutes worth of drop set training. But if I were to extrapolate this out and make some assumptions, I would definitely get more, right? My hypertrophy per minute is way higher in drop sets, so we should just do a bunch of drop sets, which we just don't have much research on. And we'll circle back to that. But I think the two most interesting ways to view the data that are opposed to each other is where there's a really interesting conversation. So there's one way to view it is to say, hey, the drop sets did produce a little bit less growth when you just compare the results to zero, right? Like we just outlined. That 0.07 centimeter difference between the two conditions basically tells us that they weren't optimal. And that could be due to the fatigue that builds up over the course of a drop series. That's one way to view it. Another way to view it is to say that, hey, the drop sets were not optimal due to some other reason, right? Maybe it is due to the feasibility of the protocol. It was due to the adherence of the protocol, such as the discomfort that comes with it or the inability to actually use maximal concentric attempt, something like that. So as with a lot of research, there's no like crystal, super crystallized takeaway you can just extract out and say, boom, now I changed my training accordingly. And we have the answer. But instead, we wanted to present the results in various ways, report it compared to zero, which we think is helpful. Also compare it to a metric for what we deemed as practically meaningful. Also within the context of efficiency. And in a lot of ways, you can kind of paint your own picture in your mind, if you will. So what do you think, Zach? How do you view the data? Yeah. And so it's a really good question. Ultimately, I think the first thing I'll say, just also, I don't think we made this point yet, is of course, drop sets are simply one strategy that kind of fits within this bucket of set extension techniques is probably the best umbrella term I could think of. So that's one thing I'd say is like drop sets definitely do have their advantages with essentially no time between the column sets again. But you know what I mean? The little clusters of repetitions. So they're probably the most time efficient if I had to roughly think off the top of my head. But of course, there's other ways to do it, such as my reps or what have you. So that's the first thing I'd say. But speaking specifically about this study, yeah, I think to me the time efficiency is kind of the expected outcome. I hesitate to say I'm less interested in that because that is arguably the most practically relevant thing. Like I was trying to think if I would personally take this information and obviously this is the drop set research at large. If I was going to show a loved one how to train, is this kind of how we should always teach people as a basis? Like, right? Like, you know what I mean? Like, let's design a minimum effective dose resistance training program with leg press, chest press, lat pull down. The effect of additional volume at low volume is pretty dang beneficial. What if we just have them do drop sets to get those couple extra sets in? And it's kind of like the standard template to show somebody how to lift, right? Like, that was one thing I thought of. Yeah. So you're saying for gen pop. Yeah. People that just want to get some results from a little bit of time in the gym and they're time constrained. Yeah. Maybe drop sets should be the default. That's basically what you're saying. Exactly. Yeah. Drop sets are some sort of set extension technique is like basically getting people in and out of the gym in 30 minutes and doubling or tripling the amount of volume that they would have done otherwise. Like, it's a double win. Or just don't do that extra volume. Well, I guess I'm saying you're doing that extra volume in less time and it's at the point where that extra volume is actually probably going to make some meaningful differences, right? So, yeah. Long story short, like that should be the number one takeaway, I think, in terms of like just adding on to that narrative. It's worth considering. Yeah. Yeah. Like just dropping that into the evidence-based larger conversation is like, hey, why is this not the default for just the average person? Exactly. Which the average person is not an optimizer. Now, maybe the average listener of this show is. And don't worry, we got you. Yeah. In a little bit. But, yeah. Like I think about like your average, you know, finance bro, like working at whatever job or whatever. And like, you know, you're probably exhausted after like crushing trades all day or whatever. Yeah. And then, yeah, you go to the gym. Day trading day any. Yeah. Yeah. You go to the gym for 30 or 45 minutes. Like, I don't know. I just like I really think that is something to be considered as kind of like, you know, you could probably write a pretty good book on like, you know, whatever. Like what's like the Tim Ferriss book that's like. Oh, like the four hour. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Something like that. Like that. That would be pretty, pretty cool. But anyway, that's publishers are going to come running. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. So like that's the first thing to underline just because I genuinely do think that's the most practically. Oh, he also has a book. I promise you I didn't look this up. He also he does have a book called The Four Hour Body. Oh, he's already got us then. He probably. I wonder if he has drop sets in it. I wonder. All right. I'll do a quick search. Yeah. So the reason I want to highlight that because I do think that is the most practically relevant for the most people on the planet. Now, shifting to the most people who listen to this podcast, maybe it's slightly different. So the interesting discussion to me is how do we view the fact that there is a quote unquote real difference between traditional and drop sets. So one thing I want to talk through quickly. I don't don't let me get too far. Low volume, high intensity and frequent training. Oh, it's like slow tempo stuff. Oh, nice. Okay. Push ups, pull down, seated rows, chest press, shoulder press, leg press, hip thrust, progressive overload, baby. Drop us a comment if you want a live review of the four hour for our body for our body on the next podcast. Yeah. I mean, this is a super quick search. Low volume, high intensity. I don't see anything about drop sets in here. Well, Mr. Ferris, if you want to, you know. Yeah, I don't know for sure, but I don't think drop sets are a core component of the four hour body. Yeah. But. So anybody in the biohacker community. Oh, shoot. Has he got it? ChatGPT says the four hour body does mention drop sets, but only briefly and not as a core recommendation. All right. Well. But who knows if that's actually accurate. Long story short, if anybody's looking up to level up the biohacker training game, let us know. Um, but anyway, to come back to the, um, how to view the traditional results. And all I was going to say is don't let me get too off track on this because I will definitely talk about this for too long, but I want to talk about what it means to detect a difference between groups real quick. Okay. Good luck making this tight. I'll try. You got it. I'll try five minutes or less. So I think a lot of people are going to say, how, how are you saying that this difference is real? It's so small and I can't measure that. The issue with that idea is that the whole reason we do research is to be able to detect effects smaller than we could detect on an individual. And so the idea is when we have a larger sample size, the measurement error that doesn't allow us to measure a change for a given individual or a given difference allows us to detect that once we have a larger sample size and all these individual measurement errors can cancel out. So that's, that's just something I think is like really important to realize why we do research in terms of the size of the effects that we can detect. Essentially the idea that we can detect smaller differences than we'd be able to detect on any individual. That's why you can't go to get a DEXA scan and be confident that you had a change in lean mass or be confident that you had a change in body fat percentage. But if we, if we take a thousand people over the course of two different interventions or what have you, a control group and a training group or whatever, we can detect extremely small differences in lean mass because we have a larger sample size where these measurement errors cancel out. And so I, I see that on social media sometimes in terms of like critiquing the differences between group means. Sometimes that's justified depending on the sample size and the overall study design, of course. But the idea is we do research to be able to have as much precision on those differences and means as possible. It's the basic idea why studies are not just one person. Exactly. And, and then, and then. Which sometimes people can use a reminder about. Yeah, exactly. And then the, and then the, the next question is, is it meaningful or not? Which is what we've just spent time discussing. So I just wanted to discuss that because I see it on social media sometimes and it, um, it irks me slightly just, just to kind of, it's antithetical to the reason that we, that we try to get larger sample sizes and study groups for that reason. Um, okay. So with that out of the way, how do we view this small difference that is in favor of traditional groups is the million dollar question, right? It is it due to this fatigue or is it due to some other, uh, kind of, um, practical reasons? And are you, just to make sure the listeners on the same page, all frame, this is a question. Sure. Are you confident saying there, there was a difference? Yeah. I mean, based on our design, I think that we have an extremely, based on our data. Sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry. Sorry. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Based on the data, there was a difference. We're just saying, man, it's small. It's very small. Exactly. It's small. And it's to the point that on the individual level, it is arguably impractical. Exactly. Yep. Yeah. Or is impractical the best word there? Maybe there is a bad word. It's impractical is the best word given our subjective criteria. And that's the thing that's really hard to get. Because it was a standard error of measurement times square or two. Yeah. Something like that. It's essentially arbitrary. Like that's, that's the tough thing with meaningfulness in defining that in any way. Here's another example. Go ahead. With our dose response metaregressions, right? Um, so on the X axis, you have the number of sets on the Y axis, you have gains or muscle growth. Sure. Technically the entire dose response relationship is positive and it's significant. Beyond increasing zero. It's increasing, right? And the confidence interval is above zero. Yes. Um, however, again, check out previous content on this. We used criteria to determine what is likely to be meaningful. And that gave us some insight into basically where the, uh, practicality of that dose response relationship maybe ends based on the, the data that we have. Um, which we're, we're kind of double clicking on this point quite a bit. Yeah. To use one of my corporate phrases. Double click. That's a good one. Um, but it, it, it is like, it does kind of like make your head spin a little bit. Yeah. So I'm glad you, glad you, you're double clicking on it. Yeah. Yeah. So I, I guess to me, like there's kind of two ways we can go. Like, I guess to me, the second hypothesis is a little bit quicker to discuss. And then we can kind of grant it for sake of argument is kind of the way that I view it is like, of course, in a semi-supervised setting where there's a couple of logistical constraints that we obviously tried to account for and instruct people how to use the tonal and the mode, both of the modes, um, as much as intended. There's obviously things that would inhibit them from, from doing so. And so whether that been perception of discomfort, which we did try to anchor them to the, to the idea of failure, what that feels like, um, in both conditions. Um, but there's still, you know, things that can make you terminate a set prior to the point that we desired, which is like the local muscular, muscular fatigue. That's obviously always kind of a concern. But the thing I was going to say is like semi-supervised, supervised, what have you, that's kind of always happening and you have to essentially take the participants word to some degree that task failure occurred for X, Y, Z reason or X, Y, Z, um, proportion of reasons if you can't separate them entirely. But basically what I'm saying like that, we do a leg study or a leg press study and we're screaming at the participants as much as possible. Sure. We think that they're reaching. We see it happen, but we don't know what's happening. Of course. Exactly. We can't necessarily totally guarantee in any scenario that the thing that's limiting task performance is local muscular fatigue. And there could be, um, like bad reasons or good reasons or like there, there could be the reason that the participant isn't motivated. So they like fake failure. I don't think that happens. No. But what I think what you're getting at is like, we assume that the force production capability of the muscle is what is, is insufficient and therefore task failure occurs. Right. But it could be kind of this bi-directional relationship between your experience and your perception of effort. And on the other end of that relationship, what's going on at the level of the skeletal muscle and all the fatigue that it's experiencing. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah, exactly. So the reason I bring that up is because I think we can basically grant it for this discussion because while I do think the probability is a little bit higher in this case, given it's semi-supervised, you know, we're not screaming at the participants every single time they train. Um, that is kind of always the case. Um, so that's, that's something to consider. The other thing, as far as that goes, as far as the, the maximal intent, um, once again, like that is something we really tried to, um, instruct the participants, familiarize them. They understood that that is essentially how the mode works. Um, and I do believe that given that amount of familiarization and re-familiarization at every single one of the supervised sessions, we can basically grant that that was, that was roughly kept in check and essentially all of the metrics that we use to assess was the training completed in similar parameters as we desired were basically met. So long story short, I think we can basically take off the table, um, from the idea that at least in this study, drop sets weren't optimal due to feasibility and adherence to the protocol. If you can grant the assumptions that I just laid out. So that, that, that'd be the first thing I'd say. Okay. So what that brings us to is now what I think is the most interesting part of this and where we can kind of get into the rabbit hole in terms of practical implications and just ideas is what is the influence of fatigue, particularly in the case of drop sets on the stimulus side of the equation. And if you take our results at face value, we basically try to set up the drop sets to have the maximum chance of equating hypertrophy. And again, in a absolute fairytale world where the number of reps close to failure is perfectly related to the hypertrophy observed, maybe it's even going to go up a little bit. We didn't see that. We saw, we saw the opposite. We saw that while the difference is very small, of course, drop sets were a little bit worse for hypertrophy looking at the group means. Why is that? Yeah. Yeah. So I, the way that I like to conceptualize this, and I hope this resonates with at least some of the listeners and definitely let me know if this is unclear to you is just kind of imagine a grindy rep in isolation. Okay. So you're grinding through the last rep of a set or the second, last rep of a set. You're locked in. The rep is moving slow because you're close to failure. Okay. Imagine that at the end of a 10RM set, right? So you're using a hundred pounds or whatever. Imagine that exact same thing. So that exact same repetition speed, but it's after this, these multiple drops have occurred and therefore you're more fatigued in the, the repetition velocity is similar, but the force production is lower. The load you're using is way lower. Right. And also just the amount of time you spent up to that point doing work, fatiguing yourself at the level of the musculature and also probably some mental fatigue as well. Yeah. That is added up. So you're basically taking similar looking reps. It's completely different. But different, different fatigue context, right? Now, this is a bit of an extrapolation, a bit of a jump, but, and now let's move into our practical takeaways. And this is a bit of a jump. But I think when you pair this and kind of triangulate it with other data, my, one of my main takeaways is that reps to failure or sorry, reps closer to failure just in general are likely more effective. But that fatigue context that basically precedes the repetition in question may moderate the effectiveness. We don't know how much it moderates the effectiveness. Yeah. Okay. And like you did a great job outlining. The moderation of the effectiveness. So basically how, how much the hypertrophy stimulus from that rep goes down as a result of the fatigue con context. It could be a physiological thing. It could just be a psychological thing or it could be both. We don't know. We can't tease that out with, you know, what we did here. And that would also just be a tricky thing to study. That's my main takeaway. My other simpler takeaway is that drop sets are an awesome tool. Right. And I just think it's worth sitting on that and really thinking about that a little bit more as like an evidence-based person. I put that in air quotes purposefully, but, you know, using evidence to inform what we think we know conceptually. It's like, man, it's not a big body of research. There's limitations. There's heterogeneity. But like, I think there's a really cool study. I think we achieved the objectives and it produced hypertrophy really efficiently. And I'm not saying drop sets are an awesome tool. Therefore, you have to do this drop set method. Therefore, you have to buy a tonal. Instead, I'm saying, hey, conceptually, if you have access to a tonal, awesome. If not, there's a ton of ways to apply this. And that would be kind of like a takeaway to be, if you will, is that there are other ways to apply this concept. Right. And regular listeners of the show will know that that's not really how we think about research is like, oh, this is the way this is the way now. Or like we found look at how how significant our results were for efficiency with this drop set protocol that therefore it was more efficient here compared to this study. Therefore, this drop set method is better. That's definitely not how to think about it, but just conceptually ways to like either use drop sets or like rest pause or my rep type training. And we have a lot of unanswered questions about like what's actually driving the hypertrophy stimulus from those slash taking away from maximum hypertrophy stimulus of those. We still have a lot of questions, but there's definitely no right way to use this concept. We would need a ton of resources to go into the research to really tease that out. I don't think we'll ever get there. But instead, conceptually, it's an awesome tool, I think. Yeah. A hundred percent. Cool. Do you agree with are we all good with takeaways? Yeah, I think so. I mean, the. Yeah, I honestly, honestly think this which sucks and this is definitely the meme in terms of more research is needed. But this study has given me more questions than it has answers. I think it confirmed the idea that we can get really great growth in a short period of time leveraging these strategies, which is, again, like I said, for the for the most people on the planet. That is probably the most practical questions we could investigate, which is really cool. But for the super nerds like us, like now it makes me just really want to dig into these speculative relationships between feet fatigue and essentially how much does the effect of fatigue or the decrease in our absolute level performance modify the absolute stimulus we get for it from a given RAR basically. And then, OK, so this that's a great way to tee up what we discussed beforehand is the biggest remaining research question in our mind. If you look at our study that we just talked about and also the drop set research up to this point, to my knowledge, there's no study that equates time, total training time between a traditional approach and a drop set training approach. OK, so some of the feedback, which I think is totally. Fair feedback is like, hey, why didn't you guys just equate total training time between traditional and drop sets or sense and see if. You know, if you're like a stimulus max or you're you're a optimizer, you're someone trying to get everything you can out of your training, if drop sets are just more effective overall. And I think that's a great answer. Hopefully, by listening to this, the last hour of us talk about a rationale here, you can see why we designed it the way we did. But I think that is absolutely the next research question is like, what if we do a similar concept, but we match training time. And see if the drop set type of approach or a myorep type of approach, something in this general vicinity can lead to more muscle growth in the same amount of time. That's a really interesting question. And that gets at kind of this larger conceptual discussion. And that is to what degree do the diminishing returns of additional work within a session change as a result of the training style? Yeah. So I'm going to say that again in different language because I know that's a little bit tricky to think about. So think back to our dose response relationships between volume and hypertrophy. X axis is the number of sets per week. Y axis is change in muscle size, right? We see the dose response relationship. What exactly it is doesn't really matter from my point here. But what is important is that the majority of that research is based on traditional training with decently long rest, right? Two plus minutes. I don't remember the average rest off the top of my head, but traditional-esque training, right? How would that dose response relationship look if on the X axis, maybe it's not sets because again, it's kind of tricky terminology wise when you're doing drop sets or drop series, whatever you want to call them. But just generally speaking on the X axis, if you have work that you do within a week and on the Y axis, you still have change in muscle size. Does that dose response relationship look similar, right? Or does it change? Because you could make the argument that, man, we do see evidence from the study in question that maybe fatigue, the fatigue context, so higher fatigue preceding a given repetition at a given velocity does take away from the stimulus a little bit. So therefore, you could make the argument, you could extrapolate to say that by doing this like higher fatigue type training, this higher within session acute fatigue type of scenario that you would see stronger diminishing returns and potentially effectively a plateau in terms of the muscle growth stimulus earlier in the workout. So the final way I'll word this is that you kind of really just wipe yourself out early in the workout by doing all drop sets. Here's another way to think about it maybe. And the short answer right now is we don't know. Yeah. And a lot of assumptions in the evidence-based community, the kind of narrative right now is just do them at the end of the session to get more volume. Um, but that's not really an evidence-based opinion and credit to you. And I'll let you add some color here because you pointed this out before we pressed record. It's like, that's not really evidence-based, right? Um, no one's actually studied that, that has assumptions. Why are we starting from the position that it wouldn't be better just to do them the entire time? Yeah. I mean, the, the way that I, when I heard you say that I hadn't thought about it this way, but it is kind of an interesting way to think about it is shout out to Jake Remmert, um, going to back to his meta-analysis, thinking about the per session volume, quote unquote cap. Is it a volume cap or is it a like total fatigue cap? If you think about it like that. So the psychological, of course, of course it could be psychological as well. I guess what I'm saying is like, if you add up the reduction in performance across all the sets in the workout, set configurations that increase that level of fatigue may hit a wall in the number of sets that we're performing much earlier than, or sets, damn it, and I keep using the same language, but you might hit that fatigue cap much faster for a given number of repetitions or workload compared to traditional set configurations, which what's the stimulus, uh, net there in terms of hypertrophy? Again, not entirely sure. Um, so it's just, there's just so many remaining questions in terms of utilizing. Yeah. And so to come back to what you just said at the end there is like, the thing I always ask myself is like, okay, yeah, sure. We should throw these at the end of the workout or the last, uh, exercise for a given muscle group or things like that. Like those are very practical applications of this research for, for like somebody that's more on the optimization side of things, which I totally understand practically, but intellectually I'm like, okay, this is like the first super tangible evidence to say that there's like a clear potential downside. Um, not large, but some, but absent that, let's say we lean on the practical equivalent side of things. Why would you not use this all the time? Like what is the tangible reason there? Particularly if you set up the configuration of the training to try to quote unquote set drop sets up for success. Let's use slightly heavier loads, maybe slightly more submaximal proximities of failure, uh, per each little series or what have you to really try to minimize the unnecessary parts of that fatigue to make sure you could do them for more parts of your session without feeling tanked. Um, I don't have a good answer to that question. And my intuition is there's probably some modification of the dose response relationship. Like you were saying, what that looks like, I don't know. And so just throwing them at the end of the workout or using them in kind of that capacity. Like you said, I don't think that's a very direct application of the research because for the most part, I'd have to go back and read the studies. Now this is something I'm not a hundred percent confident about, but I would stand to reason or stand to bet that most of these training programs are with isolated muscle groups. Um, meaning it's not like a global training program where they're using this for their upper body, their lower body, their back, their legs. Um, it's just biceps or it's just quads. So that's not really the application we're saying in anything related to fatigue, the context in which these research questions are investigated is crucial. Hypertrophy is easy to study, um, in kind of these localized examples because it's a pretty local adaptation. So for some of those things, it's really, really, um, helpful to kind of keep the problem isolated. But for fatigue, which is more of a systemic and local process, that's where the difference in how these things are applied ecologically and how they are in the research, that divide, I think gets more tricky. And that's why when we come back to your meta-analysis, we always talk about it as like the physiological dose response relationship and like in this super meat in a Petri dish kind of sense in terms of like, if we can linearly apply the dose in like this really controlled setting, that's how it ends up. But in, in, in these more fatigue related questions, I don't think that's as useful to think about. So I, I, I will not belabor things any further, but what do you think? No, I totally agree. I mean, I like to just take the concepts and just think one, two, three levels higher. Yeah. And when you were talking there, basically, I think what it comes down to is we don't know why diminishing returns occur within a session. And again, within both the weekly dose response meta and the per session dose response meta, we were able to identify a point of undetectable outcome superiority, which basically says, Hey, beyond this point, we don't have much certainty that it still goes up, that the benefits are still there. It could be a plateau. That's a true plateau is within reason. Um, I believe for multiple reasons, including the fact that that point exists, that there probably is a plateau. Um, but we don't know why that occurs. Right. I think it's very easy for someone that, you know, takes a muscle physiology class and learns about muscle protein breakdown. Um, and yeah, to make assumptions about why there would be a plateau, but then you really think mechanistically, it's like, we don't really know why that's the case. In fact, there's no research demonstrating that higher volumes to my knowledge. There's no research to my knowledge that actually demonstrates a dose response relationship with additional, uh, of additional muscle protein breakdown with additional volumes, not because there isn't, but just because that's surprisingly hard to study. That's just a basic example, right? We make a lot of assumptions about like why that dose response for curve does tail off, why there are diminishing returns. But I think it's helpful to like, you know, think multiple levels higher than that, say why? Because if we know the answer to why that's the case, then we could extrapolate it more confidently and more broadly to something like this. Yeah. If we add an answer, answer that question, we would probably be able to tell you with more certainty whether or not drop sets making up the bulk of your training would make sense versus just putting it at the end of the session as like the cherry on top to the program. Because once you do a whole bunch of drop sets within a session, we would expect stronger diminishing returns. So yeah, I thought this was very fruitful. Um, I don't have anything else to add, but I also have plenty of rabbit holes I want to go down, but I don't have anything else that's going to sway me from any of the podcast here. How about you? Yeah, I don't think so. Um, lots of questions. I think the only thing that came to mind when you were just finishing that is like, I do think some, uh, sides of the aisle, if you will, would think there is a pretty clear cut like way to explain why diminishing returns occur, for example. But the thing I want to underline, like what you're saying, and I'm just interpreting what you're saying and confirming that's the case is like, you could make a compelling case that from a physiological perspective, um, the longer the training session occurs or the more sets that you're doing the, you know, you take like a cardio bout, for example, over time, the longer the task duration goes, the central fatigue or what have you is kind of kicking in as that task is going on. And so you reach some point where your, your brain isn't sending, you know, a sufficient signal to recruit the musculature in the case of resistance training. And that's starting to essentially diminish the effectiveness of each set. That's part of it. And then also, um, you know, for the drop set case, maybe the actual physiological process of shorter rest periods and decreasing your performance isn't delivering as much tension on a per rep basis. And that is both of those things collectively are decreasing the mechanical tension experienced and thus the chemical signals that, that kind of come from that. I understand that perspective entirely. That's I think it's very reasonable. I do. I too, but I guess I'm just going to highlight what I think you were saying. And I, I, I just want to make it explicitly clear is in the real world, there are other things that can limit it. And so when we go to the case of observing the outcome data that we have, we don't really know what is creating the actual diminishing returns in the real world. Is it some of these psychological factors that don't actually allow us to reach, um, you know, the local, the local muscle fatigue that we're, that we're after. So that mechanistic explanation is great, but what if, what if there is these other factors in a practical sense that are changing? What is the predominant factor there? And then also to what degree do those occur and how do those influence outcomes? All of those things I think are from a well-controlled, high quality human data. I don't think that that exists. Um, and, and that's what makes these kinds of things, um, so interesting because you can create really high quality conceptual models that get difficult to test and difficult to tease out these things. Um, but I, yeah, I just, I just want to paint that picture because I think that's a reasonable way to think. Um, and it's, it's almost certainly right. Sure. And just the degree of its relevance. Yeah. Degree of exactly. And that's comes back to put a bow on it. Maybe coming back to our drop set results is like, there quite literally are two ways you could do it. Right. It's like the results are practically equivalent based on our, you know, subjective threshold that I think is pretty reasonable or there's a small difference there. How do you, how do you square that circle and how does that influence the way that you train? There's a lot of different ways you could take that and a lot of different, I think reasonable applications. One person might say, Hey, the time saving benefits that I get from drop sets, I might be able to apply those to the majority of my program and close to multiply the amount of total work I'm able to fit in in a given amount of time. That's a net positive for me. Other people might say, Hey, the, uh, effective fatigue is showing up here. That's something I definitely don't want to, you know, put too much of my, um, eggs in that basket and what if it has a cumulative effect that the research really doesn't, you know, paint super well because of the limited application of this in a ecologically valid holistic training program. Both of those are totally reasonable, uh, opinions, which is why we need, um, some of these, you know, other designs that start to build on the drop set literature a little bit more collectively with, uh, time equated set equated collectively multiple conditions all at once. Um, and just kind of continue to take steps forward, um, their different volumes, um, et cetera. So, yeah, I'm with you, man. I, I'm excited to see this area develop. Um, oftentimes I think what matters less is like the data itself, but maybe what it can inspire next, if that makes sense. Um, and you know, there's tonal, there's other companies that use like similar technology. So in other words, there's improvements in technology to test things that we're interested in from a conceptual perspective. So, um, I'm excited to see what people come up with and I really, really hope that this podcast shows some excitement for conceptually what we did. And I'm not, I'm not saying like there's not limitations or like this. We, we still want to study the study design was like perfect for answering a question, but instead of just saying, Oh, another drop set study versus straight set study. Yeah. Um, not really relevant for me for X, Y, Z reasons. What is this? What, what more does this tell us? That kind of, right. Oh, it's another one that'll go into the next meta analysis showing no difference or, or whatever, which of course we're in favor of that typically. And we're not trying to over extrapolate one study, but the, I think the, the journey of this is, is the thing that's the, like the journey of the ideas and the hypotheses and what kind of went into the design. That's the part I think is the most interesting. And then you pair that with our results, given the hypotheses and just like, I would say our prior beliefs coming in, I would say the prior beliefs of many practitioners in general, that's what is interesting. And that's kind of what pushes the next questions further. Um, yeah. So I, I honestly think there's tons of meat on the bone in this area. And honestly, from a practically relevant perspective, both for optimization and efficiency, I think this area is super, super impactful. So I hope more people continue to build on this because like I said, whether you're doing a sarcopenia RCT with, you know, tons of people, a multi-center clinical trial, that's looking like a, uh, GLP one or something, understanding that drop sets can decrease the, uh, the, uh, staff burden to carry out those large trials by literally less than half. That is huge information, right? So like, there's just so many, there's so many downstream benefits of like understanding the efficiency and the optimization perspective of this, that I just hope people continue to chase this, this path down for sure. Yeah. I'd love to see. It makes me think of looking in to the affective response of drop sets. And that's where I think you can, I think you can set them up for success. That's, that's, that's where I think the work for that side of things. So what I mean by the affective response is just more generally speaking, like the experience of doing them. Minimizing the perception of discomfort essentially. Yeah. And also how that might influence like intention to exercise or things like that. Yeah. Um, because if you want to apply this to general population, that's a huge consideration. It's like, Hey, you can save time, but if you're not going to do it because you dread that sort of training or whatever. Yeah. Um, or it increases injury risk, something like that. Yeah. Then that's a concern. Um, but in a lot of ways, maybe it would decrease. I was going to say, you're using, you're getting to fatigue with a lower load. Right. Like to me, it's like the, the quote unquote optimal configuration would be basically the heaviest load to start with. That is like in that Goldilocks zone of like, it's heavy. So it's close to failure basically immediately, but it's not so heavy that it's kind of aching on your joints kind of thing. And then you basically drop the load to try to elicit those conditions again, essentially. So like, let's just say for sake of argument, sweet spot is, I don't know, six to 10 RM or whatever. And then you hit that first set with like two RAR. It's like eight reps with two RAR. You drop the load, whatever the low drop is to elicit those conditions you're doing, you know, somewhere in that range again. And then you drop it and do that range again. And I think that's for the most part, as long as the repetitions don't get too high, I think that perception of discomfort could be minimized, um, along with the RAR. So yeah, that's, that's a whole nother conversation. And like, we have no research on my reps. Yeah. Um, I think the first one's going to be coming out soon, but I mean, I guess there's like some rest pause stuff that's kind of relevant, but I don't know. I think there, there's a lot of promise for my reps, um, for some reasons that we don't need to get into right now because we got to wrap this up here. So if we're all good, we'll, we'll wrap it up here. Leave us a comment, um, on the YouTube video. That would be awesome. Show us some engagement. Let us know what you're interested in seeing from us in 2026. If there's any topics you want to see us cover, maybe you've seen some of our work and you have a follow-up question or a practical application question that we could, we could discuss on the show. Um, yeah, we, we'd love to hear it or just drop, drop a nonsense comment so that, uh, we get the, uh, that algorithm boost from it because Hey, we're not doing our job with an hour and 25 minute podcast. So we need you to do your job and, uh, help us out. So be sure to subscribe, um, go to data driven strength.com, sign up for the newsletter and we'll see you in the next episode. Peace. Okay. Okay. Okay.

=== FILE: Going Off Program： The Progress Killer？ [EcVIuvOTago].txt ===

 R-a- of training. We kind of got into this discussion of just like super high level, like training discussion in terms of like the balance between structure and flexibility or rigidity and flexibility. And I think I've had a lot of different views on this. The more that I've had what I would consider maybe non-standard coaching clients. So, you know, I've coached a lot of people over the years. The majority of them were what you would consider like probably like intermediate lifters, you know, looking to really break that next echelon of like really getting to that advanced level and trying to really reach the peak of their, you know, their genetic potential kind of thing. But mostly in the intermediate realm. I think you run into areas where it requires pretty come to Jesus kind of conversations on the way that you're making decisions when you get to one of two areas. One, when somebody is extremely advanced and they've hit a plateau. That's the, that's kind of the first example is like, all right, what are my principles to help us continue to make progress when I'm also facing the dragon of the linear log curve of adaptation where we're reaching the point where the expectation is made to not be there's much more room to go kind of thing. That's kind of the first case. Are you willing to train your tail off to put five to 10 kilos on your total this year? Exactly. That's like case A. The other case, and this is the case that I've had a lot of experience with more recently, is maybe someone who isn't necessarily at that point of their genetic potential, but the external constraints that they're dealing with effectively get them to a similar position. So these are people with extremely chronic injuries. These are people with very limited time to train, but still want to make progress. These are people with, you know, other types of health disorders and things like that, that kind of conflict with, with their goals. And effectively, you have an external constraint situation that make the person, their advancement accelerate essentially. So that progress is much harder to come by. And I've had a few of these situations recently, whether they be chronic injuries, like I said, whether it be someone with time availability issues, a couple of very interesting, like health related things as well. And I've come to kind of the position that structure and things like that can be both a extreme positive thing in a lot of cases. And I think that that can be something that gets a lot of people to the next level is having some degree of structure, some degree of predictability to their training. But I also think there comes a point where that can be something that effectively works against you. So I'll paint this as a kind of an example. So we're kind of bred as power lifters to be very type A, very analytical, very structured with your training. You know, exactly the weights you're going to hit on week two, week three, week four, you have your progressions planned out. A lot of these things are like very, very, you know, penciled in for lack of a better word, like the detail oriented. Yeah. Detail oriented. The lines around the box are very, very clear. However, obviously the case for auto-regulation itself has been made abundantly clear. I'd say almost all power lifters are people in kind of our niche are training with RP, RAR, and they're integrating some of these auto-regulatory strategies to account for fluctuations in their life stress and things like that, that may affect your day-to-day performance. However, I think I've grown to appreciate that that is really, and we've kind of made the analogy between like the course and the fine dial a couple of times. And I've grown to appreciate that. I really think that is just the fine dial. And in certain scenarios, it's just not sufficient. And by having this kind of training culture that breeds this very detail oriented, analytical, this is the plan kind of mindset, I think it removes your, for lack of a better term, like just inherent intuition on sometimes what the correct training decision is. And obviously this is where, I mean, the balance of structure and flexibility is that main thing. Someone who's very early on in their training career, they're not going to know what effective flexibility looks like. They're not going to know how to make those decisions in a intelligent way. But as I've gained, or as I've grown to appreciate how training is probably operating more on these kind of really high level principles, and there are no super right or wrong, like individual decisions on like, I did well with safety squat bar, I can't do high bar, those kind of things. I've kind of abandoned a lot of those beliefs. I've grown just to appreciate how much that flexibility can be leveraged to your advantage in a lot of cases. So kind of coming back to a practical example is like you have like a powerlifter who is one of these more chronic injury individuals. And sometimes there are just fluctuations in your life, training stress, what have you, I don't know the exact combination of factors. But I believe it to be the best decision to strongly deviate for whatever is planned for that day. And that's not just changing the training loads. And I think people talk about that. It's more than just like, yeah, of course, I'm changing based on the RP7 prescription. You're talking about something bigger than just, you know, load auto regulation that most probably exactly. And I think if you were to talk to lifters from like 50 years ago, like, like, it's kind of just the whole listen to your body thing. But it's something that I haven't super well, like formalized into like a process on how to go about it. But I just think it's just a skill for sure. Yeah. And it's just an overwhelming thought that I had that like, and the example I've thought about to kind of try to articulate it a little bit and poke holes in it as you see fit, but just I've been trying to figure out a way to articulate in a better way. It's kind of like calorie intake is kind of the thing that I've used as like an example. A lot of us kind of just assume if I eat the same mean calorie intake every day, that will effectively allow me to get to my nutrition goals, which I don't think is a bad assumption. So if your target is 2,800 calories, eat 2,800 calories every single day, do that for a month, you're probably going to have the net result in your body weight in whatever direction you want that to be. Great. Check the box. Awesome. However, every individual day, obviously our energy expenditure is not directly meeting up with that degree to which that fluctuates. I'm not really using for this example, but just bear in mind for the example that like your energy expenditure is not directly 2,800 every single day. So every single day that you eat 2,800 calories, some days you're in a mild surplus, some days you're in a mild deficit or what have you. Or you're changing the magnitude of the surplus. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. Sorry. That's actually a better example. You're either up or over your target. And on net, you're where you want to be. But if you zoom in on any individual day, you're actually not hitting the quote unquote target accurately. And it may be that the calorie needs of those individual days are actually different based on what's occurring in that individual day. And so when you put this into the context of training, I view that pretty similarly at this point is that like we have structure and we have all these systems in place because the kind of the normal level of training stress we want to deal with to get the results that we want is something we can utilize. But in very extreme cases, whether that be super advancement or some of these non-standard training scenarios, I think the fact that you're kind of overdoing it, underdoing it in any individual session can kind of have some ramifications. And then further extrapolating the analogy, like macronutrient intake, I think a lot of people are willing to be flexible with their proteins, carbs, and fats a little bit day to day. Obviously, they have some targets, but they're, you know, particularly carbs and fat. I think there's a little bit of more willingness to be flexible with those things. But for training, we're not willing to do the same thing. We're not willing to be flexible with our rep ranges. We're not willing to be flexible with our exercise selection. And so I don't really have a super neat takeaway from this other than I've just grown to appreciate that we put ourselves in a box in a lot of cases with respect to training and training prescriptions and make things pretty nice and neat and try to abide to them perfectly in all scenarios with minor adjustments, but potentially not as much adjustments as we should make. For some people, that level of structure ends up being a massive net positive. And I think that's probably the vast majority of people. Having a training program can help you get to the gym, help you execute it effectively, help you get all the principles that we know are based on effective training, helps you adhere to all those things. But in some cases, I think that the kind of the line that I wrote down is that essentially, in some cases, I think that structure can give the illusion of precision in the training intervention that isn't actually there. And so I don't know if that makes sense. I have so many thoughts. I think this is a really interesting discussion because we coach people virtually these days. And I think a lot of people listening to this have a virtual coach or coach people virtually or both. And that lends itself quite well to putting numbers in cells such that you are like that is the one of the main deliverables. Whereas something that I've definitely changed over the last five, six, seven years is a much more like a greater focus on the skill of training. So you mentioned someone that is, you know, quite advanced in terms of training, or they have some other constraint, whether it's an injury constraint, or a time constraint, or they're, you know, just really deep into their training career. So one of the guys, this is separate from the guy where I was talking about just redistributing the training stress. The other guy that's in me prep, he's 49. And hey, quick little plug, he started on some of our, our lower cost programming products. And he got started in his mid 40s. I think he was probably 46 when he started with DDS. Now he's 49. He has put on like 200 pounds on his total. And he's been training his whole adult life. And he's now hitting numbers raw that he hit in wraps when he was like in his 30s. So he yeah, he's put almost 100 pounds in a squat, which is crazy. So shout out to him. But anyway, looking at his program, it's, it's a lot more note heavy than it like used to be. So like, you know, it's, hey, instead of just like, we're gonna hit a single at our feet today, it's hey, we're gonna hit a single, here's a cap in terms of load or RPE. But I want you to auto regulate quite a bit based on the readiness of based on just general readiness. And then there are clear days that are priority where we want to push, even if you don't feel quite as ready for it. And what I often say to clients is, like, the structure is there to keep you honest and to push you, right? Because if you have a program that says, hey, you know, after you do your top set and two back offs, you got to do your stiff leg deadlifts for three sets. Whereas you might not otherwise do that if you're just really being flowy with it. So the structure kind of keeps you honest, the program kind of keeps you honest. But I also say, don't be a prisoner to the program. I say that all the time. Because if you're a prisoner to the program, and you don't leave any room for training skill, you're almost certainly not actually being as precise as you think. So in the case of nutrition, I don't think you're using the example of nutrition to say that, oh, you should like auto regulate your calorie and take a bunch because in that in the case of nutrition, if you're targeting a 500 calorie deficit, and some days you're in a 300 calorie deficit, and some days you're in a 700 calorie deficit, it's not that big of a deal. There's no like, huge downside to that. But in training, there is such that if we use that analogy of a deficit, if the general target is a 500 calorie deficit, but then you're in 1000 calorie deficit from a training perspective, someone deep into their career two weeks out, and you know, they weigh less than 200 pounds, they're putting over 500 pounds of their back, that precision does matter. So if you don't have the like, flexibility, and the encouragement to use the training skill to stray from the structure, that's, in a lot of ways, less precision. So I think coaching is like strategically using structure and rigidity, and also encouraging a straying from structure and rigidity. And I often tell folks, hey, this is like, this is the best I can put on paper, I expect you to stray from this at times, let me know when you stray from it in your thought process, and I will give you feedback so we can continue to develop that skill.

=== FILE: How I Lost 30 Pounds Without Losing Muscle [M9Y1ycqOEUQ].txt ===

 I started around 230 pounds in March, it's now late October, and I weighed in 199.6 this morning. So, from like peak to lowest, looking at about 30 pounds. The basic principles that we know are just necessary to lose weight, you have to eat less calories than you're expending. That component of it is extremely simple to get to the goals that you want, but actually putting it under practice is sometimes extremely challenging and sometimes near impossible for some people to actually adhere to long term. Oh, I Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну Ну I think there's a lot of interesting questions that we can discuss. We're going to frame this around practical dieting strategies before we press record. Just like, I don't know. I don't like this being about me. Yeah, I get that. But at the same time, I do think that's pretty useful for people at the same time. I understand the uncomfortability, though, because that is how I am. But I think it's useful to frame it through a personal lens. Yeah, yeah, yeah. People like stories like that. I always laugh when I see pieces of content on the internet where it's like a case study or, if you're lucky, two participants in a little experiment. And that gets way more engagement or eyeballs than, you know, properly accounting for variants and having a sample size beyond one. But I think that's just a good example that like storytelling is quite engaging. I'll also say on the front end of that, there was a time early on where I like, like right when we started Daydream Strength, this was kind of around like COVID time. Where I was like posting every week of training, like a recap and stuff like that. And then I noticed I was like, like some people really like that. I noticed. Killed your love for the process. Yeah, like the more I do training for myself because I'm intrinsically motivated to do it, the better. At the same time, I think there's like a healthy balance. I was going to say, the only thing I'd say is that when pilot training is going really well and you have that pseudo linear progression for a little bit, I do feel like it kind of helps. Essentially, the week four effect that we see now, right, is like when you have that kind of that positive expectations of like got to post the week four update, you kind of check those boxes a little harder to make sure that you show up for that. Yeah. Not necessarily for the gratification on social media necessarily, but it is kind of like a, it's just an external factor that like kind of makes sure you check your boxes. So it's, I've thought about this a lot because like I used to post training all the time and I think it had a lot of benefits. I think it prevented me in some ways from kind of getting complacent with certain things. But at the same time, like you said, for a very long term view of things, I think it definitely harms internal intrinsic motivation. So like there's like that catch 22 for it for me that I've tried to strike a balance with a little bit now. Yeah. Yeah. I remember like recognizing that and making a conscious decision that I was not going to like post training at least consistently. And I was just like, you know what? That's when I would say like DDS was off the ground, but we were still trying to make it like a feasible business, things like that. Sure. I was like, you know what? If I need to like, I was like, I want our ideas. I want the things that we contribute to the community to be what people are interested in consuming our stuff or hiring us or buying our products or whatever. I want that to be the reason. And I was like, and if that if we are unable to do that, then so be it. Do you think it's do you think it was slash is important to some degree to demonstrate walking of the walk a little bit to get those ideas to hold out hold as much credence in terms of I guess this is where you get into kind of. I think I think it ensures you have like I think it's a component of experience, if that makes sense. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But at the same time, like I, I, this might sound like kind of blunt or pessimistic, but going to grad school to study strength and hypertrophy was probably one of the worst things I could do for my own strength and hypertrophy progress. Now, like I've learned a lot and I think we talked about in the last podcast that like the work that we've done has changed my view completely on training in a lot of ways. Um, so like I think it'll have a long tail of benefits for myself, but at the same time, like we're contributing, like we're contributing a relatively small amount. Like any lab group is going to contribute a very small amount to the way any one person conceptualizes and applies training principles. So like all of that is to say is like, to answer your question is I think it's an important thing to do. I think it helps you relate to people. But at the same time, like I'm very confident that I would be considerably stronger and more jacked if I like did things that, if I would have avoided things that have built up the degree of expertise that I do have now. I more so meant it from the perspective of, um, so let's say, let's say your goal predominant, I'm not saying this is the case, let's just say this is the case, um, that your goal was to spread your ideas as much as possible. The, Oh, from like a utilitarian standpoint? Exactly. Like the idea that somebody knows that you walk the walk to some degree allows buy-in for the same ideas, even if the ideas are right no matter what. You know what I mean? That's the, that's the, um, there's a second. People steal our ideas all the time. There's a section of the community that kind of needs to see it in action to, you know, actually think the ideas are worthwhile, which I think is an interesting. No, no. I think, I think there's a ton of truth to that. Yeah. I do kind of view it as like a ripple effect though, because, um, and like whether this is best for the actual people creating these, the ideas or not is another discussion. Mm-hmm. But like, I've always conceptualized it as like, we don't have like the biggest audience, but I think in a lot of ways, the goal is to more so have the right audience. Yeah. Um, and I, I, I, I'm pretty confident that some of the audience has a big audience themselves and, um, maybe we can give ideas. And like, again, maybe that's not the best thing for us because we'd probably benefit from not having, from having a more direct line and, and having a bigger audience to your point. Yeah. Um, so I don't know. I, I, I don't know if I've, uh, fully come to a conclusion on that. Neither have I. I just, it's something I think about sometimes. I'm like, yeah, like obviously I think some of our ideas have been pretty decent, but then I wonder was the, uh, the posting training every single week kind of necessary to get those ideas off the ground in the first place. You know what I mean? I kind of think. Um, cause I think the fact that. I, I don't, I don't think so. I don't think so. Yeah. I don't know. Um, I, here's what I would say to answer your question. I think training hard is important. I don't think it has to be, I don't even think it has to be like the same discipline. Yeah. Like, um, as we'll probably get into a bit for the last, definitely the last like seven months. And I'd say in a lot of ways, the last 12 to 18 months, my training has been almost exclusively dear towards hypertrophy. Um, and, uh, at the same time, uh, at the same time, we still talk about powerlifting training and we coach powerlifters. Um, and I think the biggest thing to help you relate and kind of like keep your head in the game in terms of being able to do that stuff is training hard. And I think I would say the same thing if I was like training for an endurance event. Um, obviously there's benefits if, um, the discipline is the same, but I think what matters the most there is having some sort of discipline you're getting after. Yeah. That's my, I think on an ongoing basis, 100% that's accurate. I think you do need some skin in the game at some point. Yeah. There's just certain things that you just like, just don't know. But yeah, no, I'm, I'm with you. Yeah. Yeah. Like I'm, I'm, you've done powerlifting for example. I'm glad I like had the phase where like powerlifting was what I thought about when I woke up and when I went to bed. Yeah. And when your elbows hurt really bad and. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. What do you mean you can't squat three times a week? Like, dude, my elbows don't do that. You know? Just like rewatching your training footage. Oh yeah. In insane amount of times. Yeah, exactly. Like almost compulsively. Those are the days. Yeah. I look back at it fondly. Yeah. I still remember, like, I was thinking about this the other day. The fact that I did an experiment that I was really, really excited about to do 32 back off singles with 30 seconds. Right. You did some crazy stuff. Dude, I was like, I just like, I was so dedicated to that. Like, I was juiced up every day to set that tendal up, sit down and hit. Dude, I was crazy. You did do some crazy stuff. Crazy stuff. But anyway, with that preamble out of the way. Yeah. I think there's a lot of practical and just like kind of frameworks we can draw from your experience. I'm more so looking at the principles that underlie a lot of your decisions, what you went about the process, and any lessons learned throughout this kind of cut that you just went on. And so I guess my first question is to kind of maybe give the audience some background. You already mentioned a little bit, kind of transition, I'd say a little bit less than a year ago into like kind of full head of steam into the more hypertrophy or an interaction. Maybe give a little more context there, kind of what preceded the cut, if you will. And then we can kind of go into more of the dieting experience. Yeah. I'm trying to kind of think on the fly a little bit here in terms of timelines, but at the same time, it probably doesn't matter all that much. Let's see, we're recording this in October of 2025. I trained pretty hard for powerlifting, I would say up until around this time, 2023. And then, so I'd say the last two years, my mind shifted a bit more towards the hypertrophy side of things, if that makes sense. But it wasn't like, okay, I'm flipping the switch, I'm no longer doing squat bench deadlift, and I'm just training for hypertrophy. Right. So maybe let's call it like a year and a half where hypertrophy training was top of mind. At the same time, I would say there was like a transition period there, let's call it for about a year, maybe a little bit longer, where I kind of, I don't want to say I was like directionless, but I didn't, I kind of had like, oh, I still want to, you know, bench a couple times a week. Classic. Yeah, I'm going to do high bar squat, I'm going to do stuff like that. And I don't regret that necessarily, but I do think that caused me to, like, I'm kind of speaking out of both ends of my mouth right now, because I actually love when people have multiple goals at once. It's really fun, and it's a fun way to kind of periodize training and change things up based on what you're interested in. But I think given constraints, it wasn't the best call to try to do both. I probably should have leaned into one or the other. But I would say, yeah, the last year, I really heavily leaned into hypertrophy training, and I haven't really done squat bench deadlift in any serious manner for about a year, probably a little bit longer. And then, so yeah, that's kind of the background. I've been training, I was trying to do the math before we started recording. So I remember going into my sophomore year of high school, I would ride my bike on the highway. It was just like maybe like a quarter mile spot, so I didn't have my driver's license yet. Had to get those curls in, though. Yeah, no, but the thing is, so going into my sophomore year of high school, which I might have the year off a little bit, but I think that would have been the summer of 2013. Sophomore year of high school, I knew we had a strength conditioning class, and I knew there were boys in there, I knew there were girls in there, and I definitely didn't want the boys or the girls to see me not be able to squat at least a 25 on each side, at least 95 pounds. Elite. So I drove that quarter mile stretch from my house to the LA Fitness, so that I could make sure I could squat at least 95 pounds to start the semester, so I didn't embarrass myself. Like, that was genuinely my goal for the summer, was to be able to squat 95 pounds. I've never been, when I started lifting, I was not the person that was just able to pick it up really easy and just get to a 135 bench. I trained my ass off for a 135 bench, and I remember being so hyped when I got that. Whereas you talk to other people, they're like, yeah, first time I deadlifted, I deadlifted 500 pounds. It was not me. So anyway, 2013, obviously there were years in there that it's like how productive was training actually, and the goal was more so sports performance throughout high school. So I would say like roughly 10 years of training. And then, yeah, once I made the shift to hypertrophy, it was more of a constraints-led decision where I was like, you know what, I'm very confident I could still progress in powerlifting, but I am recognizing it's going to get harder and harder, and that's not a reason to stop, but I just had to be objective that I wasn't in a season of life where I could make that commitment, and I wasn't going to be satisfied with a really slow rate of progress, and that wasn't going to keep me engaged, which I think is, like, and something that helped me a lot with that decision once I did kind of like actually consciously make that decision was that it's not a final decision. Now, I might never train for powerlifting again, but I can if I want to. And I was like, you know what, I'm in a busy period, and I kind of feel that stuff crowding in on training, and I want to enjoy training. I like lifting. Like powerlifting itself never really, like, got me super fired up. It's just the fact that powerlifting is a way. Objective. It's an objective thing, and I just like lifting. Like, that's the simplest way to put it. I just love lifting, and powerlifting itself helped me love lifting for a while, but because of the constraints that were kind of, like, adding up, if you will, and the external variables that were kind of adding up, I was like, you know what? I can love lifting and do things that are a lot more time efficient, and in an endeavor that I think I can make meaningful progress quite a bit more. And then I've always been pretty damn consistent with training. Like, I've had months here or there where it's, like, I might have averaged two or three sessions a week, and I have skipped sessions before, and I have, like, not had great periods. But overall, like, I've never taken, like, a year off or six months off. But I would say early this year, early 2025, I was in one of those periods where I was like, I'm probably not progressing right now. I'm, like, I like training when I'm there. I never, like, enjoyed not being in the gym, but I got to a point where I was not enjoying the process overall, if that makes sense. And, again, like, I've never regretted training. I've never regretted being in the gym when I'm in the gym. I've never not enjoyed it. But I was not enjoying the process overall, which I think is, in a lot of ways, more important than the training itself. We're joking about, like, compulsively pulling up your training footage and rewatching those things. Obviously, you can take that to an extreme. But I do think you're excited about it. You're thinking about it. It's meaningful to you. It's meaningful to you. Because you're going to put it, you're going to prioritize it, right? You're going to think about when your pre-workout meal is so you feel good, so you can have, so you can focus appropriately. You're going to make sure you have some mental energy left for your training when you get to it, that sort of thing. And I was like, man, I just feel, like, swamped all day, every day. It's the last thing on the list. It's the last thing on the list. I'm not, I'm maybe training three times a week on average. And then I was like, okay. Basically, the way I, the reason I feel that way is I'm accountable to other people in other areas of my life, which everyone has that, right? Like, if that's life, in other words, I had normal adult responsibilities. But I was like, I kind of need to have an adult responsibility in the training side of things. So I was like, you know what, I need, and also, I was just like, I literally, this is my primary source of income, is doing this for other people. And I'm recording check-ins on a weekly basis, talking. You think you provide value, right? Right. Yeah. And I was like. You see the value in your own work. Like, I hope this doesn't come off like too proud. But I was like, damn, I wish I could hire myself. Yeah, right. Because I'm like, I'm literally talking. Right, right. I'm literally communicating with clients right now, saying things that I wish someone was like saying to me. Yep. And I'm providing the accountability that I wish someone was providing to me. Yep. So I was like, you know, I need someone I trust. I need someone that I don't really like, we probably think similar enough. But I also like, don't know them well enough. Like, I would love to hire you. But like, I know you too well. Yep. I know our other. Separation. There's not enough separation. You kind of need that like. Yeah. That relationship that it's like, I don't want to let you down. Whereas like. Exactly. It's a lot easier for me to let you down. I know exactly what you mean. Compared to someone that you don't know quite as well. Which. Yep. So anyway, I hired Steve Hall from Revive Stronger. I'm sure a lot of listeners would. Will be familiar with him. And the reason being is. I've always loved the way he thinks about things. And I think we just like think very similarly. I mean, I've been listening to his podcast since. I don't know. Like definitely 2018, maybe even 2017. Shoot. Maybe even before that. I don't know when he started it. But I've been listening for a while. Always thought he. Always liked the way he thought about things. So anyway. I was like, you know what? I need someone in my corner. I got to. Take this more seriously. And at that point. I was intentionally bulking. But I had taken a little bit too far. And definitely got loose with things. And I was fluffy. And I was like, you know what? Let's. Let's reset my body fat. Or kind of my body weight range. I'd say. I've mostly hung out. In like the 215 to 230 range. Over the last handful of years. And I was like, you know what? Once I get above 222, 225 for sure. I just. There's not much reason to do that anymore. So I was like, you know what? The goal is just to. Try to like. See what's under the hood. From 10 years of training. So we started cutting. It wasn't like completely linear. I took some. Some diet breaks. I took. You know. We kind of slowed it down. Those are all things we can talk about. But yeah. I started around 230 pounds in March. It's now late October. And I weighed in. At 199.6 this morning. So. From like peak to lowest. Looking at about 30 pounds. I've. Training performance has been going pretty well. Some of the metrics I've taken. Photos. Things like that. I'm pretty confident. I've held on to most muscle. I'm. Maybe can even trick myself into thinking. I've gained some muscles. In some spots that were under trained beforehand. But nonetheless. Training is going well. Lost 30 pounds. I think most of that is. Is body fat. And. Yeah. Probably the leanest. I've been. Since I was riding my bike on the highway. To LA Fitness. What a way to bring it back together. Yeah. Excellent. Yeah. Yeah. I mean. So many. So many different levels. We can go down. I kind of want to break it up into. A couple different parts. I'm curious about the training. To kind of start. So you mentioned. Coming from a pretty strong. Piloting background. And obviously. You mentioned. Maybe. Initially. Before. You and Steve. Started working together. You kind of were playing around. With different. Kind of. Percentages. Of the power lifting. The hypertrophy spectrum. And kind of how that changed. I guess. When you. Started working with Steve. Or maybe when you. Kind of. Put more baskets. Or more of your. Effort in the basket. Of hypertrophy. What would you say. Have been the biggest. Changes. X's and O's wise. To your training. And I also have some follow ups. In terms of more. So like the. Mental approach. To training. That you kind of adopted. So. X's and O's wise. With training. Nothing. Crazy. In terms of like. A change in training style. Or anything like that. Obviously Steve. Took over my programming. Which is really nice. To just like. Yep. Not think about it. And I do think. There's like. Just an inherent benefit. To that. Basic example. Training back. Three times a week. I wasn't doing that before. I think that. That had a benefit. Like. I was doing. I was doing weighted crunches. Once a week. On my own. Like cable crunches. And. We moved. To. Machine crunch. And. Lying leg raises. Like. One of those. Abs twice a week. Using those two exercises. And like. So I was training my abs harder. So it was just nice. To turn your brain off. And just. Ensures a nice. Balanced physique program. And just execute it. Basically. I've trained. Dang near. Every set to failure. Since. Steve and I started working together. That was the case beforehand. It was really nice. To. To. To. To. To. To. To. I haven't recorded. A ton of my training. But. The training I have recorded. And. You know. Just a couple. Like. Little blind spots. With. Execution of things. Was really nice. To get feedback on. So I would say. Nothing. Revolutionary. The absolute biggest thing. Was accountability. On the nutrition side. For me. Yeah. And. Implementation. Of like. Refeeds. And just managing. Kind of the psychological. Aspect of it. I think. Was. Was really. Really. Big for me. Training. Had some nice wrinkles. And improvements. But. It was just. Good. Balanced. Hypertory training. I think you mentioned. Moderate-ish volumes. You mentioned. I think you mentioned. I think you mentioned. In a text the other day. You basically. Haven't lost. Any strength. If not. Gained a little bit. On some exercises. How. Yeah. What do you attribute that to? How did that process go? Yeah. So. A couple things there. I. That's. That's accurate. But I'll. Really irks me. When people say like. Oh I hit. A PR. Hit. A bunch of PRs and cuts. But it's like. Exercises they introduce. During the cut. Yeah. Yeah. So that is something. To keep in mind. Is like. Sure. I. Definitely not at my strongest. Like. Low bar back squat. Right now. And that's an exercise. That I've trained. For many many years. Yes. Um. The. The exercises that I was training. Consistently before the diet. And. I'm up to at this point. And still haven't at this point. For the most part. Have continued to. To get stronger. With the exception of exercises that. Uh. Being fluffier. Mm. Genuinely adds a benefit. It. So. Leg press. Did end up falling off. Mm. And. I was kind of skeptical at first. I was like. Man. Maybe I am like. Losing. Muscle. Or like. Maybe we're dieting too quickly. Or whatever. Sure. But I looked back at footage. Of leg press. When I was. Mechanics are just way different. The mechanics are just way different. Like. You don't have as much. You know. Meat on your hamstrings. You go down lower. You go down lower. And like. Your quads are less supported. At the bottom. It's not like I was like. Super. I mean. I was. I was. You know. Decently high body fat. But it's not like I was like. Yeah. It's 30 pounds. It's nothing like. Yeah. Insane. But it's enough. Such that. It does make a difference. Mm. RDL continued to progress. From like. 230 down to like. 208 I think. And. I actually was like. I think this is going to start. It started to feel like nails on a chalkboard. Mm. If that makes sense. So we ended up like. Proactively swapping that out. So we made some swaps. Because in a lot of ways. It's. I think. What did you swap to? Uh. What did we do on that day? Uh. We took out. Two sets of RDLs. And we put in two sets. Dumbbell RDLs. And one set of. Front foot elevated split squats. Nice. So. Um. Probably like match. Like pretty similar stimulus there. Honestly. I think in a lot of ways. It's just. Uh. What you got to do in a diet. Is like. At least for me. I. I really like the performance aspect of training. And it's. And it's. Not necessarily on any specific movement. Yeah. Yeah. It's just. Feeling like you're progressing. Sure. And like. I do think there's something to be said. That you don't want to put. New movements in. Such that you have to like. Spend a bunch of time relearning them. Mm. But like. A hinge is a hinge. Like. Sure. If you're well trained. You might. It might take you a session or two to really nail it. Sure. So. That was a case where I was like. Psychologically. This just kind of sucks. And I think we can get just as good of a stimulus with something else. And I'll be more excited about training. Mm. Leg press. We ended up just swapping to a different leg press. Again. Really just for psychological reasons. What. What I. What probably makes the most sense on paper. Is just drop the load by like 10. 15%. Reset your progressions. Whatever. Continue to fight for progression. Even though you're probably going to get weaker. I was like. I don't really want to do that. I want to feel like I'm progressing. Sure. So anyway. Movements like that. Some pressing movements did fall off a little bit here and there. But. Single joint stuff that isn't influenced by like just how big you are. Continue to get stronger. So I think. Overall. For movements that are like. Like I'm the strongest I've ever been on single joint movements. Right now. Despite being in a deficit for like seven months. Wow. Compound. Compound stuff has fallen off a bit. Hard to say how much of that is due to what. Interesting. Yeah. I mean. Like you said. The training stuff. There's not too much. Honestly. One of the reasons I wanted to ask is that. That's always kind of a. Funny thing when people like see transformations or whatever. They're like. Oh my God. You must have like. Locked. Changed. Changed everything. But in reality from the training side of things. It's like. I had a few people ask like how much volume I've been doing. And. I think. This wouldn't. This will cover all. The volume. The volume king's going to give away the secrets. Yeah. I think this covers all muscles. Six to 12 sets per week. Oh man. So you. So you. You're buying into this high intensity training propaganda. Actually. No. Cavs is. Cavs is five. So five to 12 sets. Abs. Three. Before people get confused. You want to mention why that's the case. What do you mean? Like talk through why. So like immediately when people hear that. They're going to be like. You don't even believe the results of your own work. Right. You know what I mean? Like that's. We've talked about that. No. No. No. I know. But I. Like I do. I do think that's. Okay. An interesting. You know. Why? Like how did you. How did. How did you guys land upon that as a general concept? Our. You look at the meta analysis. It's like 40 plus sets per week is best. Right. So that's what you're going to do. Right. Yep. Dude. First of all. I don't have time for that. Second of all. More often. I really only deloaded. Um. When it made sense with my schedule. So like if I had travel. I would just like. Okay. I'm going to. Only train a couple times this week. And this can effectively serve as a deload. Yep. Otherwise. I want to go in there. I want to beat what I did last week. I don't want to leave. Any reps in the tank unless I absolutely have to. Because like it's going to wreck me. Because I am coming off a deload or something like that. So that's just how I want to train. I want to. Take every set as hard as I can. Um. And I also don't want to have to deload. And I don't want to dread the sessions. And be looking down the barrel of like. You know. A two hour session every day. I just don't have time for that. I don't. Honestly. I just genuinely don't have the focus for that either. Like I'll just be honest about it. Um. And. That just leads me to like. Four to twelve sets per session. Beautiful. And in a lot of ways. I think that was like. The most volume I could do. While still keeping. Um. My effort as high as possible. And. I think if I were to go higher. I think the net volume would have been pretty similar. Because I would have had to probably deload a little bit more often. So like. I. It's just the constraints led approach. We've talked about. If I could orient my life around training a little bit more. Would I do more? For sure. That's a. Like. I just. The reason I wanted to ask. Is it's just such a perfect example. I'm like. You're literally not contradicting the findings whatsoever. It's just people don't. Understand how to take those graphs. And actually apply them. And I. I guess just. It's just such a good example. It's like. Yes. He's doing. As much as he can. A very high quality training. That fits within the constraints of his lifestyle. Sessions did not feel easier. Yeah. No. Of course. Like. And I'm. Like. I'm sure that's still. Like. That's still a good amount of work. Like. Yeah. You know what I mean? It's just. It's just a good amount of work. Um. I'm also pretty big on rest periods. Like. I know there's. Kind of a trend towards recommending shorter rest periods. Oh. Man. I think that's. We can. I. I just don't. I. Yeah. I. I'll rest like. Up to seven minutes. Between. Between sets of. Leg press. Yeah. Upper body stuff. I would say on average. I'm resting four sets between. Sorry. Four minutes. So like. Between exercises. But I. I do pair them. Tangent question. Okay. Okay. So you're super setting to save a little bit. So like. If I'm on machine chest press. I finish a set. I'll set a timer for four minutes. Walk over the rows. If. If someone is on the lap pull down. All right. I'll just kind of hang out for a bit. Or maybe I'll start warming up for another exercise. If no one's on it. But if. If no one's on the lap pull down. I'll go hit a set there. And then once four minutes is up. Then I'll go and chest press again. Until I finish. So let's say. Let's say you did two minutes. You find your performance is substantially worse. Yes. Interesting. Like. Notably. Psychologically. Physically. What do you think? Obviously both. But I'm curious which one more so. I think it's. I think it's. Physical. Interesting. Yeah. I mean. Obviously like. Longer rests are going to. Maintain your performance better. But I guess I haven't. Had that same. Experience. Yeah. I. I would say. If I. Like. Could not pair exercises. So I could not go run over the lap. Pull down. Or to another exercise. To knock out some volume. Like. While I'm. While I'm resting. I probably would decrease it a bit. Because like. A little bit. I didn't. I. I said I rest a while. But I really don't sit around that much at the gym. Because I'm always kind of like. Doing something. Doing something. I'm like. Starting to warm up on. Something. And then yeah. I'll sit down for a minute before the set. Get focused. And then do it. So. Yeah. I mean. Sessions had a good flow. Okay. Interesting. Okay. Last. Last training question. Before we probably get into the meat of it. So. Throughout the diet. Obviously. There's a lot of. Things going on. That just kind of. Change your day-to-day relationship. With a lot of things. I'm assuming. And one of those. I'm sure. Is just like. Kind of how you. Motivation for training. Things like that. Was there any. Behavioral things you picked up. Throughout the diet. Related to training. That you're going to try to carry over. In terms of. You know. Whether that be like. Rituals. Whether that be. Anything like that. Like. So like. Things outside of the gym. Yeah. Just like. Just like. Basically like. Habits or behavioral things. That you've. Implemented maybe. As a consequence of the diet. Are you like. Oh man. This actually really helped. I'm going to. I'm going to keep doing that. Oh yeah. Yeah. For sure. That's. That's a good question. There are all. There are multiple things. I do think. Some things become. More important. The deeper you get into. Sure. A diet. So. I would say. The biggest thing. That's like. Impacted my. So. I needed to make. I need to make sure. Like training. And. In. The nutrition approach. Fit within. The rest of my responsibilities. And. The thing that's started. To like get annoying. In terms of the rest of my responsibilities. Has been. Timing of training. And timing of nutrition. I would say right now. If I. Don't have. A similar. Amount of carbs. For my pre-workout meal. Like I will feel it. And that's just annoying. Yeah. Because. It's just. You know. You need to be a little bit more rigid. With your meal timing. Your meal structure. I just don't think. That's going to matter as much. Sure. When I'm in a surplus. And there's just more carbs. To go around. So I can go. I can go to the gas station. Pick up a Rice Krispie treat. Sure. Sure. I can't wait to do that. I saw your eyes light up. Yeah. Or a Pop-Tart. But yeah. Like. But anyway. To answer your question. If it. If it has. A notable effect. If it has a noticeable effect. In a cut. It might have. Non-zero. A non-zero. Benefit. In a surplus. And I just think the structure. That dieting. Forces you into. Is really. Really helpful. For people. Because. Yeah. You. It might not be things. That you notice. On a day-to-day basis. But probably. It will add up. So I would say like. Meal timing is something that. I think I want to be better about. Going forward. Compared to like. Just how I have been historically. Sure. Also. Being hydrated. Because that's another thing. Is I. Again. If hydration was lower. I mean. You could see your pumps. A lot. A hell of a lot better. When you're dieting. Sure. And pumps are just way better. When you're actually hydrated. I feel like I can maintain my performance. A little bit better. Within a session. So I did that. And just. Using like. Gatorade zero powder. Was my way to do that. Because it tastes really good. And it forced me to drink. During my sessions. And before my sessions. So that's. Something I can do. I don't think the sodium in there. Is like a game changer. But. Again. Just like. Making the water taste good. Was a small little behavioral hack. That. That did help me quite a bit. But. And then beyond that man. I would say the biggest thing. Is like. I'm. Very pro. Have someone in your corner. Because. You know. There's times where. It gets to the. The hour. Where it's like. All right. You got to start. You know. Getting your stuff together. To head to the gym. I just wouldn't have done it. Yep. Because I felt. Pulled in different directions. To do other things. But. I also just had the motivation. That. I want to execute the plan. I want. I don't want to let coach down. And. That goes a long way. And. I. Honestly. Will need to probably pull back. A little bit. On training in the coming months. To be honest. But. I want to keep. An element of that. The best I can. And having somebody. That's objective. Like. To evaluate that situation. And know where the best spots. To do that. Is so much better. Than you doing it yourself. Like. Dude. That's the biggest thing. Is. Whether it's training wise. Or nutrition wise. Like. Again. Just having someone. Outside of. Your head. To make those decisions. Because in a lot of ways. There's never like. A right decision. Yeah. No. But it's just the fact. That there's a decision. You put your head down. You get the work done. Is huge. Yep. So like. Decision is almost. The worst decision. Sometimes. Like. I'm. I'm very pro. Refeeds. For psychological reasons. I can make. Great decisions. For other people. On that front. Because. There's times. Where you want to like. Push them. And say like. Hey. No. Let's. Let's hold off. A little bit. Or it's like. Yeah. I see what you're saying. Let's. You know. Bump it up. To two refeeds. A week. Or whatever. But when it's yourself. I definitely could have seen myself going too hard in one direction. If I was making the decision for myself. Sure. Which honestly is just something. Like a skill I need to get better at. Mm-hmm. But. Within this season of life. It was just really nice to not have to make those decisions. Um. Even if. Hunger was high. Energy was low. Or whatever. Just to. Be like. All right. This is the plan. Just execute it. That's the. That was. That. That is definitely the biggest thing. Because that had so many downstream benefits. For training to go better. Yeah. Execute the nutrition plan. That sort of thing. Sweet. Um. Yeah. That. That's already super helpful. Um. Just for me. Like. Kind of listening to your experience. And I think for myself. Something I've tried to implement. Is like a. Just. I've. I've. I've been having conversations. Just more. Some of these. Rituals. Is just what I've been calling them. Is like. Um. That structure that. You've talked a lot about. Being imposed. From the diet. I find a lot of those things. Can carry over. Just implementing some of these. Ritual structures. Which I think a lot of people do. Like you get your pre-workout out. That kind of thing. But I think being very intentional. About some of those things. Has. Helped me a lot. Particularly when life's really crazy. Mm-hmm. Those rituals are very. Like centering. And allows you to. Kind of cut through the noise of life. What's an example of a ritual? I know you mentioned like. Whatever your pre-workout. Yeah. It's like pre-workout drink. Uh. The timing of your pre-workout meal. Like you said. Like. Kind of regardless of what that is. I'm having my pre-workout meal. At this time. That. Kind of generates my mind. And start thinking about what I'm doing in the gym. You know. It's just that kind of. Ritual. For lack of a better term. Is it kind of. Particularly when there's a start. That's early enough. Away from the actual session. To give you a little bit of time. To let your brain. Kind of run. The steam off. And kind of. I'm going to train. And I'm going to. Not. Run. Like. For me. Like. A classic example. Is like. Running into the gym. With my laptop. Having worked on something. Trying to warm up. Between sets. You know. That kind of thing. Is like. Yeah. That's just. That really drains your sessions. More than I think people realize. Answering emails on your phone. Those. All those kind of things. Like. I think can be. Strongly. Strongly. Attenuated. If you. Have a strong sense of ritualism. That's. Something I've. Secondhand. Kind of learned. From your experience. That I've tried to implement myself. That's been. I think something that's helped a lot. So. No. There. Now that you say that. Like. I think that's huge. We're talking about this a bit. Basic. I'm sorry. I'm all over the place. Something we. We. Me and you talked about. Off the air. Maybe a couple weeks ago now. Is like. There are certain. Almost in all areas of life. There are certain. There are principles. Again. This can be training related. This can be non-training related. For example. You need to be focused. To do your best work. Right. That's a principle. So there's these principles. And a lot of what we do. And I think. Also. I think a lot of what exercise science. Should be designed to do. And is. In a way. Designed to do already. Is to make it easier. Or harder. To achieve those principles. So for example. The. If the principle is. When you're focused. You do your best work. It's really nice. To have a ritual. That makes that nice and easier. To have a routine. Or to have a schedule. That makes it easier to do that. At the same time. You do need to be able to. And I think I'm using your language here. Like. Like. Flex the muscle. Just gritting your teeth. And doing it. Even if it's not the ideal. Scenario. And if it's hard. Yep. But. Being able to like. Set things up. To make it easier. To be focused. To train. Was really. Really helpful for me. It's like. Something I started doing. Because that's a big thing. Over the last. And I know. It kind of sounds pessimistic. But one of the worst things. I've done for. My training was. You know. Start a business. In the fitness industry. And to. To do a PhD. And do those simultaneously. Like. Something I've really struggled with. Is just. Not having. Not being present at all. With training. Trying to like. Also do work. Trying to also. Even mentally occupied. Yeah. Just mentally occupied. People downplay. How much that influences things. Right. And again. I'm not saying I'm an exception. I think a lot of people deal with that. It's just the irony that. Yeah. It's my. Yeah. My field as well. Or our field. But in this case. Something I started doing. Was like. I would. I often. I will sometimes do work. Like. At my computer. Like. I like to train at the end of the day. And I'll sometimes go back to my desk. After training. Sometimes I won't. I would always kind of hope. Because I would feel behind. Basically every day. Yep. I would always kind of hope. I'm going to get back to it. So I'd leave everything open. I'd leave all my. Sure. Sure. All the apps on my computer open. I'd leave. Yep. Everything out. Ready to rock. So I could sit back down. Yep. So I'd always kind of feel like I'm half working. Where I was like. You know what? I can come back here. I can always open up Chrome again. I can always open up. Whatever. And get back to work. But if I just say. You know what? I'm going to close my computer. I'm going to wipe off my desk. I'm just going to go train. I started doing that. Yep. That went a long way for me to just be focused on training. And I don't think it took away from the likelihood that I would like. Do another work. Work blocks. Hilarious. You said. I've done the exact same thing. I just train first thing. But I do it at the end of the day. Yeah. The previous day. I do that all the time. Yeah. So I like. If I would have my. Sometimes I'd be working on something late at night. Kind of. Close shop for the day. But I wanted to get back to it. So I'd leave all my stuff open. Saying I'd come to it with a cup of coffee. First thing in the morning. And then I'd say. I'd work on it for 30 minutes. And I'm going to go to the gym. And just like. That process is just. Yeah. It doesn't prioritize the thing that. You want to try to prioritize to some degree. And so I've done the exact same thing. But kind of in the morning. And it's the same exact process. Yeah. Matters so much. Yeah. Yeah. And like. It's not perfect. The rituals aren't perfect. But I do think having those. It's just increasing the probability that you have. Less resistance to make things go the way you want. A more higher percentage of the time. Right. That's the way that I do. When you can make it easier to achieve the principle. Do it. Yep. But like. You also need to simultaneously be like. Hey. If you get a call from someone you need to take a call from. You need to take the call. Exactly. And like. Also not being bitter if that occurs. Yeah. Yeah. That's. That's something I've been. I've been trying to be mindful of. Same idea with like nutrition timing. Yeah. And this is actually something Steve recommended was. Earlier on in the diet. I actually shifted more calories earlier in the day. Some of the chronic nutrition stuff seems to indicate that can lead to slightly better body composition outcomes and potentially reduce hunger a bit. And that actually was helpful for like I'd say the first half of the diet. Now. I'm almost a complete opposite. it and it also works well because training is later in the day for training uh for most of my nutrition to be shifted later in the day so but if i have certain things when i would normally eat i'll sometimes eat earlier than i want to and then i kind of struggle with hunger later in the day and like yeah that's an example of it's nice when i can make it easier to like line things up with the patterns that make things as sustainable as possible but also sometimes not not being pissed off when you have to adjust that i think it's just like a skill that i'm recognizing is something you're never gonna like fully develop you're always gonna it's always there's always gonna be room for improvement yeah well that was good um all right so let's let's move over to the nutrition stuff maybe a little bit more specifically so obviously you gave the outline of the diet um obviously you're in deficit for the vast majority of weeks with some nutritional periodization in there some diet breaks things like that mostly kind of designed around your travel i think the thing that is the most interesting and probably the most practically helpful is just talking about strategies and behaviors that you had throughout that process that you've learned again kind of coming back to a similar theme with training made that resistance less and made adhering to the basic principles that we know are just necessary to lose weight you have to eat less calories than you're expending that component of it is extremely simple to get to the goals that you want but actually putting it under practice is sometimes extremely challenging and sometimes near impossible for some people to actually adhere to long term um and i'm curious if you've picked up any learnings along the way to to to in terms of behaviors um lessons strategies those kind of things that have made that dieting process easier throughout the throughout the time yeah totally i guess the way that i view and the way i like to communicate this to clients is like each time you do it you should it should be like recognizably easier um and i think that was definitely the case here so the last time i did like a extended cut so more than like eight weeks was um 2021 i think yeah 2021 and i probably lost like 25 pounds then okay and this one felt like a breeze compared to that one and my goal is that next time i do a sustained cut it's even easier and then it's just you you become a black belt in it right that's that's ultimately the goal um and i definitely picked some things up along the way and having uh steve's input on things was really really helpful i think to kind of expedite some of those things that um here's here's one question on the front and maybe before you start rolling when you started the diet did you have a rough plan for how long you were going to be going because i guess to me there's a couple ways people approach this in the real world is like you have a time to get shredded for summer kind of vibe which i'm not i'm not saying is good or bad like you know i i get that also is more of AI'm going to try to substantially shift some of my habits and more so not necessarily that it's the take it as it comes yeah not not necessarily that's the new normal but it's more so like trying to chip away to get things out of a lower lower kind of selling point did you have an approach that you were going for this time versus last time and kind of what was your mental framing before you kind of even started this process that's a great question i'm i i was actually very clear on the front end i was like i need to see how this is going to shake out over the next year for me to like be really bought in um now we did stray from that a bit but so i'm getting married uh like early slash mid next year and i knew i wanted to feel leaner than 230 for for that and just in general next year um so that was that was like probably the biggest goal is just make sure by 2026 that i'm like at a body composition i just feel better at um or leaner than leaner than i was and originally the plan was to kind of like take two stabs at the diet so basically i don't remember how much but you know maybe uh do the initial cut then maintain or slightly gain for a couple months and then cut again and then maintain probably for the rest of the year or you know enter a slight surplus but i was like dude i just want to kind of rip the band-aid off i want to get it done before the holidays and um i don't really want to be dieting for much if any of next year just because i have again i'm getting married i have some other stuff going on as well so that was really motivating for me to kind of have like a timeline like i don't want to have a false start here and then you know uh go into that season of my life and uh not have checked the box that i wanted to body composition wise so for me it was really hopeful to like see that mapped out with like external pressure a little bit and and also just see in a spreadsheet hey this is about when you'll be done this is um you know when we're going to deload this is when we're we're probably going to bring calories up for a week things like that were really really helpful for me um but in terms of other things that were helpful for me is um i we leaned into refeeds a lot more than i have in the past and i think that went a really really long way for me so we started with none let's let's define that real quick so like in terms of the context of what you're doing so maybe give me like a rough calorie number on low days and what has a refeed looking like on high days and the frequency of those so i started with like i viewed it as a range but i'll just give the average i started with like 2900 calories and i was able to to lose a good chunk off of 2900 um and then it looks like we did that for like six to seven weeks um and then we dropped to like 2650 for six weeks or so and then we started implementing some uh regular diet breaks and or i should say refeeds so basically it looks like once we got down to about 2600 calories we started implementing one refeed per week around my estimated maintenance or maybe slightly above which was like 3100 yeah um at the time so basically six six low days one uh high-ish higher day yeah um and and you said that was more frequent than what you've done in the past i'm assuming in the past it was more so along the lines of like diet breaks where you were digging for a while and then gave yourself a little bit more of an extended period of time not doing so honestly we're just kind of i just kind of just kind of just kind of stayed at consistent calories which some people really prefer that like i would say my default is to kind of start with no refeeds and then um add refeeds if i think it would help them for some reason psychologically or like put it before a priority day in the gym things like that or a social day some people really uh benefit from that i did as well um some but some people just hate that what what specifically did you find that that was particularly helpful with so the the biggest thing was it helped me like uh adhere knowing that i had like some normal space is coming yeah like i had i had like like almost like a mini deadline it's like hey once you get to saturday like hey you're going to that that party and you're going to be like you obviously can't pick out but having an extra six or seven seven hundred calories you have size speeds there too it's like yeah it's like you know the saying of like this too shall pass it's like it's really nice knowing this too shall pass on saturday and not eight months from now when the diet is over if that makes sense yeah and yeah you're going to get right back into like being a little bit hungry and uncomfortable but you're going to be able to poke your head up so it's just kind of like a nice psychological break and again for um for social things it was really nice okay i'm just going to put the refeed when i have a some sort of social event another thing that was really really helpful is using chat gbt um and then like so what my fiancee and i would do if we went out to eat would we would order like either a salad or an appetizer and one entree to start and then so chat when going out to eat two things chat gbt and um sharing yeah sharing is sharing is awesome it's also like you enjoy the meal so much more with the with the person you're with so that was really helpful because sometimes we would have a salad and an entree together and we're like we don't need any more we're good and then i would just take a picture of it and i would be like hey i had about 60 of this and about 50 of this dish and it would give me a ballpark and that's good enough for me right like obviously right like right now i'm not doing that quite as much because i'm in the last week of dieting but um like just being rough with it and being comfortable with rough tracking uh i was i was happy with um and then of course the nice thing about chat gbt is you can go back and forth with it so i'll be like no there's no way that dish that seems a little low there was like some oil at the bottom of the plate when i was done with it maybe you're a little low on fat and it'll kind of give you a revised version so it's less about like following it blindly but just having like something to give you a starting point it's like an infund dialogue honestly it's literally like i could have made probably just as good of estimates right but it's nice to just like have that process for it yeah um so yeah refeeds were huge for me um being loose with tracking was was huge for me i was gonna say so obviously you tracked um it sounds like you've been tracking for a long time so like that's not a necessarily a new habit you had to adhere to i'm curious how much do you think your subjective hunger signals would have allowed you to regulate the amount that you were eating sufficiently um yes that's a good question because i've tracked for the most part i'd say for like the better part of the last you know five years um at the same time i don't think that's required or for a lot of people like maybe even recommended sure so just to be to be clear about that i do it because it's pretty easy for me yeah um and like if i'm making a meal and i can just weigh it out i kind of view it as like why not um to answer your question though i think pretty good but i know there's some room for improvement like that is definitely an area for improvement i would like next time i die to be more auto-regulated with it um because like i mentioned like i probably the way i've described it up to this point sounds pretty rigid but like i don't think so i always kind of viewed every day as a range and i also like obviously prioritize the weekly average more so than i prioritized any single day so and i and i most weeks were not perfect like i definitely i uh went home for the fourth of july and like i definitely overate for a handful of days and like it's kind of uncomfortable to get back on the horse after that but like it was fine like i was still overall on track um but yeah i think i think i was um a lot more mindful of hunger signals and satiety cues things like that this cut than i have in the past and just being okay with them and not really like like recognizing them but not like just recognizing you don't have to act on it and being more intentional about that whereas i think last like previous cuts i would like have to do so many things to like distract myself but instead just being like you know what i'm hungry all of a sudden like the internet wants to give me a bunch of dieting content and like food content but like i'm just not going to wash that right now because i don't need to think about food right now um so yeah i don't know if that answered your question yeah not it's pretty pretty open-ended um from a food selection standpoint anything it's a good question i have i have a answer that i know you're going to give that i'll leave as the undertone but were any tools any particular foods that you uh really found as a useful tool throughout the dieting process i uh i had m&ms every single night yeah and specifically those m&ms were uh not a mix-in in the ninja creamy but a topping for the ninja creamy so if you don't know what the ninja creamy is look it up it's a wonderful wonderful invention what you're going to need is 180 grams of almond milk 180 grams of fat-free fair life milk about eight grams of sugar-free uh chocolate pudding mix and one scoop of your protein powder of choice you're going to put it on light ice cream mode and then you're going to re-spin it or re-spin it once or twice and you're going to have this beautiful high protein ice cream and you can put little goodies into it and you can put it on mix-in and um it'll mix whatever you want to like um cereal is a really good thing to put in there you put in fruit little m&ms are the best in there and you can put it on the mix-in setting and they'll mix it in there but i don't like the mix-in setting i like to use them as toppings so you just kind of have your toppings that you put them in and then maybe when you're halfway done you put the rest of the toppings in um so to answer your question i was a pretty regular consumer of the uh ninja creamy protein ice cream that was just it was just nice to have like a like a nightcap yeah for sure um beyond that i mean pretty standard stuff like i just i was just giving you an option to talk about your crammies yeah dude i i really enjoy them um they're nice it was also fun to play around with like different proteins different recipes it gives you the it's not the same itch but it's like trying new things is kind of like yeah like i i enjoy food i enjoy trying new restaurants things like that like it gives you kind of a similar itch i'm assuming also the air fryer oh yeah dude i shout out ninja so yeah our we had a cuisinart one for a while oh well there goes our brand deal but no no ours actually are the door broke on it like i use it probably twice a day my fiance uses it like twice a day like it gets well used so it broke we got a ninja one and we got this ninja one where it has two compartments top and bottom it's actually not an air fryer it's like a it's like a freaking oven dude and um we use it all the time but it's really nice because i didn't really meal prep with the exception of uh meal prepping chicken every week um like i wouldn't actually make meals but it's the air fryer is really nice because you could just make like a single serving of uh like i would make potatoes a lot of times or brussel sprouts um or you know it's a great way to make like single servings of veggies and then you're not eating like leftover veggies which are all soggy and stuff so yeah little hacks like that um obviously you know eventually get to the point where you start thinking about like the calorie density of the fruits you're having you're like all right you know probably a little bit less bananas a little bit more strawberries that kind of that stuff kind of like just naturally occurred sure as as i went um yeah fiber on average is probably like 30 grams so actually it got pretty high at one point and i actually had to pull it down because it was causing some bloating that once i got lean enough to recognize that i had to pull it down so it's been at 30 recently but it did get up pretty high so i was having a lot of fruits and veggies basically yeah um pretty standard stuff yeah pretty standard stuff no no weird like like so like going out of your way to choose like hard foods or anything like that like i've heard i've heard like little weird things like um no and i honestly like eat dang near the same thing every day so you're pretty habitual with most of stuff anyway yeah like i eventually i was eating like eggs and peppers in the morning um but then eventually that was too high calories so i swapped it out for just like a bull greek yogurt um yeah pretty yeah pretty like nothing nothing too crazy nothing to write home about all right so i think i think yeah the nutrition stuff's always interesting to kind of just hear different perspectives on how you go about making that the uncomfortable as comfortable as possible but also embracing the fact that it is uncomfortable at the same time so i always think that's interesting funny enough i would say though it was actually most uncomfortable at the start of the diet interesting um i think i had i might have understated this earlier i think i'd fallen out of like just good basic nutrition structure habits yeah and habits goes such a long way yeah so like that's i mean i lost some weight recently as well um and i was way more in the camp of like the second thing that i described of just like kind of just chipping away habits that like i don't need to do this anymore like i had been trying to gain weight for such a long period of my life that i got a little sloppy and kind of reverts it a little bit and there's just like little habits that like you mentioned that yeah i just just change this like eat more fruits and vegetables just like little things that you just don't even realize that you're doing on like what constitutes a good meal like i always think back to what like the average person thinks like a like a good meal is whereas like people who are in the you know the iron culture they you're gonna have protein in every meal you're probably gonna have vegetables those kind of things and like i think the looser you get with some of those things it's like yeah it just has implications on how hard it is to go in either direction really because once you start with that foundational habits of just like solid nutrition i think it just is so much easier to to navigate that spectrum yeah so yeah i don't know it's rambling no no i think that's yeah just eating like an adult yeah a long way exactly um and yeah also something i like to discuss with clients is just and this can even just help expedite being mindful of how hungry you feel is recognizing that like hey when you're dieting you're probably going to go into each meal pretty hungry maybe it's like a 7 out of 10 and you're not going to get to a 0 out of 10 hunger like you're going to finish the meal with a little bit of hunger um again if you can make it easier by having a little bit more fiber a little bit more volume uh voluminous foods um awesome but you're not going to remove the hack your way out of it can't hack your way out of it um so once i kind of like just gotten it got that structure back that i've had for most of my adult life but i kind of again gotten a bit of a rut with i started to feel the momentum and also that coincided with being leaner and the way you get the visual feed you get the visual and the thing the thing that can be tough psychologically is like when you have a good amount of body fat to lose when you lose it is easier to lose the first chunk of it but in a lot of ways the visual improvements get better and better right like going from 230 to 220 for me you could see the shape start to come in a little bit better start to see some more muscle separation but from 220 to 210 like that's in a lot of ways more exciting because you you know if this is the the fat thickness that you're working with you know 220 to 230 obviously it's not like perfectly scaled like this and then if you go from 220 to 210 in my example obviously it's not no fat but um you're getting closer and closer to the muscle bellies basically right so it's almost like an exponential improvement visually so that definitely helps psychologically as well that's another aspect of it interesting all right well we've been going for a decent amount of time here the last thing i want to ask you was more so about your kind of overall subjective experience throughout the entire process obviously you're not entirely finished up quite yet so maybe this is something we can reflect on further in a future episode as well but what um have you kind of just like learned anything from going through the process i think this is like the latest you've ever been is that accurate to say while having some muscle yeah yeah yeah um anything that going throughout this process has you know just like taught you or just any any subjective experience things that you'd take away from it that you'll continue to implement kind of just in general i'm honestly just curious about that yeah um definitely definitely sure i i think it's really fun to like have a hobby you're excited about i know that might not be the necessarily where you're going with the question but that is just a good reminder to have like a goal something yeah something to be excited about something that you're progressing towards is really really nice because it keeps you like kind of present present it keeps you grounded even if there's like stress in other areas or whatever the case may be um or like you feel like something isn't going well in another area but you have something else that you're chasing one controllable kind of thing right and like obviously things aren't they're going to be uncontrollables in whatever your like hobby is but um who cares right like if it ended up taking me an extra month to lose the fat or if i lost some strength like who cares whatever it's just nice to have a goal something to chase um that that was a good reminder of that it was a good reminder of just like and like how nice it is to feel like you have momentum with training i think momentum with training can come in a lot of different shapes and forms we think about it a lot with powerlifting training like oh i'm hitting pr's i'm getting stronger by the end of the block i'm going to hit this number things are really grooving right now and like that used to be my jam with powerlifting training um and i think it's a lot of people's jams and and i think you can do it in a lot of different ways so like i just it was a good reminder because i had momentum with training again really just because i created the structure again for training to be more of a priority in my day um just how much i enjoy that feeling of training hard and like again it's maybe not the same experience as like going into a heavy deadlift or a heavy squat but like going into a tenor m attempt on pendulum squat and the hairs on your arms kind of stand up a little bit like yeah that just is that feeling is is awesome and i um which is a good reminder of the things that like got me into training in the first place um what are other lessons the other lesson i would say man is like it is helpful to keep in mind that good training is good training even if you can't necessarily see what's going on because i've always hung out maybe on the less lean side than um what i plan to do going forward is i have always been pretty brutally consistent with training all things considered again i've had some ruts i was in a rut earlier this year but like i've always for the most part trained consistently and trained hard um and but like going if i bulked from 222 to 230 like i couldn't tell sure visually but now i can tell yeah you put good years in and and i've put good years in even though they're far from perfect i moved forward i moved forward in some way each year and i look way better now than i did last time i was even close to this lean like if you were to compare where i was at the end of that cut compared to the same body weight on this cut you know big chunk of muscle was put on so that feels good um so just a good reminder that good training is good training you don't things don't need to be perfect just move try to move forward each year and things will add up um another thought that comes to mind is even though i have kind of lean on the less lean of less lean side of things and i don't necessarily want to do that going forward i don't necessarily regret it um because i've always just there's an argument to be made that you hanging out there is what allowed you to put good years in that's yeah that was the thing i was going to say like when the structure did fall off at least there was energy around some people the structure falls off and they lose a bunch of weight and there's not nearly enough energy around even if they are training to put on tissue but i always had the energy around like i never went underfed if i if even if i was only trained three times a week and i think that um that allowed me to just even if it wasn't nearly optimal or nearly at the fastest rate possible just move forward a bit at a time um what else there's definitely gonna be things that come to me as we go well moral of the story sounds like to me is like at the end of the day there's a lot of things you can learn from it but the major thing in terms of the positive outlook it gave you is it just gave you a goal gave you something to kind of reignite the flame of a lot of aspects of training and make that more of a priority and i think again kind of just you know talking to you consistently throughout the process and something i've i've learned um or try to implement alongside uh what you're what you've been going through is just yeah just taking those things that we enjoy from the process and just trying to honor that a little bit more and protect it a little bit more throughout the day and that obviously leads to higher quality training those kind of things but more importantly the aspects of this that we fell in love with and that honestly for me when you're talking about momentum i think about it more so not even necessarily from the performance aspect of things anymore like obviously that's a positive aspect of things that plays an important role but it's more so just like just getting excited to go to the gym like i used to and like stacking days where i feel like that i just feel like i'm just like winning and life in general when that happens and like that's the feeling that now that i've been able to kind of take a step back and go through a couple seasons of you know adult life where we're not at jo north for six hours a day or whatever and and kind of have um to experience this a little bit more realistic scenarios i think that's the part that keeps me coming back and i think that's yeah just setting up your life to make that as consistent and something you can appreciate as possible i think is that's the that's the thing i've learned sub secondhand from like hearing a lot of your experiences and that's something i've tried to continue to implement myself but yeah i think this has been uh it's like it's like sleeping yeah in a lot of ways it's like uh if you go through periods with low sleep sometimes you just have to do that it's fine yep but you're like i don't think i want to do that indefinitely yeah in a lot of ways it's the same with training it's like i've gone through periods where it just hasn't been a priority and it hasn't gotten the attention or the energy that i would like to and like it's fine i don't necessarily regret it but like i don't want that to be the constant state going forward so almost it's almost like i don't know it's like a basic need which which kind of sounds ridiculous but um that's kind of how i'm starting to think about it and and the way that's gonna look like is probably gonna change again the last like probably six to eight weeks especially i'm like you know what my risk of muscle loss is pretty high right now so like like if my training sessions end up taking a little bit longer like i'll deal with it right now but going forward i'm gonna probably pull back with my training time a bit i'm probably gonna train like um at a at a closer by gym for at least one or two sessions a week to save some time but like i still wanted to like i still want to get my eight hours of sleep or my whatever seven hours of sleep i want to get that training in and move forward and um keep the momentum in some way shape or form because it just like elevates my experience in every aspect of my life um and i think it's that i think i'm basically just echoing what you said and i think a lot of people resonate with that and i think we see a lot of that with people that reach out yeah to work with us is like hey i want to get that momentum back i almost think it's less about like like you're talking about probably having to dedicate a little bit less time to it coming up i honestly don't even think that's the biggest factor and you know this i'm saying something you already know like that doesn't really matter it's more so like you said protecting the spot and the priority that it has obviously it's not priority number one for you or or me but it can easily get kicked down the priority list even if you've made the concession you're going to dedicate a little bit less time to me that's the that's the lesson is like wherever it ends up being in your hierarchy list that's fine but for people like me and you where it can easily slip down if it's not care is given that's where it starts having those negative repercussions mentally physically whatever um and so just protecting its place wherever it goes in that hierarchy even if you're saying like independent of time yeah yeah i'm just saying like to me that's the that's the important thing like let's say you have three days a week to train that's probably not what it's going to be for you but let's just say that's the case if you can approach that with the same level of care and tension and looking forward to it i still think i can have yeah tons of positive benefits what happens though is if i have to dedicate a little bit less time to it i kind of feel demotivated or whatever and it slides to slip down that priority list and then when it slips down the priority list that's when i'm rolling into the gym answering an email on my phone and like all those things that we discuss to me the the the biggest thing is just like where again wherever it ends up in that hierarchy protecting that spot and treating it like something you enjoy because when you treat it that way it'll have those dividends that come back to you and give you all those positive things that allow you to have a positive momentum in a lot of areas yeah no it's a great point that's gonna be my challenge is like yeah it's easy to feel excited about something when it's like i'm not training every day right now but i'm training five times a week and like so it's like built into my schedule quite a bit but if i do pull that back it's not an everyday thing and like i don't know like i'm i'm totally agreeing with what you're saying just saying it's gonna it is a challenge the biggest challenge at least in my view um is balancing these two things when you are when things are going really well it's very easy to focus on the objectives of it and the the outcomes that you're getting from it you're you're every week you're getting leaner every week you're progressing your your lifts and so the part of your brain is focusing on that part of the experience which obviously provides a lot of benefits but for me when when i had a you know i think i've talked about a little bit on here but i had a little bit of a rut where i was kind of coming out and getting back on the wagon and everything the part of it for me that i really had to focus on initially was the acute and the the non-negotiable benefits that i get from training just how i feel post-session how i feel in the session how it makes me feel presence wise the things that have really nothing to do with whatever weights on the bar and it's it's tough to balance those things when you are getting so positive returns and then you know let's just say maybe that slows down a little bit if you have to dedicate a little bit less time to it how do i get my brain to focus on the positive returns that i'm getting in the moment as well yeah um and that's that's there's a tough balance to to focus on but or yeah or or just or just accept the fact that you don't have that immediate positive yeah reinforcement and i guess i know that it's coming that's kind of what i mean it's like i guess for for you that you think about it that way um i i i meditated a lot on the fact that someday you're gonna hit your last pr and that so that's that's another thing i think about that i thought about it a lot from that perspective when i was kind of getting back on the wagon so i'm like what what can i take away from this that works no matter what is the case on that side of things yeah when you're able to make the harvest and the crops are are yielding well and you're able to you know take those prs for what they are while while we're able to do so awesome and that's just going to enrich the experience but what part of this equation can i continue to take till you know i'm in my grave kind of thing as those are the aspects of things that it's a really interesting conversation that um yeah it's it's honestly i'm glad we're having this discussion because it's something i need to think about is like yeah pretty soon i'm no longer going to have the immediate gratification of like noticing a little more vascularity each week or whatever um or having a short-term goal of of getting to a certain level of leanness so like what what's gonna like not that you always have to be you know 10 out of 10 in terms of execution but what's going to keep me at at least a 7 out of 10 and then what's the thing that's going to keep you exercising and training even if you might not ever hit that next milestone yeah or father time catches up and and sarcopenia is going to kick in yeah um and for some people you know that that changes the dynamic which is totally fine i guess i just i know you well enough and myself as well as like there's a lot of reasons why we love it it's just really easy to focus on the objectives when it's coming easily or not yeah i'm not easily but it's it's it's very apparent and and you're in the you're in the part of the journey where that you know that that's just that's the part you focus on because it's it's it's right in front of your face but when things happen you know constraints change or whatever the thing that allows you to keep putting those good years in like we were talking about is the fact you're able to relate to sometimes other things and i think that just having that conversation with yourself if if you want to be doing this long term if that's important to you then i think that's that's something every every lifter should probably have that conversation with themselves at some point because inevitably it does it does kind of happen whether it's seasons of life whether it's injuries whether it's whatever happens there's there's things that that are out of your control that change your relationship with it at some point hopefully it's short term but yeah sometimes for longer than we'd like can it be as simple as training feels good exactly that that's what i'm talking about that's what i always come back to that's that's essentially what i was saying is like i it's easy to say that but it's it's it's harder to like genuinely be gratified by that and i think that's fair that took me a little bit of time to like really get but i i think over time you can like you just leave the gym and you're like this was good because i had fun and i feel good and and again that sounds that sounds trivial to a lot of people i'm sure but for people who are very into this and you focus on the objective so much and that is where you receive the the positive affirmation from it shifting it towards things that are more what i just call like um in controversial like it's going to happen no matter what is like that's helpful because it creates a long-term environment where you basically can't lose and then anything you get from the other side of the coin is is i'm always reminded of that aspect of things when like i take four or five days off training you kind of feel a little deconditioned yeah you kind of like you're like i don't really want to go to the gym and then but then you get that first session back you're like ah yeah that's why we do it 100 that's why we do it great way to end it um a little bit of a different podcast hope everybody enjoyed it obviously leave us five-star rating review as always um drop any comments you had if you thought this one was interesting um and yeah we'll see you guys next time peace you

=== FILE: How much volume to KEEP muscle while cutting？ (It's lower than you think) [rbRBRM-Idcg].txt ===

 I had a few people ask like how much like how much like how much like how much like how much like how long I've been doing. So yeah, I think this covers all muscles. Sets per week. Basically I've trained dang near every set to failure since Steve and I started working together. That was the case beforehand. It was really nice to have AI haven't recorded a ton of my training, but the training I have recorded and you know, just a couple like little blind spots with execution of things. really nice to get feedback on so i would say nothing revolutionary the absolute biggest thing was accountability on the nutrition side for me and um implementation of like refeeds and just managing kind of the psychological aspect of it um i think was was really really big for me training had some nice wrinkles and improvements but it was just good balanced hypertrophy training i think you mentioned moderate ish volumes you mentioned uh i think you mentioned me in a text the other day you basically haven't lost any strength if not gained a little bit on some exercises how yeah what do you attribute that to how did that process go yeah so a couple things there that's that's accurate but all really irks me when people say like oh i hit a pr hit a bunch of prs and cuts but it's like exercises they introduce during the cut so that is something to keep in mind is like i definitely not at my strongest like low bar back squat right now and that's an exercise that i've trained for many many years the the exercises that i was training consistently before the diet and i'm up to at this point and still haven't at this point for the most part have continued to get stronger with the exception of exercises that uh being fluffier genuinely adds a benefit so leg press did end up falling off and i was kind of skeptical at first i was like man maybe i am like losing muscle or like maybe we're dieting too quickly or whatever but i looked back at footage of leg press when i was mechanics just way different the mechanics are just way different like i used have you don't you don't have as much you know meat on your hamstrings you go down lower you go down lower and like your quads are less supported at the bottom it's not like i was like super i mean i was i was you know decently high body fat but it's not like i was like yeah it's 30 pounds it's nothing like insane but it's enough such that it does make a difference rdl continued to progress from like 230 down to like 208 i think i actually was like i think this is gonna start it started to feel like nails on a chalkboard if that makes sense so we ended up like proactively swapping that out so we made some swaps because in a lot of ways i think we took out two sets of rdls and we put in two sets dumbbell rdls and one set of uh front foot elevated split squats so um probably like match like pretty similar stimulus there i think in a lot of ways it's just uh what you got to do in a diet is like at least for me i i really like the performance aspect of training and it's not necessarily on any specific movement it's just feeling like you're progressing and like i do think there's something to be said that you don't want to put new movements in such that you have to like spend a bunch of time relearning them but like a hinge is a hinge like if you're well trained you might it might take you a session or two to really nail it that was a case where i was like psychologically this just kind of sucks and i think we can get just as good of a stimulus with something else and i'll be more excited about training leg press we ended up just swapping to a different leg press again really just for psychological reasons what probably makes the most sense on paper is just drop the load by like 10-15 reset your progressions whatever continue to fight for progression even though you're probably gonna get weaker i was like i don't really want to do that i want to feel like i'm progressing movements like that some pressing movements did fall off a little bit here and there but single joint stuff that isn't influenced by like just how big you are continue to get stronger overall for movements that are like like i'm the strongest i've ever been on single joint movements right now despite being in a deficit for like seven months compound stuff has fallen off a bit hard to say how much of that is due to what interesting yeah i mean like you said the training stuff there's not too much honestly one of the reasons i wanted to ask is that that's always kind of a funny thing when people like see transformations or whatever they're like oh my god you must have like locked changed everything changed everything but in reality from the training side of things it's like yeah i think this covers all muscles six to twelve sets per week oh man so you so you uh you're buying into this high intensity training propaganda actually no calves is calves is five so five to twelve sets before people get confused you want to mention why that's the case so like immediately when people hear that they're gonna be like you don't even believe the results of your own work you know what i mean like that we've talked about that no no i know but i i like i do i do think that's okay an interesting you know why like how did you how did how did you guys land upon that as a general concept are you look at the meta-analysis it's like 40 plus sets per week is best right that so that's what you're gonna do right dude first of all i don't have time for that second of all i would dread that those sessions third of all i would have to deload more often i really only deloaded when it made sense with my schedule so like if i had travel i would just like okay i'm gonna only train a couple times this week and this can effectively serve as a deload otherwise i want to go in there i want to beat what i did last week i don't want to leave any reps in the tank unless i absolutely have to because like it's gonna wreck me because i am coming off a deload or something like that so that's just how i want to train i want to take every set as hard as i can and i also don't want to have to deload and i don't want to dread the sessions and be looking down the barrel of like a two-hour session every day i just don't have time for that i don't honestly i just genuinely don't have the focus for that either like i'll just be honest about it that just leads me to like four to twelve sets per session and in a lot of ways i think that was like the most volume i could do while still keeping my effort as high as possible and i think if i were to go higher i think the net volume would have been pretty similar because i would have had to probably deload a little bit more often it's just the constraints led approach we've talked about if i could orient my life around training a little bit more would i do more for sure that's a perfect like i just the reason i wanted to ask is it's just such a perfect example i'm like you're literally not contradicting the findings whatsoever it's just people don't understand how to take those graphs and actually apply them and i guess just that it's just such a good example it's like yes he's doing as much as he can a very high quality training that fits within the constraints of his lifestyle sessions did not feel easier yeah no of course like and like that's still a good amount of work like yeah you know what i mean it's just a good amount of work i'm also pretty big on rest periods like i know there's kind of a trend towards recommending shorter rest periods now man i think that's we can i i'll rest like up to seven minutes between sets of like press yeah upper body stuff i would say on average i'm resting four sets between sorry four minutes so like exercises but i do pair them tangent question okay okay so you're super setting to save a little bit so like if i'm on machine chest press i finish a set i'll set a timer for four minutes if someone is on the lap pull down all right i'll just kind of hang out for a bit or maybe i'll start warming up for another exercise if no one's on it but if if no one's on the lap pull down i'll go hit a set there and then once four minutes is up then i'll go and chest press again until i finish so let's say let's say you did two minutes you find your performance is substantially worse yes interesting like do you notably psychologically physically what do you think obviously both but i'm curious which one more so i think it's i think it's a physical interesting yeah i mean obviously like longer rests are gonna maintain your performance better but i guess i haven't had that same experience yeah i i would say if i like could not pair exercises so i could not go running over the lap pull down or to another exercise to knock out some volume like while i'm while i'm resting i probably would decrease it a bit because like i didn't i i said i rest a while but i really don't sit around that much of the gym because i'm always kind of like doing something i'm like starting to warm up on something and then yeah i'll sit down for a minute before the set get focused and then do it so yeah i mean sessions had a good flow

=== FILE: How to Analyze YOUR Training Data (What Actually Matters) [xPw8mgd8KfY].txt ===

 O ce thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust thrust is some food for thought for the coaches out there or is interesting for the lifters out there basically Lionel asks about how to make sense of training data more specifically he asked the biggest problem I'm having is how to make sense of the years of data I've produced no style of programming seems to work more than once and when I try to do it again it just doesn't seem to work very well at the core of this question is like okay let's say you have been really diligent about logging your training which I think most people are at least to some degree or like whatever they follow various programs how do I make sense of that right you think about individualizing your training and finding what works for you what do you do with that data I've seen it all honestly done it all done it all as well I've had people submit to coaching inquiries like I think the tool is called tableau where it's like they took the csv and they made a bunch of data visualizations that stuff is cool but I'm curious Zach like where does I definitely have some thoughts on this question but I'll let you kick us off here where does your mind go when you think of someone that has whatever five ten years of training data yeah I mean how do you make sense of that so it always is an ironic answer every time we tackle this topic because I think again when we started this I think we were very much of the mindset of like if you track enough things if you know what to track if you look at things correctly from a data and metric perspective you're going to be able to get this kind of golden approach and golden information that you can distill down into essentially taking the decision making process off of the coaches or athletes hands and kind of externalizing that keeping it entirely objective and we're in this Goldilocks land of like as long as I record all my information and are diligent with recording everything you know I can kind of just trust that this this you know in the in the forest of the data there there will be an answer and I think the more that I've done this and also the more that we've got experience and research and understand how challenging it is to come to inferences when you have highly controlled laboratory data with many people and how challenging it is to come to comprehensive inferences in that case my confidence and and we we've talked about the kind of the the paradox of knowing how little control we really have as coaches or athletes and kind of what we're doing versus kind of how you have to act and I think that is important like you know we have to try to make adjustments to our training we have to act as if what we're doing does have control and agency over the situation so I acknowledge that but I do think that like a lot of the times the amount of confidence that you can distill from a training log like this I think is overstated for quite a few reasons number one is just the ability to separate signal from noise and cause and effect particularly when you're looking at your own individual data there's just so many confounding things that you're just fundamentally not able to separate unless you do things in extremely extremely specific way which I have know how to set those things up but the assumptions and things that you're that you're kind of baking in in a training context I think are essentially never safe so just as a basic example I run a training program today I run a training program five years later fundamentally I'm not I'm not the same person I'm not the same athlete the training that preceded that intervention may be different I may be stronger I may have a different life context the list goes on and on and on my my training day when we had the like busiest years of data collection or like yeah they were like semesters that were just the schedule was wild and unpredictable even if I did have that stuff perfectly formatted in a certain spot I just like I know that's useless I was like there were times where I was training it just the weirdest hours of the day on super weird sleep schedule nothing was consistent that's just a basic example yeah no exactly and it's just like I think that is hard for people to accept like humans just don't deal with uncertainty very well but ultimately like I do think it's just fundamentally challenging even a diligent individual level data collection to truly separate cause and effect and what I mean by that is the training program changes that you think are driving changes in performance or lack thereof I think that drawing that arrow consistently and being very confident that that's a causal arrow is just a very very challenging problem so that's basically what I'm saying there is that it's not that training data is useless by any means I think that can be directionally helpful I think that can be if there's obvious things in terms of what direction maybe makes sense sure but I do think that any process in which you're trying to take somewhat of an art in essentially taking what we believe to be principles and some degree best practices of application and trying to make that an entirely objective process I ultimately think does kind of steer you in the wrong direction in a lot in a lot of ways so here's kind of how I view training data is for the most part I view it as the data kind of has a shelf life is the first thing I'd say is that yes there is value in kind of taking very long-term you know data collections of things and having training logs for years and years and years I don't think that's entirely useless but I view it more so from like a when I hit a plateau or something like that and I'm looking for maybe some inspiration or maybe you know some some directional nudges on which place to head I think that can be useful but for the most part I view and we talked about this in a few places and I'm kind of going in circles so if I need to bring it back let me know but for the most part I view training as relatively input-based these days for the most part and what I mean by that is we have principles that we believe kind of are our best comprehensive understanding on how training works and then you have like these artistic applications of those principles and logical extrapolations on how to adjust those things in the evolving life context that you have in in your kind of day-to-day life and I honestly think combining those two things is kind of the way you derive your best bet in terms of what you should do and so if you're not making progress and it seems like a training program doesn't work more than once that very well be could be the case and what you've observed I'm not disputing that but why is that the case is an entirely different question that is extremely extremely challenging to answer and so to me in absence of better evidence that I think is gonna be a really long time need more time yeah in absence of better evidence before we have more complicated ways of dealing with these types of questions there just be like a lot of things I would run through to kind of get some more context on that situation but I've been talking for a while so I'll let you go yeah I I'm skeptical that the training style doesn't actually work twice that just isn't really a thing in my experience I think back in the day there's you know like a big shoot why am I blanking on like the phrase biological accommodation yeah yeah um adaptive resistance yeah that's it adaptive resistance nice I just don't really think that's a thing yeah I mean that it might be on the margins there might be like a psychological component to it that's what I was gonna say um if you're if you're had like a really good block that was heavy was like happened to be a heavy block you might be able to run it back one time but if you try to run it back a third time your body's gonna start screaming at you like I I would say for like a third of the power lifters I work with there I would never run like the general block approach we know works pretty well for them I would never run it probably more than twice in a row it just doesn't go well aches and pains start to creep up things like that so I do think that's kind of on the artistic side of things but ultimately just from like a conceptual basis I think what Zach and I are circling around is that training data is important but it's not necessarily the driver of the process in terms of designing effective training I don't think it's I think it's unlikely that there's a training style that is necessarily best for someone but instead you can pick up on hints or inspiration about how to best apply goal specific principles for that lifter so for example especially if it's a newer lifter and we don't have much training data we don't have much to go off of and one of their lifts is not moving well I'll say hey do you have any old training logs from when things did progress well and I'll use that as inspiration of course if that training log was from six years ago I might put less stock in the one from two years ago but it can definitely you be help serve as inspiration about how to best apply the principles to that individual so basically what we're suggesting is you should shift your mindset to your mindset should not necessarily be what style of lifting is best for me instead your mindset should be how can I apply the principles within my constraints and that can kind of give rise to what seems like a training style but I don't think there's some magic fairy dust about that training style for the individual and I think just shifting that perspective from again what's the training style I need to how do I apply the principles within my constraints that's just going to give you such a running start for programming going forward as opposed to kind of this weird awkward thing of trying to find this elusive program design that's best for you that's that's exactly how I think about it is like at the end of the day I don't think there's a training program that someone would respond best to in every scenario like that that's that's the part of things I just like I tend to question like if we had somebody you know had two twins that were in the exact same you know context environmental constraints etc probably do the same program that's a bad example because they're twins but maybe they're not twins but they're extremely similar in terms of all the biometric ways like height leverages things like that and then they're in the exact same environmental context I think you're probably going to abide by the principles in very similar ways in both those cases but if you change the environmental context of one of those two individuals that probably is going to have some downstream implications on the the training program that seems to result in the most progress and I think those are the things that like those are the things that we people tend not to track which I think is hilarious is like it's almost like you're tracking the symptom and not the cause in a way is like yeah if people were more diligent about like really detailing the environmental context in which they're you know they're they're trying to train tracking body weight but yeah yeah it's just exactly there's just so many things about like that's the type of thing that I think is it helps you interpret your training data probably more accurately I guess is the way that I view it and in absence of that if you're just looking at the x's and o's of the training program and how you would progress I think that can be quite misleading in terms of you know whatever is going to be the most beneficial but yeah I view things very similar to you is you know if somebody comes to me and they have a detailed training history obviously I'm going to utilize that but the way that I almost view that is like okay this is kind of an objective look at how their context is kind of informing their training and what they have found to be the most successful I don't view it as like all right they have eight sets and they have ssb on the second day so I have to do that exactly I don't do like that at all it's more okay how much is their their external load or external environmental load influencing things and kind of how does that end up man why did ssb tend to lead to better performances exactly sure ssb is a tool that could get the job done but there's nothing you know necessarily special about it there's multiple roads to roam your job as a coach is to take one of those roads to roam make sure you don't like get off track in terms of trying to get to roam if I try to continue with this analogy but understanding the principles that underlie the fact that eight sets with ssb on the secondary day is what permitted a positive result not necessarily trying to find eight sets in ssb yeah exactly yeah that's and it's every time we talk about this it is one of those things where it's like it is hard to fully describe this without having that comprehensive resource of like kind of an updated look at individualization every time we talk about this I feel bad that we don't have that because that is important and that's something I want to like run through a couple scenarios on like how we used to view it how we view it now and like just kind of comparing and contrasting all those things because it sounds so obvious when we say it but it is a conceptual ssb

=== FILE: Signal vs. Noise： A New Philosophy for Training Data ｜ S2E12 [j0CK4zFMzW4].txt ===

 I hope you know what I mean right away when I say this. Your PhD, the dissertation, the primary dissertation project failed in the absolute best way possible. Oh yeah, 100%. I think better than ever we know what the data can't tell us, and so I think we have a really solid grasp on knowing when to leverage which legs of the stool of evidence-based practice. And I think the strike zone for effective training programs in the vast majority of scenarios is way wider than people think. So, the first of our three big remaining questions in training science is, does fatigue harm your ability to elicit a hypertrophy stimulus? So, just generally speaking, there is little evidence of overtraining within typical study durations. Welcome back to the Data-Driven Strength Podcast. Despite some speculation out there, we're still here, we're still in the studio, and we're still podcasting. This is Season 2, Episode 12, and I know absolutely no one cares about that because we've had some podcasts released in the wrong order, and no one commented, no one said anything. I've noticed a lot of podcasts have just kind of ditched the episode number thing. I think that's something we're holding onto, which I mean makes sense. You know? I think we should just ditch it after this one. But for now, Season 2, Episode 12, thank you for tuning in. Zach, I'll let you kick this off. It's been, let's see, we're in early October now. It's been at least a couple months since we've recorded a podcast. We said we were back at the start of Season 2. I think it's safe to say we're back. You know, we got the studio, got the YouTube channel, and honestly, listens increased a ton. Downloads increased a ton. Now, are we balling out like some of the big-name podcasters? Absolutely not. But I would say that's a feature. That's a feature, not a bug. So everything is intentional here. We were actually just maybe growing a little bit too fast, getting too much engagement. So we decided to slow down. So that's going to be the perspective I choose to take. But I'm curious if you have any insights on what you've been up to on the last couple of months, where things are headed with the show, and what people can expect. Oh, man. I mean, in terms of what I've been up to, I'm going to really try to save. Keep in mind it's been a while. Yeah, it has been a while. I don't even know. What was the last episode? We had a kind of coaching-oriented episode. I'm trying to remember what kind of updates we last gave. When did your dissertation training study get pre-printed? Was that before or after our most recent podcast? I want to say that. That's what I was kind of teeing up for you. Yeah, okay. Yeah, so that's kind of what I was going to. So that was, that got pre-printed on July 31st. So I'm not sure when our last episode was. Probably right around there, I think. Right around then. Yeah, so that's been out. It's been good. It hasn't gotten a ton of press. Some of that was me kind of preemptively saying, if you make hot take content about this, you probably don't totally get it, which I do think is. Something I respect about you a ton is you are a true, a scientist in the truest sense of the term. Yeah, in the truest sense of like the definition of a scientist, such that you made an effort to go out of your way to say, this is not probably not what you think it is. And if you make any content out about it or talk about it, which is a good thing for you, generally speaking, for your work to get shared and discussed. You kind of like went out of your way to blunt that a little bit. So I'm curious your thought process behind that. Yeah, I think mostly it came from the perspective of just like, I kind of reformat what it means to me about every two months, even though I've been literally thinking about this for the past two years. Maybe take a step back for the listener. Reformat what? Just like the way that I view the results, ultimately. So should I just like give a brief intro to what it was? So, I mean, long story short, to try to keep it as brief as possible, my dissertation was basically all about the methods and the kind of ways we can ask questions about individual response variation. So put it even more practically. When I came to my PhD, you know, anytime you hear somebody talk about research, they're like, well, this only applies on average. Right. You hear that caveat about pretty much everything we care about having individuals not on average. And so they heard that from you. Yeah, 100%. So like and that's kind of like for for people who digest research oriented content or like try to apply research. That's usually like kind of a sticker on it is like, yeah, this is cool, but it's not that helpful from a practical perspective. And so because of that, for my PhD, I really wanted to say, all right, well, I want to do something that is extremely practically useful. So how can I take these, you know, population average level concepts and get them more granular on the individual level? And that was kind of the genesis of my PhD. And I was very, very focused on not only did I know that tons of variation in responses were a thing. My goal was to go three steps beyond that and try to find these practically relevant or ecologically valid predictors to try to help coaches have a have the kind of this dashboards of tools you can utilize to kind of predict the training program that's going to be best for an individual. Zach's individualization algorithm. Yeah, exactly. Or at least starting that. That was the dream, right? 100%. And I was like, like I said, like, if you would have talked to me at the beginning of my PhD, it was it was it was less about like, if you're going to find anything, it was more so like which one of these things that I hooked up. Now I'm thinking back. It's OK, so we will do this topic. It's we'll we'll do it at some point. I don't know if it's going to be later this month. I don't know if it's going to be October of next year. I don't know if someone's going to hold our feet to the fire and it's going to be multiple years from now. We got to revisit it. We're going to do it at some point. Yeah, we'll go through it thoroughly. But for now, I'm thinking back to you obviously led the recruitment for the those participants when data collection for that started now multiple years ago, of course. But I played some role in recruitment and I remember talking to some prospective participants for the study and kind of you kind of explain what you're researching. Right. And I just I remember explaining it such that the goal is to be able to take kind of a panel of a participant or of a of a client or a patient or whatever the case may be and be able to improve the starting point for their training intervention or their rehab intervention. Right. That was kind of the general goal. Whereas I would and I think you agree with this would frame a study design like that, let alone the results completely differently. So while you're talking, I just thought of how it's changed so much over the last however many years since we were recruiting for that. Yeah, 100 percent. I mean, yeah, exactly. That's that was basically how I view it, too, is like, all right, I'm going to take an individual through this extremely comprehensive kind of testing battery or like panel like you kind of kind of mentioned. And with all that, it sounds really cool. Yeah, no, exactly. Exactly. Exactly. With all that information, you know, we're going to very conclusively decide, you know, which type of a training intervention would be best, you know, best suit your needs ultimately. And yeah, it is quite literally hilarious to think on the the just how ambitious that was. I hope you know what I mean right away when I say this your PhD, the dissertation, the primary dissertation project failed in the absolute best way possible. 100 percent. And like but like when I say failed, obviously, I mean that like very loosely your PhD is your dissertation is really cool and really important. That was not what you were thinking. So like I would I would say that is a huge success. But like in terms of the initial goal that you were just outlining, complete failure. But again, in the best way. Yeah, no, exactly. Like so, yeah, that was ultimately the intention is like, all right, we're going to get this, you know, and specifically. I chose many of the predictors were what I considered ecologically valid predictors because I wanted coaches to be able to use them. So things like rep tests at 80 percent of one RM, different other, you know, biometric markers like body weight, you know, via two max, like step average step count, things like this. And like I said, I was it wasn't a matter of if I was going to find something is which one of these cool things was going to tell us. And so, you know, long story short, along the way in executing this study, proposing it and ultimately defending my PhD, there's just so many things that go into researching variability that I don't think are well appreciated at this stage in the game. My PhD is one part of that. There's a couple of, you know, pieces of work in kind of behind the scenes right now that hopefully will continue to kind of tell this story in a way that's even more comprehensive, hopefully, and get people, you know, on the same page on just how challenging this topic is. That isn't to say we have conclusive findings by any means, but I think ultimately the way that I kind of have come out of this project thinking is that for the most part, like the null hypothesis should be we're going to utilize things that we're confident in, which are going to be these population group based level effects until we have a really, really good reason otherwise to expect that those won't work. And I think individual level program design for the most part is working around constraints rather than working with different principles or different rules. And I think that's don't don't give them too much. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that's too much. That's that's the long and short of it. There's so many like caveats and different turns and like specific practice. I think I think a lot of I think how you have come to that broad conclusion, what it means practically. Is really, really important. But I know that our audience will really value. How you've come to that conclusion, and we definitely aim to do that at some point and present it in a way that's hopefully hopeful for other researchers and also the the audience of the show, which is quite unique in the sense of their tolerance to listen to us yap about the nitty gritty. That doesn't seem practical on the surface, but I'm telling you that project has like completely reshaped how I think about a lot of things. And I think is really valuable for that reason. I think the it's now pre printed and hopefully once you're on the other side of the publication process, you can talk more about that. But that's at least out there for for public consumption. Is it on bio archive? Yeah. Yeah. So it's on bio archive, which is another pre print server. And then you're obviously pursuing publication for it. So that's really exciting. Joyful process as always. Yeah. Getting people to understand. Yeah. Knock knock on wood, but like the volume meta, I mean, it was pre printed a year ago now, and it's still in the review process, which I get it like there is important feedback. But anyway, the reason I bring that up is like, that could be published tomorrow. Yeah. Or at least accepted for publication tomorrow. We could also have to start from square one tomorrow and it could be another year, which is just wild to think about. So anyway, we don't need to get into pre printing and all that good stuff. I honestly see both sides of it. Like, yeah, it's, it's a, that's a rabbit hole. It's yeah, there's no like, I don't think we're in one specific camp. But that's just an interesting thing to think about. And I know you're going through that right now. Yeah. But I think that project is going to have a really long tail. Yeah. In the sense that, you know, is it going to be a super splashy finding right away or something that is like easy for people to make, you know, and I'm pointing finger at us and Instagram carousel post about it and discuss it. Like I think of like a volume paper that comes out super easy to talk about. And that's, that's, that's. Well, it is. Laryl is that. Yeah. That's not a really thing is that. I've seen that on a few. It is like a few times I've seen people try to talk about it is like, yeah, there's some confusing stuff here. Yeah. Put that to the side and, you know, talk about the volume stuff, which, you know, I get it, but it's just, yeah, it is a topic that deserves a fully fleshed out episode. Like you said, we'll do at some point, but it's. But it's. Yeah. If you're listening to this and you're like, okay, Zach's dissertation was on individual responses to training and they're saying that maybe that is not the right way to think about it. I'm really confused. I would say I understand again, hang in there. We'll, we'll, we'll circle back at some point. But let me just give you a very basic example. That's top of mind for me right now. Sure. And I'll quickly get your thoughts on that. And then we're going to nip this in the bud. So we don't end up talking about this the whole time. Yeah. So right now, I'm not going to speak too specifically about this because we're in the early phases of like looking at the data for a specific project, but in a separate project to what we were talking about was Zach's we had within subjects design such that, you know, just to make sure we're on the same page. One arm of each participant is in one group and then the other arm is in the other group or the other condition, I should say. And we took multiple measurement sites and measurement methods. So we took biceps muscle thickness, which means you take the ultrasound probe, you put it on the middle of the bicep and you look at how thick it is. We also did that same approach muscle thickness for the lateral head of the triceps and the long head of the triceps. So we have three muscle thickness values. We also have another way of measuring the size of the biceps. I'm not going to get into that right now. And we also just have a basic circumference measurement for the arms. Again, I'm not going to speak too confidently or specifically about that because we're in the early phases of looking at that data and making sense of it. And the groups don't even matter. But because we have multiple ways of looking at the same exact thing within the same person, you can basically say, oh, if they responded better to condition A, does that also hold up across all of the different measurement sites or across all of the different muscles that we measured? And the short answer is almost certainly no, because of just all of the sources of variation or more simply, all the sources of noise that go into that. And in a lot of ways, I think that is the foundation to your dissertation and a point you want to make that's important for practitioners and for researchers going forward. So is that a fair example to get the appetite going for the audience? And if so, we can we can. That is funny because we haven't talked about this. That is exactly the phrasing and concept that I've consistently come back to. And like to simplify it as much as possible is basically my Ph.D. was about really understanding how to define signal, how to define noise and separate those things. And I think that's obviously that's everything when trying to interpret data. And I think intuitively it's, you know, a lot of the time what we think is signal can get confused as noise and vice versa. And I think it's just depending on the question, depending on what you're trying to interpret, defining those things very clearly and understanding what could confound estimates of either one. I think is the that's the name of the game. But yeah, that's exactly the way that I've kind of consistently come back to is like at the end of the day, what we do with data analysis is separating signal from noise. And that can be a trickier process depending on the research question than it may seem. For sure. So with the exception of diving deep into that at some point, hopefully, one thing I think is worth saying on the front end, especially for the dedicated listeners, is that as a result of research we have going on, some other projects we'll talk about in the future. Coaching things like that. I think that the way that we're both viewing this podcast going forward, at least I'm not saying forever, but at least in the near future, is that instead of saying, hey, we're going to prep for this podcast and spend a bunch of time doing that, which we have done, obviously some more than others. We're probably going to do that less. And instead, this podcast will draw from our work in those other areas that I mentioned, research we have going on, internal projects, our coaching practice that we maintain, and our personal experience, which I think has pros and cons. But I just, part of me is bummed about that because I do really like, like for the volume and strength podcast, like, I don't even, I can't, I don't even know where to start in terms of adding up the hours of prep for that. Coaching things like that. And that was important to us. And I'm glad it's out there. But we're, we're probably just full disclosure, we're probably not gonna be doing that anytime soon. With the exception of maybe the one we mentioned. So hopefully that's okay. And hopefully, we're going to aim to be clear when we are, you know, using specific references or talking confidently in our area of expertise, versus more just kind of laid back training chat. And I think it's important to maybe discuss why we think that is the case, like, at least to me. And I think if you've listened to a lot of the episodes that we've done, you know, in the last year or so, you've probably got the through line of like, we just don't view like the ESPN research ticker as like, super productive, really, anymore. Obviously, it's good to stay up to the evidence and there's certain topics that kind of hedge new ground. And there's, you know, if there's one study on a topic, that's really kind of all you have to go on. But I think for a variety of different reasons and a variety of different projects we've done or been a part of that sense of being okay with uncertainty in certain areas and kind of waiting until we feel like we have a comprehensive look at a question area or whatever. Like, that's just kind of our vibe these days, honestly, like about pretty much everything is like, if I don't feel confident to look at something extremely comprehensively and be able to like why do it at all? Why do it? It's like, yeah, obviously, you have to like, and maybe the day up. And maybe the day up. And maybe this is the biggest shift is like, I think better than ever, we know what the data can't tell us. And so I think we have a really solid grasp on knowing when to leverage which legs of the stool of evidence based practice. And I think, yeah, I think that's, that's really what it comes down to, to me. So like for areas where that true comprehensive lens isn't possible or isn't available, or we just don't frankly feel good about it. I think we are more comfortable than ever realizing that like, hey, the data is there to derive us principles. And if that isn't sufficient in any case, that's okay, because we have other ways that we can try to form what we think is best practice based on coaching experience, you know, common knowledge based on other coaches, you know, or just or just conjecture and extrapolation. And I think it's something I'm trying to, I've always been mindful of, I think, but I know there's room for improvement of just being clear when that's the case. Yeah, this is a quote I heard on a podcast that I really, really liked. I think it was the Barbell Medicine podcast. They had Franco and Pelazeri on. I'm not sure if you're familiar with his work, but he's, he's, you know, when the acute to chronic workload ratio stuff kind of really was in vogue. He and his group were the ones that were kind of pointing out some just issues, statistical issues, conceptual issues with that kind of a framework and maybe over interpreting it literally. And I really, really like he had a good book. Oh, it's fantastic. He had a really, really good quote that I really liked. And it was at the end of the day, as a practitioner or somebody who's, you know, kind of has his perspective, kind of that applied sports science realm. He is much more comfortable when people just simply use experience or leverage their own beliefs rather than relying on weak evidence. And I think that was super, super good because at the end of the day, I think that's where the, you know, the science based movement or the evidence based PubMed warrior. Like, I think that's where that negative tag comes in is when, obviously, I think any person who can evaluate what science can give us objectively realizes the advantages of it, obviously. But I think somebody who is maybe kind of the, you know, team science hashtag crowd doesn't equally admit is when the evidence is extremely weak or incapable of giving us a true comprehensive look. It may, it may be lower quality in some cases or bias the perspective so much when the variance demon can't play out, right, that we've talked about before, that just simply relying on these other sources of evidence or other sources of data, I think is something that's very important to not be afraid to leverage. And I just, yeah, I really liked that quote of like leverage your experience when all you have is weak evidence because weak evidence is still weak, you know? Yeah, I think that's a criticism. I've noted it internally. I don't know if I've said it publicly is that I that's like one of my biggest criticisms of evidence based fitness since I've been like, even just an outsider of it. And then once I kind of understand like, okay, like, I know the rest period research, you know, and not to use that as a specific example. But I think there's there's various topics where there are there is weak evidence. But science based folks will use that weak evidence as like too strongly almost. Yeah, and I actually I feel optimistic listening to what you said here because I think that's where there's a lot of like confusion or maybe mistrust or lack of clarity in terms of science communication. And I think there's room for improvement there. So hopefully a long form show like this, you can kind of get an idea for what at least our perspective would be in terms of how to use research. Which I don't know if I'm articulating that super well. But yeah, there's there's obviously like a pro science crowd and there's an anti science crowd and that makes sense. That's probably always going to be the case. But I think there are flaws in the in science communication at large in the fitness space. I also think there's flaws in terms of the expectations for the anti science crowd and what you can expect. And I think in a lot of ways, I hope that, you know, I mean, our YouTube channel is tiny compared to the field in general, but hopefully we can be a very small force for good in terms of the anti science crowd. If they happen to listen, understanding how these things have can be really, really valuable. But you need to like know when when they become valuable because, you know, I just use the example of your dissertation and some of the projects we've done since we we got to Florida Atlantic University and started our master's programs and subsequently PhDs. That stuff has completely changed the way I think about training 100 percent. And I'm very like passionate about that. At the same time, I'm very critical of the way some people use science. So I just I don't know. I hope we can help one or two people see that and then that can like kind of have a ripple effect. Yeah, I think I think really. Yeah. One of our I don't know if I want to call a mission that sounds a little bit weighty, but like something I feel passionate about now is like being a flashlight of like highlighting where, you know, utilizing research is really well suited and then areas where it's misapplied. And kind of I think people have, like you said, are kind of it is almost like institutional distrust and like that kind of, you know, area of things. And I understand I honestly understand it because it has also kind of been kind of this marketing weird kind of gig now, too. And like that's where, like I said, I do think it's like really, really important, particularly for people who do science communication and kind of want to be on like the helpful aspect of the research side of things is like really look yourself in the mirror to some degree. To some degree. And we had to do this, too, because I think like anybody that's followed our content for a long time has seen the progression like we were, you know, new study drops, you know, the new I can like. I remember wanting to be the first one that saw a new study when it was. Exactly. I remember when. But the journal. I was like Zara's cluster single leg press study was published and I'm, you know, I'm getting the getting the detail. Oh, 85 percent of one. And that that that strive of wanting to know the details and really comprehensively looking at things is obviously crucial for proper research interpretation. But I do think the like that ticker fast paced social media mindset to science communication has such clear downsides in the way that like it's like almost anti science. Exactly. It's structure. It's structurally interpreted inappropriately based on the way that the media rewards. But yeah. And it's it's not it's so it's so hard, man, because there are incentives and. And you also have to deal with like the net positive aspect, too, is like if somebody goes and, you know, I think I saw an infographic on the Mayo study the other day, whereas like seated leg curls provide one and a half times growth. And it's like. Yes, conceptually helpful. Yeah, I just I just I go back and forth. I'm like, sure, like that gets a principle out there that maybe is more efficacious on average. Like, you know, I can see how it's helpful, but at the same time, it's like. Yeah, it's hard. It's such such a hard balance. And we're never one to throw rocks at glasses. Yeah, yeah. So I hope it's not I genuinely have not had any single person or persons or group in mind when pointing these things out. Mostly us and like it's more so. Yeah. And our progression. So if you think we're talking about someone in particular, genuinely not. No, I'm and I just I also like sympathize so much with because we've tried to wear both hats tricky decisions you have to make and the incentives and people have employees and like and honestly, just talking about this, not to make it too deep. I'm very grateful for our audience. The fact that there are enough of you interested in whatever the hell we've just talked about for the last 27 minutes and are willing to put your trust in us if we have something to sell as well. So we can have a feasible business as well to make it make sense to keep doing it. Keep doing it. You know, this microphone isn't free, that kind of thing. So anyway, it's it's tricky. And that's what drives us because we do have a lot of other stuff going on just to to call a spade a spade. But we're still making sure that this this podcast is something we can continue to to keep on our plate because it's important for that reason. It's important to us for that reason. OK, any other updates for you? I haven't got any new chairs or anything. No new chairs? No, unfortunately. That is on the list, though, like in the next actually next year. So I think I'm going to upgrade and it's going to be. Oh, I got I finally, finally got new deadlifting shoes. Oh, because you were wearing those Nike soccer shoes. Yeah, a long time. Like eight years. Yeah, something like that. I still have my I have my squat shoes from the 2015. So I've got 10 years on my squash. It's funny. I was walking into the gym yesterday with my Romelios Nike Romelios. I think they're the two to the threes. And the guy at the front desk was like, oh, Romelios. This is the best. And I was like, I was like, oh, yeah, yeah. Yeah. And I was like, you know what? I think this is the 10th year I've had them and they're starting to fall apart a little bit. But I'm like, that's pretty impressive. Yeah. I think I might. I might I might have to upgrade on those, although I really like my shoes. But anyway, I got Notorious Lift shoes. I was going to get the Avances ones. They told me they were sold out. So I got the Notorious Lift. They're like shoes, but they felt pretty good. So I was pretty pumped about that today. I yeah, the I don't know about that specific one in particular, but the shoes for powerlifting have gotten way better. They're really sticky. Like the rip was really nice. So yeah. Yeah, no, I've been. Yeah. I do want to get another pair of Avances, but I just cannot be bothered to like be ready at a certain time to make it. Yeah, that will never happen. So I yeah, I just yeah, like, yeah, I'll make do. I do check their website pretty regularly if they have because I have one of them. Awesome. I have one of their older versions. Okay. Um, and then I'll see that they release something and I'm not again, I'm not going to like. Yeah, I just buy I want to buy when I'm ready with that. But to be clear, I have no problem. I totally understand why there's drops. There's hype things like that. Sure. Um, but anyway, all that is to say is Avances every time I go to your website. All of theirs in stock is like a size four and a half. Yeah, four and a half. And I'm a 12 and I'm a Instagram DM away if you need my address. And I'm happy to pay for them. I'm not asking for a free product. I just I know you have a 12 somewhere and all I'll take it honestly in whatever color. So I want to try your newest your newest version. Um, in my world I so the way that I generally work is I will have like little documents open for various projects or ideas. And it's like roughly organized, but I know where it is at any one time. And when I have a thought, I will. I'm really big on just like jotting things down and then transferring it over to that document. So I kind of have like a starting point for what I know I'm going to kind of turn to that project. And one of the projects I had for a while was just like overhauling coaching systems. And I just I got to the point where I had enough stuff in there of just like random thoughts like, Ah, we need to change this. And when I say coaching systems, I mean like, what is the check in process? What is how is communication structured? And then also a big part of that is like, how is the spreadsheet itself structured? Um, and various downstream implications of that. Anyway, I had enough ideas jotted down and enough. Uh, thought went into it. So anyway, that's how I work is I just get those ideas down and then it kind of reaches a tipping point. And then once I'm focused on something, I can't focus on anything else but that thing until it's done. And then I end up getting really bad sleep for a few nights in a row. And but I get it done and I'm just like up at all. Like, yeah, it's it's probably pretty unhealthy, but that's generally how I work. Um, so I kind of go through these like various sprint phases, which I need to improve upon that. But anyway, I had a sprint phase recently with, um, coaching systems where I just kind of like stripped everything down and re-reported. Based on this changes. And I'd say since we started coaching, that's probably like. That's was probably the biggest overhaul I've done since we started coaching, but it was it's probably the third time or so that I or we have done that. Um, so all that is to say is. That's an update for me. Um, and I think any coaches out there appreciate how important systems are for not only like, uh, making sure you're not spending a bunch of time and energy on stuff that doesn't matter to improve your efficiency, but also to ensure you do get the stuff that does matter. And basically the way that I think about this and I jotted this down before the show is implicitly I designed the new systems for not only my personality type and what works well for me. Um, but also what I now value as a coach these days, which is quite a bit different than when we set up the previous version of the system. And that's why I needed kind of that sprint phase. And I'm going to put these roughly in order in terms of the things that I now value as a coach. And I think that'll give you some insight into some of the things we talked about that have changed throughout the last few years based on new research experience, et cetera. Um, the first thing is. Precisely accounting for the individual's goals and values. Whereas I think in the past that was a discussion, but nothing that was as explicit explicit. Yeah. And I think that is super easy place in terms of room for improvement. If you're like a new coach, for example, if you're a powerlifting coach, powerlifting means something different to a lot of different people. Right. And I think just understanding that is really important. I set up this little, like, um, at least the way it looks as a grid, but if someone's goal includes muscle growth, which almost everyone does be honest about it. Um, every single muscle is listen, uh, listed. And then I have different columns that they check off for that muscle. So there's, I can't remember off the top of my head, but it's something to the effect of like, I don't care. No preference, low priority, moderate priority, high priority. And then the last one is, um, like something to the effect of such high priority that I want to emphasize this at the expense of other muscles. And just seeing that has been really helpful because again, you think, oh, this client is interested in physique development, right? I'm going to give them a nice balanced physique program. Oh, they mentioned they really want to grow their packs. I'll give them a couple extra sets there. But I think like, I just really value making sure we're steering the ship in the right direction based on their goals and also their values and how training fits within their life. Obviously I'm not like proposing you go beyond your scope of practice and intervene in other areas of life, but understanding what their lifestyle is like and what, like kind of getting a full peek behind the curtain for what drives the athlete. I think is really important. So that's, that's number one and better systems for that. Not only upon onboarding, but long-term and kind of keeping those conversations going. The second is training execution and notice how like actual program design hasn't been mentioned yet. This is higher than program design. So just ensuring I have good processes for training execution and keeping my suggestions for improving training execution top of mind while the athlete is training. That was something that I prioritized in the new systems. Third is just general motivation and desire to train, which is not something we need to optimize for, but I think it's important to monitor because I think it can help you get ahead of when those goals or values are shifting, which is inevitable. I have plenty of people that started interested in powerlifting or physique development and it flipped because we've had discussions about it. And a lot of times I can kind of get an idea when that's starting to creep up. Um, and then also just kind of getting ahead of any potential challenges and knowing when I can push them when I can pull them back. The fourth is lifestyle and goal alignment. So what I mean by that is ensuring that training fits within their life and not the other way around. Um, and ensuring that what we're doing is sustainable. So just as like a basic example, if I know someone's goals include that, like it requires them to gain weight. Something that I'm asking now on the front end is a confidence indicator of if your goal is to gain weight, how confident are you that you can execute that goal? So it's like no confidence, low confidence, moderate confidence, high confidence. And that can give you a lot of good insight into like, if I ask them, if I suggest that they go in this direction with body weight or with tracking their sleep, how do I expect this to kind of impact their lifestyle? Based on skill. Yeah. And how is that therefore going to impact the sustainability of what we're doing and impact their lifestyle at large? And then the last thing, don't get me wrong. This is still important, but the last thing I have on my list is program troubleshooting. I still think that's really important. And we're going to get into that in the next segment where we answer listener question. Um, and I, I do have systems for program troubleshooting, but it is not necessarily the focus of the coaching process. And in a lot of ways you have to tick a lot of boxes to like graduate to that point in my view. And we'll get to into that in a little bit. Like, cause when you, when you need to troubleshoot a program, I think you need to be in a really good position to be ready to do so. But in a lot of ways, if that, those other things I just mentioned beforehand are not taken care of, like program troubleshooting, just it's a non-start. It doesn't matter. So anyway, hopefully that, uh, is some food for thought for the coaches out there or as interesting for the lifters out there. Um, but that is something that I kind of made a push on recently, and I'm really pleased with where it's at right now. Maybe in the future, if there's interest in the comments or whatever, we can talk about those specific systems. Cause I think again, some coaches that listen might be interested in, in those sorts of things for idea fuel for themselves. And maybe I can even show you guys around that sort of thing. Um, but I think that leads us nicely into the first listener question, unless you have any, any input, feedback, reflections. Ultimately the, I mean, your, your, your kind of training system overhaul has been much more explicit in terms of altering systems and things like that. I guess for that, I guess for me, the biggest thing that's just been a shift for me, which is on very similar lines ultimately. Um, but maybe a little bit more conceptual in nature and how I've handled the, the, the coaching process has just been literally the entire initial investment in the coaching relationship is just building. What we call training skill, but it, it means a lot of things. It means effective communication strategies when your goals or your motivation or your situation has changed. It means how to handle trainings, uh, training sessions where your performance is way less or you're having flares of chronic injuries or whatever that is. It is how to approach, um, week two of a four week block before competition. You know what I mean? Like all of these things that are, even if the training program is the exact same, if you flip all of these things to be negative decisions, not only does that harm you in the short term, but in my view, number one, the, the thing that's going to allow you to actually reach your potential is staying in the game long enough. And having training skill that allows you to kind of ride the wave of all these things that inevitably change over the long run. If you do not invest in really building and developing that skill early on, then you're like grinding your nails across the chalkboard every time you have to do that, as opposed to kind of like just accepting a little bit of this. I don't want to call it lack of control, but it's just like understanding how to be flexible in these situations. Um, and just building that skillset and that mindset and that ability has gone such a long way in so many clients that I've had, um, and all in kind of different ways. Like one of them has been kind of emotionally and mentally overcoming, um, what it feels like to go through chronic injuries and kind of climb back to past strength levels. Some of them have been how to deal with the fact that I want to PR my total, but I simply from my lifestyle scenario, I cannot reasonably expect to do that right now. How do you handle that mentally? What, how are you making progress in that way? How, how do you go about the training? How are you motivated to train in those scenarios? Like, and that's important because if we don't attack that with the right mindset, we're never going to be able to hold on to where we're at, to be able to attack, to, to hit that next PR. And so, and then vice versa for people who are kind of on this active climb and it's less of a kind of a hold back mentality. And it's more of a push forward mentality. How do I align the decisions that I'm making to not be too aggressive on certain days? Or how do I make sure that I'm, you know, leaving enough in the tank or executing my training correctly to make sure I can get the most out of this or actually match with the intent of what's on the paper. Like I could go on and on about it, but like to me, every single year that I coach, I have more bought into the things that are not on the training, the training log than the things that are. Yeah. And I think the, the strike zone for effective training programs in the vast majority of scenarios is way wider than people think. And the execution and the training skill associated with performing that training program is the thing that separates you from making progress, particularly in the longterm. So I'm 100% on the same page with you. Um, and yeah, I, I, it's so not a sexy answer, but I genuinely think, yeah, that, that is literally, that is literally what long-term training progress is to me is just becoming very intimately aware with that training skill aspect of things. And for yourself, understanding what you need from that perspective on things to keep taking steps forward, whatever that looks like in that stage of life. Right. It's like a little bit less about, am I low volume, high intensity, and a little bit more about like, Hey, I know you had that work trip. How did you like, how'd you manage nutrition during that time period? Or like, how were you flexible with your training to the degree that you needed to be? It's like a basic example that comes to mind is literally going through someone's situation of like, Hey, can you let me know the hotel you're staying at? Um, and I'm going to kind of walk you through if I was in your shoes, how I would look for a gym. And, um, okay. You're not going to have a car. Let's see if there's one of them skill. Right. And then like, you, you need to teach, you need to walk them through that and make that investment once or twice. And then they're, they're good. Right. And you don't. And then it's like, Oh, this person's progressing a lot better. And it has downstream implications. Cause now it's like, you know, I, I know, I know what to do when I'm traveling, but also now I know what the goal is. Exactly. I know it doesn't really matter if I'm, you know, just like a basic nutrition example is like, I know it doesn't really matter if I'm not at home in order to still move in the right direction. But like, I also know my, if I have, if I am tracking my nutrition or I have a specific calorie target, which isn't always required, but even though I have a specific calorie target or a calorie range, that's whatever, plus or minus a hundred calories. I know that that's really just to optimize the rate as opposed to anything magical about that. So I know that if I'm dieting and my target is 2,300 to 2,500 calories and I can get, and it just shakes out that I only got 2,700 calories. Okay. I'm still moving in the right direction. Just a slower pace. Well, it slowed me down. Sure. But it's a big deal. No. And am I still gonna be confident to get back on the horse when I get home? Like those things I just, I think matter a hell of a lot more than like, again, am I a low volume or high volume guy or for this lift? Like, I just think I've always known those things matter, but intervening, not intervening, but just making them more top of mind. Yeah. And it's not to say that programming troubleshooting isn't obviously a really important part. It is. But to me, that part of things is 1 million times more potent when you've actually invested in all the other things. Because now we can make really, really intentional changes that are actually, you know, you're just coming back to what we said earlier. You are able to separate signal from noise so much more because you're confident the intention and everything is being executed appropriately because you spent the time on the front end to really dive in and build that training skill to measure you on the same wavelength. And just, I don't know why it's bothering me and I need to say this, but I know I listed a lot of things there. A big part of it was also making sure that what I'm asking of the lifter is very reasonable and sustainable. Because I know a lot of people don't like having to sit down at the end of a week and type out a long piece of feedback. But then you also need that reflection time. So I found this really cool tool that just allows someone to record themselves and then directly upload it to basically an inbox for me. So that was also top of mind. So I know I listed a lot of stuff there, but I also made it. The goal is to make all this stuff sustainable and easy to track. So it's higher, it's higher fidelity information, not necessarily more. Exactly. Yeah, that's absolutely. Yeah. Okay. So that leads us into a question from Lionel and Lionel sent this question through email. So if you aren't subscribed to our newsletter, go ahead and do so. And it'll prompt you to ask us some questions. And I highly value the email questions because I will actually manage them because they're in my inbox and all the ones you guys have asked through Instagram question box. I don't know where they are. I apologize. But join the newsletter. Basically Lionel asks about how to make sense of training data. More specifically, he asked, the biggest problem I'm having is how to make sense of the years of data. I've produced no style of programming seems to work more than once. And when I try to do it again, it just doesn't seem to work very well at the core of this question is like, okay, let's say you have been really diligent about logging your training, which I think most people are at least to some degree or like, whatever, they followed various programs. How do I make sense of that? Right? You think about individualizing your training and finding what works for you. What do you do with that data? I've, I've seen it all. I've seen it all, honestly. Done it all. Done it all as well. I've had people submit to coaching inquiries. Like, I think the tools called Tableau. Tableau. Um, where it's like, they took the CSV and they made a bunch of data visualizations. And, um, that stuff is cool. But I'm curious, Zach, like, where does, I definitely have some thoughts on this question, but I'll, I'll let you kick us off here. Where does your mind go when you think of someone that has whatever, five, 10 years of training data? Yeah. I mean, how do you make sense of that? I mean, I think that's a clear clear process off of the coaches or athletes hands and kind of externalizing that, keeping it entirely objective. And we're in this goldilocks land of like, as long as I record all my information and our diligent with recording everything, with recording everything, you know, I can kind of just trust that this, you know, in the forest of the data, there will be an answer. And I think the more that I've done this and also the more that we've got experience in research and understand how challenging it is to come to inferences when you have highly controlled laboratory data with many people and how challenging it is to come to comprehensive inferences in that case, my confidence and we've talked about the kind of the paradox of knowing how little control we really have as coaches or athletes and kind of what we're doing versus kind of how you have to act. And I think that is important. Like, you know, we have to try to make adjustments to our training. We have to act as if what we're doing does have control and agency over the situation. So I acknowledge that. But I do think that like a lot of the times the amount of confidence that you can distill from a training log like this, I think is overstated for quite a few reasons. Number one is just the ability to separate signal from noise and cause and effect. Particularly when you're looking at your own individual data, there's just so many confounding things that you're just fundamentally not able to separate unless you do things in an extremely, extremely specific way, which I have, I have know how to set those things up. But the assumptions and things that you're, that you're kind of baking in, in a training context, I think are essentially never safe. So just as a basic example, I run a training program today. I run a training program five years later. Fundamentally, I'm not, I'm not the same person. I'm not the same athlete. The training that preceded that intervention may be different. I may be stronger. I may have a different life context. The list goes on and on and on. My training day when we had the like busiest years of data collection or like, yeah, they were like semesters that were just, the schedule was wild and unpredictable. Even if I did have that stuff perfectly formatted in a certain spot, I just like, I know that's useless. I was like, there were times where I was training at just the weirdest hours of the day on super weird sleep schedule. Nothing was consistent. That's just a basic example. Yeah, no, exactly. And it's just like, I think that is hard for people to accept. Like humans just don't deal with uncertainty very well. But ultimately, like I do think it's just fundamentally challenging, even a diligent individual level data collection to truly separate cause and effect. And what I mean by that is the training program changes that you think are driving changes in performance or lack thereof. I think that drawing that arrow consistently and being very confident that that's a causal arrow is just a very, very challenging problem. So that's basically what I'm saying there is that it's not that training data is useless by any means. I think that can be directionally helpful. I think that can be if there's obvious things in terms of what direction maybe makes sense. Sure. But I do think that any process in which you're trying to take somewhat of an art in essentially taking what we believe to be principles and some degree best practices of application and trying to make that an entirely objective process, I ultimately think does kind of steer you in the wrong direction in a lot of ways. So here's kind of how I view training data is for the most part, I view it as the data kind of has a shelf life is the first thing I'd say is that, yes, there is value in kind of taking very long term, you know, data collections of things and having training logs for years and years and years. I don't think that's entirely useless, but I view it more so from like a when I hit a plateau or something like that and I'm looking for maybe some inspiration or maybe, you know, some directional nudges on which place to head. I think that can be useful. But for the most part, I view, and we talked about this in a few places and I'm kind of going in circles of if I need to bring it back, let me know. But for the most part, I view training as relatively input based these days for the most part. And what I mean by that is we have principles that we believe kind of are our best comprehensive understanding on how training works. And then you have like these artistic applications of those principles and logical extrapolations on how to adjust those things in the evolving life context that you have in your kind of day to day life. And I honestly think combining those two things is kind of the way you derive your best bet in terms of what you should do. And so if you're not making progress and it seems like a training program doesn't work more than once, that very well could be the case. And what you've observed, I'm not disputing that, but why is that the case is an entirely different question that is extremely, extremely challenging to answer. And so to me, in absence of better evidence that I think is going to be a really long time. You need more time. Yeah. In absence of better evidence before we have more complicated ways of dealing with these types of questions, there'd just be like a lot of things I would run through to kind of get some more context on that situation. But I've been talking for a while, so I'll let you go. Yeah. I'm skeptical that the training style doesn't actually work twice. So that just isn't really a thing in my experience. I think back in the day, there's, you know, like a big, shoot, why am I blanking on like the phrase? Biological accommodation? Yeah, yeah. Muscle confusion? Adaptive resistance. Yeah, there you go. Nice. Adaptive resistance. Nice. I just don't really think that's a thing. Yeah. I mean, it might be on the margins. There might be like a psychological component to it. That's what I was going to say. If you're, if you're had like a really good block that was heavy, was happened to be a heavy block, you might be able to run it back one time. But if you try to run it back a third time, your body's going to start screaming at you. Like I, I would say for like a third of the power lifters I work with there, I would never run like the general block approach we know works pretty well for them. I would never run it probably more than twice in a row just because I'm, even if it's just psychological, like I just have a, it just doesn't go well. Aches and pains start to creep up, things like that. So I do think that's kind of on the artistic side of things, but ultimately just from like a conceptual basis. Um, I think what Zach and I are circling around is that training data is important, but it's not necessarily the driver of the process. Um, in terms of designing effective training. Um, I don't think it's, I, I think it's unlikely that there's a training style that is necessarily best for someone, but instead you can pick up on hints or inspiration about how to best apply goal specific principles for that lifter. So for example, especially if it's a newer lifter and we don't have much training data, we don't have much to go off of. And one of their lifts is not moving well. I'll say, Hey, do you have any old training logs from when things did progress well? And I'll use that as inspiration. Of course, if that training log was from six years ago, I might put less stock in the one from two years ago. Um, but it can definitely be help serve as inspiration about how to best apply the principles to that individual. So basically what we're suggesting is you should shift your mindset to your, your mindset should not necessarily be what style of lifting is best for me. Instead, your mindset should be, how can I apply the principles within my constraints? And that can kind of give rise to what seems like a training style, but I don't think there's some magic fairy dust about that training style for the individual. Yeah. Um, and I think just shifting that perspective from again, what's the training style I need to how do I apply the principles within my constraints? That's just going to give you such a running start for programming going forward, as opposed to kind of this weird, awkward thing of trying to find this elusive program design that's best for you. That's, that's exactly how I think about it is like, at the end of the day, I don't think there's a training program that someone would respond best to in every scenario like that. That's, that's the part of things I just like, I tend to question. Like if we had somebody, you know, had two twins that were in the exact same, you know, context, environmental constraints, et cetera, probably gonna do the same program. That's a bad example because they're twins, but maybe they're not twins, but they're extremely similar in terms of all the biometric ways, like height leverages, things like that. And then they're in the exact same environmental context. I think you're probably going to abide by the principles in very similar ways in both those cases. But you change the environmental context of one of those two individuals that probably is going to have some downstream implications on the training program that seems to result in the most progress. And I think those are the things that like, those are the things that we, people tend not to track, which I think is hilarious is like, it's almost, it's almost like you're, you're tracking the symptom and not the cause in a way is like, yeah. If people were more diligent about like really detailing the environmental context in which they're, you know, they're, they're trying to train. Tracking body weight. But yeah, yeah, it's just exactly. There's just so many things about like, but that's the type of thing that I think is, it helps you interpret your training data probably more accurately, I guess, is the way that I view it and in absence of that, if you're just looking at the X's and O's of the training program and how you would progress, I think that can be quite misleading in terms of, you know, whatever is going to be the most beneficial. But yeah, I view things very similar to you is, you know, if somebody comes to me and they have a detailed training history, obviously I'm going to utilize that. But the way that I almost view that is like, okay, this is kind of an objective, an objective look at how their context is kind of informing their training and what they have found to be the most successful. I don't view it as like, all right, they have eight sets and they have SSB on the second day. So I have to do that. I don't do like that at all. It's more, okay, how much is their, their external load or external environmental load influencing things? And kind of how does that end up manifesting? Why did SSB tend to lead to better performances? Sure, SSB is a tool that could get the job done, but there's nothing, you know, necessarily special about it. There's multiple roads to roam. Your job as a coach is to take one of those roads to roam. Make sure you don't like get off track in terms of trying to get to roam. If I try to continue with this analogy, but understanding the principles that underlie the fact that eight sets with SSB on the secondary day is what permitted a positive result, not necessarily trying to find eight sets in SSB. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. That's, and it's, every time we talk about this, it is one of those things where it's like, it is hard to fully describe this without having that comprehensive resource of like kind of an updated look at individualization. Every time we talk about this, I feel bad that we don't have that because that is important. And that's something I want to like run through a couple scenarios on like how we used to view it, how we view it now. And like just kind of comparing and contrasting all those things because it sounds so obvious when we say it, but it is a conceptual shift. Well, let's, let's make it practical for the people at home. When thinking about this question, again, the training data doesn't necessarily drive the process, but it is very important. It's still key part of the process is what I'd say. It's like, I'm kind of speaking out of both sides of my mouth, but hopefully the listeners picking up what I'm putting down. So again, let me acknowledge again, just to be clear program troubleshooting training data. It's all important stuff, but what am I actually valuing? Perhaps that's helpful for the listener to hear. So let's start with strength oriented goals. And then let's talk about hypertrophy oriented goals. So for a power lifter, the way that I like to think about this is like, I'm going to assess the inputs and I'm going to assess the outputs. Of course, in terms of inputs, you could come up with hundreds of variables, but like, what are the key inputs that I think are actually going to like drive the response or the effectiveness or lack thereof of a program? To me, there's four key things that I I'm kind of keeping an eye on. The first is SPD frequency. So I do think that's like one of the most important things to individualize is like, is this person, is it sufficient for this person to bench twice a week? Or do they need to consider benching three, four or five times a week? The next is exercise selection. We've talked about that quite a bit. I think that's where true individualization almost certainly occurs. And that is largely because different people have different proportions and different quote unquote weaknesses and different things that limit their strength. So therefore, exercise selection is very important, especially for those accessory lifts that are there to kind of build up the athlete and ultimately drive up their top end performance. The third input is, and I'm stealing this phrase from other folks, it's definitely not my phrase is pacing, which I think some people are going to cringe at that a little bit. And I do too, but I do think it's something that I'm individualizing quite a bit these days. So if let's talk about frequency, for example, generally speaking, I think higher frequencies, all things held equal are a bit better. Obviously, it needs to be somewhat sustainable. But a nice way to make a higher frequency sustainable is to change the pacing throughout a block. For example, if you have someone that's having a hard time tolerating even three times per week benching, what you can do is you can have them bench three times per week, maybe adjust the loads and the exact sets and reps and the target RP or whatever the case may be. But you can also adjust the peaks and the valleys throughout a four-week block or an eight-week block or a 12-week block, right? So for example, you could kind of do an exponential approach where, yes, you're benching three times per week, but for most of the block, you're hanging out at lower RPs and then you're kind of having that exponential rise at the end of the block. I do think that's pretty important. I do pay quite a bit of attention to it these days. The last input is periodization. And I don't think this is any like fancy schmancy phase potentiation, counteracting, adaptive resistance type stuff. I really just think of it as like what is the flavor of the block? What is the emphasis? And what is the sequencing of that? So for example, if there's a really good peaking type block for an individual, you probably can't run that four times in a row because you're just going to drive them into the ground. So those are the inputs. Again, SBD frequency, exercise selection, pacing, and periodization. Now, what are the outputs in order to assess the effectiveness of those inputs? It's performance, right? For strength-oriented folks, it's performance. That makes sense. Of course, you need to contextualize that within like the body weight that they're at, that sort of thing. But I view it as the performance ceiling and the performance floor. So let's start with the performance floor. The performance floor is just kind of like what it's a little bit more subjective. It's like how are things generally feeling most days? And what could that individual hit on any given day for a triplet eight, whatever, right? So maybe a week one or a week two performance within a block. So when the RPs are a little bit lower, that can give us some indication about what the floor is. But probably what's most important, I think you can really, in a lot of cases, isolate it down to the performance ceiling. What is the rep PR that you were able to achieve by the end of the block? Or, you know, even if it's like an RP eight or a nine set, what were you able to hit for a triplet eight or triplet nine? When you're really kind of going for broke and trying to put up a nice performance, you could translate that over to an estimated one or M. So you could compare that across blocks. So you have these inputs, you have the output. The output, I think, can be consolidated. I don't think you need to super nitty gritty track every single little detail. But if you have high fidelity outputs of performance, again, mostly prioritizing the performance ceiling, keeping an eye on the performance floor. That's where you can say, OK, bench is plateaued. Let's look back to when bench moved well. What were the inputs? And do I still think those inputs apply? And if so, how am I going to move towards those inputs again? What do you think? Yeah, no, I mean, I largely agree. Yeah, I'm trying to think about anything different and novel I can say. I can move on to that. Yeah, I mean, ultimately, I tend to agree. I think, yeah, just go on. I don't have too much to add. I was really trying, but just go to hypertrophy. No, you're good. But do you generally, in a lot of ways, I've consolidated the key output I'm looking for for a strength athlete. What are they hitting for their heaviest side of the block for SPD? I was just going to say the only thing I would consider on this in terms of something that I've changed quite substantially is just the timescale, which I think these things can be evaluated. You're not going to make any sweeping conclusions after eight weeks of training or comparing what walks you're doing. Particularly these, you get more advanced. These things, and it really just all comes down from the perspective of what can we ascertain from this information in this period of time with all these things running in the background? There's just so many things that can limit our ability to derive confident conclusions from this stuff. So I, from an outputs perspective, I am 100% on board with this, but I do give the cake quite a long time to bake these days. And I'm much more willing to manipulate the inputs a little bit based on subjective information while that cake is baking. And I just don't feel beholden to this combination of inputs. We can't touch the cake while it's baking. Yeah, like I just, I just don't believe those things anymore. Like, I think. Like, oh man, you know what? I should have added more vanilla extract to the cake. Go add vanilla extract to the cake. Exactly. Yeah, and I don't think we have a granular enough picture of what's actually happening for that to distill things very much. Like, in my mind, there's like very large scale dosage changes that's kind of in one bucket. And then little seasoning things and stuff like that. That like, I just, I don't, I don't view that as like fundamentally changing things. Right. Like the way that I used to. Like, like the version of me now kind of thinks it's silly when I think about like going from like a pause squat to a tempo squat. Like, dude, like that. Yeah. Like, yes, of course, I realize that is an important change and that could have, you know, some things that the athlete perceives as important. But like, it's not that. Especially if you're not like using pause squat to target something. Like, for example. Right. You could use a pause squat to emphasize a certain cue. But you could probably also emphasize that cue with tempo squat. Yeah. But pause squat might be a slightly better tool for the job. Or pause squats I know are really helpful for people that are taller. Yeah. And have a hard time getting to depth. Yeah. Right. So there are times when a pause squat might be better than the tempo squat. But a lot of times they are interchangeable if there isn't like a specific thing you're targeting with. 100%. Yeah. And so really, like, and the other thing I was just going to say is, like, I think a lot of things are psychological. And I think that's okay. Like, I think people downplay psychological things. But, like, one thing I think is interesting. I don't, I haven't thought about it enough to, like, make very strong claims about it. But I honestly think that, like, it's like the single at eight craze, like that kind of thing. Versus kind of the whole six, seven, eight, nine, RP kind of phase now. I kind of think they're the same thing. But the latter is just more tolerable from a psychological perspective because it kind of guarantees that you're going to add weight every week. Artificial progression. Bro, we talked about artificial progression. A long time ago. But it's basically just taking the same average RP and just spreading it out. Yeah. And so it's, long story short, I think there's a lot of things like that that are more psychologically tolerable. I do think the vibes of six, seven, eight, nine are way better. Way better. And I'm with that, 100%. So don't get me wrong. I don't know. I'm joking. That's what I'm saying. Psychological things are, like, viewed negatively. But I don't think they should be. Because, like, to me, again, at the end of the day, if we're just zooming all the way out, we are doing very, very monotonous training for a long time. Yeah. So, like, any way we can make that process more engaging, more tolerable, more sustainable, I'm all for that. Because I think that helps the cake bake for longer doing a similar thing so we can get high-fidelity information once again. So it's, like, again, I, yeah, I'm totally input-based. I think that is an extremely helpful way to think about it. I think that gives the coach and the athlete more freedom on adjusting the things that they think are going to be high-leverage changes subjectively in the immediate term. And I also think it gives you the epistemic humility to actually say what can we assert from this on the back end, letting things kind of develop for a long period of time. And I think most people kind of get that these days. Like, yeah, I think that is kind of the general consensus. And people tend to think about that thing. Although I still don't think we totally have conceptualized what we mean by input space. And I think we'll do a comprehensive episode to get that across at some stage. So for hypertrophy, the inputs in my mind, I really, like, consolidated it down quite a bit. There are some, I want to be clear, there are some assumptions here. Um, because, like, something I just do these days because I think it's the right thing to do, but I could also be convinced otherwise, is, like, I mentioned SPD frequency, but I didn't mention SPD volume. Um, reason being is, I mean, if you look at the evidence for those variables, volume and frequency and their effect on strength, frequency seems to, uh, have more of a direct relationship with strength. But I do still think volume is important, of course. It's just that per session volume is relatively static or, like, relatively consistent. Am I going to change that at times? For sure. Especially, like, in an off-season, if there's lower frequency, I might crank up the, uh, the per session volume. But, like, that's kind of where the, I just, like, assume the way the block shakes out, like, I, I made it good. It's just, like, the simplest way to put it. Um, so same idea here with hypertrophy is that I'm, like, probably never going to program more than four or five sets for an exercise. And if, if I'm going to, like, I honestly can't think of the last time I programmed five sets for an exercise. I'm going to program maybe one at times, um, but for the most part, two to four. Again, psychological thing, right? Yeah. Like, that, like, like, even if I want someone to do eight sets of biceps in a session, I'm just going to give them multiple exercises, even if there's no really great reason to, because that sounds terrible. Yep. Um, so anyway, keep that in mind, is that, like, this is just within the constraints of, like, a reasonable per exercise or per session volume. Things like that. So I think for hypertrophy, man, the main inputs I can really kind of boil it down to is when I look back at the program, what was the priority muscle or muscles, if at all? Was it a completely balanced program? Or were we really biasing quads in the sense that we were training them twice a week? And then we also had some leg extensions and sissy squats on a third day, and they were put early in the session, and therefore it had probably some downstream consequences on the quality of the rest of the session. So again, priority muscle or muscles, if at all. And secondly, is the number of exercises for that muscle. Because generally speaking, if I'm going to push the workload on something, I'm going to push the volume or frequency on a muscle, I'm probably going to also, it's also going to coincide with the number of exercises they're doing for that muscle. And volume if you're keeping that relatively static. Exactly. Exactly. So those are really the inputs. It's like, what was the general bias of the block in terms of muscles, and how many exercises do we do? And those are really the main inputs for hypertrophy. Do you go, granted, I don't coach too many physique-oriented people, so I'm honestly just curious. Do you go above three times a week frequency for very many things these days? I can't tell you the last time. For hypertrophy only, maybe lateral delts, there would be like a fourth day. But I would probably rather just have two lateral raises. I don't think there's a benefit. Volume equated. Yeah. No, I mean, honestly, I do think going from two to three is a nice lever to pull. I do too. Frankly, it just gives you more space. That's the way I've always thought about it. Yeah. But the thing I was going to say here is kind of using the hypertrophy information to talk about power just a little bit more. I don't know if you are going to know what I mean when I say this, but hopefully it comes across. For high-level bodybuilding training, and I'm mostly thinking enhanced, kind of that realm, do you get the vibe that training is just kind of a checkbox where it's like, we're doing pull today, and we're going to blast it and train really hard. That's really all we kind of need to say about it. Do you know what I mean? When I say that. It's sufficient stimulus. Yeah. But that's really all they talk about. Like, when you – like, bodybuilders, the thing I find interesting – That's basically what I just said. No, for sure. But I guess the thing that's super interesting is, like, to me, that's been the case for bodybuilding for a long time. And then if they got feedback from judges or whatever, then they might – Add an exercise here. Add an exercise. Or, like, if it's a pull day, back and bicep day, they might do an extra two-back movements. Yeah. But for bodybuilding, it's not like this, like, get out your calculator. Like, it never really has been that. And obviously, you can take that too far. But my point with that is powerlifting is a completely different mindset. And I think they can learn something from that. I think both can learn from each other. For sure. For sure. And I think – but I think it's usually not in the direction of bodybuilding going to powerlifting. It's usually in the other direction. And what I'm saying is, like, I think those individuals have a – probably unknowingly, but I think they have a good kind of scope on the degree to which that really plays a role, I guess. I don't know if I'm articulating what I mean. I think I'm picking over your – It's just, like, all right, SBD frequency is in a good spot. We're managing fatigue. Train hard. We're good. We're good. And it's – I think that is often not appreciated. And I think that could be – For sure. Yeah. More useful. And then, like, I think you can take that approach. So, like, especially for someone that's just getting into powerlifting, I think you could say, like, SBD frequency is in a good spot. I'm recovering on time most of the time. I'm able to perform pretty well. I'm progressing pretty well. I'm happy with that. I don't think you need to get into the fancy-schmancy 6, 7, 8, 9 blocks. But once you get to the point where it's like, okay, SBD frequency is in a good spot, but I'm getting so beat up from training that I can't progress week to week, then you use a block structure sort of thing. That's like feedback from the judges. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. So, yeah, I think inputs for hypertrophy can be pretty simple, and it's really just like a – obviously, the – and then I think there's no way to say, like, oh, I had this exercise in. I take that back a little bit. You could make, like, meaningful changes to your exercise selection approach. So, like, I've heard the example of, oh, someone tries lengthened partials for the calves, and then they see their calves grow. So, that would be an input, but that would have to be, like, a pretty, like, wholesale change to what you're doing. Yeah. I think exercise selection matters for hypertrophy as an input, too. But, like, 100%. I think it's, like, probably the most important thing. Like, exercise execution is the most important thing. But, like, to me, you do that no matter what. Sure. So, that's kind of what – so, that's probably a helpful clarification is, like, I'm talking about retroactively looking at training data. When I'm retroactively looking at training data, what do I care about? Okay. I seriously don't know. Of course, I always care about the exercise selection and the execution. I think you should just always optimize that the absolute best you can at all times, no matter what. This is when you're retroactively – I'm in a rut. Things aren't moving well. Got it. So, the outputs I'm going to look at to determine you're in a rut or you're at a plateau is I'm going to look at your physique, right? I'm going to look – like, a really simple thing you can do is body weight plus a waist measurement, right? If you track that over a long enough time period, you can ensure that, you know, at a given body weight, your waist measurement is either the same or ideally lower. So, you're holding more muscle mass. I think that's actually a pretty dang sensitive measure in my experience. And then also standardized photos are really helpful as well. Same body weight across whatever, 14 months apart, whatever the case may be, that's your indication that you're moving in the right direction. And then I think you can – the outputs to ensure happening over a long time period are like rep PRs in the gym with a certain standardized execution. Do those have to happen week to week? No, but I do think week to week progression is helpful to ensure that, like, you're not completely crushed by the training and it's sustainable, that sort of thing. So, that kind of week to week progression ensures you're in a reasonable workload range. And then long-term rep PRs ensure that you are sufficiently adapting positively to the training. And then if that's, again, not the case, whether you're not hitting rep PRs over a long time period or your physique photos at a given body weight are not improving or at a given body weight your waist circumference is going up, then we look at those inputs. Right? We say, okay, you know, maybe the balance of the training program is off or maybe we do just need to train with higher volumes or lower volumes or whatever the case may be. And then that's when you look at the inputs. But, again, exercise selection and execution, you should always be working from a principle-based perspective to optimize those. That's how I think about troubleshooting for IPRD training. Yeah. No, that makes more sense now when you put it that way. Yeah. I'm in total agreement. All right. So, we have about – let's call it 15 minutes. I have a proposition for you. Let's hear it. Let's set a timer for five minutes. For each of these three things. Does that sound good? I'm setting the timer right now. Setting the timer. Tell me when to go. Okay. Ask it, then I'll start it. No, you got to start it right now. Otherwise, we'll run out of time. Start the first five-minute timer. Three, two, one. All right. So, in this segment, we're going to give you a little bit of a peek behind the curtain for things that we think are really valuable to understand from a scientific perspective as it pertains to practical application in the gym. But that we don't have good answers to right now. And I think by doing this exercise, you're going to get some indication about things we do have some confidence in. And also just generally how we view the role of science. Notice how in these upcoming three big remaining questions in training science we're going to go over. Notice how there's not is 10 or 15 sets per week better. It's not is 60 seconds between sets enough. That's not really the role of science in our opinion. We think of it more principle-based and giving us the mental framework to allow the art of training or the practice of training and just that practitioner skill, that lifter skill to really shine. So, the first of our three big remaining questions in training science is does fatigue harm your ability to elicit a hypertrophy stimulus? So, just generally speaking, there is little evidence of overtraining within typical study durations. In fact, when you try to elicit true overtraining syndrome, which could be roughly defined as there being so much training stress that you see a decrement in your performance and maybe even some psychological issues or injuries that also occur. And ultimately, that performance doesn't come back for several weeks or months. That's hard to do. Okay. Even in pretty extreme programs. Right. Also, we see that for hypertrophy training, higher volumes generally seem to lead to better outcomes. Training to failure generally leads to better outcomes. We don't see this clear indication that you do too much and then you get really screwed over. It's basically what it comes down to. But at the same time, people, we roughly know you need to recover from training. You need to not necessarily overdo it. So, to me, there's kind of this fundamental question that we need to examine is like, from a physiological muscular perspective, how and when can fatigue actually impact your ability to elicit a hypertrophy stimulus? Are you generally following that big research question? Yeah. 100%. I mean, I think depending on who you ask, they would have different opinions on the degree to which that's settled. But, yeah, to me, you can point to outcome evidence that could kind of give you indications in kind of multiple different directions there. You mentioned the volume data. You also have things like intensity techniques that inherently accumulate fatigue at a faster rate, which impairs your performance, which in theory should lead to worse outcomes. And, again, you could look at that data from multiple perspectives. On average, like drop sets, for example, usually complete like one more set and get roughly the same results. Which way do you view that? Do you view that as, oh, wow, in a very, very performance decreased state, they're getting relatively equivalent growth. Fatigue doesn't seem to matter that much. Or you could say it's requiring an additional set to reach the same outcomes. Fatigue is impairing the stimulus. You could view it in either kind of way. So it's hard to say there. But, no, I generally kind of follow your line of rationale. And I do think that obviously has implications. But I don't know if you have any more specific thoughts. No, I just think it's instead of thinking about volume data or rest period data or intensity techniques or proximity to failure, to me, I just want to see really convincing evidence that you can be so fatigued going into a session such that it harms your ability to experience maximum hypertrophy from that session, which is tricky to study. And we're lucky enough to be a part of projects trying to tackle that. Don't get too hyped up because it's going to take some time. But I think that's a fundamental question that will give us insight into principles, not necessarily methods or specific volumes. So we need to be concerned about physiological limitations or really just practical ones. That's really what it comes down to. Cool. I think we're at about our five-minute timer for question number one. Yep. I'm going to tee up the second one, and then I'll let you run with it because I think this is a little bit more in your wheelhouse. The second big remaining question in training science that has been on our mind recently is whether some interventions, I think probably the easiest one to think about is the easiest realm is supplements. And creatine is obviously the most popular supplement, maybe just behind caffeine, whatever. But it's interesting to think about whether creatine, if we roll with that example, whether it has a stepwise benefit such that it kind of raises your floor. You get a little bit strong. You get a little bit bigger. And then you just kind of stay there. So it doesn't actually change your rate of gain after that. Or does it have this prolonged effect such that not only does it raise the floor, but it also increases the rate of growth or the rate of strength gain after, like, indefinitely. I'm curious your thoughts. Yeah. I'm super interested in this topic, honestly. This has been something I've been interested in for a long time. Going off of the last question, if fatigue is not an issue and performance can be impaired and we can elicit the same hypertrophy, I have always struggled with the idea that I think something like creatine would really impact hypertrophy that much. Like, it just never really made sense to me based on the additional amount of reps that you get or even just, like, conceptually from a mechanistic perspective. I don't really understand how that's going to improve the hypertrophy stimulus per se. Okay. What does make sense to me, and there was actually a recent paper that just came out that kind of demonstrated this, at least in concept, is that you do kind of seem to get this stepwise effect where you load creatine or creatine fully saturates the muscle. You get an increase in muscle size. But when you make a midpoint measurement or really early on in the intervention, you can see that the creatine group has, like, this relatively large increase in muscle size. But then from there, if you measure them again at post and kind of let them go through a resistance training intervention, the training effect is essentially the exact same. But if you only were to measure them at pre and post, you would assume that the creatine is actually causing an increase in the training effect. But that may not... It's not increasing the slope. It's just artificially increasing the starting point. Exactly. And so that may kind of change the way you view supplementation in a few different ways. I mean, creatine is the obvious example. And so that type of stuff is really interesting to me. Like you said, it's most relevant in the kind of supplement context. But I don't think we have that many studies for creatine in particular. And this all just kind of comes back to the idea that, you know, really, really well-formulated questions require time and careful planning and really understanding what you're asking. And I think understanding kind of what creatine does, I think it would be important to have those really early measurements that allow for this effect to occur to see if it mediates that training effect over the long term. Because if not... That would be a really fun one to design. 100%. And that would be a really, really good project if anybody's looking for one. And I think that's important because from a muscle size perspective, I think people kind of take that creatine all the time, assuming that it's modifying the training effect. When in reality, maybe this is where the loading phase comes back. You load your creatine right before you get on stage. You get the acute benefits of an increase in muscle size, but you didn't have to take it for however long. Obviously, creatine monohydrate is super cheap. But it's interesting kind of conceptually to think about the fact that maybe this supplement in particular, other supplements aren't actually modifying the training effect, but they're just kind of giving you this acute bump that you can access at any time. One of my favorite questions to ask seasoned academics, so people that have been at their university position for decades, is whether type 2 fibers have a greater growth potential compared to type 1 fibers. And strength, right? What's that? And strength, right? And potentially, yes, specific force as well. The reason I love to ask that question is because a lot of those people are very confident in their answers, but a lot of people are confident in different directions. And I just find it really interesting that that's the case. And so whenever I get the opportunity to ask that question to someone where that's in their wheelhouse, I ask it. I've also asked this question to a couple of academics as well. And for this question, again, whether creatine kind of has a stepwise or a prolonged benefit, I usually get a blank stare because they haven't really thought of it before. And you brought this up to me. And I'm like, yeah, okay. You see what I see. Like this, I think we both kind of like independently thought of this. Like you see what I see in the sense that like to my knowledge, no one's really thoroughly explored whether this is something we can take off the supplement counter whenever or if it's something that big creatine is trying to make us take five grams per day every single day when that's really not necessary. Timer. All right. Good rep. Last one. In a given time period, is there a cap to muscle growth? Is there only so much that you can grow? And this is most important to advanced trainees. Reason being is I think in untrained or less trained trainees, their capacity for growth is so big, I think it's a little bit less important. So reason being, you could make the argument if you look at our volume meta-analysis, for example, that sure, we don't see a clear plateau in terms of additional volume kind of capping muscle growth. But you could just say that, yeah, it's because those people, they're not all untrained, but even if they are trained, they're not as well trained as me. Fair. And therefore, they don't really have a cap to growth. But me, I can only grow so much. So if I go from 10 sets per muscle group per week to 20 sets per muscle group per week, that's by definition junk volume because I'm not going to see any additional benefit. I've already capped out the stimulus I can actually benefit from at 10 sets per week. Ultimately, I don't think we have an answer to that question. And that would have implications for volume, like I just mentioned. That would also have implications for magnitude of calorie surplus. And I think people are starting to be in tune with this for this example, right, in the sense that, generally speaking, it's suggested that less trained folks can have a bigger surplus because they have greater growth potential. Whereas more advanced trainees are going to have a smaller surplus because they can only grow so much. To me, I think that might also apply on the training side, potentially. And ultimately, we just don't know. So I would love, and this is one I've thought about, I would say a little bit less in terms of how to attack the research question. But I do think that's an interesting principle-based question that would have downstream implications on a lot of different things is whether there is a cap, a limit, at which point any additional optimization, additional calories, additional better training isn't actually going to get you any additional benefit. The reason I think it's different between calories and training is that I think the caloric intake supports the stimulus, whereas the training is the stimulus, or the primary stimulus is the way that I view it. So, yes, I think there is a, like, from a practical perspective, I think there's a cap at the rate at which you can accumulate tissue for an advanced lifter in any given period of time. And the way you max that out is by having the, you know, the best training stimulus in that period of time. But because you're an advanced lifter, the rate at which you can do that is going to be at a lower, you know, relative energy surplus to max that out, essentially. And so you're essentially supporting the maximum rate of gain for an advanced individual with a lower calorie surplus because you can't grow as fast. So you think, like, the workload to outcome relationship is probably similar. It's just the outcomes are so much smaller. Okay. And I think that square, I think that is more likely because I would venture to make the claim that even in advanced trainees, you're going to benefit from optimizing your training. Exactly. And I think, and we were talking a little bit about this the other day, I think you can do that from two perspectives. One, I'm not growing a ton. So the relative differences between those additional, you know, steps of volume or whatever you want to talk about the training stimulus, those aren't as large. So maybe it doesn't matter as much. But you can also make the argument that I'm an advanced lifter. I need to grow as fast as possible because I want to notice it in a reasonable period of time. So every single thing that I can do is really, really important. So I think you can really view it from kind of both perspectives. But in general, yeah, I think you're going to grow at an overall slower rate as an advanced lifter. That has implications for the amount of energy you need to support that maximum rate of growth. And that also has implications on the training stimulus that you want to try to apply to make sure that if we set the same standard for the amount of weeks that we're evaluating our progress, for an advanced lifter, you've got to make sure that rate is as high as you possibly can to make sure you can notice anything at that same time window. I'm trying to simultaneously listen to you and think of how you would even go about studying this and I got nothing. Yeah, it's, man, that's hard. I would say this third one was the least baked in my head. The design that I thought would be interesting, and I honestly, I don't spend too much time in the nutrition research. I don't know if this exists, but it's basically just a volume study intertwined with a nutrition surplus study. I think that would be interesting. Across varying training statuses. That'd be sweet. Yeah, that'd be sweet. That'd be sweet. But yeah, to start high volume, low volume. Someone wants to give incentives so we can get N of 300. Yeah. Be our guess, and we can tell you how to set it up. That would be, well, that'd have to be 12, at least eight groups. Think of like the Helms surplus study. That's eight. Oh, if you want three groups. Yeah. Wait, do they have three? Yeah, maintenance, small, large surplus. I think you could get away with maintenance, large surplus. maintenance, but then you don't get like the dose response. Correct. Go three. So you would need three. Three groups. Three conditions. Per both volume. I guess you could do within subjects. No. No, it's. You can't. Hey, one side of your body is going to have a larger surplus than the other. No, you could do within subjects. Oh. Volume component. So the between subjects component is the nutrition component. Within subjects is the volume part of it. Okay. So. Yeah, that's the map is out. Three groups, basically. Trained, untrained. There you go. Not too bad. So six. But you would also kind of want like a dose response of training. Okay. All right. Yeah. Put that on the wish list. Yeah. This is basically how it goes when designing research. You're like, no, I want to see like the dose response. Not only from zero to X, you want zero to 0.5 X to X. But then it's like, okay, now you're just going to answer nothing. And then people complain about the way the study was designed and say, I should have been designed another way. You could do a mixed volume comparison where, you know, everybody's randomized to two volumes out of the three. And you still do within subjects. You still get within subjects comparisons. I think that's probably the way I'd do it. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Maybe a little more feasible. Yeah, a little more feasible. But still tricky. They're trained on part of it. I mean, I've heard Helms talk about the, yeah, I mean, just, I do not envy anyone that tries to manipulate someone's calorie surplus size. That sounds pretty, pretty rough. So that'd be tricky. But nonetheless, man, in hindsight, we had a couple honorable mentions noted that we don't have time for, but they might be a little more interesting than that third one we just went over. So maybe we'll have to extend that to the future. But hey, thank you for tuning in. This was enjoyable for me. So I don't really care if you enjoyed it or not. But no, I take that back. I appreciate you for listening, especially if you got to this point. Hey, let us know what you thought of the show. Let us know what questions you have. If there's anything you want us to expand upon, let us know. Honestly, our biggest struggle is moving on to the next thing. So if you want us to go into something deeper, we can, or you can tell us to move on quicker. Maybe that would be a good feedback as well. But nonetheless, make sure you subscribe on your podcast player of choice. Leave a rating and review there. Subscribe on YouTube. Leave us a like. Leave us a comment. Helps us out a lot. Go to datadrivenstrength.com. See the stuff we offer. And we appreciate the support. We'll see you in the next one.

=== FILE: Structure vs. Flexibility, Bodybuilding vs. Powerlifting, and a Huge Announcement  ｜ S2E11 [n1z-gtKMnqc].txt ===

 an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an or hypertrophy gang actually that would be useful um yeah we have pulled our audience in the past yeah but i suspect it's changed because i can you do polls in youtube comments because we should do that because i always frame it as like predominantly strength predominantly hypertrophy the hypertrophy focused strength curious or yeah strength focused hypertrophy curious there's there's the four categories basically um yeah i i think that's generally the four most applicable categories one more time so strength predominantly yeah powerlifter like i don't care about yeah i'll do whatever i'll do maybe do some bicep curls but like that's it or like i'll do my accessories yeah i have to yeah hypertrophy primarily um so i'm not really squat bench and deadlift i don't if i don't have to uh strength focused yeah hypertrophy curious okay so that you know oh i you know maybe i'll do what am i'm filling out the sleeves oh i just went to a new gym there's a posing room let me let me see what's up yeah um and then the opposite would be hypertrophy focus strength curious oh there's a combo rack at this let me see what i can bench real quick do you what do you think is more common the third or the fourth one i think for our audience if i had to guess skew a little bit more analytically minded if i had to guess i think they're going to lean towards the objectivity of strength a bit more so i'd say strength focus hypertrophy curious would be our audience but on the broad scale i think i think there i think there's flip it okay that'd be my guess yeah yeah that's interesting i think that there the tricky thing is that i think it's uncommon for someone interested in strength to not care at all about hypertrophy sure i feel like i feel like everyone cares to some degree about yeah when i say that i more so mean like it's just very low on the priority yeah and it's like when you really care about hypertrophy i'm more so meaning like all right well i'm trying to you know make sure i'm hitting it from optimal angles like i'm considering my calf placement and my split stuff like that like everybody's gonna do some bicep curls but i don't really i don't really consider that as like hypertrophy curious it's more so like how many how many sets of lateral raises am i getting in this week as opposed to like i've done some shoulder work you know yeah check yeah um i think anyway where i was going with that is i think it's there's probably more people in our audience that have a hypertrophy goal than have a strength goal sure just because i think it's more common for someone what would you consider hypertrophy goal um like i'm interested in listening to content or watching content or reading content about muscle growth okay but anyway very concrete goal okay that's not a goal that's what i thought but i guess it's i mean it's relevant for us yeah um anyway that was a lot in terms of the four categories i think that is interesting but just to make it simple for you guys also pay the uh the tax of watching the video yeah give us some engagement let us know down below hypertrophy gang or strength gang i would like you to choose one or the other even if you're interested in both so if you lean one way or the other you have to choose one or the other unless you're truly 50 50 you can put both okay or like strength and hypertrophy gang sure i'm interested um but today's episode i think will cover everyone which i think will be great um so yeah that's the promise that's the promise we'll see what's going on um by the time we get to the end we're going to talk about a good amount of things that i'm not even going to worry about pre previewing because it's kind of all over the map um but before we dive in here zach anything good bad or ugly going on with you any interesting man i had a pretty gnarly neck tweak this week so if that it looks a little awkward you know between camera angles that uh that explains that um at least you were training when you had the neck yeah no it's like one of those like ones where it's not it's not a big deal it's just like ah well that's going to be something i have to deal with for this week kind of thing um but yeah no that that's really the most pressing thing in my life at the current point in time i'm trying to think oh i got a new rocking chair that was pretty new rocking pretty big development um where's the rocking chair so i put it in our little a little back little strip there like a little outside area oh so anyone that knows me super well knows i'm a big big rocking chair guy like i think you know for the longest time ever since you know you start thinking about you know goals in life things like that i've wanted one of two things i've wanted a porch that with a nice overlook and i've wanted a really really nice rocking chair those for the porch yes those have been two big aspirations what's your rpm your rocks permitted so i mean i could go into details about rocking chairs because there's a lot of things like you really got to consider like you got to consider the like what i consider like the pitch of the rocking chair so there's an optimal angle at which you're sitting for maximum comfort it's a little bit too upright it's less of a relaxing posture and it's more of like i'm here i'm sitting for a reason kind of i'm waiting for something as opposed to just relaxing in the moment so the pitch has got to be right this one's a little too upright um the other thing is the range of motion that you get on the rock it's also very important so the the deeper the rock itself the more relaxing it is but if you go too far now i kind of feel like i'm on my tip over that's like a length of partial a little too much anxiety so that's got to be right and then obviously the last one is the um the the breadth of the seat like how much space am i working with yeah and then also the the cushion of the seats all these things do you want to do you want it to feel like a hug or do you want like see that's the thing it's different strokes different folks right like for me i like you know i i don't like a super cushiony seat because i almost feel like that's almost more uncomfortable in the end after particularly for sitting for a long i imagine all rocking chairs is wooden some but that's what i mean you can have a nice uh kind of a rubber seat on on top of the actual wooden seat so there's a lot here man this is a big topic but long story short we're working with a rocking chair at this point it's been a you know something i've been keeping my eye on um to try to try to get one so i have one now so that's been a big upgrade to the morning routine um getting in you know a couple reps in the morning you know just getting there sitting rocking looking outside for a little bit just a little present i know you're a big meditation guy you know we all have our own own way of getting that done and for me this is this is my new uh you know addition so yeah that's that's big news in my life glad to hear a neck tweak in a rocking chair let's go um i tweaked my neck pretty bad in seventh grade okay i was on the bus and headed to school and the cool kid like i honestly in hindsight i don't know if he was messing with me or what he basically he like pointed to something out the back of the bus and was like i was like hey look at that and i wish i could remember exactly what it was but anyway i like looked really quickly and i whiplash i like tweaked my neck really bad and of course that day at school was the day that we had uh team pictures for basketball it was so bad dude i uh i was like you're hitting the one with the ball and you're trying to look yeah so like both in my individual pictures and the team pictures i'm fighting like hell to keep my head straight and i don't think i was fully successful but uh you could just see the pain in my eyes um but yeah i had to go i had to go to the school nurse oh that's awesome it was really really painful yep um so neck tweaks are not fun nope um which would you rather have a neck tweak or a back tweak oh that's another good question um so i'm trying to remember a back tweak i feel like a back tweak you can at least get in a position where it's comfortable to sleep a neck tweak for me because you're actively having pressure on the pillow it's always uncomfortable like it doesn't matter where you roll um if you want to support the show you can do two things the first is you can comment hypertrophy gang strength gang or both gang below no no no don't comment that that's weird but you can click our alibaba uh rocking chair link in the description you can also check mypillow.com forward slash zach robinson um for your various rocking chair and musculoskeletal tweak needs um i was hoping you were going to bring bring me some you know really good stuff from like a a professional perspective um in my world uh i got three people competing in within the next one of them is like a midweek meet so it's within the next like week or so of recording this um and so i was finalizing some attempt selection this morning and i was also pairing that with some of my personal experience recently and some of our discussions about like your personal training and just how we're generally approaching that based on our goals which have been um i'd say shifting over the last like few years and then uh what our clientele are so in in my case for one of the three meet preps it's just going incredible i mean the guy's so incredibly gifted that um it's easy for gifted athletes to make coaches look good i think that's always worth remembering but in the other two cases they're both uh folks that i've been working with for many many years and um i would say for both of them i i often like to think about the meet or not the meet the block before the final block as like really setting the stage for attempt selection um so the way that i will typically structure it this this varies a bit is about four to five weeks out that's when you're gonna hit your heaviest stuff of the prep now that's not to say you're training light the next few weeks but i'm okay with you know a nine and a half or a 10 rpe four to five weeks out and then i typically follow like a wave loading structure for power lifters such that the week after that we pull back quite a bit and then we more or less linearly scale up going into the meet strike when the iron's hot on the platform anyway for for two of the three guys um the block before the final block that they're in right now went okay but not great like i wasn't stoked with the performances however they've both had really good blocks so far knock on wood they're both in their taper weeks so far so good and i'm optimistic they're both gonna pr their totals in multiple lifts each um and specifically i wanted to hone in and i think this will lead into some of our our personal discussions as well i had one guy that uh yeah for one of those guys i did make some like pretty granular programming tweaks within the last two and a half weeks or so of the meat prep to try to really express top end strength in like it was like a the way i had it programmed was like a soft second attempt so like a single at like eight and a half or so um and i had like a load selection in there and again like i said the end of the block before the final block did not go great the first couple weeks of the next block also did not go great so we're talking like four or five weeks out and i was like man i really want him to feel something good going into the meat so i messed around with things a little bit specifically i took some of his squat hypertrophy work and put it earlier in the week because his primary day is later in the week so i kept the overall dosage the same and the goal was to get him to feel a really solid squat day so like a very minor taper for that one session um it's not going to have like an overall taper effect such that he like peaks early but just give him you know half an rp off of what it would have otherwise been a little bit of momentum a little bit of confidence going into that taper and it worked really really well now of course he could have had a great session in the absence of that but um that is a case where i was able to look at multiple meat preps before that where we followed a similar structure and from a very performance driven lens i at least feel like i have control over training and performance a good amount such that we can make these really granular tweaks that i would like to believe can be the difference between you know hitting that third attempt on the platform and not um so any questions on that and then i'm curious what you think about that approach specifically as it relates to like very high levels of structure and rigidity versus a lack of structure and rigidity because you have some clients where you feel like structure can be almost uh almost work against you in some ways and there are some pros and cons there and various things so i'll i'll let you take it from here and and deal with the mess i just made yeah i mean the first thing is like man the uh these sobering realities of like you said just struggling with the idea of like how much control do we really have it's like a it's like a such an interesting conversation because you know you can put your scientist hat on and you can go down some dark thoughts on like what what can i influence what can i know um is this variability in performance that i'm seeing because of a change i made is it entirely due to confounding sources of variability that would have happened otherwise like you said um that's helpful to keep in the back of your mind i think but obviously there's um there's there's a certain like here's an example that may be kind of off the walls but similar and kind of how i feel about is like um i find like discussions about like free will about very very interesting but when it comes to practically living your life to some degree you have to act like you have free will exactly you're gonna have to act as if it exists and i think that's kind of how you approach coaching um is that there very likely are a lot of influences that are outside of your control that make knowing whether what you did actually influential on the outcome um the truth of that is hard to know but to some degree you have to act as if it does uh make make a make a substantial influence like good i was gonna make a joke that i think only my brother would understand okay i was gonna say i act as if he exists but i actually think a lot of people understand that reference um so anyway yeah i mean yeah it's like it's there's a lot of things in life that are similar to this um but yeah so that's that's like kind of my philosophical answer on like just this entire bag of worms in general um can of worms geez bag worms i really like that analogy not the can of worms that was weird but uh um they're like free will analogy it's really what it is like but okay here maybe i'm teeing up what you sure the direction you're about to go is like if you take that too far like i have full control and we need to you know always do our heaviest squat 13.46 days out from competition and i need to have this pre-workout and um you know i need this playlist playing there's maybe some downsides to that so keep it in the free will like analogy it's like again this is a conversation we are not uh philosophers by any means and this is kind of something i'm cursely interested in but like to some degree like the kernel of truth i guess that i think of that conversation is like there are some things that are likely deterministic and out of people's control and i think those if you view them all as entirely your choice or entirely um something you could have done otherwise like someone's upbringing for example like that is a very strong influencing factor on their behavior and things like that and just acknowledging that there's probably some things that are kind of out of your hands that influence your behaviors in ways you're not even realizing and i think that's similar to coaching in the sense that yes there are probably things we can take into our own hands and make changes that result in in things that we think are related to those changes but at the same time there's a probably a big bucket of things that are kind of out of our control that are important to keep in mind like you said like every single little thing that you're changing that's probably taken a little bit too far so with that preamble out of the way and hopefully if you know hopefully that is at least helpful to some degree um yeah it's it's it's an interesting it's an interesting question and kind of problem to deal with and ultimately i view these things on a much higher level than i used to i think in terms of like i view it less as like okay this little individual change is like somehow categorically different than another individual change and it's more so like there's probably one or two or three like very grandiose overarching principles that individual changes help kind of abide by and that's kind of how i think about it is like um i'm i'm struggling to articulate it entirely um from like a high level perspective but it's like i don't think individual changes are like right or wrong if that makes sense in a lot of cases and there's so many different shades and colors and ways you can achieve a similar overarching principle of like managing training stress better allowing you to accumulate more training stress like there's just so many different ways to accomplish that outcome that i don't view any individual decision necessarily as right or wrong obviously if it results in a positive outcome and that repeatedly happens over time you're probably on to something in the way that you're making those decisions um so is that at all helpful first place before i kind of no i think what i'm hearing is there's multiple roads to roam yeah there's multiple ways to achieve the higher level principle so to be more specific um he the example that i'm i'm using as a jumping off point his primary squat days are on saturday and uh secondary days are on tuesday no actually we pushed it to wednesday so he he has a monday session a wednesday session a saturday session i remember this off the top of my head so i might be off by a day but primary day is saturday secondary day is wednesday um and then he also has some deadlift work on monday so what i did was i took some of his accessory work from wednesday and pushed it to monday so i kind of like front loaded some of the training stress yep in the week um which is like that that's exactly kind of what i was gonna there there's there's multiple ways i could have gotten there exactly exactly right and that's just like there's nothing magical about the fact that i took a few leg press sets and put it up there and now and now i'll get to like exactly the thing that we've been talking about it's like yeah um so effectively what you did is you redistributed the training stress to account for um some performance you wanted to prioritize or maybe primarily for psychological reasons psychological reasons for variability in his own recovery there's a variety of reasons you could have made that change and sometimes just the change itself is motivating change itself like coaches watching and exactly um and so we kind of got into this discussion of just like super high level like training discussion in terms of like the balance between structure and flexibility or rigidity and flexibility and i think i've had a lot of different views on this the more that i've had what i would consider maybe non-standard coaching clients so you know i've coached a lot of people over the years let's say the majority of them were what you would consider like probably like intermediate lifters you know looking to really break that that next echelon of like really getting to that advanced level and trying to really reach the the peak of their you know their genetic potential kind of thing but mostly in the intermediate realm i think you run into areas where it requires pretty um come to jesus kind of conversations on the way that you're making decisions when you get to one of two areas one when somebody's extremely advanced and they've hit a plateau that's the that's kind of the first example is like all right what are my principles to help us continue to make progress when i'm also facing the dragon of the linear log curve of adaptation where we're reaching the point where the expectations may not be there's much more room to go kind of thing that's kind of the first you are you willing to train your tail off to put five to ten kilos on your total this year exactly that's like case a the other case and this is the case that i've had a lot of experience with more recently is maybe someone who isn't necessarily at that point of their genetic potential but the external constraints that they're dealing with effectively get them to a similar position so these are people with extremely chronic injuries these are people with very limited time to train but still want to make progress these are people with um you know other types of health disorders and things like that that kind of conflict with with their goals and effectively you have an external constraint situation that make the person their advancement accelerate essentially so that progress is much harder to come by and i've had a few of these situations recently whether they be chronic injuries like i said whether it be someone with time availability issues a couple of very interesting like health related things as well and i've come to kind of the position that structure and things like that can be both a extreme positive thing in a lot of cases and i think that um that can be something that gets a lot of people to the next level is having some degree of structure some degree of predictability to their training but i also think there comes a point where that can be something that effectively works against you so i'll paint this as a kind of an example so we're kind of bred as power lifters to be very type a very analytical very structured with your training you know exactly the weights you're going to hit on week two week three week four you have your progressions planned out a lot of these things are like very very um uh you know penciled in for lack of a better word like the detail oriented yeah detail oriented the lines are on the box are very very clear however obviously the case for auto regulation itself has been made abundantly clear i'd say almost all power lifters are people and kind of our niche are training with rper rar and they're integrating some of these auto regulatory strategies to account for fluctuations in their life stress and things like that that may affect your day-to-day performance however i think i've grown to appreciate that that is really and we've kind of made the analogy between like the course and the fine dial a couple times and i i've grown to appreciate that i really think that is just the fine dial and in certain scenarios it's just not sufficient and by having this kind of training culture that breeds this very detail oriented analytical um this is the plan kind of mindset i think it removes your for lack of a better term like just inherent intuition on sometimes what the correct training decision is um and obviously this is where i mean the balance of structure and flexibility is that main thing someone who's very early on in their training career they're not going to know what effective flexibility looks like they're not going to know how to make those decisions in a intelligent way but as i've gained or as as i've grown to appreciate how training is probably operating more on these kind of really high level principles and there are no super right or wrong like individual decisions on like i did well with safety squat bar i can't do high bar those kind of things i've kind of abandoned a lot of those beliefs um i've grown just to appreciate how much that flexibility can be leveraged to your advantage in a lot of cases so kind of coming back to a practical example is like you have like a power lifter who is one of these more chronic injury individuals and sometimes there are just fluctuations in your life training stress what have you i don't know the exact combination of factors but i believe it to be the best decision to strongly deviate for whatever is planned for that day and that's not just changing the training loads and i think people talk about that it's more it's more than just like yeah of course i'm changing based on the rp7 prescription you're talking about something bigger than just yeah you know load auto regulation that most probably exactly and i think if you were to talk to lifters from like 50 years ago like like it's kind of just the whole listen to your body thing but it's something that i haven't super well like formalized into like a process on how to go about it um but i just think it's just that it's a skill for sure yeah and it's just an overwhelming thought that i had that like and the example i've thought about to kind of try to articulate it a little bit and poke holes in it as you see fit but just i've been trying to figure out a way to articulate in a better way it's kind of like calorie intake is kind of the the thing that i've i've used as like an example a lot of us kind of just assume if i eat the same mean calorie intake every day that will effectively allow me to get to my nutrition goals which i don't think is a bad assumption so if your target is 2800 calories eat 2800 calories every single day do that for a month you're probably going to have the net result in your body weight in whatever direction you want that to be great check the box awesome however every individual day obviously our energy expenditure is not directly meeting up with that the degree to which that fluctuates i'm not really using for this example but just bear in mind for the example that like your energy expenditure is not directly 2800 every single day so every single day that you eat 2800 calories some days you're in a mild surplus some days you're in a mild deficit or what have you or you're changing the magnitude of the surplus exactly exactly yeah sorry that's actually a better example um you're either up or over your target and on net you're where you want to be but if you zoom in on any individual day you're actually not hitting the quote-unquote target accurately and it may be that the calorie needs of those individual days are actually different based on what's occurring in that individual day and so when you put this into the context of training i view that pretty similarly at this point is that like we have structure and we have all these these systems in place because the the kind of the normal level of training stress we want to deal with to get the results that we want is something we can we can utilize but in very extreme cases whether that be super advancement or some of these non-standard training scenarios i think the fact that you're kind of overdoing it underdoing it in any individual session can kind of have some ramifications and then further extrapolating the analogy like macronutrient intake i think a lot of people are willing to be flexible with their proteins carbs and and fats a little bit day to day obviously they have some targets but they're you know particularly carbs and fat i think there's a little bit of more willingness to be flexible with those things but for training we're not willing to do the same thing we're not willing to be flexible with our rep ranges we're not willing to be flexible with our exercise selection and so i don't really have a super neat takeaway from this other than i've just grown to appreciate that we put ourselves in a box in a lot of in a lot of cases with respect to training and training prescriptions and make things pretty nice and neat and try to abide to them perfectly in all scenarios with minor adjustments but potentially not as much adjustments as we should make for some people that level of structure ends up being a massive net positive and i think that's probably the vast majority of people having a training program can help you get to the gym help you execute it effectively help you get all the the principles that we know are are based on effective training helps you adhere to all those things but in some cases i think that the the kind of the line that that i wrote down is is that essentially in some cases i think that structure can give the illusion of precision in the training intervention that isn't actually there um and so i don't know if that like makes sense or anything like follow i have i have so many so many thoughts i think this i think this is a really interesting discussion because we coach people virtually these days um and i think a lot of people listening to this have a virtual coach or coach people virtually or both um and that lends itself quite well to putting numbers in cells such that you are like that is the one of the main deliverables whereas something that i've definitely changed over the last five six seven years is a much more like a greater focus on the skill of training so you mentioned someone that is you know quite advanced in terms of training or they have some other constraint whether it's uh an injury constraint or a time constraint um or they're you know just really deep into their training career so one of the guys this is separate from the guy where i was talking about just redistributing the the training stress the other guy that's in me prep um he's 49 and uh hey quick little plug he started on uh some of our our lower cost programming products and um he got started in his mid 40s i think he was probably 46 when he started with dds now he's 49 he has put on um like 200 pounds on his total and he's been training his whole adult life and he's now hitting numbers raw that he um hit in wraps when he was like in his 30s um so he yeah he's put almost 100 pounds on his squat which is crazy so shout out to him but anyway um looking at his program it's it's a lot more note heavy than it like used to be um so like you know it's hey instead of just like we're gonna hit a single at rp8 today it's hey we're gonna hit a single here's a cap in terms of load or rpe but i want you to auto regulate quite a bit based on the readiness uh based on just general readiness and then there are clear days that are priority where we want to push even if you don't feel quite as ready for it and what i often say to clients is like the structure is there to keep you honest and to push you right because if you have a program that says hey you know after you do your top set and two back offs you got to do your stiff leg deadlifts for three sets whereas you might not otherwise do that if you're just really being flowy with it so the structure kind of keeps you honest the program kind of keeps you honest but i also say don't be a prisoner to the program um i say that all the time because if you're a prisoner to the program and you don't leave any room for training skill you're almost certainly not actually being as precise as you think so in the case of nutrition i don't think you're using the example of nutrition to say that oh you should like auto regulate your calorie and take a bunch because in that in the case of nutrition if you're targeting a 500 calorie deficit and some days you're in a 300 calorie deficit and some days you're in a 700 calorie deficit it's not that big of a deal there's no like huge downside to that but in training there is such that if we use that analogy of of a deficit if the the general target is a 500 calorie deficit but then you're in a thousand calorie deficit from a training perspective someone deep into their career two weeks out and you know uh they weigh less than 200 pounds they're putting over 500 pounds of their back that precision does matter so if you don't have this the like flexibility and the encouragement to use the training skill to stray from the structure that's all that's in a lot of ways less precision so i think coaching is like strategically using structure and rigidity and also encouraging a straying from structure and rigidity and i often tell folks hey this is like this is the best i can put on paper i expect you to stray from this at times let me know when you stray from it in your thought process and i will give you feedback so we can continue to develop that skill um so i i started this ramble by bringing up the fact that we do things virtually because if you did things in person you would definitely be like more flowy with it now in this case um you know i'm not synchronously there with my lifters and most online coaches are not synchronously there with their lifters which is a downside but you know the trade-off there is is coaching is a lot more reasonably priced as a as a result of that they're not with you for you know four to ten hours per week uh synchronously while you're training um but anyway i do think that's just worth reflecting on i'll give another example on the other side of the aisle with hypertrophy um shout out my guy trevor i've been working with him for probably a similar amount of time probably since 2021 or 2022 and he has he started interested in both strength and hypertrophy he had some big strength prs these days he's all about hypertrophy um and he lives in a foreign country for like most of the year but he's from canada and he spends like a few weeks at a time a couple times a year in canada visiting family um and when we first started working together again this is something that i i would go back and change is that i tried to keep a lot of structure when he was traveling when in reality you know he's popping around from town to town city to city um in canada visiting a bunch of people different gyms whereas now i just give him instruction about like some things to keep in mind to like stray from the structure and i also trust that he knows what productive training feels like because we've been doing it together for years and years so like i'm almost in a lot of ways like more hands off which um is probably nice for him he doesn't have to listen to me like adjusting his program every week but i think that's actually going to lead to better outcomes and in a lot of ways more precision because i'm saying hey i want you to lean on these skills that you've developed and the fact that you know what uh it feels like to do those three more sets of stiff leg deadlifts when you don't want to um and then report back to me and we'll we'll learn from it and you know uh keep that in our back pocket going forward um and like in his case i we basically have like a general flow of training sessions but it says hey some weeks if you're jet lagged because you're traveling halfway around the world and you're visiting family and you're prioritizing that and you only get in the gym twice within a calendar week all good just pick up where you left off um and then if the next week you can get five in and you feel okay by the time you get to that fifth session you feel like you're not gonna uh dig yourself into a hole such that the next week you can only get two or three in because you dug yourself into a hole that's okay um and this all stemmed from the fact that me and you are i would say mostly training for hypertrophy these days i think you still have some strength goals i still have some strength goals i'm just deprioritizing them while i cut um but anyway i'd say you're a lot more flowy with training uh a little bit less structure whereas i am very and i think it's just my personality type very rigid um about like the exact same equipment settings all that good stuff and that's something i'm like kind of trying to work on as well um and i think it is like just for coaches and lifters to think about this is actually could be a really big unlock um you have a high level lifter that you know came to you because he had issues tolerating sufficient training and if you if you just your program design and your coaching was filling in numbers or values into cells you would there's no way you would have achieved success yeah um it is encouraging the skill of training beyond uh just like writing the perfect program um so i think this is something i'm always keeping in mind um recently because i think it's key and i think this is what like just really good coaches can and should do and you know now that we've been doing this dds thing for a while and and you know not quite approaching 10 years but 10 10 years is on the horizon of of coaching um it's like hey you know gotta do everything you can to be the best coach possible i think this is this is a really important one um that i've been keeping top of mind yeah i mean you you brought up a few examples first first note i wrote down was uh i've actually seen tons of virtual pt um at the gym recently which i just thought was fascinating what do you mean by that uh so somebody oh like they're on the phone and they'll be on the phone with the trainer that's pretty cool interesting yeah i've seen that recently and i i was very surprised by that as you mentioned that i just thought that was super interesting i don't think that's really common in our niche no no no it was more gen pop but it just i just thought that was really interesting i wonder if they're doing like a group thing it was one-on-one it looked like um so yeah the trainer was like dressed up in a polo and he was like talking to the client through his headphones like while he was training and i've seen him there multiple times interesting um the other thing i wrote down was uh shout out to john kiley he he has you know a lot of kind of meta papers on training periodization things like that and um there's one example he always kind of talked about um kind of in the context of periodization but kind of training planning flexibility these kind of things and he would always talk about um kind of more in a team sports setting sometimes they could tell um adjustments that need to be made to the program based on just like the chatter and warm-ups and things like that and those are like the examples of like things that obviously you can't know whether that's the right decision or not but like so many strength coaches from like very high level athletes will mention things like that about those those tactile examples where you just will adjust things on the fly when you're working with somebody in person and i think those are important to keep in mind it's not like those things just go away because you're working with somebody virtually and you kind of have this allure of stability i send them the check-in on saturday the you know what i mean it just kind of like programs up yeah the the process is i think encourages that that uh just like that allure of structure stability uh rigidness because as a coach you have life so you want to systematize when the check-ins go out and when the way the programs look and just like kind of all these things um so that's just like a kind of an interesting thing i wrote down but like yeah like the number one thing i could disagree with so much is like programs to me like the training prescription is obviously important and that that's going to meet the the client where they're at and based on their goals and their their needs and everything but like you said for me the description of those training like exact same training prescription but describing that to somebody to make sure that they understand the intention behind it and developing that training skill particularly that's like something i've almost addressed with every one of my clients now is like i have a very very long conversation with them because of my experience with some of these a little uh different cases is like the goal of this initial couple blocks is more so to get on the same page about the skill training developing it every time that we reach a reach a case where that needs to be discussed like you said it's more about talking about their thought process and helping them through that decision making process to develop it for the future because all those skills i really think like you know we don't have an unlimited amount of time to chase these kind of goals and and things like that and i think being able to be agile with those things when you need to be um to keep taking steps forward i think is really really important yeah um but yeah like you said there's there's a there's a balance between structure and flexibility i kind of think about the structure is like making sure that we're getting in those those average level of calories that we have to to meet our goals but the you should look back at the last six months and be happy with the average workload with the average calorie intake or the average body weight change exactly but the individual sessions and things like that i think obviously depending on the circumstance and and i think the cases like you said where somebody's traveling all the time or has a really erratic schedule maybe they're a they're a er doc or something like that these these these kind of you know niche examples they help to expose the the thinking that that can potentially bias the more structured cases like i'm not saying for somebody who has an extremely predictable lifestyle a college kid where their their their routine is the same like everything's yeah they're inherently going to bias more towards structure and i i was just gonna say sorry to cut you off but i'll just interject here is that is one caveat i would add is like if you do have the luxury of structure take advantage of it and don't view this as like a reason to be like oh i'm tired so i'm gonna skip the gym in a lot of ways like honestly a lot of powerlifters tend to be on the younger side and they kind of have this i don't think the structure is inherently what's beneficial but it's the fact that their lifestyle permits that structure and yeah that's kind of what i think it is it's like in theory if they were maybe had a had a very principle-based way of auto-regulating rep ranges volumes exercise selection and they also have extremely stable external variables i don't think that's necessarily worse yeah honestly you could make an argument might be better we're not really sure but what often happens is that i can train with this level of structure because my externals are dialed in and it's almost a positive it's not the structure and it's a positive and it's a positive feedback loop i know i have to squat on monday so i'm going to make sure my sleep's dialed in my nutrition's dialed in um you can't be the type of person that is engaging in the flexibility because you're lacking on the other things that's not the way the arrow should go it's the fact that there are some you know degree of this external situation that i just fundamentally cannot control no matter what i do even though i'm trying my best to do so that i must engage in the flexibility the flexibility has to go both ways too right it's not just an excuse to slack off it's also an excuse to push harder um at times and just as often um as you're kind of pulling back and you need to like not not to be like gatekeepy but i do think there's value in like yeah just learning what it feels like to get through week eight of a program where you felt really fatigued week six you know and then but um i'm gonna i'm gonna try to bridge us to the next topic and i just started outline a bit so hopefully that's cool i moved that blue part up okay cool with that because i think that leads in nicely here and we can quickly cover this um yeah there is kind of i think this structure can give you this illusion of precision that you mentioned um again there's pros and cons of structure like you said um but keep in mind that a lot of power lifters for a lot of people it is a phase yeah of their lifting career i think it's really cool like i mentioned my my master's uh lifters that have just been doing that their whole adult life that's awesome that's like their fitness endeavor of choice um and that's that's really cool but for a lot of people um it does end up being a phase that they can prioritize in a certain period of life where they have less responsibilities and like you said it might not be the structure itself that's leading to these coaches urging a ton of structure and precision in their micro cycle design but instead it's the lifestyle itself that's allowing that to actually occur um and something that at the risk of sounding self-congratulatory here about data-driven strength something that i am really really glad me and you and our our coaches jake and drake have a have a good perspective on is we don't pigeonhole people into power lifting um we actually have a these days a pretty good mix between like power lifting only physique lifestyle only or a balance of the two and the reason i say that is because another thing that you might not pick up if you are just really standardized with like communication and program delivery and feedback is that people's values do change over time and i try to be very proactive and just notice the things that they bring up right maybe when they get going and they're really into power lifting they talk about certain things they use certain terms and they they approach their training a certain way whereas that might shift over time and we can have those discussions and and again something i'm really proud of at dds is we don't pigeonhole people and do hey we're going to design your training to maximize your power lifting total um instead we can we can do that for sure but we can also you know get really good results for someone that's just interested in physique or anywhere along that spectrum or someone that you know just wants to explore the other side of the aisle or they need to pull the dial back because they're in residency right now whereas um i don't think that's always the case out there and because of our perspective of working with both power lifters and bodybuilders or you know just physique focused people and then everywhere in between as well is i think there's things that each side can learn from each other um and again on our end this allows our coaching approach to evolve with the lifters values and preferences and interests as they go and have good productive conversations about that not to be flippant with those changes but instead intentional thoughtful and using the coach's expertise to understand the pros and cons and uh the investment required for for an outcome that they're interested in um so let's start with some things that power lifters do well that bodybuilders could learn from then we can flip the script so i think the number one thing that power lifters do well that bodybuilders could learn from or just physique folks interested in physicals is being performance and logbook oriented okay so they of course have these core lifts squat bench press and deadlift they know their prs right you you ask them and they have their gym numbers their competition numbers and maybe that you know one bench press they hit where it was touch and go and their butt came up a little bit so they might start with the ladder and then they'll work their way back um and i think that's great because kind of similar to the structure in in a that a training program inherently gives you is it keeps you honest right and it it pushes you to get those three sets of stiff leg deadlift in after you've done your your main deadlift for the day that you don't really want to do but you need to do um in the case of being performance and logbook oriented if you know what your best is it gives you a challenge to meet and i think humans are really good at meeting challenges or really good at seeing a finish line or seeing a bar and reaching it not to step too far outside of our lane but you know someone breaks an endurance record like the first four minute mile or whatever and then you see a bunch of other people beat it or um you know you you have a deadline for work and you get a lot more um juice and a lot more motivation you become a lot more efficient at getting that work done i think there's a lot of similarities and parallels there with like just the logbook aspect of things um and as a result to kind of keep them honest there's more psychological readiness for training right sometimes this can be taken too far and as you'll see in this conversation a lot of these things are a double-edged sword but i do think it's generally a positive that powerlifters are performance and logbook oriented they're going to ensure physical and psychological readiness for their training and they have a bar for themselves that they're looking to beat um that is far and away the thing that powerlifters do well that i think bodybuilders could learn from anything to add to that one or does anything else come to mind i think that is like just yeah i mean for the most part that's the the biggest thing i think um i would say the other thing that comes to mind um just in kind of following with that is just like quote unquote like pacing uh stuff that you you've mentioned a good amount like ultimately we've talked about this a lot like just like the basic example of like if everyone if someone just like took every set to failure but they didn't really log versus someone who consistently logs i think there is still that aspect of like pacing that you'll probably never quite achieve the same um you know level of progression in the lift or whatever pacing within a session or week to week i kind of i more so mean it like uh i don't know if you'll be able to achieve the same performance on a given day unless you kind of have that nudge to say like no like it you have to try for 110 kilos or whatever it is like oh yeah so you're saying pacing in the sense that like um if you don't have like a very basic example is the presence of spotters yes um in the sense that yeah if there are spotters there or perception of ever basically it's easy to convince yourself that something is hard when you actually have more in the tank um and pacing is basically the phenomenon like if you have a 20 set quad workout versus a four set quad workout you better believe that first set in the four set quad workout is generally going to be higher performance because you know you only have to do it three more times not 19 more times that's the example of pacing bias or load selection etc like despite the fact that you know your your your objective performance was trending xyz thing so point being like you know i used to i think there was there was a phase i think in the community where log booking was a little looked down upon like maybe maybe not the right way to say it but pendulum swings yeah it wasn't it wasn't as uh it was it's more caveated i guess is the way to say it but now i'm like very much of like just more so the act of doing it and having standards to to reference yeah um is is the positive aspect from doing so and like you said i think piloters do that extremely well the other thing i was going to say is kind of to go along with logging is the intangibles that go along with making that logging valid so movement standardization tempo uh just little things like that the how much arch did i have on that chest press when i was doing just little things like that that i think go a long way that um you know you could you actually could say that in either different direction because you could argue that a bodybuilder um cares a little bit more about the experience of the set whereas the power lifter is only cared about the output it's a double-edged sword right put it in either direction i think movement standardization is like a really good thing to experience early in your training career yeah um johnny candido had a video about this where he said he he kind of like laid out his like ideal training arc i can't remember the details of it but what i mean by training arc is like okay you get into lifting in high school and then you know basically from that point until you're 40 and then 40 onwards whatever maybe you coast and by the time you get to 40 you know you're kind of on maintenance mode and you're just the guy that can be able to do a bunch of physical tasks and you always have a six pack but basically the reason the reason i bring that up is i think he mentioned um like he's a big advocate for power lifting for like that initial chunk of training um and i i think a big benefit of that is movement standardization and the efficacy of the log booking like you just mentioned yep yeah cool um now let's flip the script a little bit and let's talk about what bodybuilders do well or folks that are you know just folks on maximizing hypertrophy maximizing body comp looking yickety yacked the number one thing for me is they track body composition well and not don't get me wrong not all uh physique interested folks do this well i think a lot of people could do this better um but if there's one thing i could go back and change because when we started data driven strength almost exclusively our clientele were power lifters um these days again it's a little bit more of a mix but if i could go back those power lifters um early on especially the ones that i'm still working with and i would love to have this data it's just better assessment of body composition uh through two things and they're pretty easy the first is standardized physique photos um both flexed and unflexed photos you can kind of see different things going on um in both of those approaches and secondly are some easy circumference measurements you just get a you know two or three dollar tape measure on amazon or if you're really balling you could get a myotape which is a self-tightening tape measure um which does seem to enhance accuracy a notable amount especially if you're doing the measurements on yourself and you don't have someone to help you out um you know you could get a handful of sites so you can do thigh calf hip so basically around the glutes you could do uh navel measurements around your belly button you could do i like to do two inches above and two inches below navel chest and then arm that's like full sweet but if i'm like uh let's just get the easiest like uh lowest hanging fruit it would just be a waist measurement um because especially in males can be quite sensitive to um overall body fat that you have so tracking body comp i think is is a massive one that bodybuilders do well that i think power lifters would benefit from um bodybuilders are also put lifestyle variables higher on the list so they might keep a closer eye on their step count they probably keep uh they're probably a little bit more dialed in with their sleep habits and sleep duration and sleep consistency and perhaps most importantly they probably put equal thought into their nutritional approach as their training which i think a lot of power lifters would benefit from so that might mean just like basic tenets of uh a good dietary approach like having lots of fruits and vegetables good lean sources of protein um but in the like from our perspective as strength and hypertrophy coaches perhaps even more important uh than that is the changes in body weight over time the rate of change the high level nutritional periodization or body weight periodization approach i think bodybuilders do that very well on average that power lifters could do a little bit better um this is kind of the flip side of something you mentioned before is i think that a lot of bodybuilders will have less movement standardization exercises by that uh yeah so like i for power lifting i meant within an exercise okay yeah yeah the execution thereof so i just make sure i understood that yeah exactly so like i think bodybuilders on average do a really good job or at least a better job of not worrying about arbitrary constraints right in the example of a competition squat you have to get to parallel right and then you come up whereas once you get below parallel i guess the next objective point would be like hamstrings to calves but a bodybuilder is probably just going to do what works best for them to train the target muscles and i think that's a good thing so they're not really worried about these arbitrary constraints for movement standardization and instead they're focused on training the muscle so a better way to think about that or a simpler way to think about that is uh muscle over movement instead of power lifters focus quite a bit on movement i think there's pros and cons to each again there is um everything's kind of a double-edged sword here but i think a lot of power lifters would benefit from their non squat bench deadlift training being less about kind of these random or arbitrary standards like you know uh touching your chest on a touching the the bar to your chest on a bench press or getting to competition depth for deadlift the last thing that bodybuilders do well that i think power lifters could benefit from is they listen to their bodies quite a bit um such that you know they might be quicker to change exercises or change rep range or change the rpe or add some work or take away some work so kind of returning to our earlier discussion about structure and rigidity is they're probably more likely to auto regulate more than power lifters do in some ways we think of power lifters as auto regulating because they have a single at eight and they're going to adjust their load plus or minus five kilos whereas in actuality there's probably some bigger auto regulation levers that power lifters could learn from um and if you're interested on a longer discussion about kind of the pros and cons of sticking to the program versus not rewind the podcast quite a bit and you can get that um but i think if you are on the power lifting side of the spectrum and you listen to what i just said about things bodybuilders do well i think you're going to benefit from that and vice versa if you're a bodybuilder and you listen to what we said about what power lifters do well i think you'll benefit as well anything to add no i mean the the listening to your body's one that immediately became to mind like you said and in context to our prior conversation about this is just that um yeah i think bodybuilders view things much more conceptually with respect to the training intervention as opposed to exact specific things that need to be hit now like you said there's a there's there's a there's a balance to be had with that like going in yoloing every single session from scratch is not really what i mean but like you said if your shoulders bugging you on a given day um being willing to switch the exercise switch the rep range switch the rpe and keep taking those steps forward but making the detours that necessary i think is a skill um that power lifters because they are so attached to the movements is something they can probably learn from it and those are the kind of examples we were talking about earlier like you said it's just um yeah understanding that there's a a bullseye and not every single dart needs to be directly hitting the bullseye you know deviating slightly from that might actually be a better way to accumulate the total score as opposed to the missing darts entirely off the board kind of thing because you can't adhere to the training uh long term so yeah yeah cool all right this will probably take us to the end of the podcast originally this was supposed this was supposed to be a couple you know segments that we we had ideated on and we're excited to talk about um and then a q a got through too but we put it this way we have plenty of content coming your way so make sure you're subscribed if you haven't already make sure you commented below hypertrophy gang strength gang or both gang as cringe as that is um but we have an important announcement for the back of the show and zach we've talked about throughout this podcast training skill quite a bit we've talked about things like you know some pretty specific case studies about you know someone spending you know nine months of the year and one side of the world and three months of the year on the other side of the world we've talked about um you know small little tweaks to the micro cycle two weeks out we've talked about someone's evolving values and um how to kind of be proactive and have ongoing discussions about those and um kind of noticing these patterns across people so you can help other people um so all of that is to say is coaching is a big part of what we do but it's not the only thing that we do because we recognize that not everyone wants that right not not everyone wants to pay for that because it's it's not the cheapest thing in the world um and some people want really really good guidance that we have the technology for um without the direct human involvement because they want to they want to handle it themselves and or they want a lower cost option and we've recognized this for a while we think there's kind of this underserved market and we as a result have had a product for years now the first iteration of the product was called data-driven strength individualized programming then we came out with the second version of that right where we like expanded it quite a bit ddsip v2 or 2.0 2.0 yeah and then that evolved into what we called infinity infinity when did we release ddsip was that like 2021 or 2020 yeah i said 2022 came to mind for me but yeah it's it's been a handful of years and it's something that we have um put a lot of put a lot of love into just how to how to think about this problem and anyway that evolved into infinity and infinity very very proud of what that product offered because it gave some a high degree of granularity and customization you could essentially make any program in the world but there were there were sufficient guardrails based on your training goals and what you wanted to prioritize and ways to kind of push people in that direction ways to build off of previous programs that they've purchased and i know you're going to datadrivenstrength.com and about to check out at infinity but don't do that quite yet because we have an important announcement and that is that we have taken a lot of that logic from infinity and and really another complete redo from the ground up of that programming system and we've partnered with the folks at evolve training app and we are now part of the team and we have a fully functioning product that has been really really kick-ass and it has improved a lot and we're very excited about the roadmap to come so all of that is to say we now have a mobile app with a lot of our training philosophy into that and when i say training philosophy i don't mean training method i don't mean that you know it's going to have zach robinson's fancy schmancy protocols of top set of five at rp 5.5 to 6.5 in week one and then that and then that uh regresses to rp 4.5 to 5.5 in the next week and then you have a 2 rp increase it's not a method it's not some particular um you know way to train but it instead is a principle-based programming app with a high degree of flexibility to meet your needs currently there are modes for power lifting and power building so if that fits your goals check it out go to evolve training app.com make an account if you sign up for a subscription at evolve training app.com you get a longer free trial and you also get a slightly lower subscription price the the free trial is 14 days long so plenty of time to try it out for yourself again go to evolve training app.com make an account then download the app and log into your account and you'll be ready to rock alternatively you can just download the app if you're cool with a slightly higher subscription price there um on the app store again just search evolve training app and it'll show up we're really excited about what we've built um i we we've been very involved with beta testers up to this point and we've had beta testers that are both competitive and non-competitive we've had beta testers that are preparing for their first meet we've also had beta testers that are preparing for national or international level meets with great success so we're really excited about what we've built we'll have more content coming soon both through data driven strength and through the evolve channel so if you're not already subscribed to evolve training app on youtube i'd suggest you search it and check it out i'd also suggest you go to instagram and uh look up evolve training app give us a follow there we have some content coming give it a free trial check it out see if it's for you hopefully you've seen hopefully you can see a lot of the love that went into it and you see where the ship is headed filling this gap in the market that's not designed to replace coaching by any means in fact i have a couple of clients that i'm coaching as i normally would but the front end delivery of the the coaching is um through evolve of course that's not the goal of the product right now but that just goes to show that the goal of this is to provide really great programming and really great tools for the masses and we hope that you you join us check it out give us feedback and evolve with us on that front so zach i'm stoked about evolve i have a training session after this i love the rest timers i love the fact i can quickly see what i hit last week um some people dig this some people it's not for them which is cool there's a little like training journal portions um there's really nice little like things that happen when you finish an exercise it you know the the exercise collapses and then um and then it goes back up and there's a check marks and it's it's beautiful so i'm digging it all those type a kings baby beta testers are digging it we have a lot of exciting stuff coming up we'll talk about it more soon zach do you have anything to add if not we can get into a question about evolve from one of our instagram followers yeah no i mean obviously i echo all the things you said extremely excited um i think well i always mention it every time we talk about this in general it's just like we've learned so much about what to do and what not to do um for these types of products and services that i think this happened at the right time for us um i think you know the iterations of ddsip and infinity were like like you said i'm proud of what we did there i think it was a really cool product um we'll as we're going to talk about here in this next question probably would do some things slightly differently which has been reflected um in kind of the design of evolve and kind of our views going forward so um yeah i'm just incredibly excited i think there's tons that the app can do now and that are coming on the roadmap that i think are really exciting and i think it helps um you know across a variety of spectrum of lifters like you mentioned um that and it's it's a it's a really cool team we have um me and you kind of um we the the way the app currently works because evolve um had its own programming within it before and that is now still within the app it's called rk um but if you sign up and you're interested in in our programming um and kind of the main training engine that um like the team is actively working on make sure you select genesis that is the training engine that we've um helped design and the the best way to think about genesis is that we're trying to provide structure where you need it and flexibility where you want it and that actually rings you know pretty that works out pretty well at the end of this podcast given what preceded it in this podcast um such that it's going to help you adhere to the principles that matter for your goals but there's also plenty of flexibility no no more downloading a powerlifting app and getting you know uh competition deadlifts on day one but your day one is done in your basement gym at five in the morning while your child is still asleep and you just can't deadlift that day but you can totally bench now you can make that change within the program design feature of the app and there's a ton of other stuff uh in there that if you play around with i think you'll you'll find i am looking at my upcoming training session um and something that we are we're working on right now it's not this is currently only an internal beta but this will be coming to all users soon is you can easily change the protocols like right there within the session so it's something we've we talked about earlier in the podcast is um you know like those are feeling creaky yeah increase the rep ranges on triceps stuff like that yeah and um you know another again i'm just kind of pointing out some of the small things that i think will show you the the level of detail we're thinking about this with is we know that a lot of people on app-based programming without a coach reviewing their footage they might undershoot a lot of their rpes and also just generally speaking we think it makes a lot of sense to do to do the last set of um an exercise at a higher rpe so something we have built into a lot of the programming is last set amraps oftentimes those amraps are to like an rp9 or an rp10 so let's say you had a bunch of sets at rp7 maybe three sets at rp7 and then the last set to an rp of 10 or an rp of nine that amrap can help you check your work for the previous sets to see your rp accuracy and i guarantee you a listener is going to do that and they're going to be like oh i did sets of 10 at rp7 and then i got 20 reps at rp9 something's off here that can go a long way for someone using an app like this um in my case i train with pretty low volumes right now i train at higher p's so i have last set turned on for everything again that's a something we have in internal beta that'll be released to the public shortly um but again it's it's just going to be a tool that provides you structure when you need it flexibility when you want it and really excited about what's to come um we have a little bit of time here at the end do you have anything to add or you think we just wrap it up no i mean do you want to even go about the question or you just want to keep talking high level um i mean okay shout out to my man daniel daniel we've mentioned a few people that have been with dds for years daniel might be up there with all of them super user because yeah he he was on dds ip way on he was on infinity he was on it all the way up through infinity and then now i coach him one-on-one and i've been doing that for we've probably been working together for like i'd have to look but definitely over a year probably a year and a half he's the man and he asked us how was evolve going to differ from those previous products like infinity um zach i'll i'll let you give us the elevator pitch yeah i mean ultimately i think the biggest thing and the biggest balance that we're trying to strike is like i think you can kind of view our journey through these types of products it's kind of like that pendulum swing that you mentioned earlier um initially early on the gap in the market that we saw was hey there's a lot of template-based programs out there but they don't have the flexibility on the individual level that somebody may need whether that's the um you know the the volumes the rep ranges and we were really thinking about it more so from that end of things the the programming the protocols the things like that and while i think of a lot of that is coming from a good place i think with infinity we swung even more in that direction we said if there is a variable we want to be able to individualize it and quite literally as the name suggests there were essentially infinite combinations truly truly infinite combinations of those variables all which had um coaching informed uh essentially guardrails to make sure that you didn't get a combination of training variables that wasn't vetted by us etc etc etc um but the the potential overswing on infinity is i think we had potentially so much flexibility that it essentially detracts from the main principles that i think these these apps and these um types of services are what's actually going to influence your progress what what is actually going to help you get better results and i think throughout this process of kind of getting to the next step and getting to evolve and really asking ourselves those questions again from square one i think we have a much better compass on what things is this product going to help you do to actually get you better results and we've tried to make the entire design of the app from the ground up with those things in mind keeping the goal the goal and not getting potentially sidetracked a little bit with the eye candy of flexibility in places that may be actually detracting from the main goal in the first place so as you said with the with the phrase it is structure where you need that flexibility where you want it and that is the overarching principle that we've tried to keep in mind the entire time of what are the things that these types of services are actually going to give you better results keep those inside the crosshairs of our development and our focus the entire time and then giving you flexibility to be able to execute those things at the highest level possible this is where thinking about training splits exercise selection things like that has become you know a focus because those are the things that don't allow people to execute training programs if i can't you know switch the exercises effectively if i can't switch my split effectively i literally can't execute the training program and then giving you flexibility where you want it in terms of the protocols on a given day and things like that and a lot of other things along the roadmap so i think from the highest level i think the philosophy that's different from evolve in dds ip is that i think the um our scope has went from a shotgun to a sniper rifle i think we know very very well at this point having kind of been all over the map with the degree of flexibility and kind of what were we looking to accomplish um i think we have a very very good handle now on what are the things actually and give people better results how do we make sure those are emphasized and better executed from a user interface perspective and and fundamentally just making sure our focus is on the right things and not getting um you know try and pulled in a bunch of different directions to give a ton of flexibility that isn't actually needed or actually maybe detracting away from the main things in the first place um how does that how does that do yeah no i think i think you nailed it um it's a sniper approach in terms of like focusing on what matters yeah but i think that any it's it's much easier to interact with and get that flexibility where you want it component because we have better technology right it's more focused and more flexible it's more focused and more flexible right like um i have a coach that writes my programming right now and i'm still using the app to get insights to elevate my training even though so i'm basically just putting that programming in the app um i for for some of the beta testers um i have gone in there and i have drag and dropped the training week around to make it really dialed in um based on my experience and what i think this athlete needs and the app basically takes care of the rest in terms of like load suggestions training process training process that sort of thing and that frees me up to do a little bit more in terms of like some of the softer skills of coaching some of those other discussions and then um you know the the things that an app is is good and designed to do it can do and then um but it's it's not going to replace a human it's going to replace the things that that should replace a human um and and free up humans to do more human things and and amplify their work is the way that i think about it let's not get off in an AI tangent no no definitely not um but i started talking about the team and um i i never finished that you just said us yeah so i said us and then i stopped so sorry me and you and then um we have christian dunsmore on the team as well so anyone not in the know she's a very elite power lifter um and then we also have garrett blevins who is the ceo of evolve very accomplished power litter as well as bryce lewis as the designer of the app and anyone that that doesn't know those names look them up both uh extraordinarily accomplished power lifters and it's funny that those two were going head to head um back in the day in turn on the platform and now they're both part of the the same team that we're we're happy to be a part of as well and um helping to uh bring a really good tool for um for lifters uh to the community so shout out to all of them because obviously we're a small part of the team and they make the engine go so check it out evolve training app.com let us know what questions you have about evolve you can do more content on it coming up and that'll definitely be helpful to kind of see what questions people have and help us make better content to show its utility yeah for sure so let us know what what questions you have um about evolve let us know any other questions you have about training about science about um rocking chairs rocking chairs if anybody's got good suggestions please please put them in the comments yeah if you're if you're a rocking chair connoisseur yeah please maybe just maybe just message zach directly no no no i'll put in the comments everybody wants to get it make sure you're subscribed um tell a friend about us um we don't do a ton of coaching so if you inquire we we could have a discussion we could see if it's a good fit with one of us or another coach another coach but um we we'd love to chat see what you're up to and see if see how we can best help you so follow the links in the description for that check out evolve training app.com give a sign up for the free trial and we will see you all in the next podcast episode peace peace

=== FILE: We Read 100+ Studies on Strength Training Volume. Here’s What You Need to Know [0QNbicmJPnY].txt ===

ər so what do you think about now like we're outside of the bands of what the data can describe because i want you to think about someone that's interested in long-term strength development which i think should be your focus are you doing periods of really piling on the volume for long-term development purely if i'm if i'm anecdotally talking about this again scientists had off just totally totally saying that i i think so like i i think ultimately the way that i think about training these days is and we've talked about this but it's essentially entirely input based and so i'm trying to set up a training program for an individual to maximize the inputs that i think drive the adaptation that we need right now and so for a large majority of the year we're trying to develop strength capacity i think there's kind of two primary inputs there the main one is just the amount of hard quality work that you can get in in the relevant areas that will increase the strength capacity so that's basically your kind of standard hypertrophy block so you think about the types of training that are going to maximize hypertrophy probably going to be higher on the volume spectrum probably going to be higher on the proximity failure spectrum might be manipulating some other variables to make you be able to tolerate some more work slightly higher repetition ranges slightly less specific exercise selection etc you might need to do an occasional phase where you're trying to get in shape kind of to tolerate those those those workloads but in general yeah an offseason to me is you're essentially trying to push yourself to perform as much quality work over that given time period which isn't the same thing as maximizing your weekly set volume that maximizing the volume completed with a high quality over this a six-month period may result in you doing moderate volumes for the entire time period as opposed to doing the 52 week uh 52 set experiment for four weeks and then burning out but yeah i think periodization to me is very strongly indicated from practical experience but also kind of the way that i conceptualize the data and then when you kind of shift into that strength expression mode the goalpost kind of shifts to hey this is about performance now we want to have maintenance of the adaptations that we built so you're still going to have some quote-unquote hypertrophy work capacity work etc to maintain those adaptations as best you can maintain the size of your engine but then you're trying to manipulate the training to drive the car as fast as you can and i think purely from the data perspective i think that makes sense from my conception of the data if you view it conceptually but i also think if you layer on practical experience and and what high level lifters have been doing for a long time and what they do today i think all those things kind of track in line with one another and yeah i think it's really just about shifting that bias slightly to kind of maintain a given adaptation and then trying to maximize it once it's time to do so it sounds to me like you kind of almost you conceptualize it as like this purple line between the two in the sense that during some periods you're going to bias towards the hypertrophy line and in some periods you're going to bias towards the the strength line because this allows you so lower volumes allow you to potentially prioritize variables that maximize specificity in the short term is that is that fair characterization i think so yeah that's the way that i think about it is kind of the power lifters line in my opinion is like the middle because you're going to have periods again this orange line 10.42 weeks keep that in mind if you buy into hypertrophy contributing to strength again even in those 10.42 10.42 week studies the data is still compatible with hypertrophy contributing to strength as we pointed out but we would expect that that contribution would be quite a bit more over longer time duration which is why the correlation is not super strong right but it's there so what that leads to is basically just a shifting of emphasis and ultimately a decent bit of periodization in my view nothing dramatic right in the way that i view it is like okay far out from competition i'm trying to build this athlete up right if this athlete is 190 has a let's say they're 200 pounds at you know 20 body fat or so if they want to like level up as a lifter let's say they're in year two of training they want to level up as a lifter they're going to have at 20 body fat they're going to have to weigh more they're going to have to increase their lean body mass so i'm going to lean into to train that i know is going to build them up right when i'm thinking about long-term development at the same time i know specificity matters in terms of their sport if they're a power lifter so i'm going to do that to the point where they can still get decently high quality training with the main lifts and when i say quality that means fresh enough going into this session to perform pretty dang well and the training is split up across the week in such a way that they can maintain good quality over like within the session right so they're not doing 12 sets of squats because by the time you get to set 12 it's like all right what are we really doing for practice purposes and skill development purposes so you basically have enough to maintain decent quality and then if they're eight weeks out from a competition now i'm starting to think about okay we can only do so much in terms of build this athlete up we're not going to fundamentally change their body composition i'm probably still investing a little bit in that we want to at least maintain their adaptations but now i'm going to really make sure that that specificity component is is maximized in a way that they can tolerate and often that looks like just a slight shifting of the dial between these key variables of volume proximity to failure frequency to some degree and to some degree exercise selection exercise selection am i missing anything else there's probably some other things i mean the the simplifying thought i just had is like it really is about you know the dosage of training of certain qualities in both cases for hypertrophy and for strength for hypertrophy that's like very high quality training close to failure targeting the target muscle etc you know you want to try to maximize that within your recovery capacities is what it seems to suggest for the most part dimension returns obviously for strength i think it's the same thing it's just what volume means is different to me now it's talking about these very high quality highly specific exposures and the counterintuitive thing is if you just ramp up volume you actually might hurt that number yeah and the same thing with increasing frequency that might actually increase that number increasing the overall specificity of training without reducing the volume which may have some sort of recovery cost may decrease that in the course of six months so it's it's a interesting kind of shifting of the goalposts from the perspective that the optimization game to optimize that number versus just the total number of sets that i can complete with high effort and targeting the target muscle is entirely different and particularly when you have to use fixed constraints like squat bench deadlift certain exercises so yeah i think it's it's interesting to to look at this and kind of think about it more holistically than just the the project itself but yeah it's it's definitely been a good thought experiment you

=== FILE: What Bodybuilders Can Steal From Powerlifters (And Vice Versa) [xvz9jOIeMGE].txt ===

 I think there's things that each side can learn from each other. On our end, this allows our coaching approach to evolve with the lifters values and preferences and interests as they go and have good productive conversations about that, not to be flippant with those changes, but instead intentional, thoughtful and using the coach's expertise to understand the pros and cons and the investment required for an outcome that they're interested in. So let's start with some things that power lifters do well, that bodybuilders can learn from, then we can flip the script. And because of our perspective of working with both power lifters and bodybuilders or just physique-focused people and then everywhere in between as well, I think there's things that each side can learn from each other. And again, on our end, this allows our coaching approach to evolve with the lifters' values and preferences and interests as they go and have good, productive conversations about that, not to be flippant with those changes, but instead intentional, thoughtful, and using the coach's expertise to understand the pros and cons and the investment required for an outcome that they're interested in. So let's start with some things that power lifters do well that bodybuilders can learn from, and then we can flip the script. I think the number one thing that power lifters do well that bodybuilders can learn from or just folks interested in physique goals is being performance and logbook-oriented. So they, of course, have these core lifts, squat, bench press, and deadlift. They know their PRs, right? You ask them, and they have their gym numbers, their competition numbers, and maybe that one bench press they hit where it was touch and go and their butt came up a little bit. So they might start with the ladder, and then they'll work their way back. And I think that's great because kind of similar to the structure that a training program inherently gives you is it keeps you honest, right? And it pushes you to get those three sets of stiff-leg deadlift in after you've done your main deadlift for the day that you don't really want to do but you need to do. In the case of being performance and logbook-oriented, if you know what your best is, it gives you a challenge to meet. And I think humans are really good at meeting challenges or really good at seeing a finish line or seeing a bar and reaching it. Not to step too far outside of our lane, but someone breaks an endurance record like the first four-minute mile or whatever, and then you see a bunch of other people beat it. Or you have a deadline for work, and you get a lot more juice and a lot more motivation. You become a lot more efficient at getting that work done. I think there's a lot of similarities and parallels there with just the logbook aspect of things. And as a result, to kind of keep them honest, there's more psychological readiness for training, right? Sometimes this can be taken too far, and as you'll see in this conversation, a lot of these things are a double-edged sword. But I do think it's generally a positive that powerlifters are performance and logbook-oriented. They're going to ensure physical and psychological readiness for their training, and they have a bar for themselves that they're looking to beat. That is far and away the thing that powerlifters do well that I think bodybuilders could learn from. Anything to add to that one, or does anything else come to mind? I think that is just so key. Yeah, for the most part, that's the biggest thing, I think. I would say the other thing that comes to mind, just in kind of following with that, is just like, quote-unquote, pacing stuff that you've mentioned a good amount. Ultimately, we've talked about this a lot. But just like the basic example of if someone just took every set to failure but they didn't really log versus someone who consistently logs, I think there is still that aspect of pacing that you'll probably never quite achieve the same level of progression in the lift or whatever. Pacing within a session or week to week? I kind of more so mean it like I don't know if you'll be able to achieve the same performance on a given day unless you kind of have that nudge to say, like, no. Like, you have to try for 110 kilos or whatever it is. Oh, yeah. So you're saying pacing in the sense that, like, if you don't have – like, a very basic example is the presence of spotters. Yes. Yes, exactly. In the sense that if there are spotters there or perception of ever – basically, it's easy to convince yourself that something is hard when you actually have more in the tank. Yep. And pacing is basically the phenomenon. Like, if you have a 20-set quad workout versus a four-set quad workout, you better believe that first set in the four-set quad workout is generally going to be higher performance because you know you only have to do it three more times, not 19 more times. That's the example of pacing. That could bias your load selection, et cetera, like, despite the fact that you know your objective performance was trending, X, Y, Z thing. So point being, like, you know, I used to – I think there was a phase, I think, in the community where logbooking was a little looked down upon. Maybe not the right way to say it. Pendulum swings. Yeah. It wasn't as – it was more caveated, I guess, is the way to say it. But now I'm, like, very much of, like, just more so the act of doing it and having standards to reference is the positive aspect from doing so. And like you said, I think piloters do that extremely well. The other thing I was going to say is kind of to go along with logging is the intangibles that go along with making that logging valid. So movement standardization, tempo, just little things like that. How much arch did I have on that chest press when I was doing – just little things like that that I think go a long way that, you know, you could – you actually could say that in either different direction because you could argue that a bodybuilder cares a little bit more about the experience of the set. Whereas the powerlifter is only cared about the output. It's a double-edged sword, right? You could put it in either direction. I think movement standardization is, like, a really good thing to experience early in your training career. Yeah. Johnny Candido had a video about this where he said – he kind of, like, laid out his, like, ideal training arc. I can't remember the details of it. But what I mean by training arc is, like, okay, you get into lifting in high school and then, you know, basically from that point until you're 40 and then 40 onwards, whatever, maybe you coast. And by the time you get to 40, you know, you're kind of on maintenance mode and you're just the guy that can be able to do a bunch of physical tasks and you always have a six-pack. But basically the reason I bring that up is I think he mentioned, like, he's a big advocate for powerlifting for, like, that initial chunk of training. And I think a big benefit of that is movement standardization and the efficacy of the log booking, like you just mentioned. Yeah, I understand. Cool. Now let's flip the script a little bit and let's talk about what bodybuilders do well or folks that are, you know, just folks on maximizing hypertrophy, maximizing body comp, looking yickety-yacked. The number one thing for me is they track body composition well. And don't get me wrong, not all physique-interested folks do this well. I think a lot of people could do this better. But if there's one thing I could go back and change, because when we started Data Driven Strength, almost exclusively our clientele were powerlifters. These days, again, it's a little bit more of a mix. But if I could go back to those powerlifters early on, especially the ones that I'm still working with and I would love to have this data, it's just better assessment of body composition through two things. And they're pretty easy. The first is standardized physique photos, both flexed and unflexed photos. You can kind of see different things going on in both of those approaches. And secondly are some easy circumference measurements. You just get a, you know, $2 or $3 tape measure on Amazon. Or if you're really balling, you could get a myotape, which is a self-tightening tape measure, which does seem to enhance accuracy a notable amount, especially if you're doing the measurements on yourself and you don't have someone to help you out. You know, you could get a handful of sites. So you can do thigh, calf, hip. So basically around the glutes, you could do a navel measurement. So around your belly button, you could do, I like to do two inches above and two inches below navel, chest, and then arm. That's like full sweet. But if I'm like, let's just get the easiest, like lowest hanging fruit, it would just be a waist measurement. Because especially in males, it can be quite sensitive to overall body fat that you have. So tracking body comp I think is a massive one that bodybuilders do well that I think powerlifters would benefit from. Bodybuilders are also put lifestyle variables higher on the list. So they might keep a closer eye on their step count. They probably keep, they're probably a little bit more dialed in with their sleep habits and sleep duration and sleep consistency. And perhaps most importantly, they probably put equal thought into their nutritional approach as their training, which I think a lot of powerlifters would benefit from. So that might mean just like basic tenets of a good dietary approach, like having lots of fruits and vegetables, good lean sources of protein. But from our perspective as strength and hypertrophy coaches, perhaps even more important than that is the changes in body weight over time, the rate of change, the high level nutritional periodization or body weight periodization approach. I think bodybuilders do that very well on average that powerlifters could do a little bit better. This is kind of the flip side of something you mentioned before is I think that a lot of bodybuilders will have less movement standardization. Do you mean exercises by that? Yeah. Yeah. So like for powerlifting, I meant within an exercise. Okay. Yeah. The execution thereof. So I just make sure I understood that. Yeah, exactly. So like I think bodybuilders on average do a really good job or at least a better job of not worrying about arbitrary constraints. Right. In the example of a competition squat, you have to get to parallel. Right. And then you come up. Whereas once you get below parallel, I guess the next objective point would be like hamstrings to calves. But a bodybuilder is probably just going to do what works best for them to train the target muscles. And I think that's a good thing. So they're not really worried about these arbitrary constraints for movement standardization. Instead, they're focused on training the muscles. So a better way to think about that or a simpler way to think about that is muscle over movement instead of powerlifters focus quite a bit on movement. I think there's pros and cons to each. Again, there is everything's kind of a double-edged sword here. But I think a lot of powerlifters would benefit from their non-squat bench deadlift training being less about kind of these random or arbitrary standards like, you know, touching your chest on a – touching the bar to your chest on a bench press or getting to competition depth for deadlift. The last thing that bodybuilders do well that I think powerlifters could benefit from is they listen to their bodies quite a bit such that, you know, they might be quicker to change exercises or change rep range or change the RPE or add some work or take away some work. So kind of returning to our earlier discussion about structure and rigidity is they're probably more likely to autoregulate more than powerlifters do in some ways. We think of powerlifters as autoregulating because they have a single at 8 and they're going to adjust their load plus or minus 5 kilos. Whereas in actuality, there's probably some bigger autoregulation levers that powerlifters could learn from. And if you're interested on a longer discussion about kind of the pros and cons of sticking to the program versus not, rewind the podcast quite a bit and you can get that. But I think if you are on the powerlifting side of the spectrum and you listen to what I just said about things bodybuilders do well, I think you're going to benefit from that and vice versa. If you're a bodybuilder and you listen to what we said about what powerlifters do well, I think you'll benefit as well.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.296982Z ===
