 alagin,自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由自由 gym, we should do that. We can benefit from time-saving strategies by either making the same progress in less time or making more progress in the same amount of time or some middle ground between those two. Today's video is all about supersets, specifically non-overlapping supersets. And we're going to answer the following questions. Number one, when to use supersets. Number two, how to execute supersets. Number three, we're going to give you an example split for hypertrophy training. I actually think this is the most slept on training split, if you will. And number four, an example training week for powerlifting focus. Before we dive in, let's roll our brand new intro. All right, let's kick things off by defining our terms here. So supersets are just exercises done in succession. Often people will use what's called antagonist supersets, which means opposing joint actions. For example, the biceps flex the elbow, whereas the triceps extend the elbow. For the most part, there isn't an inherent benefit to doing supersets with antagonist muscles besides the fact that they're non-overlapping muscles. In other words, the local muscular fatigue from bicep curls doesn't overlap with the local muscular fatigue from something like tricep extensions. So you could get the exact same benefit from doing supersets between, say, biceps and hamstrings, as those are also non-overlapping. The main reason someone would use non-overlapping supersets is in the potential time savings that come with it. Instead of just doing a set, resting for a couple minutes, and then doing your next set, you can just do two exercises more or less back to back. And this concept has been validated in the scientific literature to produce similar hypertrophy in less time. And it was most recently validated by Burke and colleagues, and they reported similar results with 36% less training time. So we know that supersets work, but let's dive a bit deeper and answer our first question of when to use supersets. Now, here's the thing to keep in mind about short rest period training, such as supersets. It can be really tough. In the case of the Burke study we mentioned before, the exercises used weren't the most fatiguing exercises in the world. They used pulldowns superset with Smith Machine Bench Press, leg curl superset with leg extension, and dumbbell bicep curl superset with cable tricep pushdown. Notice that there were no compound lower body lifts, such as squats or deadlifts, Romanian deadlifts, or even something like hack squats. Even without these heavy compound movements, the superset group experienced nausea almost twice as often as the traditional training group. The whole idea behind supersets is to do the non-overlapping exercise while the muscle you just trained is recovering. And this makes total sense, unless the reason you need the rest in the first place isn't because of that sort of local muscle recovery. Look, if you do a heavy set of squats, you're usually not stopping the set because of a ton of muscular fatigue, say in the quads. There will definitely be some, don't get me wrong, but there's a lot of muscles in the ballgame during a free weight squat, and you're going to be huffing and puffing at the end of that set. Usually, what allows you to do the next set of heavy squats is catching your breath and psychologically being ready to get after it again. So, to answer our question of when to use non-overlapping supersets, it's going to be when local muscular fatigue and not cardiovascular fatigue is what needs to recover. So, in general, smaller muscle groups and exercises that use less total muscle mass are going to be great candidates for supersets, whereas lower body compounds and sometimes even upper body compounds aren't going to be great candidates. That said, there's a lot of room for individual differences. If someone is in great cardiovascular shape, say they previously came from an endurance background, or they're just not quite as strong or muscular, and thus just inherently there isn't a ton of muscle mass being used, they may be able to superset even heavy squats with something else, because again, in that case, it's not cardiovascular fatigue that's limiting them and what kind of permits them to go into the next set. Next, we want to answer the question of how to execute supersets. Remember how the new study from Burke and colleagues reported more nausea? Well, I think that could have been avoided with just a small tweak. In the study, participants went directly from one exercise to the next. However, I would recommend doing supersets with a bit of rest between each exercise. Instead of going straight from lat pulldown to bench press before resting two minutes, you could just rest one minute after lat pulldown and then rest one minute after bench press. That will give you the time-saving benefits of supersets, but also minimize any performance decrements on the second exercise and probably cause a lot less nausea. And in reality, you don't really need to time your rest periods as they can be largely auto-regulated based on what you feel you need to catch your breath, ensure the target muscles for the next exercise are ready to rock, and you can just apply a ton of intent into the next set. Before we move into some suggested splits, I'll add in a quick practical tip for supersets. When I program these for myself or clients, it's often helpful to select exercises that use the same or similar equipment, such as cable curls superset with cable trisep extensions, or say, dumbbell bench press superset with dumbbell row. However, sometimes this isn't always possible. In this case, I like to pair one quote-unquote specialty exercise with another more flexible exercise. I'll give an example of a superset I actually did earlier today. So I claimed my favorite plate-loaded row machine in the gym, and I supersetted that with dumbbell bench press. Now, if you leave your water bottle or other gear on the specialty piece of equipment, all you need to do is run over and knock out a set of dumbbell bench press between your sets of rows. And the nice thing about dumbbell bench in this case, again, our more flexible exercise, is that you can do it on any flat bench. So you don't need to hog two pieces of equipment. And today, I actually used three different flat benches to get in my three sets of dumbbell bench between my sets of rows. All right, let's wrap up with some example training setups for both hypertrophy and powerlifting. If you are enticed by non-overlapping supersets and you think it would work well with your gym situation and your preferences, the best hypertrophy-focused setup, in my opinion, is going to be a legs-torso-bro split. Hear me out. So on the leg day, you're going to train all your leg muscles. On the torso day, you're going to train chest, back, and some shoulders. And then on the bro day, you're going to train biceps, triceps, and lateral delts. Here's what that might look like. Now, this is just an example, and it really leans into non-overlapping supersets. You may not be able to do some of these because, as we discussed previously, perhaps cardiovascular fatigue and not local muscular fatigue is what needs the most recovery between exercises. So view this as inspiration, and keep in mind your program doesn't need to be all supersets or all not supersets. You can definitely do a mix. Now, if your primary goal is powerlifting, here's how you might work in some non-overlapping supersets. As you can tell, we can wrap in some supersets with leg accessories, but I wouldn't worry about it for your primary squat, bench, and deadlift work, or even your secondary squat and deadlift work, because that might take away from focus, intent, and ultimately performance for those important slots in your program. All right, that's the video. Make sure you like and subscribe, and we'll see you in the next one.