 atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm atm So Ryan asks, what are some fringe extrapolations we don't really have evidence for? So in other words, what are some things that people say to be true, but when you really dive in a little bit, you see how the sausage is made. I don't know if we really have evidence for that. Curious what you think, maybe in terms of examples or your philosophical perspective on that. Yeah, I think the hot take here ultimately is that I think people do this way more than they actually realize. And I don't think that's necessarily a bad thing. So I think if you zoom out and kind of think about what we're actually testing with research and what things we say we have evidence for and ultimately at what level those kind of claims exist, I think it ultimately turns in a direction that I think people don't really realize. So basic example says to start and then we can kind of get a little bit more philosophical. I can't remember who actually gave this example. I've heard this somewhere, so I can't attribute credit, but someone definitely kind of brought this up as a good example. There's tons of powerlifting coaches that prescribe pause deadlifts, for example. To my knowledge, those have never been researched, but tons of coaches utilize them, including myself. And that doesn't mean that that is a fringe extrapolation in a negative connotation. It is a fringe extrapolation of the research, but the way the question is framed, it's kind of in a way that downplays that decision making or makes that seem lesser than, maybe not intentionally, but that's kind of how I read it. I don't view it that way at all. So to me, really what we need to ask ourselves is like, what is the goal of research in the first place, particularly in our field? So in different fields, this is a kind of different application. So in my view, there's kind of like two main kind of buckets that research findings ultimately can kind of contribute towards. One of those is principles, and the other one is kind of what I call methods. And so a methods study, or essentially which is a combination of a ton of principles into any applied decision that I'm going to make, that's what I would consider a method. So we could use a medical study as an example there. So we have a target population, a target disease, and we have an intervention, A versus B or placebo versus the experimental drug. And we're looking to see directly in the population that we're interested in with appropriate levels of statistical power and measuring the exact outcomes that we're looking to measure, whether that's safety or efficacy or maybe long-term side effects or long-term effects on mortality or disease progression, whatever it is. We're directly assessing that method. And obviously, that has a principle that's derived within it that we can make further extrapolations from. But at the heart of it, the goal there is to say, we have a method that we want to test. Is it efficacious or is it not? And what the alternative side of things, more so what I think exercise science is probably more, is probably better utilized for, is that we have so many methods. We have so, so many methods that you could apply. And the reality is, currently, we haven't investigated any one of these methods or comparisons between training interventions with enough statistical rigor to be really, really confident about that. And then even then, you have to ask yourself, in what ways do the studies diverge from the place I'm looking to apply this? In the case of medicine, that's a whole lot less, typically, in terms of the types of patients that we're looking to apply the medications towards. It's usually a much greater overlap than the individuals in resistance training studies that we're looking to apply the findings to. You have, you know, obviously, the strength of the participants, the training status, the types of interventions that we're looking to apply. Things are usually just on a whole different scale, in addition to the fact that we haven't really investigated any one of these methodological comparisons in a really, really vigorous way to begin with. So because of that, and because of those limitations, and again, just because of the sheer number of methods that exist to begin with, to me, I view the utility of research as really looking at things from a principle-based perspective. Let's zoom out. What are the principles that people are asking questions about? And what are those principles contingent upon? So then that's where, you know, obviously, we're big fans of evidence synthesis and meta-analysis and utilizing all the available data to come to these generalized principles, or at least describe them to the best that we can, and then also see, do those principles depend on any of these other factors in terms of training status, in terms of habitual training practices like volumes, et cetera, and do that the best that we can. And then that's going to inform us the principles, at least from a descriptive perspective, the best that we possibly can, so that when we go out in the real world, we can utilize those principles to help us filter through the methods that probably make the most sense. And that, to me, is that is a completely different framing than saying, okay, I do this in the gym. Is that evidence-based or not? Like, I don't really view anything like that, because the reality is almost all of the methods that we apply, even a full-body training program completed with high volumes, to my knowledge, there's literally no study that's done that, you know, that's kind of outside of this realm of specialization in the research. But a lot of people are applying the volume research to multiple muscle groups at once. That's a fringe extrapolation that we don't have evidence for, but it makes sense based on the principles, right? We're always extrapolating. Exactly. Because an extrapolation is just an estimation. It's a prediction beyond the original observation, right? Yeah. So the fact that I've been training for more than a year, and you've been training for more than a year, and I'm sure many of our listeners have been training for more than a year, and you're watching an evidence-based video or podcast right now, that is an extrapolation because there are very few, if any, studies that extend beyond a year. So you heard it here first. Nothing is truly evidence-based. Yeah. It's all evidence extrapolated. Exactly. Oh, there's a new buzzword. Evidence. My evidence extrapolated. But I think, again, if you kind of zoom out, that's literally everything. Like, everything's probabilistic. Like, we have nothing. And that applies to all fields, but you made a good case for why it might even be, especially the case in our field. Yeah. And I think, again, I don't think that's a bad thing. I think we take the available evidence that we have, and when we say something is, you know, we have evidence for something or something is supported by evidence, what the real claim that you're making there is that we can make a prediction with a high probability of replication. If I drop a pencil today, the pencil's going to drop tomorrow. That's essentially what you're saying when you have evidence for something. And so, in our world, if we have these principles, essentially our assumption or what we think we have evidence for is that we can make an informed prediction about how I design my training today, what exercises I pick, et cetera, is going to make me probabilistically more accurate in deciding how much muscle I'm going to gain, how much stronger I gain. And it's going to be better than an alternative approach. Exactly. Exactly. I think you're spot on. I do think it's interesting how you answer that because if you would have asked me that, I probably would have said the same thing, came at it from the other angle, because maybe from a more critical angle towards research and towards evidence-based practice and communication. Sure. And that is that I think, man, this is tough because basically we both just agreed that all application of science is extrapolation. But in my opinion, I think the biggest critique I have of like the evidence-based sphere is that there's no way to tell what is reasonable extrapolation and what is unreasonable extrapolation. The way that I would have approached answering this question is I would have highlighted some examples where over-extrapolation or unreasonable extrapolation, I should say, occurred. Because I think that happens quite a bit. I think, yes, no matter how much research you have, when you apply it, you're going to be extrapolating. But I think it's quite common for there to be little research or maybe even irrelevant research in a way such that you can't even derive a principle, but people still try to derive principles from that and then extrapolate it. So maybe that's like the kind of the happy medium between our two perspectives here is like, yes, you're always extrapolating. You need to accept that. But you should only extrapolate when there is sufficient and relevant enough research to actually inform a principle. It's just hard to define that criteria. It is impossible to define that criteria. I'm trying to come up with an example that isn't too hotly debated right now. I mean, one example I was going to bring up just like in something that I do believe, but I also don't totally trust it in terms of like it's being tested is like, to my understanding, we have one study on the seeded versus lying leg curl. It was an extremely well done study. Yeah. And I generally agree with that and how it fits in the overall scheme of the research. But like you don't suspect the opposite, but yeah. But if you were going to hold my arm down and said, do you 100% expected this to perfectly replicate? I don't think I would say yes. Yeah. Like, um, I think a lot of people would just make the claim that seated leg curls are better than lying leg curls. Yeah. That's not the correct way to view that. That's not the correct way to view that. The principle there is when you collate all of the research that looks at exercise. Not just that study in isolation. Looking at the exercise selection research, range of motion, resistance profile, you collate all that together and it seems to tell a similar picture on average. That's the principle. Maybe there's a small effect leaning towards a beneficial effect towards training practices that lead, uh, kind of create more tension or more difficulty when the muscle is not at its shortened, at its most, at its, uh, most shortened length within the range of motion, right? Like that's the appropriate conclusion, not saying, Oh, this study exists. Therefore seated leg curls are better than lying leg curls. And the part of that study that people often don't talk about is if you flip on the other side of the body, the sartorius as an example, saw better hypertrophy in the lying leg curl. And is that another part of the, the experiment that would replicate upon seeing that again? I don't know. Would that, that further, you know, the question is, would that replicate? Exactly. Another question is you could replicate it using the exact same methods with different machines, higher volumes, higher volumes, RDLs involved. The exact leg curl, uh, seated leg curl and lying leg curl they use definitely matters. Last time I tried going, looking for that information, I couldn't really iron out exactly what the machines were and that could influence the resistance profile. All these details, what we're currently saying right now is exactly the point. And why I'm saying that like the role of research is not to delineate between these methods. That's not what it's for. It is, is to take a zoomed out position on, okay, what are these overarching principles in which these things and these different methods seem to align on? Now, obviously if you want to test the method, you can, you can do that, but the method itself needs to be aligned in the population with the intervention. And you have to compare it to something else. And therefore you're only making an A to B comparison, but in practice where you're comparing A to not just B, but A to infinite other options. Exactly. And that's why studying methods, I don't think is the best use of resources. Exactly. And that's what, that's what I met with like the delineation between that and medicine. Obviously you could take different types of medications, different doses, et cetera. That's, that's clear. It's not that you have, you know, only two options, but like in, in the medical context, I'm going to take the drug or I'm not. And, and it's, it's much, it's much clearer to define. It's a little more A versus B. Exactly. And, and, but in the world of training, you have to, when you design a study, you have to have a training volume. You have to have a exercise selection. You have to have a frequency. You have to define your training population. All of those things could be in direct opposition to how you're looking to apply it. So it's just, it's not to say that they're operating in completely different spheres or completely different sectors. They're not. All research operates on these principles of methods to principles, but the exact context in which exercise science is typically applied, I think is much more strongly on the principles end of things. Yeah. And I think that just, yeah. And again, just to wrap things up, we're making fringe extrapolations all the time. And I don't think that's a bad thing. It just needs to be done at the appropriate level or made with the appropriate information in mind. And evidence-based fitness, in my opinion, you let me know if you agree with this, would be a lot more fruitful. And also the trust that consumers have of it would be much better if the degree to which we're extrapolating was better communicated. And we didn't, we, the royal we, didn't. Gonna get in trouble with that one. Don't make claims that appear to be these really strong principles when the research is either. The guy for methods. Yeah. Or when the research is just, there's just too little research or the research is irrelevant because what we see quite frequently happen is there's a little bit of research. There's two or three studies. There's four studies. They lean in a certain direction. You have a couple significant, uh, P values pop. Cool. Now we're going to run with that. But then, you know, naturally things kind of are a little bit less exciting when you get a ton of research. The pendulum kind of swings back and then it's like, oh, the evidence-based people were wrong. But I think if you actually understand not only how to interpret it, but adhere to certain communication standards, I think that the trust would be a lot better. And upon reflection of evidence-based fitness, so long as I've been aware of it, that would be my biggest critique is over extrapolating on small bodies of research.