 But I think one thing that we've grown to appreciate more so now is that an implicit assumption anytime you use one of these scales is the definition that's very, very clear of the task. So when I say repetitions in reserve, it's repetitions in reserve from what? What am I describing? What is the definition of the task? And ultimately what leads to my inability to complete that task or what constraints define that? Absolutely. So I think, as we've kind of grown in the understanding of auto-regulation, I think it's kind of a natural evolution of it, right? So you have started with some of the more subjective scales, then we started trying to objectively anchor those to something in resistance training, and obviously, shout out Mike T, Dr. Zordos, kind of bringing the repetitions in reserve oriented scale into play, that kind of gives us an objective anchor, approximate to failure. But I think one thing that we've grown to appreciate more so now is that an implicit assumption anytime you use one of these scales is the definition that's very, very clear of the task. So when I say repetitions in reserve, it's repetitions in reserve from what? What am I describing? What is the definition of the task? And ultimately, what leads to my inability to complete that task or what constraints define that? And I think the more that we've been exposed to, whether it's the length and partial stuff, partials after failure, partials after failure, injury cases, or even sometimes powerlifters kind of describe things more subjectively when they talk about their effort. All of these are kind of different cases of describing different ways to describe set endpoints. And I think we were in particular talking about some of your applications of quote unquote partials in reserve recently that I'd love to hear you talk more about. Yeah. So Zach will play a video for you here that honestly, I had no intentions of this, us playing this on the podcast, but we were talking about as a potential segment. So I just kind of snagged it and we're going to, we're going to play it here. So yeah, ultimately when you're doing sets and reps in the gym, it's very common to have some sort of like set difficulty or exertion rating alongside that. The most common is RPE rating of perceived exertion as you noted or reps in reserve. My general approach before you play this sack is just to kind of discuss what our general take on RPE versus RIR. My typical approach and suggestion for folks is to think of RPE simply as the inverse of reps in reserve. So in other words, I actually almost exclusively use reps in reserve. However, there's a wrinkle to reps in reserve that we'll discuss where we like to use the term partials in reserve. And then there are times where we stray from that strict definition of RIR based RPE. So in other words, we do kind of use some other flavors of RPE in specific scenarios. Do you use a similar approach? Yeah. Yeah, I think so. It's just defining the task in different ways. Cool. So typically if you're thinking of RPE strictly in terms of the inverse of RIR, a 10 out of 10 would mean you have no reps in the tank. Either you complete a rep and you have no chance of another. Or you actually fail the rep. A 9 RPE would be one rep in the tank. 8 RP would be two reps in the tank. Et cetera. However, it's important to define what a rep is. And that's where partials in reserve comes in. So in all of the power lifts, which is where a lot of this stuff originated, the hardest part of the movement is at the bottom. It's at the start of the movement. So if you can't get another rep on bench press, it might come off your chest. And there are some people that fail at lockout. But generally speaking, the hardest part of the movement is at the bottom. For squat, same idea. You might be able to get a little bit of the way up, even halfway up at times, but you're not going to fail at the top, right? If you get through that sticking point, you're going to lock it out. Same idea with deadlift. Deadlift is a little bit more common to fail at lockout. But nonetheless, generally speaking, if you can only get a partial range of motion on squat, bench, or deadlift, you're not going to get another rep. Same idea with like a dumbbell bench press. Again, the hardest part is at the bottom. You're not going to get another rep. So reps in reserve or RPE just makes a lot of sense for those movements because a rep is a rep. If you can't start the rep, you're not going to complete the rep. However, there are some movements where it's different. So the example we'll show here in a second is a chest fly, especially a machine chest fly. If you have it set up a certain way with cables, you can kind of change this and manipulate it. But for a machine chest fly, this is the case. For a leg extension, this is the case. For a lot of tricep movements, this is the case. A lot of lateral delt exercises, this is the case. A lot of back exercises, this is the case. Hamstring curls as well. Where the hardest part of the movement is not the start of the movement. It's the end of the movement. So if you can't complete another rep at the very end of a chest fly where you're finishing the rep or the very top of a leg extension or the very top of a lateral raise, you do not have any full reps in reserve, but you absolutely still have partials in reserve. So for a lot of those movements, because of the importance of approximative failure that we see generally in the research and also some direct research directly on these sets where you go past that full range of motion failure and you continue to get partial reps after that point, we instead will tell our lifters to think of it as partials in reserve. In the training session I did right before this, I did a couple of back movements. I did machine rows and I did lap pulldowns. On machine rows, once I could no longer get the full range of motion, I just squeezed out as much range of motion as I could on subsequent partials. For some exercises, you can get like five, six, seven partials. It also depends on the rep range, of course, but generally speaking, five, six, seven partials. Other times it's only one or two, but I do think there is good reason to just anchor your RPE based on your inability to get any range of motion at all. And I think this can add a lot more stimulus, a lot more hypertrophy to these exercises where the hardest part is at the end of the range of motion, not the start. So, Zach, unless you have anything to add, we can go ahead and watch this amazing set, beautiful cinematography here. I can't remember how long this is, so you'll have to bear with us. So, you can see I'm doing these chest flies and I'm getting absolute full range of motion. I'm getting nice deep stretches as much as is comfortable and I'm fully locking it out here. I'm fully completing the rep, bringing my knuckles to the point where they're touching or close to it. And then eventually, if I fail, it'll be the fact that I can't finish the rep. So, I don't know exactly when it's going to occur, but there's going to be a point where I can't bring my knuckles all the way together. And you could just stop the set there. So, there I think I didn't get it, right? So, I get another one and then I get like 10%. So, in that case, I think I got three partials. And that's one where I can't get many partials at all. On leg extensions, I can sometimes get like eight, nine, something like that. And so, hopefully seeing that visual is helpful because it's something that we've talked about on the show, but we've never actually provided a visual. And I'm often talking through this for my clients and having a nice reference for their podcast listeners is helpful as well. So, anything to add there? No. Yeah, I think that's basically how I think about it too is just thinking about for each exercise. Yeah, I mean, I guess what you said is kind of really what applies in all cases is anchoring the RER to not being able to move the load at all, really. And that's what happens in all the exercises that RER was kind of traditionally used with is like you could maybe move the bench a little bit off your chest, like you said. But for the most part, you're not able to complete even a half rep when you kind of fail. And so, kind of standardizing that across movements and across resistance profiles, probably more importantly, that kind of is an important consideration to make. And I think this applies both in kind of the extended set kind of approach to the partials, but it also could apply to length and partials themselves. If you want to kind of start the set using some sort of modified execution, that also works. But in reality, you could apply the framework to any task you want. It's just about very clearly defining the task and then ultimately approaching the in-reserve part relative to that task. And just for hypertrophy, it makes sense to kind of anchor that more so to the point in which something you can't really move at all in a lot of cases.