 So I have, you know, a ton of, you know, a ton of, you know, a ton of, you know, a ton of different tools at my disposal in terms of what can, what I can do that additional work with. Getting bigger pecs probably isn't going to drive up my squat. You need to grow the muscles that are being used in the strength task. There are some really interesting adaptations that you might not be able to pick up from just a muscle thickness. You have to kind of think of hypertrophy a little bit differently when you are thinking of its application and its transfer to strength development. Another good question from Alexander. Specificity for powerlifting in terms of the hypertrophy work. So let's say we have a powerlifter. They obviously are going to perform some hypertrophy-oriented work in their program. And their question is, okay, so I have, you know, a ton of different tools at my disposal in terms of what can, what I can do that additional work with. I can use machines. I can use a belt squat. I could obviously do it even on the competition movement, maybe with some higher repetition ranges. Is there a consideration for specificity when you are programming this work that is mostly dedicated towards, you know, accessory work hypertrophy for a powerlifter? Yeah. The short answer is you can't just view hypertrophy in isolation like we do for hypertrophy-only training, right? So in other words, if we're looking at the hypertrophy research, literally what is often done is an ultrasound probe is put on someone's skin. And you're looking at the distance between the muscle-fat interface and the muscle-bone interface is typically what it shakes out to be. So you're literally just looking at the thickness of the muscle for a study looking at hypertrophy using ultrasound. That's great, right? And if you're comparing leg extension to leg press in a hypertrophy study, you can, you know, look at the thickness of the vastus lateralis and see how those two different exercises influenced increases in the thickness of the vastus lateralis. But when you are doing a one-rep max squat, you're not just using your vastus lateralis, right? The vastus lateralis being kind of the lateral, one of the most lateral muscle of the four quadriceps muscles. You're also using the other quadriceps muscles. You're also using your adductors. You're using some erectors. You're using glutes. You're using a lot, right? So broadly speaking, you have to kind of think of hypertrophy a little bit differently when you are thinking of its application and its transfer to strength development, right? And that basic example can be made even more basic by thinking about, hey, getting bigger pecs probably isn't going to drive up my squat a ton, right? So in other words, you need to grow the muscles that are being used in the strength task. Beyond that, there are some really interesting adaptations that you might not be able to pick up from just a muscle thickness assessment. Let's say we looked at muscle thickness everywhere, right? Let's just say we theoretically could do that. We could look at the entire length of the vastus lateralis, the entire length of the adductor muscles, which might get a little bit weird if you're doing that. But let's just say you could do that. What you're looking at is, again, just the thickness or sometimes a cross-sectional area depending on the methods between that muscle-fat interface and the muscle-bone interface. But there are some things that you either can't or are very hard to pick up using an ultrasound that probably influence transference from that hypertrophy work to the strength task, okay? So, for example, there could be increases in muscle thickness that occur. There could be hypertrophy that occurs. But it's due to what's called sarcoplasmic hypertrophy, which the existence of that can be debated. But I think it's a good example for folks just to address the possibility of that because there are other examples as well that might occur. And basically what sarcoplasmic hypertrophy indicates to us is that the protein, the actual contractile proteins of the skeletal muscle that contribute to contraction, those can, of course, grow and increase in number. But other things could grow as well, okay? Another thing is the exact way that the muscle grows can be a little bit different depending on the contraction type. So concentric versus eccentric adaptations. Presumably a joint angle could also be a thing. So at what point in the movement is the tension on the muscle the highest, right? So in a leg extension, that's typically at the top, right, when the leg is the most extended. In a squat, it's the opposite, right? It's at the bottom when the quad is a little bit more lengthened. That could have impacts on where exactly the muscle growth occurs, how exactly the muscle growth occurs, and to some extent as well, what muscles are growing and to what extent, right? So that's kind of the rationale. Let's actually talk about the practical application of that and how to think of it from a principle-based perspective. I like to frame this as kind of the task-specific hypertrophy continuum. So if you want to drive up your one rep max squat, in theory, the way that you best do that is by doing a bunch of one rep max squats. Because in theory, the hypertrophy you get from that is going to be the most specific to the muscles and the ultra-structural adaptations that are going to lead to more pounds on your one rep max squat. On the other end of the spectrum might be bicep curls, right? Those are probably going to have, like, no benefit to your one rep max squat because, like, the term that you might see in the research sometimes is called, like, indiscriminate hypertrophy. Meaning that hypertrophy isn't really relevant to the strength task. Then, of course, between those two extremes, you have a bunch of other options, okay? And you basically work back from the extreme over here, which is just doing a bunch of one rep max squats based on practical constraints, okay? A lot of people aren't going to do enough volume to get a meaningful amount of hypertrophy from just doing one rep max squats. That's pretty unrealistic. So you kind of walk back a little bit. Okay, maybe I'm going to do some back-off sets with squat. And I'm going to do some sets of three to eight on the competition squat and leave some reps in the tank because I can do more work with that, right? Even that might be difficult at times. So, therefore, I move on to something like a belt squat or a leg press. Even that might pose some constraints. So you move to something like a leg extension, which now we're pretty far from a one rep max squat, but we're still closer to a one rep max squat than we are to bicep curls, right? And then that continuum, you just kind of move along it based on practical constraints. And you kind of put the big rocks in first, right? So if you were to imagine your powerlifting program as a jar, right? First, you put those heavy strength exposures in first. Then you probably put some back-off sets in, right? And those back-off sets are probably slightly smaller rocks than those heavy exposures. Then you put in some more specific accessory work like leg press or belt squat or hack squat, right? Those are slightly smaller. And then all you have left now is these smaller rocks like leg extensions, right? And those kind of get sprinkled in to kind of fill off that bucket. And if you were to overflow that bucket, that's when you run into recovery issues. So you're kind of working within those practical constraints. And you kind of work down that task-specific hypertrophy continuum to ensure the structural and ultra-structural adaptations you're getting are as relevant as possible to the task. But you're also filling up your jar as much as possible. And to wrap up here, I'll give a shout-out to a review paper that now I'm blanking on. Kyle Travis, thank you. That is really, really good. And basically all of my ideas on this come from that review paper from Kyle Travis. So that's what I got for specificity of hypertrophy for strength development.