 What's going on, guys? Welcome to episode 62 of the Data-Driven Strength Podcast. Today, we've got another Q&A episode on deck. We're going to talk about hard gainers and any recommendations we have for those, volume for strength, and then also post-activation as always be sure to post-activation. As always, be sure to leave your questions for us on the Instagram boxes that we leave on our stories. We're not going to be able to get to every single question that's entered in the boxes there, but over time with these Q&A episodes, we'll try to touch on everything that's dropped in there. But first and foremost, Josh, how are you doing? I don't like that promise because we're not going to get to everything. That, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of audiences. Um, so make sure you're following us on all the different platforms. Let us know your feedback. Um, it's, this is now going to be the fourth podcast kind of back in it for us. And, uh, it was cool to hear the, well, at this point as of recording this, we've only actually published one, um, but it was cool to kind of hear the feedback and I think, uh, or at least a decent bit of folks happy to hear us back at it. And, um, yeah, the podcast is a cool opportunity to chat about things and, but there's some flexibility in terms of complexity. So, uh, we're curious what, what everyone thinks, but yeah. Sweet. Yep. I agree. Um, so without further ado, let's go ahead and hop into question number one. So I got a few questions here that were all kind of of a similar vein. So I kind of just tried to combine them, but, uh, Mr. Leonardo Cavani was the one that I kind of took for the main hunk of the questions, but ultimately it's just our top three tips for hard gainers. So Josh, if you want to go ahead and define what a hard gainer is here to start, then we can start taking this. I was going to ask you, I was going to ask you to define it, but I'll, I'll take a shot and you let me know what you think. Um, I am, I think the furthest thing from a hard gainer. So from a personal perspective, um, and, and I don't mean to say that like, I'm a extreme responder to training. I mean that like gating weight has never been an issue for me. Um, your boy, your boy doesn't know what it, what it means to feel full. Um, so I'm not a, I'm not a hard gainer at all. Um, but I'd, I'd have to imagine, uh, a hard gainer is probably decently defined as someone that finds it hard to gain specifically, probably gain body weight, but maybe more specifically to our context, someone that thinks it's, uh, reports difficulty in responding to resistance training and gaining muscle or strength. And I think that would probably be the primary thing and a way that that kind of presents itself is it's very hard for this individual to gain body weight. Um, so do you, do you think that's a fair definition or fair characterization of these folks? Yeah, 100%. I think it, yeah, it's two main things. One would be just challenging from a lifestyle perspective to gain body weight and consequently probably in part due to that, um, challenging to see, uh, progress in terms of muscle or strength. Um, so yeah, I think that's a, I think it's a really good place to start. So, um, so yeah, I think I identify with these kind of individuals substantially more, um, I, I've, it's much more challenging for me to gain weight. I have a very, very high satiety response. Um, so I, I can, I can empathize with that. I think anybody that's ever had to force feed for, uh, trying to gain weight. I know Josh is, we've had many conversations and that concept to him just doesn't even, um, sounds like a fun Friday night rather than, uh, and then something that's a negative experience, but, um, yeah, it's, it's, it's challenging, um, to kind of break those things down. So I think, um, we'll kind of go through a few strategies here potentially to try to remedy that situation. But I guess, Josh, if you want to kind of take a stab at what you think the kind of the root cause of the, of the issue is, and then maybe we can go to some practical strategies on how to kind of address it. Yeah. I think there's two things. That immediately come to mind. The first is the possibility that the individual does just have a difficult time gaining muscle mass because there is some reason that all things held equal, they are going to experience less muscle growth than the average person, man. That's a whole podcast itself. That is very much up your alley, Zach, because there's a lot of overlap there with your PhD dissertation topic. Um, what, what I guess I'll say for now is that I, I, I would have to believe that exists to some degree, like just inherent response variation to training, but it's very, very, very difficult to parse that out from other modifiable factors. So what do we mean by other model modifiable factors? Those would be things that are just that that are modifiable, um, things related to the environment that you allow your body to respond to the stress of training within. Um, so these are your typical controllables like, uh, sleep duration and quality, which those are controllable, at least to some degree. Um, also controllable to some degree would be, would be stress levels. Um, the extent to which training can be a priority in your, your schedule. Um, and then probably the most important one would be the nutritional environment. Um, so man, when I think of lifters that I, I work with, um, that are, you know, like one of my favorite messages or, or, uh, responses to hear from a client is like, man, I never thought this was possible for me. Like, I never thought I would be able to lift this weight. Never thought I'd, I'd have, you know, muscles that look like this. Um, that more often than not, when that occurs, it's because we spent a lot of time in a detectable calorie surplus. And I think there has been, there's a decent bit of content out there that I don't think is necessarily bad or wrong. That really emphasizes that, um, you can gain muscle either in a caloric deficit or in maintenance or, or maintaining your body weight, which again, there's terms and conditions there regarding the different energy densities of different tissues, but, um, bear with my, my, uh, oversimplification here, but something I I'm very often repeating to folks is time in a surplus beats magnitude of surplus. Um, and time in a surplus is probably going to be the reason that you poke your head up five years from now. And you're really stoked with where you're at versus not. Um, and is that the most evidence-based thing in the world? No. Um, I would argue that's more due to a absence of evidence as opposed to evidence of absence. That's a tough thing to study. We don't have a ton of data on, but I mean, take the most extreme form, right? If you have, you know, someone that's just, I don't know, 150 pounds, if they want to put on, if they, yeah, if they want to put on 30 pounds of muscle, they're not going to be able to have 30 additional pounds of muscle at 150 pounds body weight. Like that's the most extreme example of this. But I think that also applies to someone that's pretty happy with where they're at, but they're like, man, this is really, really slow. Um, it's like, yeah, we, well, you weigh the same that you did, um, five years ago. So, so maybe there's, there's something there. Um, yeah, there's a lot of terms and conditions here, man. Like there's nutrition is a tricky thing with lifestyle, with, uh, values with, uh, you know, self-image, et cetera. So there's a lot here, but I don't know if there's any threads you want to pull on. No, you're, I mean, you're, you're dead on. It's, it's such a multifaceted issue, which is why I think this is so pervasive, honestly. Um, so the couple of things that I wrote down is the, the number one, number one thing that Josh already hit on, I'm just going to come at it from a different angle is just committing to a surplus. And I think that comes from a few different things. I think one, the, the kind of social factors, like you mentioned that I think I can, I can somewhat relate to is like, when you do feel like you're kind of committing to that surplus initially, um, you can have the perception that it's going to be like, Oh, we're taking a trip to muscle city here immediately, but that's not necessarily how it works. Um, so you may have like a short-term negative perception of kind of how things feel, look, et cetera, a little harder to go upstairs, maybe look a little softer, maybe get a comment from your buddies that like, Hey, like, what do you, like, what are you doing? Um, and it just kind of makes things really, really challenging to get on the, the train tracks in the first place. So I think that that is definitely something to acknowledge, but, um, like you said, and entirely in my experience, like being able to actually commit to that surplus is absolutely the, the trip, um, or the, that's the thing that's going to take you to where you want to go. It's just finding the ways that are sustainable, both from, you know, all the other things and all the other factors that are influenced by gaining weight that are a little bit more challenging. And honestly, to some degree, we can't really comment on like, if that, if that change for you from a, from a self-image perspective is never going to be worth it, then unfortunately that may just be like part of the, part of the game that you have to work around. So like that, that's, I think, I think that's just something people have to like, accept with eyes wide open of like, Hey, this may result in this in the short term, but I'm doing this in terms of a long-term investment. I think if you kind of understand it from that perspective, it's a little bit easier to, to take. And then from a practical perspective in terms of like coming to a surplus, I think those are, you know, where you, you have to start getting creative with, uh, uh, weight gaining strategies. The, the most successful one that I ever had when I put on about 30 pounds, um, in the span of like, eh, it was a little bit over a year, I'd say. Um, when I was, went from like 160 to like 190, I just had peanut butter sandwiches on me at all times because the, the toughest thing from like a force feeding perspective, I find is just hitting the satiety cap in any one meal. So it's, it's basically the opposite of what like the mass media kind of talks about with respect to meal frequency and fat loss. Um, in my experience, like increasing meal frequency to be basically like as frequent as possible is the way to avoid hitting the satiety cap in any one meal such that you don't want to eat for a couple hours after that. So basically what I would do is I would eat to, you know, the point of moderate fullness or, you know, a reasonable amount of satiety, any of the quote unquote main meals. But outside of that, I had like snacks and things that were calorie dense on me at all times between meals. Um, and that for whatever reason was able to continuously eat to the point of moderate satiety at all my other meals. And that was a successful strategy for me. Um, you know, you'll heal liquid calories using, you know, more fat and cooking like oils and things like that to try to sneak hidden calories in there. Um, but that honestly, the, the spread and it just really comes down to being prepared was the one that was always the most successful for me personally. And then the other thing I was going to mention from a training perspective that I also can relate to is when you kind of what you were talking about, when you have friends in high school or whatever high school is where it really brings me back to this just from a personal perspective, but you know, somebody's bench is blowing up and you're going to the gym with them all the same time. It can feel like, man, the training program, I just, isn't working for me. I need something different. I need, I need like, this is, this is the problem. Um, so it can potentially encourage like program hopping and looking for a magic bullet from a training perspective, maybe even more so than, than typical. Um, and I would just say that that's really the case where you really want to kind of be the logbook guy in my experience where you're really, really dialing in on how important it is to like, kind of chase that progressive overload dragon, particularly early on, um, and kind of a training career. Um, because I think that kind of goes hand in hand with the, with the surplus thing of just kind of understanding the short term, like resolve what's going to happen. You know, you're maybe not going to be as strong as you like, maybe not able to kind of do the things you'd want to do, but committing to that process for the longterm is going to get you where you want to go. And I think that's kind of the, the general, um, philosophy there. Um, yeah. What do you think about that? Yeah, no, I agree. Um, I think you're, you just provide a perspective that I have a hard time. Like my head just doesn't go there in terms of meal frequency, um, and those different strategies, because like, I know this question is about hard gainers. So this isn't directly answering this individual's question, but like in my experience, more people don't have the skill of a small surplus. So they, they kind of view it as like a binary. I'm either like cutting or like, I I'm just not in a surplus or I'm in a surplus. And when I'm in a surplus, I'm eating everything I can. And then you gain a pound a week and it's like, yeah, the, you have to cut way earlier. And then again, you're kind of violating what I mentioned before in terms of time in a surplus is more important than magnitude of surplus. So like, I think for, for most people, so therefore probably most of the people listening to this, the skill of executing a small surplus, I think it's like massive, uh, for, for longterm progress. Cause it is really tricky. And like, I think for most people, it's not all that different from maintenance. Like it's really not that much of a mindset shift, right? Maybe just increase, uh, the portions or change the food choices in a couple meals. And that's the difference between maintaining body weight and gaining, you know, a pound and a half a month, which I think is for, for most males, a pretty good target. Um, and that skill, I, again, I just think is vital. So while I agree with you of like, you know, peanut butter sandwiches, um, increased meal frequency, additional cooking oils, whatever the case may be, that definitely applies for some folks, but probably for most folks, it's almost the opposite. And I think that just goes to show like the, you know, the, the things, even though we, we definitely have a, a lot to say regarding how, or more specifically, you have a lot to say regarding how people, uh, conceptualize individualization, you know, this is where I think, I think it's, it's pretty dang important. And, um, having discussions with someone that's gone down this road and seen it with various clients or whatever the case may be. And, um, kind of keeping that high level perspective, basically just alluding to the value of, of having someone in your corner, whether that's a coach or someone else, um, to kind of help you execute what's going to be best for you and what your specific challenges are. I just think is, is huge. Um, the very last thing I'll say, maybe it's not the last thing I'll say. We'll see if you have anything to add on the hard gainer point. It's just how important patience is as, especially as natural, as a natural lifter. Like there's probably a good amount of people that identify as hard gainers, but they're, if, if there was a way to quantify it or whatever, like they're, they're just not, it just takes a while. And social media is a really like, I, the amount of people that I just talk to that are not like in our super familiar with our niche that they're just like, I just don't like following fitness on social media. Like I literally have those, those keywords like blocked on Instagram or whatever. So I don't see fitness content because it's just like, I don't know, it's just not realistic for a lot of people. Given, you know, the Instagram effect and, uh, performance enhancing drugs that, you know, are kind of pervasive, which I don't, it's not a judgment stage, uh, a judgment statement by any means, but I can see how that can give you unrealistic expectations. Right. And thus you identify as a hard gainer, you identify as, um, I got to do something to, to speed up here. Right. Um, whereas in actuality, man, like things are probably moving in the right direction. It just takes a while. And, um, you know, I like to tell a lot of my clients, just stick to your guns. Um, cause you know, just like time in a surplus beats magnitude of, of surplus, you know, just time chipping away at these things, checking your boxes is going to be, you know, any special hard greener strategy, um, you know, that you might come across on the internet. So maybe that resonates with a few listeners. Beautiful. Yeah. Uh, I won't do too much on this one, but I do think while that was kind of directed at hard gainers, I do think that has some relevance for advanced lifters that are kind of like substantially plateaued from my hypertrophy perspective. Um, I'll save that for another day, but I do think you could probably replace hard gainer with somebody who's resistant to gain weight for whatever reason as an advanced athlete. And a lot of those things probably apply. Um, I do think that's a meaningful factor in where people kind of potentially halt training progress kind of later in a career. Um, just because the values change and your willingness to kind of commit to that surplus for whatever reason, health reasons, social reasons, uh, spotty image reasons. Like, I think that is something that, um, has some relevance to, to advanced lifters as well. So, um, okay, next one. We'll do one more. That took a lot longer than I expected, but that was a good conversation, man. And I, uh, I just think it's important because I, um, God damn it. I'm dragging this question on a lot, but like, I think the vast majority of lifters are going to think that they are not good responders at some point and thus might identify as like a hard gainer. Um, and that was just like, can't be true if so long as you define hard gainers as the minority. Um, so yeah, there there's, I think there's pieces there for someone that maybe truly is a hard gainer. There's pieces there for people that are kind of the opposite and, or maybe like me and like, if anything, the skill of executing a small surplus is like the most important thing. Um, and then probably hopefully some good info there in terms of folks that are closer to the average and patients checking your boxes and, um, kind of finding your bottleneck, um, and, and addressing that is key. So I'll shut up now and let you ask the next question. Um, you want to do pap or you want to do volume for strength? Um, It's your show, man. You're leading this one. Let's, uh, let's hit, man. I wrote, I wrote volume for strength on that line. So I got number two. So let's go do that. Um, all right. So the question from Stavros was how many heavy sets per week above 80 to 85% of one RM do you think is best to maximize strength? Two and a half. What do you think? It's a solid over under for sure. Yeah. No, I, this, this is a hard question to be honest. Um, like 80 to 85% is kind of a tricky cutoff. Um, maybe we should define this a little bit as like top sets because I definitely have periods with folks, especially on the bench press where back offs are 80 to 85%. And, um, I kind of, but like, that's so like for some, for some folks, it might be more than 10, but that's, that would be way more than I would probably ever do on like in terms of top sets on squat, for example. Um, and then I also have periods where maybe top sets are below 85%. Um, so maybe just number of top sets per lift is a little bit better. And I think that's the implication. Yeah. With the, with the understanding that like we periodize these to some degree, especially like in terms of loading, maybe some folks less than others, if they can tolerate it and just maintain high top set loads year round. Um, I mean, I, in my experience, it varies by lift primarily because of tolerance, um, with deadlift probably being the hardest to tolerate for most folks in terms of top sets, then squat and then bench press. And it ranges a lot because, you know, for, for whatever reason, I'd have to believe kind of the primary reason is going to be, um, structure and how just to some degree, like how their leverages quote unquote work for the lift. Um, I can't remember if it was this episode or last episode, cause we're recording these back to back, but, um, you know, like if you're a higher bencher with a shorter range of motion, you know, you could do 85% singles all day, but if you maybe have a closer grip and a history of, uh, pec tendon issues, and, uh, it's hard for you to get into a nice arch position and your range of motion is longer, right? Like it might, you might do 10% of the number of top sets. So I think it's going to range a lot. Um, I guess just to put some numbers out there, I'd probably have, uh, on average one top set on deadlift per week on squat on average, probably one and a half top sets per week with like half of my lifters doing one top set, the other half doing also doing a top set on their secondary day. And then on bench press, I'd probably say the average is like two and a half, um, with most of my clients doing at least two pretty heavy top sets a week, and then a good amount doing three. And then I'd say a decent bit doing four. Um, and just to be clear, that's not the same thing as frequency because you can definitely have days where you don't have top sets and you're just doing, you know, straight sets and, um, kind of putting those, those heavy exposures to the side for the day. Yeah, I think, uh, this is just another question that I've continuously come back to the fact that I think a lot of quote unquote individualization that we do, which is again, is a longer conversation we'll have teed up at some point. But I think biomechanics really does influence a lot of things. And I think this is another example where that is definitely the case. Like, I think like in theory, like we always like to, you know, kind of put the theoretical and then reel that in from a practical perspective, but like in theory, kind of the way that I think about strength in the, you know, the moderate terms, so you're thinking like, okay, it's time to prep for a meet, right? Like that's the kind of timeframe I'm thinking about is we're trying to accumulate as much kind of work close to our theoretical potential as possible. Um, so there's like a threshold of work that are threshold of performance that above that, which I would consider like sufficient to train true, like maximal performance. And then under that, I would say it's probably not contributing a whole lot. So just as a basic example, if my best squat ever is 500 pounds and on a given day, let's just say fatigue was absolutely insane. I did a bunch of downhill running. My quads are absolutely smoked and I can hit a single at a nine RP with three 15. That is from a daily percentage of one RM perspective. That would be quote unquote, you know, specific, right? That would be close to the percentage of one RM that I want to try to transfer to the task. But I don't think that has nearly the same transference as a single at 475 pounds, which is the same one at nine, but as relative to your true theoretical potential is much, much closer. So I think the kind of the conceptual idea there is we are trying to maximize the number of those that we are accumulating over a given week. Now you have two competing factors with that, right? You have one, if I was to do a daily max program, maybe my, my, uh, my, uh, actual percentage of theoretical performance that I'm achieving is going to start to go down because of whatever reason of accumulating fatigue from those multiple exposures over time. So, you know, you would think, Oh, daily maxing or daily top sets. That's going to be a really, really high number of exposures, but over time that may decay the actual percentage of my kind of theoretical performance that I can achieve on any given session. So maybe that's not ideal. And then on the other end of the perspective, you have to think about all the other things that are going to be related to tolerance too, right? Like if, if I'm increasing the number of those exposures that are causing nicks and niggles and consistency is going down the roof, I have to deload early. I have to auto-regulate this top set to be at a five RPE because, you know, my knee's bugging me on this day. That also is going to influence that, you know, that amount of performance that we're kind of accumulating under the curve. So I think the numbers that Josh gave are very similar to what I had in mind. Again, not the same thing as frequency, but it's close. Um, particularly for bench, I'd say bench frequency is probably a little bit higher than the number you gave, but it sounds pretty similar to kind of how I do it. It's like half the number of sessions have a, have a top set typically. Um, and similar with squat and deadlift, I would say then, uh, yeah, I think that's kind of the sweet spot to maximize that amount of kind of stimulus under the curve when you're thinking about all the other things that we have to do, right? Like for squats, we have to train deadlifts for bench. We have to train other exercises. Like there's just other considerations you have to, you have to keep in mind from a tolerance perspective and just logistics, but that's ultimately what I think you're kind of trying to do. So I think for strength in the moderate term, I think that is a meaningful variable that can be leveraged to try to improve things. If you're, if you're at a plateau, it's just the way that that's going to look, I think is a pretty fine dial in my experience. So like when we talk about volume for hypertrophy, that's kind of the analogous example here to me is like for, for hypertrophy, we're trying to accumulate essentially as much high quality volume that we can to maximize outcomes. That's kind of the name of the game. Now that's obviously a much more nuanced conversation on how to actually achieve that. But long story short, that's kind of what we're trying to do for strength. I think you're trying to do the same thing with this high quality performance exposure. You're trying to accumulate as much of that under the curve as possible. But for strength, I think the dial of adjustments that you have a, like you're able to play with is a lot more sensitive than it is for hypertrophy. If I do a few too many sets on any given week in hypertrophy, I may have some negative outcomes from that, but largely I don't think that's going to wreck my training. I can get right back to it next session, make a few adjustments, get right back to it next week, make a few adjustments, maybe go on a different exercise or whatever to kind of account for that and be totally fine. But for strength, I think you can kind of dig yourself in a pretty deep hole if you're, if you're going too crazy with the heavy exposures that makes the risk reward kind of ratio here, a little bit of a different calculus. And I think both Josh and I have probably become more conservative with this over time, probably me more so than him. Um, just because you grow to appreciate that the biggest thing with training is just stacking those chips over time and being consistent. So while I do think this is a good question, I do think it's a meaningful lever to pull in the face of a plateau. I don't really like to think about these questions on a weekly basis in terms of how I'm rationalizing that decision. It's much more on the scale of a prep on the scale of multiple blocks on the scale of training year. What is going to give me the best balance of that stimulus under the curve with guaranteed tolerance so that I can continuously take steps forward, make adjustments to training, continue to monitor things in the face of not running into a bunch of tolerance issues that are going to make those observations very challenging to gleam a ton from. Um, so yeah, I think that's kind of the way that I interpret this question and ultimately how I think the interpretation is important for these kinds of things to really think about the framing at which you're trying to optimize things for. I think it's easy to say, Hey, well, the meta-analysis by Ralston shows, you know, X amount of sets per week is what you, you know what I mean? It's, it's, it's an easy answer to kind of give those lines of rationale, but from a practical perspective, I think you really need to kind of think about those other factors that will influence this particularly on the margins. Yeah. So kind of work backwards from what's theoretically optimal is, is kind of a theme of the show recently. And, um, you also have to consider timescale. It kind of came into mind a couple of examples of when I'll, even if someone's doesn't care about physique at all, and that they just care about maximizing long-term powerlifting performance where I will, there will be periods where there are zero top sets, um, for primarily logistical reasons, like, um, just a little bit of a psychological break, um, a physical break or, and, or, uh, working within time constraints and saying, Hey, we, we got to make some investments here in terms of, um, you know, growing your quads. Uh, we can do that in a pretty specific way, still get you under the bar, still have you squat and do some pretty specific movements. But, um, if we could save 15 minutes from a session of 15, 20 minutes from a session from having you warm up to a top set, like it might be worth it on this timescale. So, um, unfortunately, if you want, you know, hard and fast ranges, um, we're very reluctant to give those, I think, because that's just not how it works. And that's not how decision-making works. I mean, we'll throw out numbers of where it tends to cluster around, but, um, exceptions are, are common to those, those averages that we have. And it's not to say that, you know, we need to completely reconceptualize training for each individual lifter in that, like, oh, I have some lifters that don't respond to intensity. Nah, they, they respond to intensity, my friend, they just probably don't tolerate it. And, uh, you have to be savvy in terms of, um, you know, like what you're saying here. And, and I don't, I don't think there's a reason to believe that their nervous system, uh, needs to do BFR or sissy squats, um, in order to learn the skill of squatting heavy, um, in some unique way. So not, but like at the same time, I realized how some of those like casual, um, observations and how people report them are helpful, right? Like I don't respond to intensity. Okay. That might not be perfectly accurate, but like, I know what you mean. And I will probably go in the same direction in terms of troubleshooting, but hopefully this discussion helps you understand our perspective in terms of, um, why that might be your observation and potentially expedite the troubleshooting. Um, and, you know, given each lifter is kind of ever evolving and there's a shelf life of observations and how long those apply for that individual, um, knowing, Hey, you know, maybe they respond, quote unquote, respond to intensity now, or, or probably more, uh, more accurately hope. Maybe they, they tolerate intensity a little bit better now. Sweet. Um, another good one, uh, as always, um, let us know if you have any comments about the show, still looking to upgrade, still looking to make it better. Um, still looking to make sure we're addressing all the things that our audience wants to, wants to see from the podcast. So feel free to reach out, give us feedback, but, um, yeah, I think this is another good episode. Um, keep the questions coming in. These have been really good. Um, and I think it kind of gives us, like Josh said at the beginning of the show, a good, um, variety of perspectives that are always useful, even for us to kind of reflect on, um, for our coaching practice. So thanks as always, we will see you on the next episode. Peace.