 Welcome to a very special episode of the Data Driven Strength Podcast. This is Season 2, Episode 1. We're not in our usual, the actual settings. Zach, where are we? Zach, where are we? The Batcave. Yeah. Make sure you are watching on YouTube. If you normally listen on the podcast. The visuals should also be available on Spotify today. This is going to be a multimedia experience. There's going to be a lot of things going on. We have multiple figures lined up. We have multiple papers, et cetera. Sure. Rogan, watch out. Yeah, so I have Dr. Zach Robinson, aka Jamie, here situated in the Batcave. This is a new approach to the podcast to kick off a series of episodes we have coming up regarding a recent project that Zach and I and some additional team members have been working on. So, Zach, before we get into the specifics of that, what's new and exciting with you? You got anything you want to chime in here as we kick offseason two? I mean, most importantly, Buckeyes are doing well so far. Offense is looking much improved with the guru Chip Kelly behind the scenes. Will Howard so far hasn't, you know, made my heart break into a million pieces so far. Got Oregon coming up. It's a big game. I think that's the, yeah, that's probably the most important thing in my life right now is just watching and following the Buckeyes and just making sure I got a good handle on the college football landscape at the moment. Zach and I's text messages generally consist of abusing each other over specifics regarding this project, how to interpret it, and various decisions that you have to make along the way, which we'll get into today, as well as Zach telling me how to understand football because I never played and I'm like, what's the difference between a running back and a wide receiver? But yeah, so Buckeyes are looking good and I think this might be the year. I have a beautiful wood table to knock on for that. And again, if you're not on Spotify or YouTube, I would encourage you to watch this one there. You can definitely still listen. I think you'll still have a great time, but it'll be a next level experience on the YouTubes. And while you're there, like the video, subscribe. That helps us out a lot. Leave a comment. This is probably going to be a longer episode, so we're looking forward to feedback. There's going to be a lot of threads that we could pull on and do individual podcast episodes about. So again, we're very much looking forward to feedback. We have a lot of things in the queue. And with that, maybe I should just go ahead and actually mention what we're going to be discussing today. So we recently pre-printed a meta-analysis and meta-regressions on the effects of weekly volume and frequency on muscle hypertrophy and strength gain. So if you check out the YouTube description or the show notes on your podcast player of choice, you'll be able to view the pre-print there. I will say on the front end that as of recording this, this is a version one of the pre-print. One of the main reasons to pre-print a manuscript is to get feedback on it, kind of another form of peer review, if you will, so that, hey, maybe we missed something. Maybe we didn't report something. Maybe something was unclear. We can make adjustments to that, right? Things can and almost certainly will change. And I think that's a feature, not a bug. So that's just something to mention on the front end. This is version one of the paper that we'll be discussing. And hey, make sure you're subscribed. Make sure you are tuned in because we'll definitely keep you updated, you know, just throughout various episodes of the show. Zach, do you want to give, I guess, maybe a little bit of context, not necessarily context around like the volume and frequency literature, but maybe how this started, and maybe you could even start with your meta-analysis and meta-regressions on proximity to failure, which was recently published in Sports Medicine and was pre-printed maybe a year or so before that. Yeah. So I think, you know, when I began my PhD, finishing on my master's, you know, one of the skills and things I was interested in learning about but hadn't really, you know, been exposed to in any formal sense was just the entire cornucopia of things that is meta-analysis. And I think specifically in the case of the proximity to failure stuff, one of the major things we had always kind of discussed, but, you know, I didn't have the skill set nor background knowledge on kind of what would be the alternative approaches in terms of taking something that we understand from the trenches is a continuous variable, like proximity to failure, like you can train it two, three, four RIRs, zero RIRs, like there's obviously a very wide-ranging, like spots on that continuum that you can train at. But in implicit assumption in meta-analysis to date on that topic is you have to dichotomize this variable in some way. So typically the way that was done is comparing non-failure to failure. But for me, you know, coming at it from a different perspective than obviously we have now, but we were always of the opinion that you can't really treat all non-failure training the same, particularly in the case of other, you know, factors of study design. The main one that we were kind of talking about at the time was the percentage of one RM that you're training at, right? Two RIR at 85% of one RM isn't the same thing as two RIR at 30% of one RM. And I think that kind of line of reasoning opened us up to this huge, in our lab, to this huge kind of area of trying to take these variables that are honestly the foundational principles of our kind of research area and trying to understand them in more of these continuous understandings that I would say probably more so reflects the way that they operate in physiology, which I think, you know, just makes sense on trying to do things those way. Now, I'm not going to completely understate how difficult of a task that is. And by no means are we the ground leaders here. People have been doing these types of analyses in medicine and biology and even exercise science for a really long time. You know, shout out to one of my committee members and collaborators, Dr. James Steele, has been doing a lot of this cool stuff and has obviously played a big role in our field and kind of, you know, propagating these methods and trying to translate some of this stuff from other fields. And I think that was kind of the kickoff to this to this kind of area that we kind of got interested in. And so, you know, we knocked out the the proximity failure one. You know, I would say it came away with some interesting findings and maybe just some interesting perspectives on what that type of an approach can give you in terms of granularity and clarity and just understanding things and maybe in a slightly different way. It takes you away from the ability to interpret things in kind of a black and white lens, I feel. Just again, just to hit very quickly on the proximity failure case, you know, typically the narrative had been that training to failure doesn't offer you anything additionally in comparison to non-failure training or at least not to a significant degree. But when you're comparing things in that kind of categorical fashion, it just doesn't lend you to thinking about the variable in the way that you wouldn't practice. Obviously, there is some sort of relationship that exists between those RIRs and understanding the shape of that is going to be better informing practice. And I think that's the same exact kind of approach that we were taking with some of the volume stuff is that, you know, we've taken a look at a lot of the work that's been done thus far. And I think there's just a lot of, you know, room to grow. It's that, particularly the Schoenfeld 2017 meta-analysis is obviously a foundational component. I would say, honestly, that paper alone probably has got more of us young scientists interested and juiced up about research than any other paper in exercise science and kind of the resistance training sphere. So that paper obviously deserves a lot of credit and is, again, just like a seminal work in our field, I would say. But that said, I think there's a lot of places that we could grow and expand and look at this from a different angle for a variety of different reasons. And I think that is kind of what's led us here, ultimately. Yeah. And that's the job of a scientist. And especially, I think, the perspective we come at it from. I don't know if this applies to our field, but I've heard the term, I think it's pracademic. Or maybe I'm jumbling that up a little bit. But, you know, we're coming at academia research from a very practical lens. And ultimately, I think I speak for both of us in the sense that I want to know how to train. Like, I think it's naive to, like you said, get black and white answers. But there's a lot of just fundamental relationships that left a lot to be desired up to this point. And I think still remain. So ultimately, that's what drives kind of the project here. And that leads me to just like the goal of this podcast. Ultimately, I view this podcast as kind of an explainer for this project. And specifically, we're going to be talking about weekly volume for hypertrophy. So if you read the preprint, there are four main outcomes. There's weekly volume for hypertrophy. There's weekly volume for strength. There is weekly frequency for hypertrophy and weekly frequency for strength. We plan to do an individual episode on each because the Batcave literally cannot handle that. If we were to try to do that all in one go, this place would not be good. And the reason we want to do an explainer for this is I kind of want to get ahead of some misconceptions that can occur, to be honest. I think, you know, if someone with a following kind of like comes up with some sort of conclusion or a narrative around a paper, even if that person is the author of the paper, that can spread more than the actual data itself. And I don't know, we could have a whole debate around that. Maybe that's a good thing at times because, you know, papers aren't all that intuitive and not necessarily meant to be the most practical thing in the world. But ultimately, I just, I will sleep better at night knowing that this is out there and we kind of like put our perspective out there. So again, that's the goal is for this to kind of be an explainer episode. We are not going to take sides. I think we are probably, unfortunately, going to get painted as like having a certain side just as a result of oh, this paper had certain findings. We were authors on the paper. Therefore, they have this bias. They have this opinion. We can't do anything about that in terms of how others view us. But hopefully this podcast is as intellectually honest as possible. Not saying that we're ever going to be like removed of bias. But our interest is like, to be completely frank, there are multiple approaches we could take with this meta-analysis. We could like take our findings to the bank, overstate them, go crazy with them. And again, this medium and this approach here is quite the opposite of that. So don't expect us to take sides and say like, oh, this camp is totally wrong. This camp is totally right. But we do have practical opinions. We have interpretations of our data. And we'll do our best to hold ourselves accountable and hold each other accountable in terms of being clear when we're discussing our opinions, right? So, hey, this is more objective in terms of what we're discussing versus, hey, this is more of our interpretation of the data. And again, we'll do our best to kind of point out limitations of the data themselves because that is important for interpretation and failing to do so could also be a form of bias. So again, more episodes coming. We will also have an episode. The plan right now is to have an episode as well with Jake Remmert, who was also an integral part of this. He is the second author on this paper. And shortly following this paper on weekly volume and frequency, there will be another one, which is going to be more along the lines of per session volume and frequency. So be on the lookout for that manuscript. Per session volume. What did I say? Per session volume and frequency. Oh, yeah. Thank you. Per session volume. I was thinking per session volume for hypertrophy and strength. So be on the lookout for that. And then Jake will definitely have some interesting insights. But shout out to Jake. Shout out to the whole team. Upon reflecting on kind of getting to, I guess, this point of version one of the preprint is I'm very appreciative that everyone on the team, so myself, Jake, you, Dr. Zach Robinson, Seth Henson, as well as our advisor, Dr. Mike Zordos, everyone is fully on the same page in terms of our values. And that, I think, is something that can't be understated because similar to the interpretation and the communication of these findings, there's a lot of approaches you can take in terms of the research process itself. To call a spade a spade, this took us a lot longer than we thought. It is, like you said, we're approaching, you know, as of recording this, week four. Wait, no. Would it be week five of the college football season? Week four. Week four. I think. Yeah. Whatever the case may be. Ultimately, I was hoping to be done with this project around week four or five of last football season. Okay. So this took us a lot longer than we thought. And again, that's why I think a discussion like this will hopefully be helpful, not only for practitioners and enthusiasts, but also maybe even researchers as well, because there were just countless hours of hashing out details regarding how to best answer this question. And ultimately, that is something I'm very appreciative of from the entire team is that that was the goal is to best answer the question. And that is above anything else. That is above expediency, as frustrating as it was even for us. So very appreciative of that. Shout out to the entire team and especially shout out to Jake. Looking forward to his manuscript and that really like Jake and I did. We're kind of like both spearheading this larger project, this larger project that'll end up being two proper manuscripts, which we'll discuss more in the future. Okay. Any color you want to add there, Zach? Or can I continue on regarding, I guess, the evolution of the project? Not really. I think the only thing I just wanted to say is just like, that is something that from my perspective, when you guys kind of started out on this, that I've just admired. Well, you guys, obviously, I've played a role from the sidelines. But yeah, there's just a lot of ways that this could have went. And understanding that it is a long term project, but fully embracing that and every single twist in the road and turn and everything and realizing multiple times along the journey that there was a better way to do it. And that better way to do it likely was going to be a lot more effort is something that... There were multiple pit stops where we're like, oh God, this is a setback. I hope people read this paper and realize that that has been... People have kind of hinted at this on social media and stuff and know we've been working on this for a while. But that's been the fundamental thing at the end of the day that has been absolute priority number one is that it does not matter how long it takes. It does not matter what we find. It doesn't matter what it is. We want this to be done as well as humanly possible and understand every single perspective, steal me in every perspective, offer an analysis or a sub comparison or something to acknowledge the fact that people view this topic differently. And I hope that people can read this. And like you said, we're never going to be absolved of entirely of bias. The results are what the results are. And that's ultimately going to probably put us on one side of the fence, even though, you know, honestly, I feel like a fence sitter when it comes to this topic. But I hope people can realize like the degree of effort and work that you guys put into this is absolutely insane. And that hopefully is reflecting on the amount of materials and the amount of things that people have access to to interpret this from a different lens. And you can realize just by looking at how many things and how many angles and how many, how complicated this stuff is. So coming away with a soundbite that is just entirely putting us on one side of the fence is just entirely unfair in my opinion. But yeah, man, that's the number one thing just on the front end of this is like, we tried really hard to do the best that we could with this. And like we said, consider literally every single perspective, humanly possible, steel man it and try to account for it in some way to offer credence to every single position known to man. And throughout this, hopefully you can hear that caution and hear that perspective when we kind of, you know, go through the results and everything. So make, make fence sitting cool again, make fence sitting cool again. There you go. Yeah. So like we've both alluded to, this took us much longer than we thought. And that's just a result of, to be fair, you were, you told me this, you told me it would take, you told Jake and I that it would take so longer. Yeah. The initial, the initial conversation was, so my proximity to failure one, which I did most of the, I did all the data extraction by myself on that one. And I was estimating RARs for every single one of those that took two years, I think, to start to finish, to get that entirely done. So I figured without the estimation, you guys would be on a little bit on the shorter end of that. And there we go. Until we started adding every like variable into the sun, I remember so many times you're like, dude, if you're extracting, just get it. Um, because you never know, um, like, Hey, if you, if you're extracting a study and you're, you know, emailing the authors, you might as well just kind of get as much as get their big toe length and just like, yeah, exactly. Exactly. And, um, yeah, there were just, there were just so many countless discussions. Um, as we'll get to, when we get to the, like the methods and what a meta regression is, what that means, it's not just getting the percent changes and chucking it into a, uh, plot in Microsoft Excel and, um, pressing the best fit button and seeing, seeing what happens there. There's a, there's a little bit more that goes into it. And there were just, I think a lot of blind spots ultimately, like we'll probably touch on this a little bit, but when you're doing a dose response relationship with volume, how you treat zero sets is really tricky. And, um, like you said, we had to kind of draw another field in terms of how to manage that. Um, and there's no perfect solution. And I think that leads to some limitations, which again, might be overlooked if you're just kind of see the soundbite or see figure X on, on the internet. So, so again, I'll, I'll sleep better known. This is out there. Um, I'd also say that the kind of answers to the, the answers that this provides, or maybe not answers, but insights that this provides have kind of changed. I think initially, um, at least I had high hopes regarding the moderators. So, Hey, how does the age of the participants, how does the, uh, sex of the participants, how does the rep range rest periods, uh, there's a whole discussion here regarding frequency as well, which is going to be multiple podcast episodes coming up, including, um, one with, uh, Mr. Remmert. I think I had high hopes regarding those sorts of things, like how the dose response relationship changes as a result and answering kind of these nitty gritty training questions. Um, ultimately that ended up being less of the focus, which again, we'll, we'll kind of put a pin in that for now and circle back to it and discuss that in more detail, why that's the case and the insights we can and can't get. But I will say it has like kind of more resoundingly given insights in other areas that maybe I didn't expect. Um, so just from a high level here, it is honestly fundamentally shifted my view of training, um, since we've known the results because we've known the results for months now. Um, and it's kind of just been a process of obviously writing the manuscript, finalizing everything again, trying to make sure there's, there's no blind spots that we're missing. Um, pre-printing again, obviously allows us to get feedback. The, uh, the review process hopefully will, will give us some good feedback as well. And, but, but I feel like we're in, we're in a good spot. It might not be the final spot. And especially with additional data that might come in the future, things very well might change. I want to be very clear. I'm not like saying, Oh, you know, put our flag in the ground. This is, this is the answer. And my new perspective on training is the perspective on training. But again, based on my interpretation, or I should say our interpretation up to this point, um, at the end of the day, you need to make decisions based on the best available data and just kind of play that whole probability game. It has considerably changed things and it's been honestly really exciting. Um, and it's also, uh, kind of worked out really well for my PhD dissertation project as well, because it's something set, it sets things up quite well. Um, and ultimately, even though we want to get insights that inform training because we have that practitioner lens, another big reason we wanted to do this project is because it informs intervention studies for our lab. Um, I think it adds additional color to your dissertation, uh, your main dissertation, uh, training study. It, like I said, it sets things up quite well for my main dissertation training study. And it also helps Jake's main dissertation study as well. So hopefully this can have a net positive effect, um, for our lab, for multiple labs and for, uh, the practitioners as well. A hundred percent. Yeah, no, I think that's a very good way to frame it. So to kind of kick us off, do you want to kind of go through the evolution of this area, the kind of the papers that we've down there, we just, you know, knocked out a solid 25 minute intro. Let's, uh, you know, let's get into it. Yeah. I think the prevailing opinion has kind of shifted, um, both at like a macro level and at a micro level. So when I say at a macro level, we've probably had shifts say over the last 10 years, maybe even more where, you know, you kind of have the general opinion is, oh, volume is the driver of hypertrophy. Or maybe we have a study that comes out that shows a sort of ceiling effect to additional volume for hypertrophy. And all of a sudden, you know, there's a ton of content coming out and, and opinions regarding, oh, don't do junk volume or, Hey, there's obviously this inverted U because we now have one or two studies that show a ceiling effect, or maybe even slightly worse growth in higher volume conditions. Um, now I will say, and I think, especially for folks that have been pretty like kept up with this area, even if they haven't been reading the individual studies, um, you know, just kind of kept up with the evidence-based sphere, if you will. I do think there were some studies that have either been retracted or at least called into question that have influenced that, which I think is, is helpful to reflect upon. Um, there is a white paper by Vygotsky and colleagues, which I cited, uh, or we cited in the manuscript and we did not include those studies in the, uh, meta regressions because of concerns about the validity of the data. And I'm just going to leave it at that. Um, but ultimately I do think that's important to acknowledge that I think some of those macro shifts might've been influenced by some studies that again, the validity of the data has been questioned. Um, but nonetheless, we kind of seen these shifts from, oh, volume is the driver. Oh, there's junk volume. Oh, there's an inverted U. Um, and then, you know, if there is a study come coming out in one way or the other, then it has to be due to the training status or it has to be due to the rest periods or whatever the case may be. Um, ultimately that's enticing when a new study comes out to kind of swing a little bit in terms of your perspective, but, um, the more you understand about how individual study results can vary, the less seriously you take any new study is ultimately how it, uh, not seriously, but, um, the less you over extrapolate based on the findings of that study. Um, so these shifts can occur because of sampling variability, um, just variability due to measurement error. Um, importantly, how the results are reported, um, and communicated, I think is important, right? You could have the same exact underlying data set, but based on how they're reported and framed in the paper, whether that's the author's perspective or the, um, or the reviewer or the journal or something contributing to that, or whoever is doing the science communication that can greatly influence things. And then also actual things related to the study design. So whether it's the set volumes themselves, right, if you have a study comparing five to 10 sets, maybe that's more likely to find an effect compared to 15 to 20, even if there is a true effect between 15 to 20. Um, but there is, uh, just not as big of an effect. It's harder to pick up. Um, and then of course, some other things could play a role like rest periods, like training status, the exercises used, et cetera. Now, as we'll probably get into, it's very hard to tease that out, um, from a scientific perspective, but I think people have kind of allowed this pendulum to swing, which I don't think is inherently a bad thing, but it's just kind of wild how much it has swung and how different the opinions can be. But hopefully our takeaways by the time we get to the end of this episode are parsimonious in the sense that, uh, they can kind of allow these various perspectives to, to all kind of fit into one. Um, money. Yeah. Um, I guess the, the place I kind of wanted to go next was kind of talking through some of the foundational papers that kind of crafted the, those, those kind of narratives that you kind of described and how those things kind of get started and maybe walk us through kind of the current, um, maybe the current mental model of kind of how people think about this. I'll throw some stuff up, um, while you're kind of going through that. And then that will lead us nicely into a lot of the ways that we wanted to, you know, build upon the previous work. So I think that's probably a good place to go next. Yeah. Perfect. So I think the first paper that would be good to, uh, to chuck up there, Zach is the seminal paper, like you mentioned by Schoenfeld and colleagues from 2017. I'm going to use this paper as well as one from Baz Val and colleagues from 2022. I would say that these are probably the two best cited meta-analyses as like that have been cited in the last couple of years, right? Cause the, the two most recent ones, if you will, there was also, uh, I don't know if this was like the original, uh, meta-analysis by Krieger, um, but that one I think was updated in 2017 by, by Schoenfeld. Um, so anyway, these are kind of the two, our two home base references, if you will. Importantly, both of these meta-analyses and ours as well, investigate set volumes. So just to make sure everyone's on the same page, we are quantifying the dosage here. So part of the title of the manuscript is dose response. We are using set volume as a way to quantify the dose response. Okay. So there are other ways to quantify volume. You could do, um, sets times reps times weight. Um, you could do just reps. I'm sure I'm missing some, but point being is there are other ways to quantify dosage. There are other ways to quantify volume, but we are going to use set volume going forward. And that's what these meta-analyses used as well. So Schoenfeld and colleagues from 2017, um, Zach has kind of the main, uh, page from the paper there, um, as a visual. So they did multiple analyses, which I think is very insightful for interpretation. So yeah, the, the main force plot there. So, uh, that is basically just a kind of traditional meta-analysis where you're comparing low versus high volumes. Okay. Uh, so some of those studies might've compared to two versus six weekly sets. Some of those studies might've compared eight versus 16, right? Um, it's just low versus high. And that was significant. Um, and that just kind of sets the groundwork. Hey, on average, when you have a higher, uh, higher volume group, cool. We see slightly better measures of muscle growth. Um, they also did a linear regression. Go ahead. Just, just touch on that. So let's, let's walk through this a little bit. Explain maybe a little bit clearly or a little bit more closely. What, what could be the possibility of having the same, um, on the same side of that forest plot? So like the higher volume. Yeah. Explain how you could have the same number on both sides, depending on the row. Cause I think that's a really, really important thing to kind of go from this. Yeah. So kind of like I'm, I mentioned, if you're just, uh, looking at, uh, multiple studies and you're comparing low versus high, you're a categorizing the variables and you're also categorizing based on like not necessarily fair criteria is, is kind of the way that I would think about it. I'm not saying this analysis is not helpful as we'll talk about. We did a very similar one. And they accounted for it too, which we'll talk about here in a second. Yeah. So the, the biggest limitation here is if you, let's say you hypothesize that there is some sort of plateau effect where additional volume will lead to a plateau in muscle growth, um, or even an inverted U where you do additional volume and then you kind of see a, a, uh, worse and worse hypertrophy as you add volume beyond that point. If you're just doing low versus high, that really does not account for that as well. Cause you could have a study. You could have a group with two sets per week in low volume. You could also theoretically have a group with a hundred sets per week in quote unquote low volume. So it just fails to account for that. Again, the authors obviously know this and they accounted for it because, um, they did do categorical. I think it was a categorical meta regression. Um, the one that I want to zoom in on is the, uh, greater than nine sets or sorry, less than nine sets and less than or equal to nine sets. Yeah. Perfect. And, uh, greater than nine sets and the P value there, I think it was 0.07 or so. Um, and, but the effect sizes were, most people would probably categorize them as practically meaningfully greater in the, uh, higher condition there. So that's a, a better way to account for, um, that issue we just noted is that, Hey, if you do this categorical meta regression, uh, greater than nine sets versus less than or equal to nine sets, what do we see? And we see it generally leaned in favor of higher volume. Now they also did a linear meta regression and I don't think they have a visual. Each additional set is where it's summarized. Perfect. Um, each additional set, I think it was like 0.38% or something like that. I don't know if it shows it in that table. 0.023. 0.02. Oh no, that's equivalent percentage. Oh, there it's 0.37. Yeah. Cool. So that linear regression was significant. So in other words, if you were to fit a linear model, um, with the, the data they included, it would say, Hey, that, that is significant. This is, uh, seems to be at least resembling a linear relationship. Um, so that is a great step in the kind of continuous direction. So we are definitely not the first to do a continuous analysis. Which is hilarious though, because that, that one has gotten essentially zero communication, which is so interesting. So when we went back and, you know, this was a while ago at this point when we were kind of first, you know, crafting up the proximity to failure stuff, we didn't, I didn't know, to be honest, even though I had cited this paper multiple times, I didn't even know that was an analysis, um, which is, you know, shame on me for poor comprehension skills. But, um, but yeah, that, that one doesn't get nearly as much, um, nearly as much, uh, talk honestly. And arguably, I think that's probably a more accurate representation of how to analyze that variable. Um, the ones that get more of a kind of press are these categorical, uh, you know, cut points that they're essentially analyzing. So you're basically creating a variable for, okay, does this belong in the low, medium or high volume bucket? But the problem with those, just like the, the, the binary classification of high versus low is you still have issues with where those cut points are occurring. Yep. And so this sets the perfect stage for kind of some of the areas that we'll, we'll touch on here in a bit, but obviously a linear relationship with volume, most people would say that's probably not what you hypothesize going into it, but usually that's selected because it's considered what's called the most parsimonious or the simplest or generally speaking, if I have a linear model, it's going to be best at predicting future outcomes. That's, that's generally speaking, a simple model is generally going to generalize to future data better than a really, really complicated model that fits the data that you have extremely well, but probably does poor in the future because its ability to predict outcomes is a little bit less. So that's generally the balance between something that's a complicated model or a complicated approach versus a simpler approach. It kind of seems counterintuitive that you would want the simpler approach to explain your data, but it ultimately is probably going to be better when you get more data and get out of sample, ultimately predictions that you have to make. So the point here is they tried to encapsulate this non-linearity that we all kind of hypothesize with the volume relationship by introduce introducing these categorical cut points, which again, makes perfect sense. It's just, I think there's a little bit of, um, there's some more things that we could do to maybe do that a little bit, um, differently to not have these arbitrary kind of classifications of in this case, you know, less than five or less than nine. So in those buckets, basically what you're doing is within each classification, you're treating one set or five sets or nine sets, the exact same, which fundamentally we know like intuitively that doesn't make a ton of sense, but it is a little bit more challenging to kind of, kind of think through the implications there. But ultimately I think all the, all the, all the information of what we were going to ultimately try to do is here. It's just maybe a little bit in different places and not going to kind of system on ties and put all together, um, in the end. But yeah, that's, that's definitely, uh, something to hit on for sure. Yeah, that's very well said. Um, so tons of credit to the authors of that meta-analysis kind of ultimately set the groundwork for, for what we did. Um, and kind of the takeaway from that paper, I think the soundbite, which I think is relatively accurate is there was a dose response up to 10 sets per week, but there was insufficient data to make strong conclusions beyond 10 sets per week. Now, since 2017, and I think largely as a result of their analysis, we have more data, especially in those higher volume ranges. So as a result in 2022, Bazval and colleagues kind of noticed this and they were like, okay, Schoenfeld and colleagues, they saw a benefit, uh, up to say 10 sets per week or thereabouts. But what about beyond that? Um, do we see a plateau? Do we kind of see an inverted U? What's, what's the conceptual takeaway? So again, like you said, effectively getting at our interest, which is what is the nature of the dose response relationship? Um, but doing it in more of a dichotomous way. So specifically what Bazval did in 2022 is they, uh, meta-analyzed studies that had one group performing 12 to 20 sets and another group performing greater than 20 sets. And they also only used trained individuals and they only used direct measures. So they had relatively tight inclusion criteria. I actually don't have it in front of me, at least on my screen, but I think it was seven total studies. So it wasn't a huge amount of studies, but it was pretty homogenous. Um, so again, we're kind of trying to get at this question, but still using categories. Nonetheless, what are, what are the results? Um, Hey, this is why you, uh, this is why you watch the video because you get to see Zach pulling up the main figure. Yeah, that's, that's perfect. So what you can see here are three forest plots. Um, and they broke it up by the triceps, the quads and the biceps. So again, all of these studies compared 12 to 20 weekly sets and greater than 20 sets. And the triceps were significant in terms of benefiting, uh, in terms of greater hypertrophy in the greater than 20 set conditions, but the quadriceps and biceps were not. Um, I will say that the standardized mean difference did lean in favor of the higher volumes for the quads and the biceps as well. Um, but nonetheless, this wasn't like super overwhelming evidence in favor of greater than 20 sets. Here's a quick question for you. Cause honestly, I don't know. It's been a while since I've read this paper closely. Did they have a reason why they did only sub analyses of the muscle groups rather than like my expectation here would be that once again, talking about how narratives change, this would be honestly like a fundamentally different communication that would have happened for the last couple of years that this had been different. But my expectation would have been if they would have metanalyzed these all together, the additional power would have made it significant overall. Um, would have been my guess, but honestly, I don't know, but like, I was just curious what the, uh, if they had a rationale there, but if not, it's an interesting thing to consider. They've very well may have, but I don't know off the top of my head. And just from a quick skim of the, um, methods, I don't see one, but again, I definitely could be missing something. Just to make it crystal clear what I'm saying here. Ultimately, what they did here was they separated the muscle groups for each of these different force plots that we're, that we're seeing here. So we have the, I can't tell exactly which muscle groups are which, but you can tell that there's section ABC through the different muscle groups. But instead of typically when you see sub analyses done like these, you have a summary or pooled effect size at the bottom, which is essentially telling you taking into account all of these observations or all of these effect sizes, what do we consider on average? Personally, for me, I don't see a super strong reason to think why muscle groups would operate fundamentally differently. Now you have some, you know, some reasonable hypotheses, like some muscle groups are more susceptible to damage or some are easily more easily fatigable. I understand. I understand that, but I would say very large picture. I don't think there's like a fundamental reason why muscle groups would be different. So I think having a pooled estimate there would make sense, but theoretically, you know, you pull all of those observations together because you have more data contributing to that estimate. The, typically the intervals or the width of the diamond here, the confidence interval is going to be narrower because you have more data contributing to that estimate. Could have been significant in this pooled effect size, but people often use this as Josh is going to go on here to say kind of this plateau effect, but that could have been fundamentally different if things were done slightly differently, which is a foray or a foreshadowing to how important statistical decisions are for these things because they fundamentally shape how this stuff is communicated because that one line in the conclusion section that would be different based on this decision completely changes the way the narrative has been for the past couple of years. Yeah, right on. So as a result of these two papers, at least from my perspective, kind of what I've heard is, and we've, I think have probably said this as well. So to be clear, this is like, this is not a holier than thou by any means. This is a, Hey, this is what we had. This is what people went off of. And we did too. Um, so two takeaways. The first is that, Hey, there seems to be a pretty strong dose response up to 10 sets. Beyond that, it becomes a less convincing. So therefore 10 to 20 sets is probably a pretty good recommendation for muscle hypertrophy. Another main takeaway is that if we think back to, okay, in the Baz Val paper, we had a force plot for quads, biceps, and triceps. Only triceps was significant. Now this very well could just be to random noise and, and some of the issues with categorizing volumes as such, but Hey, a lot of tricep exercises are going to be from indirect training. So a lot of bench press training. Yep. A lot of maybe overhead press, whatever the case may be. Whereas the quads, it's actually pretty dang hard to do an indirect quad set. Um, depending on exactly how you're, you're kind of categorizing it. Um, so Hey, maybe the triceps were more significant because if you're doing, if you're counting any set where the triceps are contributing as one set, that could just mean that, Hey, the, the triceps actually got less stimulus, even though their set volume was similar. So those are the two takeaways. Hey, plat plateau ish around 10 to 20 sets. Therefore there's our recommendation. Um, and, uh, kind of the reason the triceps might do better is because of the indirect type training. So again, we were on board. Cool. Sounds good. Great metas, but I think we would all agree. There are some limitations to these two meta-analyses and, and not only additional data that we could integrate, but also some new ways to look at it, um, and potentially get some additional insights. So as we've mentioned, the authors here are, I think in a lot of ways, asking the same questions that we did about continuous outcomes. So, um, we have volume that is a continuous variable. It's not a categorical variable. I don't say, Hey, I'm going to do one to five sets this week, or I'm going to do six to 10. No, you can do any number of sets. So therefore, what is that? What is the nature of that dose response relationship? And while Schoenfeld did, uh, look at whether a linear relationship was significant, um, nonlinear forms have not been investigated. Further, both of these meta-analyses, uh, counted direct and indirect sets equally. So again, basic examples that we can, we can spitball here. In the bench press, the pecs, most people would, um, say that the, uh, the pecs are a direct contributor to the, the, the, the bench press, whereas the triceps are more so getting an indirect stimulus. In a squat, um, maybe the quads are getting, uh, a quote unquote direct stimulus or a full set, but other muscles are getting, uh, less of a stimulus. Pull downs, rows. Okay. The back is getting a, um, a full set, but maybe the biceps are getting less of a stimulus. So again, these previous meta-analyses just counted those all the same. Hey, if, if, um, if you're doing elbow flexion, whether it's a bicep curl or a dumbbell row, it counts as one set. Um, and people rightly pointed out this limitation, but no one has done a meta-analysis exploring this limitation, if you will, to try to better, to try to get the most precise dose response relationship with that in mind. So did I miss anything there? You think that's pretty good? No, I think that's great. I think this is the, the biggest area of where people can immediately realize how long this took you guys to, uh, extract all the studies. And, um, so yeah, we'll get there, but there's a, there's a big old table of the exercises that contribute to certain muscle groups that, you know, these guys painstakingly went through every single one of these studies and determined, okay, what's the primary force generator? What's the secondary force generator? Um, count up those direct and indirect sets. So it's just like, yeah, it's just, there's a lot that seems like simple things that you just pointed out, but in reality can have pretty big shifts in the way things are interpreted. So I think that's just a really important thing. Actually, this would, let's just go ahead and jump to that, um, that table. So this can be found in the manuscript, at least in version one, I could very well see this ending up with the supplementary materials in the future, just cause, uh, you know, there's, there's so much stuff that could go in the paper. So like Zach said, there's a reason that previous studies have just counted every set as one, whether it's a direct set or an indirect set. Okay. And that's because it's hard to be objective about it. Um, so if you, if you make a decision, you, you, like, I think the scientist is like, we need to be perfectly objective about that decision. I think our perspective more from a practitioner lens is, yeah, it sucks. We can't be fully objective about it, but as long as we're transparent about what we did and we're consistent and we can justify those within reason, I think that is a huge net positive. So basically during the extraction process, we had to quantify, um, the set volume for the measured muscle in multiple ways. So we did it in three ways. The first is we quantified set volume using a total method in which just like the Schoenfeld meta-analysis and the Baz-Val meta-analysis, any, any exercise can, uh, training the, the measured muscle would count as one set. We also did direct only. So if you are a synergist muscle and, uh, you know, you're doing some, some movement that would count as zero sets. Okay. Then we also did a fractional quantification method in which indirect sets count as half of a set. So to take a step back, every single exercise contributing to a measured muscle was either direct or indirect. Then we had total fractional and direct volume quantification based on how much that indirect set counted. Again, total volume quantification would mean indirect sets count as one set. Fractional is indirect sets count as half of a set and direct means that indirect sets counted as zero sets. I think those are three categories we could all get on board with are worth exploring. So we didn't just want to say, Hey, we know that these are half a set or these are no sets, or these are one set. Let's explore that, which we'll, we'll get into how we explored that. Um, but during the extraction process, we had to be consistent with our decisions. So you can see that on the screen right now. Um, just as an example, if you're measuring say, uh, biceps muscle thickness, we have a bunch of like row and pull down variations as indirect sets, which you can see kind of in the bottom right there, uh, like lap pull down. Uh, and, and it's really challenging my, uh, my vision there. Yeah. Lap pull down, neutral grip, lap pull down, machine lap pull down, row variations, right? Those would all count as indirect sets for the biceps. But then we have a bunch of curl variations for the biceps or the elbow flexors, bicep curls, dumbbell bicep curl, hammer curl, machine curl, barbell preacher curl, uh, et cetera, et cetera. Right. And again, you can refer to that table to see the decisions we made because are those decisions perfect? Absolutely not. Are those decisions objective? Absolutely not. But were we consistent? Yes. And were we transparent? Yes. And that was our goal. And that's, that's why we have that table there. Um, this was partly just biomechanical inferences, uh, when we had the ability to, uh, reference other studies that measured multiple muscle groups from a given exercise, we did that. So for example, Hey, when the rectus femoris is measured in studies, um, training, uh, squats or leg press, how much do, does the rectus femoris grow compared to other knee extensors? And we can create a reasonable or hopefully directionally correct classification between direct and indirect sets. So is that perfect? No, but is it probably better than just counting everything as one? We think so. And we did find evidence of that, which we'll get to when we get to the results. Okay. Um, Zach, unless you have anything to add, I'll move on to our, our systematic search and our inclusion criteria. Great. Cool. So with a meta analysis, you need to do a systematic search. You need to say, Hey, we've got to look through all these databases and see what we can find. So you can see details about that in the manuscript, but ultimately, uh, it was boiled down to 67 total studies that were extracted with a bunch of information extracted from each. Most importantly, the set volumes in total fractional and direct the frequencies as well, which, you know, stay tuned for future podcasts for that discussion. And then a bunch of outcome varies variables as well, so that we can, um, create standardized effect sizes and those can contribute to our statistical models. Now, a very important part of a meta analysis is deciding what studies are eligible and hours are not the exact same as what's been done in the past. Um, so it's important to make sure those are clear. So it had to be a randomized design, um, using a within, uh, subjects or between subjects, uh, sort of design. There were some studies that would have been eligible that didn't use randomized designs, but Hey, that's, uh, that's pretty fundamental to science. So, um, unfortunately those couldn't be included. It had to use dynamic resistance training. So it had to be combined eccentric and concentric contractions. And the intervention had to last at least four weeks. The, uh, study design had to manipulate volume and or frequency. So in other words, if we just had a study that compared people remaining sedentary versus people adopting resistance training, we did not include them, right? We need a comparison between two different volumes and, or two different frequencies. We, but we needed everything else to be similar. So we needed to have a similar load used. So if you had a high volume group using a different rep range, then a low volume group can count it because we're not isolating the, the variable of interest here. And it also had to have a similar proximity to failure. We only included studies that had a direct measurement of hypertrophy. So previous studies have used some indirect ones, um, such as say, say DEXA or, um, you know, bioelectrical impedance, things like that. The most common ones were ultrasound and MRI. So in other words, you are looking directly at the trained muscle. And this is generally thought to be a more sensitive way to look at muscle hypertrophy for strength. I'll skip over that because we'll, we'll circle back in future episodes. Um, we did not include studies with older adults. So if any, uh, if any participant in a study, um, was older than 70 years old, then they were, uh, that study was excluded. And again, we did not include studies that were called into question by Vygotsky and colleagues in their, their white paper that was cited. So these inclusion criteria are a bit different, um, than the Schoenfeld 2017 meta and the Basval 2022 meta. So Schoenfeld did not have an age criteria. Okay. So there were a good amount of studies in there that were on older adults, which you could have a whole discussion as to whether that matters or not. I, I, we, we had a lot of those discussions because that was a decision we had to make. And there are a lot of studies and on one hand it could improve our power. Um, but on the other hand, it could be viewed as a limitation. Maybe we'll put a pin in that because that could be a 30 minute discussion. Um, Schoenfeld also included indirect measurements. Now, if I recall correctly, they did do a sub analysis, um, where they only included effects with direct measurements that generally saw a greater effect of volume. So the thinking there is that, Hey, these direct effects were more sensitive to picking up, uh, true underlying, uh, muscle hypertrophy. And then again, Basval had to have very tight, specific rep, uh, set ranges for their, their groups that were included. So 35 studies on hypertrophy that, uh, manipulated volume and or frequency, um, which is more than previous meta-analyses, just because there's more data in, in 2023 and 2024 when this project was completed. Um, and, you know, we, we chose these inclusion criteria because we thought it would best represent, um, the, the research question that we care about. Another important difference between ours and previous meta-analyses is that we extracted non-training control groups from untrained individuals. So what the hell does that mean? So if you have a study and let's say they had a group that trained with five sets per week and another group that trained with 10 sets per week, but then there was a third group that didn't train. Most previous, uh, meta-analyses would not include that non-training control group. In the case of a continuous dose response relationship, as I alluded to earlier, you, you kind of need to anchor that dose response relationship. So we extracted them so long as they were untrained individuals, because if you extract it from trained individuals, that is effectively detraining. Um, but ultimately that, that is a difference as well. And there are, again, this was probably a multi-month decision that we had to kind of consider the pros and cons of, uh, including trained versus untrained, both just one or the other, et cetera. Maybe walk through an example with like an RCT about like even conceptually, what is that giving you? Like we care about training. Why would we use people who don't train? Maybe conceptually kind of walk through an example why that's even remotely useful. Yeah. So at the end of the day, when you're doing a resistance training intervention and you're saying, Hey, I have 20 people and they're going to go do this training intervention. And let's say that intervention takes 10 weeks. You kind of also need to know what happens to these 20 people that are undergoing a quote unquote intervention for the same duration. There are multiple reasons for that. The first is that there could be, uh, changes in muscle size that occur just as a result of the passage of time. There could be changes in muscle size that occur as a result of undergoing a quote unquote intervention. Obviously in this case, we can't do a placebo resistance training, but, uh, nonetheless, we can still have a longitudinal control group. And then further, we can get an idea of the sort of variability. We just generally expect to see in pre post longitudinal resistance training studies. Because again, when I, uh, if I had an ultrasound right now and I were to stick it on Zach's quad, that's not a perfect measurement of your quad. There's variability there. There's variability, um, within groups, between groups, between studies that you, you need to account for, which is really big part of this project. And the control groups provide us some insight on that front. Yeah. I think just like, again, I'm just trying to give basic examples for like these little things that are help going to help inform things. I think the easiest example is just think about a strength study. So let's say we have 10 individuals in a control group, 10 individuals in a resistance training group. And we want to know, um, did the resistance training group, did they, did they get stronger? Did the, did the intervention work for this group? If we didn't have the control group, theoretically, you're essentially not informing what is occurring simply from doing the strength assessments, simply from being observed by investigators, simply from, um, you know, being, uh, coached a little bit on your technique, things like that. And strength is a better example, I think, because very often control groups do get stronger over the course of an intervention, simply because they're more familiar with the task. The load selection from the investigators maybe gets a little bit better at post-test. There's a variety of different reasons, but absent that information, you're going to assign every single kilo that the resistance training group gains to the intervention. But in reality, when you have that control group, you can make this formal comparison between the control and the resistance training to say how much of what was observed in the resistance training group is causally related to the intervention. And so similarly, in this case, what we're trying to do with the control groups is if we know what is our model predicting for groups that we expect there to be no real change, at least in the case of hypertrophy, we can better regularize the absolute effects that we're actually estimating to make sure that they're not overestimated. If our control, let's just say theoretically, our control is estimated for a 10% increase. And that's what our model is kind of predicting with all the data in there. That's obviously overestimating the rest of the effects. So it helps us to better regularize all of those effects based on what we're seeing most of the time in control groups in the data that we have. Now there's limitations of the ones that we have. Josh is going to go on that here in a second. But I think that's helpful to realize. Once again, we put a lot of thought into this. And these effects that we are going to touch on in a little bit that we estimated are conservative in the sense that we have estimated what would be observed in a control group, remove that out of it to try to really, really hone down this stuff as best as humanly possible. And another thing that I think is important to hit on is like, that decision has implications on what type of dose response relationship would be considered the best. If you don't have any of that information, and the model has no idea what is occurring at zero sets, that can very much influence the linear nonlinear trajectory that is considered kind of the highest probability of being what's generating the data underlying it. So I think, again, these are all just little decisions that may seem kind of like little things, but they're really, really important. And kind of underlie this entire process. So I think that's important to touch on, but keep going. Yeah, I actually think given we're talking about control groups right now, it might make sense to just jump ahead to the smallest detectable effect size. Because like Zach said, we have those non-training control groups there to get an idea of the sort of variability you might expect to see. Again, if you kind of assume that there is going to be no effect on muscle size over time, any given control group might see 1% growth, they might see 3% growth. And you can see that visually in the top plot there. So in the red, you see hypertrophy control group effects, okay, from a bunch of different studies. And this is from a meta-analysis from Steele and colleagues from 2023. So they made their data openly available. And kind of one of the main questions they were looking to answer or was related to differences between just control groups and training groups. So as a result, they had a bunch of extracted data on these non-training control groups. So that was super helpful for us because our original hope was, hey, we're going to have a good amount of non-training control groups extracted when we go through all of the volume research. But we didn't. We had like only three. Like three effects or something like that? Yeah. One study, I think. It might've been, it was like one to three studies. I can't remember exactly off the top of my head. There were more for strength, but for hypertrophy, that was really problematic because that's not very representative of, you know, that's not like what a meta-analysis would consist of, of one to three studies. So we were like, oh, hey, luckily there's all this control data from Steele and colleagues. And we can say, okay, what sort of variability do you expect just from a resistance training study? So that leads us to what we called in the manuscript, the smallest detectable effect size. Okay. So again, this is based on the typical error associated with just any longitudinal resistance training study, and also to some degree with meta-analysis in general. So the idea here is, okay, just because you saw that 11 sets led to a little bit more growth than 10 sets, is that meaningful? Or is that actually something that is beyond error? And we can have a really long discussion on whether the resource constraints in exercise science lend themselves well to doing this for every single study that a lab does, or whether it's more important for meta-analysis, et cetera, et cetera. But nonetheless, we think that is very important because I think that can avoid over-interpretations of just nominal differences between conditions, given, again, look at those red plots. Those are non-training control groups, and you see some pretty wild effects. And we need to account for that because not doing so can lead to inappropriate conclusions. Yeah. I think this concept is really, really important from an interpretation perspective. And just getting people to understand that this is the whole deal with significance and why some people are kind of anti-p-value in that interpretation. Now, I think that kind of narrative has probably gotten a little bit far. And I think maybe people don't understand kind of some of the things that those are giving us. But nonetheless, I think understanding what the effect size that you consider meaningful is really important because it allows you to have an additional layer of interpretation that, again, encourages this continuous probabilistic kind of way of thinking about things rather than does the diamond cross the line or doesn't it? That's ultimately what meta-analysis turn into a lot of the time. And we wanted to pretty much at every single level try to encourage this nuanced, contextual, probabilistic interpretation. And this is another one of those things. Okay. Just like you said, 11 versus 10 sets, whichever way that that leans, there's two aspects of that you need to consider. First is obviously the magnitude of the difference. That's going to influence something you're going to think about. But also it's the uncertainty of that magnitude of the difference or uncertainty of the difference. And both of those things relative to this kind of threshold that you're considering meaningful can change your interpretation a ton. If you just look up, you know, I can pull it up here in a second, but what's called, you know, equivalence testing and hypothesis testing, you can have an effect size that doesn't overlap with zero. So it would be considered significantly different in a kind of a traditional sense. But if it's smaller than your, your threshold, what you're considering meaningful, that could influence you in a practically different way than if you just remove that, that kind of meaningfulness threshold altogether, and you're only looking at it relative to zero. So it's just that additional layer of interpretation, I think is really important to kind of, again, I'm just trying to set the stage for each one of these things that we included for the sake of interpretation is like, you know, we wanted to say, you know, a really, really liberal interpretation would be to say, whatever we find in this, these results that we're going to talk about here in a second, those differences, if they're greater than zero, boom, let's run with it. Let's, volume is, volume is king, volume is driver, whatever, whatever language people want to use. But we wanted to try to be humble. And the reality is that we can't detect every single difference, particularly in any one individual study, or in practice, like anecdotal observations either. So there's some degree of error that we need to account for when we're evaluating these differences between volumes or conditions or what have you. And so we try to do this as systematically and as robustly as human possible. This meta-analysis by Steele has pretty much every control group before a certain year in resistance training. And that's going to give us a really good estimate of the variability that can occur entirely absent a training intervention. And then we can use that to best approximate, okay, what's, what, what can we actually detect in terms of a difference? And we'll, we'll kind of play out how that's going to influence our results here in a little bit. And you just got screen time that entire time I was talking. So that's great. Yeah. I think it's, it's worth noting that we called it the smallest detectable effect size and not the smallest effect size of interest. Props to you for that, because originally in the manuscript, we had it as smallest effect size of interest, but you suggested we change it because that's not really for us to decide. Um, you could take an approach like, um, uh, packed it with the minimum effective dose, um, study that he did in power lifters where you ask coaches and, and therefore you establish a smallest effect size of interest. I think that's a fantastic approach. In this case, it's more quantitative and it's more like, Hey, practitioners can make their own judgment, right? Smallest effect size of interest. You could arguably say is, uh, like 0.1% for someone whose life is maximizing hypertrophy. Now it'd be zero. Like it conceivably could be zero. And that's, to me, that's the point is like us, I would say, even from a coaching perspective, I'd say it's zero. Like we, anything that provides an effect, like I want to know that at least, and I can consider that in my cost benefit analysis. But the point is we probably can't detect that small of a difference. And so incorporating that into, okay, what is the smallest effect size that I'm like justified? Oop, there we go. That was the, that was the big bugaboo. Um, what, what's the smallest effect size that I'm justified in determining that I care about? Because if we had infinite power, infinite, you know, resources, things like that, um, all the data in the world, it can go smaller and smaller and smaller, but given our resource constraints and then also the variability that we see in control conditions, we can't say it's zero necessarily in terms of what we can detect. So it's just, it's basically to me, if you accept all the presuppositions that underlie, like what we can know and things like that, all the science one-on-one stuff, to me, that's probably the smallest you're allowed to say that you care about to me. Um, and, and that's kind of the way that I view it. And so that's what we were trying to do is incorporate a little bit of that humility in terms of, okay, we can't actually detect a difference of 0.001%. So even if you say you care about that, that's probably not something we can build in. We had to put our scientist hat on for this one, as opposed to our practitioner hat, because my practitioner hat is different than your practitioner hat and is different from another practitioner's hat. Um, so that's why it's the smallest detectable effect size. And again, just to hammer home the point, this effectively estimates the typical variance, um, or fluctuation in study results just due to variance, noise, et cetera. So there's within study variability, there is between study variability, and both of those would encompass things like measurement error, just biological variability, um, different measurement methods, um, which has implications when you kind of put it together into a meta-analysis, um, differences in study duration, differences in participant backgrounds, whether it's age. Um, another one here would be activity levels, because that might have an influence on, uh, muscle size measurements. And then there's also modeling error within a meta-analysis itself. Um, so there are assumptions that go into the model that can effectively have error. And then there's also just random noise that is not systematically accounted for within the, within the statistical model. Jumble all that up basically, and that's the smallest detectable effect size. And drum roll please, the number for hypertrophy is, uh, 2.05%. Okay. So basically if we see a point estimate that is 2.05% greater than another point estimate, that would be, Hey, there's a decent bit of confidence that that is something that is not due to all of these sources of variability. Assuming type uncertainty of that, obviously, but yeah. Uh, variability of the point, uh, uncertainty of the point estimate? Uh, well, I guess that would be the difference in that case. I don't want to go down that rabbit hole. We'll get there, but just saying there's two things you got to take into account. Obviously the difference, right? The difference needs to exceed the, uh, the, the threshold that we kind of have here. These dotted lines are, um, those are, those are the, um, the smallest detectable effect size for the different outcomes. Um, but also the thing you also need to take into account is that there's, you have the point estimate of that difference, but also the uncertainty of that difference. So both those things kind of relative to the, to that threshold are important to kind of both consider when we're kind of evaluating things, but obviously the point estimate is our best guess. So that's the kind of other way you got to think about it, but just keeping those things in mind that it's not a, it's not closing shut case. Unfortunately, if it was, it'd be great, but yeah, gosh, we might need more time for this podcast. There's so many things because that was another like very long drawn out thing that we had to make sure we had our heads wrapped around is the difference between a point estimate, like, uh, just to the, the absolute difference between the values of two point estimates and the change in two point estimates. Is that kind of what you're getting at? Uh, I think what I'm saying is, is more simplistic right now before we even get to the results. I'm just saying like, so let's just, let's just say you have a difference between two groups and an RCT. There's two things you kind of have to consider whether you're going to consider that meaningful or not is one, the absolute, the, like the point estimate of that, the difference. Oh, oh, oh, okay. Or the, or the uncertainty of that. You're not getting all the way down the rabbit hole. Yeah, no, no, no. Okay. If that uncertainty is extending, you know, way on both sides of, of your threshold, it's like, yeah, our best guess is that it's beyond our threshold, but there's a lot of uncertainty here. So we shouldn't cling to that too tightly. Exactly. Well said. Thank you. Um, and that, that, um, smallest detectable effect size was based on 69 studies from the steel meta-analysis, which is way better than what we could have done with our data set. So, um, I think it did end up being relatively similar if I recall, but yeah, it was, uh, which gave me more confidence in it to ultimately, that's kind of the way I was thinking about it. Um, and I would say once we get to the results, we'll probably, um, emphasize this a little bit more. This is a conservative approach ultimately, which I think is worth saying. So as we mentioned, you could have practically important things be less than the smallest detectable effect size. That's not really up for us to decide, but it's a scientist to say, Hey, based on how we think the best way to quantify this typical error, this is what we can have confidence in, and this is what we can't. Okay. So let's talk about like how we actually make a statistical model in this case, or a run a statistical model. So again, I think you might see a meta regression plot and you might get like a little bit confused. And if you're a logical person that maybe hasn't like thought through for no fault of your own, like exactly the steps that go into this, you might think that there are just like kind of some inherent limitations to this. So if you see a bunch of data points on a plot, um, you might think that we just took the effect size of those data points, um, or even the percentage change or whatever the case may be, put those on a plot corresponding with the set volume that led to that, uh, improvement and said, Hey, what fits the best? Or, uh, what is this relationship? Does it go up? Does it go down? That, that is very far from the case because that is obviously limited. For example, let's say that, um, all of the very high volume studies have really high effects. Okay. Is that due to the high volume or is that due to the fact that maybe those higher volume studies had more untrained participants compared to lower volume studies? Right. And that is very important because that can completely, completely change your results and, and, and making sure these methods are tight and you kind of think through the, the nooks and crannies, if you will. And also, I think in a lot of ways, understand the underlying data is really important to getting the best possible results. So that leads us to the term of multi-level. So we did what's called a multi-level meta regression. Okay. So effectively the effect sizes that were ultimately plotted were nested within groups, which were nested within studies. And ultimately this nesting approach or this multi-level approach accounts for various sources of variability, kind of similar in concept to the smallest detectable effect size. So within group variability, between group variability, and probably the one that comes to most people's minds right away is between study variability. And I'll, I'll kick it over to you, Zach here in a second, because I think you'll be able to add some really hopeful context on this and, and probably maybe point out, you know, some, some, you know, hopeful interpretation. But the goal of this sort of approach, and the reason it's so important is it ensures that there isn't systematic bias in the typical effects around a given volume. Right? So I use the example of, Hey, maybe the high volume studies show greater hypertrophy because they're just untrained participants that is accounted for. Or in other words, the regression is ultimately built upon within study between group effects. Okay. Now there's some terms and conditions. There's some additional things to discuss there, but that is what underlies the relationship is the between group effects within a given study, which is vital because you can't really compare across studies without being very pointed in, in how exactly you're doing that. Yeah. I think the easiest way to kind of talk about this is just a visual, honestly. So let's, let's go through this. So, so first I'm going to kind of rephrase what Josh just said and just kind of re, double down on it. So ultimately when you think about this question and when people kind of think about continuous variables, so like typical meta-analysis is really clean in people's minds, right? We have a bunch of studies that compare A versus B and we want to combine the outcomes of all those. And so essentially what you're doing is you're, you're, the first step is you're calculating effect sizes between conditions. A versus B. I get a, a difference between A versus B. That's, excuse me, that's what you see in the nice forest plot. Those are all summarized into that nice pooled effect size, that weighted average, essentially after accounting for a couple other things. And that's, that's kind of what people think with meta-analysis. And it's, it's, that makes sense to them because by creating those between condition effects, you're essentially preserving the differences between studies, the, the training status, the, these, these other factors that, you know, can conceivably influence the, the, the estimates. But that variability is the, you know, part of the equation when you're looking at this kind of weighted average. Now, when it comes to a meta-aggression approach that you're kind of trying to summarize these continuous outcomes, there's ways that you can do it with these kind of between group effects, but it gets less and less intuitive, the more complicated these models become. And so one obvious example in these, in these kind of approaches is what does it mean to look at the dose response relationship of a study with three groups? And I want the between group effect size, what does that necessarily mean? And so ultimately what you're doing in that case is you're creating a individual kind of regression model per that study. And so you can see in this plot here, I have a demonstration of something that's called the ecological fallacy, or sometimes kind of a subset of that is called Simpson's paradox, where in each individual grouping, and in this case, we can call that a study, you have a positive relationship. So a positive regressor, a positive, let's say, influence of volume in this case. But across the entire group, so if you don't consider the color of those points, it's actually a negative relationship. And so this is one of the big issues that can occur in data aggregation across different studies, if it's not properly accounted for. And you can see that blue line, that is the relationship, not accounting for any sort of nesting that's occurring within studies. So we're essentially saying, remove the color from those points, what's the directionality, what's the dose response relationship. And in the case of volume here, despite the fact that every single one of these individual studies is showing a positive benefit from volume in concept, this is fake data, to be clear, the entire dose response relationship that we would kind of use as our summary graphic is actually showing a negative dose response relationship. So that is a very big concern people have with metaregression and data aggregation, in particular, with some of these more complex nesting structures. Now, obviously, by hopefully by showing you this plot and kind of talking through it a little bit, we're completely aware of this. And so thankfully, people much smarter than us have come up with statistical methods that can allow us to account for these things. So in the red there, that is a summarized slope or the kind of the main effect you would see after accounting from these nesting perspectives. So that's me just kind of demonstrating this to show that, hey, essentially what we're doing is as a first step, we are taking all of these clusters, and in this case, like you said, studies, groups within studies, other effects within those groups, and you're accounting for that, estimating the relationships per each one of those clusters, and then as kind of a final step, combining all of those. And so that is the way we can kind of account for these nesting structures and the less intuitive ways of making sure that we prioritize and preserve these aspects of differences in study design. Now, of course, there are certain factors that we want to kind of go above and beyond and make sure that we correct for them because we really do think they have a systematic difference across studies. And that's where we kind of went into a few of the other things that we adjusted for our statistical models that we can touch on here in a second. But I don't know if there's anything else that comes to mind to touch on kind of while we're just kind of going big picture through the methods on how everything's done. That's perfect. I'll just allude to the fact that we were so aware of this consideration that in addition to accounting for it within the, what we'll call the primary meta-aggression, which is what's reported in like the main text of the manuscript, we also did secondary analyses that effectively remove this consideration to like confirm the main thing. So, you know, because of these considerations, like it kind of makes sense why it might be a little bit more safe to go with sort of a categorical approach, right? Because this, like, this took a while to make sure we fully understood it and kind of like checked other iterations as well. So like we mentioned that 35 studies were included in the hypertrophy models. Not all of those only compared two different volumes. So there were some frequency studies in there as well. Now, one approach is to just take the frequency studies and not include them. There are pros and cons to that. One pro is you completely remove the, this sort of indirect effect, if you will, that could like create a relationship there that isn't truly there. Okay. But a pro is that if properly accounted for, and if again, you have these confirmatory analyses, you can confirm that, or you can potentially get additional statistical power. So the way that I've conceptualized it, and this is largely thanks to Zach sent to me, you know, papers and stuff to look over and, you know, understanding all the different iterations of modeling approaches here. The way that I've conceptualized it is that the, like, least powerful approach from a statistical perspective would be to only look at indirect effects. So if we use the example of volume and frequency studies, that would be only looking at frequency studies and trying to understand the effects of volume. Next, above that would be to only look at volume studies. Okay. But then above that would be to include both. So like ideal would be you have direct and indirect effects. Below that would be just direct effects. And then even below that would be only indirect effects. So you kind of need the direct effects there is the way that I think about it. But the indirect effects can perhaps improve precision and confidence in it so long as you're properly controlling for or adjusting for these fixed effects. Do you generally agree with that line of thinking? Yeah, I think ultimately the way you can kind of conceptualize it is like, first and foremost, here's something I'll say on the front end that I think can like kind of open people's eyes eyes. So I'm going to emphasize this a little bit. So there's, you know, resistance training is a very unique research field, right? There's way better other funded research fields that have the incentives to make sure that they're really getting good answers to these questions. And in some medical fields, where again, the answers to these questions are much more consequential, which again, should in theory, propagate really, really high incentive to do the best methods possible or find the best way to do things. You can get like what are called like average treatment effects, or kind of just like your understanding of how a given treatment works. You can get really good estimates of those entirely from observational data sets, which I think breaks people's brains. And when you, when we discussed this, and you sent me one paper in particular, I was like, wow, this is, but granted, it is a ton of data. I was going to say, it's the way, the reason I bring that up is, is just to understand even conceptually that is possible. And, and, and theoretically like is, is a really good use of large data sets. So when you have a really, really large data set, that's entirely observational in nature. So NHANES, things like this, you can get pretty good estimates of these average treatment effects in comparison to meta-analyses of randomized control trials. Now, the very big limitation, there's a few things. One, the, the amount of data we're talking about, we need a lot, we need a lot, a lot of data. And so this is kind of a way to think about this is like, let's say I only have the frequency studies and they do span a decent amount of the volumes. If I only have a couple, the effect of what does 10 sets provide me rather than 20 sets is going to be pretty sensitive to what I'm looking at. But if I have a hundred of those studies, while of course that's not the same thing as a treatment effect from a randomized control trial, where everything else is the same, that can start to give you some pretty good insights of the type of comparison that we're looking at. And again, these other fields are really good evidence of that when done appropriately. And in some fields, that's all you have. Exactly. That's, and that's the other thing is like, if you want to evaluate the effect of smoking, as an example, you're not going to run an RCT on that anymore. That's unethical. So you have to, you have to deal with these other things. But now the other thing that's really important to consider that I think is probably the thing that most people think about is you obviously have to have a good understanding of what I'll call kind of like the causal map or your understanding of how this research question operates, because there are absolutely confounding variables that you have to account for in order to be able to assess any one research question from an observational data set. Easy examples like the effect of caffeine on some sort of, you know, health outcome, and you're not accounting for smoking status. That theoretically could very much bias the picture that you're looking at in an observational data set. And so that kind of same consideration comes into meta-analysis in our case because of the fact, yes, we're combining data sets from studies with different independent variables, which can create some heterogeneity, but we can adjust for those things and make sure that those aren't confounding our results, which in the case of, let's talk about the volume analysis, we adjusted for a few different things to make sure that those aren't unduly biasing our results in any way, which again was confirmed with the kind of sensitivity analyses that we did as well. But I like just kind of walking through this because I think it's helpful conceptually for people to kind of think about it. But ultimately what we adjusted for is our primary thing that we were concerned with was our volume metric, whether that be fractional, direct, total. But then we have these other sets of variables you could call covariates that we also adjusted for to make sure that the model kind of knew about these things and was able to account for any systematic relationship that existed for this variable. That was, in this case, frequency, because we wanted to make sure that frequency wasn't having some sort of undual bias on the estimates. It really didn't have much of an impact on the main models, but it's worth considering and making sure that we did account for it in the case that it does have a systematic bias across studies. The intervention duration, training status were the three big ones that we accounted for there. And I think the last thing I kind of want to show is another visual here to kind of help hammer home why these indirect effects and kind of combining things can be helpful is because when we did these sensitivity analyses, essentially what you're doing is, like I said, going back to this picture, think about each one of those models as not talking to each other at all. They are completely calculated independently of one another. So if I had a slope or one of those studies that was an insane outlier and was very different from the mean, I would have a, you know, no communication from the other effects. And this is bringing up something called Stein's paradox, where it's essentially that when I want to inform something about an individual, having pretty good understanding of the group that individual belongs to can help me better inform that individual's data. And the same thing applies here to meta-analysis. If we have a better understanding of the population of the studies that we're calculating, by understanding that, we can better inform the estimate of a study. And so this is another concept that is kind of encapsulated in these meta-analysis models called partial pooling and shrinkage. And so essentially, if I can get over here and pull this up. So I think this is pretty cool. So I think I will tag the resources for all these in the show notes. I think this is from a guy named Michael Clark, I believe. But this is a visual to demonstrate how these different groups kind of communicate to one another. And so right now, you can see in the orange dots, that would be, let's say I took and classified these volume slopes completely independently for each one of these studies. But if I put all of those into a statistical model, that's appropriately accounting for this nesting, groups within studies, effects within groups. And now the model knows kind of estimates for the variance about all these. And it can better understand, hey, this seems to be really, really different than the models mean. We probably need to bring that estimate back towards the mean to make it more realistic and probably more accurate. Again, this gets back to Stein paradox in the sense that although it seems minorly counterintuitive, that the estimate of a group isn't best informed by the group's data in isolation. That's a kind of a weird concept to think about, but it seems to hold. And that's kind of the inspiration for all of these statistical models that you'll see. Anything that includes kind of random effects, that's kind of the concept here. And so if this is... That's the whole point of a meta-analysis. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. And we'll talk about that here in a second. And that's why it's like an estimated true effect. Exactly. And you can see here, as I kind of go down the slides here, this is demonstrating the concept of shrinkage in these kind of models where each one of these slopes that is calculated by study is kind of pulled a little bit towards the mean. And the ones that are really, really far away from the mean, because with our understanding of the entire kind of distribution of effects, is probably a little bit less probable that has a little bit greater gravity towards that kind of middle mean slope there. So that's like one of the foundational concepts of these meta-analytic models is that, like you said, it's assuming that these kind of study effects follow some sort of normal distribution that we're trying to estimate the mean of. And let me pull up one more image while you maybe clean this up a little bit while I'm talking here. No, ultimately for the viewer, especially if you just were able to catch that visual that Zach showed, that's effectively what we are attempting to do for each value of our independent variable. And in this case, the independent variable is set volume. So again, this kind of goes back to the hierarchy in terms of how I've conceptualized this over recent months and ultimately, which informed our methods is direct plus indirect is better than just direct. Because especially with our field where there is, you know, I think it was either 15 or 17 just volume studies. That's a decent amount, but it's not a ton. And you could definitely see how one outlier could considerably change that estimated true effect. And as a result, we view this as a much more robust way to look at the analysis. And ultimately, it was like easy to do because we extracted the frequency literature as well, because that was also a research question for the project. Yep, exactly. And the last thing I was going to hit on here was just the kind of the concept that you mentioned. And this is the, you'll kind of see in, so first and foremost, shout out to Matthew Jane, who does some really good stuff on kind of visuals for meta analysis and stuff. And this is really, really helpful. But this kind of communicates the thing that you're talking about in terms of, in some meta analyses, I would say it's much less common now to see what's called a fixed effects meta analysis. But the assumption there is that there is one true population effect. And there is every study is trying to estimate that one true population effect. So any error from that is entirely due to sampling variance. And that is what we are assuming is the one true effect size. So you see in the blue plot here, the common effect meta analysis, as is sometimes referred, that that kind of dotted line down the middle is kind of in the clouds, this true effect that every single study is trying to approximate. Whereas in a random effects meta analysis, which is just another way of kind of talking about the multi-level structure, you can see there's multiple dotted lines now. So that's explicitly accounting for the fact that there's variability between studies in these slopes that we're trying to approximate, and then ultimately taking the mean and the overall dose response relationship from that distribution of effects. So it's just hopefully describing things. That figure has been so helpful. I feel like you've probably sent me that five to 10 times just because a lot of things really come back to that concept in that figure. And we'll be talking about something, whether it's related to this project or something else, you'll just drop this. I'm like, ah, that's right. So yeah, I think that is important because we had indirect effects in the model, which we view as a feature, but maybe even us a year and a half, two years ago, we would have been like, oh, you can't do that. 100%. But for the reasons mentioned, we think it's a net positive. But again, while still acknowledging there's always a give and a take, and ultimately that's why we also have the secondary analyses that we'll get to in a second. So with that out of the way, do you think this is a good time to move into the different model fits we considered? Yeah, I'm just thinking through anything else here. So I think we've talked about the background. We've talked about, you know, kind of from a high level, what we're attempting to do. So just to bring it home all the way before Josh gets there, essentially the kind of the final step here behind the concepts of what we just discussed is, okay, well, what if each one of these study slopes is better characterized with a nonlinear pattern, which when we're coming into this question, that's our assumption almost certainly, is that, hey, training volume probably to some degree exhibits a nonlinear relationship. Exactly what that looks like, we're not entirely sure. And there's multiple kind of working hypotheses that are out there. But that's kind of this final step in terms of exploring this nonlinearity. And I think to explain what it means when we say best fit, or the best model, or you'll hear all those kind of things. If you play around with like Google Sheets or something like that, you might see R squared thrown up there. And put simply, that's basically an index of what's called like model quality or the amount of variance explained. Now, one limitation with R squared is that no matter if you're adding terms of the model and making it more complicated, it doesn't have a penalty for that. R squared will always increase with additional terms in the model or additional complexity. So that's not what we wanted to use. And so I think that kind of demonstrates what we mean by best fit. Best fit is saying, we want the model that best explains the underlying data, has like the least amount of error, but is not also so complicated that it's just the super squiggly line that ultimately is becoming so complex that it doesn't have that trade-off or that balance between it explains our sample data really well, but in the future, it's going to be terrible. That's kind of the game you're playing with a best fit model. So there's these other indices of model quality that you can utilize that have more of this balance between, hey, how well does this explain the underlying data, the underlying slopes, the underlying observations that we're trying to estimate, and how does that balance with how complicated is this model in terms of the number of parameters, the non-linearity, these kind of things. So we're basically going to go through, try a bunch of different non-linear shapes that we'll talk about here in a second, see how those stack up, and then ultimately use that as kind of the criteria of like, what is the quote-unquote best fit. So when you hear best fit, that's kind of the thought process you want to go through is it's the best balance between explaining the underlying data, but it's also not overfitting the data that we do have. Yep. With accounting for the nesting and the fixed effects. All that, yeah, all that stuff that we've said previously. So it's kind of building up from here. Yeah. And that's important because while we are obviously in the camp of, hey, a meta regression is going to be a lot more practically and arguably for research as well, it's going to be more useful for both of those use cases. There are things you have to be careful with, as hopefully we've made clear, you know, there are, there are assumptions that you have to make. So understanding, understanding the underlying data is very important. Avoiding overfitting is important. And that's why ultimately you need to balance, like you said, parsimony with model fitting. And that ultimately leads us to properly taking advantage of one of the primary benefits of a meta regression, which is the, you have flexible functional forms, right? So again, the kind of the main thing we want, we wanted to investigate and get some insight on from this, this project is what is the best functional form of the effects of additional set volume on muscle hypertrophy? Is it linear? Is it linear log? Is it restricted cubic spline? Is it second order polynomial? Is it square root? Is it quadratic term? Is it reciprocal? Those are all different functional forms that might, based on those, those criteria that's not mentioned regarding fitting the data, but also avoiding overfitting the data can ultimately kind of give us a score, if you will, to determine which is the best model fit and which is also reasonable within what you would expect physiology to, to kind of produce, if you will. Yeah, exactly. And I just, I just threw up there like a visual of kind of some of the different functional forms that like dose response relationships could take. So obviously two of the ones that have probably become the leading kind of hypotheses, I would say, are the ones in the bottom right and the bottom left. It would say to me kind of coming into this are kind of the two competing hypotheses. And I don't know if you want to kind of go into the thoughts behind those and kind of why people maybe thought those and we can kind of go into what we found, I guess. Yeah, I think that's, that's perfect. Before we go into what we found, there will be a couple, a couple of quick things we need to address, but we're, we're getting there soon folks, I promise. So yeah, the, the bottom right kind of shows like a U shape and also an inverted U. Focus on the inverted U. So that dashed line, this is probably like, this has been reported in multiple studies. And when I say reported, not like super strong conclusive evidence for it, but I would say hypothesized and review papers. It's almost been like a, like a cautious caveat. Yeah. Yeah. Like I think even in the Schoenfeld 2017 paper, they, they might've used that term. Don't quote me on that. But I think in the most recent, like evidence-based resistance training guidelines, that was, that term was used. It's even been used in some studies that don't find a clear benefit of higher volumes, or maybe even the higher volume group had like a lower effects size, whatever the case may be. And again, I'll circle back to some of the papers pointed out by the Vygotsky white paper that might've contributed to the propagation of that idea. And I would say that we definitely, I wouldn't, I don't know if we totally expected this going into the project, but at least at one point in the time, at what point, at one point in time, that's probably what we would have hypothesized is that you get this inverted U relationship. And it's important you understand this because we're going to use that term going forward. So again, if you look at the dotted relationship in the bottom, right, or the dotted line in the bottom, right, you see that with additional dose, the effect increases eventually that kind of works against you, right? So as you do additional dosage, so in this case, additional sets, you might start to get kind of what's called diminishing returns. So with a given increase in the dose, the marginal increase in the effect gets smaller and smaller. But then in this case, not only does that get smaller and smaller, but eventually it actually becomes negative. So, you know, just use a basic example. This would be the hypothesis that, Hey, maybe at 10 sets, you see a really good effect, but then at 40 sets, you actually see a worse effect because of some sort of negative consequence. And a common one that comes to mind for a lot of folks is muscle damage, because there's some data out there indicating that if there is high muscle damage from a resistance training protocol, that a lot of resources would be allocated towards repairing the damage as opposed to accruing additional muscle tissue. I think we have slightly different perspective on that, and we'll put a pin in that. And we actually have that in our podcast queue to kind of go in a little bit further detail on that. But nonetheless, I think it's a fair perspective and definitely could be the case. And that would lead to the inverted U hypothesis. Another common perspective is the bottom left. So you see a pretty strong dose response, but then it quickly gets to an effective plateau. And this is a really, really clear example of diminishing returns. And I think it's, again, important for the listener or viewer to understand diminishing returns, because we're going to use that term a lot. When we say diminishing returns, I think some people might think of the inverted U, where you start to see actually less returns. But when we say diminishing returns, you are still getting a positive benefit. It is just that benefit is diminishing. Okay. And then top left is linear, right? So there's a lot of different possibilities in terms of the outcomes that we could have found. So we'll get to the results here in a second. But you could also look at the results in the manuscript for the other outcomes to get an idea of some of the other functional forms that could have occurred. And obviously, those are fit to the data that underlie that relationship as well. Yeah. So just to hammer home things that may not be apparently obvious. So just each one of these forms has a mathematical function that is associated with it. So very basic static. Yeah. So very basic one I'm going to use is just what's called a linear log model. So that is essentially just taking your dose variable. So in this case, volume, let's say, and you are making a transformation of that variable so that it results in a nonlinear pattern. But just like a linear model is going to shift up and down, the slope is going to change, all dependent on the data. These nonlinear patterns can do the same thing. They can show a differing amount of diminishing returns. They can flip upside down. They can do all these different things that doesn't make them static entities by any extent. But the mathematical function obviously puts some constraints on the way that that pattern can look. And so by trying a few different ones of them that have underlying assumptions or the way that they're ultimately going to end up looking within them, you can kind of get a better understanding. So I think with our pre-registration, we had come in with the mindset that we're actually only going to test two, a linear model or a restricted cubic spline model. And for reasons that ultimately came down to, hey, we look at this and practically it's just probably not like how the dose response relationship looks. Honestly, very similar to the proximity failure one as well is that after we kind of looked at the initial ones that we selected, which we thought were going to provide a sufficient amount of flexibility, we ultimately felt like we're too complicated and we're potentially overfitting. So we wanted to try some other nonlinear shapes to see what else maybe was a little bit more accurate. And that's where we kind of led to more of these variable amounts of patterns that we ended up testing. So yeah, I just wanted to be clear. And ultimately those have to outperform. Exactly. Yeah. They have to outperform that balance of simplicity. So just as a basic example, let's say I have one of these, I guess it'd be nice to pull up a spline, but I'm thinking of so many additional visuals we could. Yeah. Yeah. I'm trying, I'm trying to stay on track. No, it's perfect. Yeah. So a spline model, I'm going to pull it up. Talk, talk for a second. Yeah. So regarding the Ohio State Buckeyes, no. One thing I was going to say though, is Zach mentioned that mathematical equations underlie these relationships and it can be hard to wrap your head around it, but it might be easiest to think about a linear relationship because we're all familiar with Y equals MX plus B. So in this case, you can, you have flexibility in terms of the intercept and the slope, right? So that's a very simple approach. So if we were to, if, if linear was the best fit, um, those would, the intercept and the slope would be flexible. Just like how, if, um, you know, linear log was the best fit, the exact way that that looks is restricted in, in by that mathematical equation, but it's not just a, if you were to Google linear log and what pops up for like a classic linear log relationship, it doesn't mean that that is exactly what our plot would be. So there's a lot of flexibility underlying these, but then it's like, Hey, which mathematical equation allows for that flexibility fitting the underlying data to score the best in terms of fitting the data and while also valuing simplicity to avoid, uh, to decrease the risk of overfitting. Yeah. And so I just wanted to walk through this for a second. Um, so in our initial pre-registration, again, it was linear and one of these spline models and spline models are really nice because essentially what it does is it allows for in concept pretty much any different functional form to ultimately be, uh, created. But the issue you get is there's a couple of degrees of research, what I call researcher degrees of freedom that have happened with splines. You have the number of knots, which are essentially the different points in a spline, which the relationship can bend and twist and do all these different things. And then you also have the location of those knots, both of which are, you know, up to, to, to researcher preference. And so what can occur is that if your data strongly shows non-linearity in comparison to a linear model, the spline can work or fit better out of those two things, even though the pattern of the spline itself, you may look at it and just purely from face validity perspective, that's probably not reasonable. And so this is where, again, the art of doing these, these, these analyses and these projects is very much a balance between, Hey, this is an entirely objective endeavor versus, Hey, we have to use our brains here and kind of combine those things and think about what is the most plausible and what are we ultimately trying to do? So when we looked at our initial spline estimates, we were like, okay, this is winning. And it's, it's clearly a nonlinear pattern as we'll discuss here in a second. But when we look at it from a face validity perspective, there's almost certainly a simpler model that can better explain this, this pattern. And that's why we introduced some of these other nonlinear forms similar to the proximity of failure project that better kind of encapsulate the cornucopia of different nonlinear patterns that can occur that are much more simple ultimately. Yeah. The, and, and the extreme of that would be unlimited splines where you're literally fitting every single individual data point. So you would just see this like super jagged line. And then like econometrics or things like that, where you're looking at, you know, the, the economy as you know, you're, you're a big fan of fallen stocks and yada, yada, or whatever GameStop or whatever you follow. Um, more of a white castle guy. Yeah. Um, but you, you'll see some of those really, really aggressive upturns, downturns, and like, uh, you know, political mapping and stuff like that. Very similar. Like when you have events that may completely flip the directionality of things, that's where these splines can be really, really helpful because they allow you to actually have a model that can do that. Whereas like a, you know, you play around in Google sheets or whatever, you get a second order polynomial that isn't able to have that quick of a downturn or quick of change in trajectory because the entire thing needs to be mapped by a polynomial function, which again, is just that mathematical constraint you're dealing with. So that's where splines are at their best because they can really be leveraged for their flexibility. But in our case, ultimately what we're looking for in terms of physiology typically are going to fall within a pretty small band of dose response relationships that, you know, probably can describe pretty much all of things in physiology. To be clear, an inverted U was absolutely a possibility. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. A hundred percent. A hundred percent. Yeah, absolutely. We, for multiple of the, of, of the functional forms that we had, um, I would say an inverted U, if that was the case, that would have, that would have definitely been shown. Which, hey, maybe it, maybe it was. Of course. Yeah. And we can, we can get into the uncertainty Blackville talk here in a little bit, but I think. Also, White Castle is a private company. So just keeping you on your toes. Okay. Should we quickly touch on what, let, let's make this quick with the secondary analyses? Sure. You just mean kind of like go through what we did? Yeah. I'll, I'll, I'll just provide a high level overview and then we could probably move on from that and I'll just see if you need to, if you want to add anything quick. So again, we, we just discussed how valuable meta regressions can be, but also where you have to be careful and where you need to, um, you know, minimize the cons basically is, is the way that I would frame it. Um, so as a result of just saying, Hey, we, we obviously did everything we could as, as mentioned, we also just want to do some confirmatory analyses and say, Hey, we understand someone could value something a little bit different. Um, so as a result, we, we did, uh, two secondary analyses that we viewed as confirmatory by completely removing indirect effects. So in the case of volume for hypertrophy, we only looked at studies that manipulated volume. So we, we excluded the indirect effects. We excluded the frequency studies and there were two analyses that we did. So the first is similar to that first plot from the Schoenfeld paper that we showed, um, which is just a traditional contrast based meta analysis. So we took, um, the lower volume condition in the study versus the higher volume study in the condition and meta analyze it. That's quite traditional. So we'll, we'll be able to show those results here in a second. The second secondary analysis we did is a two stage meta regression. Um, and this is Zach's wizard mind, uh, saying this is the best way to go about a direct effect meta regression. So, um, the two stages from a high level is, um, basically getting the intercept in the linear slope for each study for the effects of volume. And then those intercepts and slopes are effectively meta analyzed. So, uh, again, this can give us insight and confirm the directionality and to some degree, the magnitude of the effect, um, of volume for hypertrophy in this case. So that's the very high level overview and we'll be able to show the results here in a second, but do you have anything to add? Yeah. I mean, essentially, so again, we went through kind of the rationale of multi-level models and how, you know, in my opinion, it basically accounts for what seem like obvious confounders in people's minds. When you hear, you might analyzing, you know, within condition effects, how, how did, how are you possibly doing that and not, um, you know, falling prey to a lot of these possible confounders? Um, in my opinion that, that, you know, again, smarter statisticians than us are the ones that kind of have propagated this, this kind of an approach. And I think that, you know, for very good reasons, they, they address all of these concerns. Um, and ultimately also have the power of capitalizing on more data, more precision, more power, and have a lot greater upsize when used appropriately, as you said, that said to honestly, as, as a personal check, because when we went through the, the PTF one, um, we got, we just got a lot of comments from people and discussion on social media and stuff, um, of just not understanding kind of how these models work and, and pretty big concerns with like this, the between study variability and not mapping the individual studies and things like that. So I just wanted to, as like a very, very strong conceptual check, say, let's, let's do this in as best of way as possible, eliminating all of these, these benefits of multi-level models that, again, I think are advantages and, and, and, and benefit things. And there's a reason the primary model is the primary model, but again, to pay credence, to steel man, the position to understand it and to have it there. If someone has just a fundamentally different position than me, maybe they have critiques of the statisticians, you know, and, and things like that. And they just have a simply a different position on the utility of the indirect effects and, and, and the, the, all the, um, things that random effects and shrinkage, et cetera, give you. So essentially what you're doing instead of in a single stage where essentially the computer is understanding the nesting, it's understanding the shrinkage, it's understanding all of these effects that, that that's giving us, we are going to manually do those steps. And again, what this is doing is it's removing the fact that these effects can talk to one another. It's removing the fact that all of the individual effects are going to be shrunk towards that population mean. They're going to be considered a distribution of effects with their own, um, true effect sizes. All that's kind of taken out the window. And what we're doing is for every single outcome, we are manually calculating the intercept and the slope for each one of those outcomes. And then we're going to, uh, pool those per study, which again, is that, that next level of nesting. So you're, you're calculating intercept and slope, um, per outcome, pooling those per study, and then ultimately meta analyzing the intercept and the slope to get those summary measurements of like a linear regression model that we can then make predictions from. So put a long story short, it's essentially removing all potential biases of between study information. You are calculating everything you would want to know from a dose response relationship, um, oriented model on the individual observation level, then pooling that per study, and then pooling that across studies, just like you would do with a traditional meta analysis, except now, now we're not looking at the between group effect size. We're looking at the intercept and the slope of a, of a, of a regression model. So y equals mx plus b. And so the one limitation you have there is because a lot of the observations only have two points. It doesn't really make sense to consider non-linearity in that fashion without these other effects speaking to one another. So that was a limitation that we had that we ended up just going with a linear model in that case, which is the simplest. And again, a lot of people do that, but it is a good conceptual check to say, okay, let's remove all of these potential, potential confounding aspects. Once again, I think they're benefits personally, but, um, and, and see what the dose response relationships look like as a conceptual check. Um, and so hopefully that along with the kind of the contrast based force plot, um, situation, um, that every other meta analysis in that people are, you know, typically familiar with, we have tried to examine things from every angle somebody could possibly want to, to, to know about. Um, and so that's what those, those kind of, uh, supplementary analyses provide. Right on. I love it. So at this point we've discussed kind of the background, a little bit of behind the curtain with the project, previous meta analyses, what we did, all those discussion, uh, all those decisions that had to be made. And I'm sure that we'll kind of touch on some more here and there with the interpretation. But at this point, I think we can go ahead and move on to our findings. And, and I think it's before we get to the actual. Whoa, folks almost gave away the plot there. Make sure to subscribe on Patreon. Yeah, this is, we're definitely going to put the, uh, you know, pre-printed manuscript behind a paywall. That'd be sweet. Um, but no, uh, before we get to the actual results, um, two hours in, uh, and I'm sure a lot of people at this point have just skipped to this timestamp. So welcome to the data driven strength podcast. Um, it's important to keep in mind that when you're, when you're interpreting these results, they're within the context of the underlying studies. Um, and the average duration of all of the extracted studies, all of the 67 extracted studies was 10.42 weeks. So about 10 and a half weeks on average. Okay. And about 58% of the included studies used trained participants. Again, that was included as a fixed effect in the primary, um, in the primary meta regression, but nonetheless, it's important to keep in mind that, um, these are relatively short-term studies and a little over half used trained participants. Now, in terms of the actual training variables, which could conceivably have some sort of an effect on the dose response relationship, um, the, the primary training variables and Zach, you could pull up the, uh, descriptives plot. So this is in the manuscript as well as a version one. Um, so these are for all hypertrophy effects and these are using our fractional quantification method. So again, just to make sure everyone's on the same page, our fractional quantification method is when an indirect set. So for example, a row for the biceps counts as half a set. Okay. Um, the average set volume, the average fractional set volume for hypertrophy effects was 13 sets. The average muscle specific frequency, again, fractional was 2.33. The average rest was 1 minute and 48 seconds in the average repetitions per set were 10.63. Okay. So here is a visual of that. Um, and more than three quarters. So 78.5% of effects used some sort of failure definition. So that could have been repetition maximum. That could have been momentary failure. That could have been concentric failure. That could have been zero RAR, but basically implied they were training to failure. However, only 30% of effects had a very clear definition of momentary failure. So momentary failure, meaning an additional repetition was attempted, but was not completed. So kind of hard to make inferences based on that, but I would say from a high level, most were to failure, if not probably pretty close. I was going to say, would you be confident in saying most effects are going to be in the zero to two RAR range? I think so. I think so. Given the, uh, the appropriate like intensities encouraged by the investigators. I'm sure that there's, there's an effect here or there, right? Because you don't know exactly how different labs do things or report things. Um, but you could say repetition maximum, but that can mean a lot of different things. And we wrote a paper on this and that is, uh, just a limitation. Um, but you know, for the most part, it wasn't like people were doing, Hey, five reps at their 10 RM, which is more concerning in terms of training really far from failure. So, um, yeah, I mean, what, what are your general thoughts on the average training variables here for hypertrophy? So, and you can see the distributions on the screen. Yeah. If there's any, there's any to show or in particular you want to look at, let me know. Um, yeah, I think, I think for the most part they're relatively, they make sense. Like for, for hypertrophy in particular, this is going to be a big discussion for the strength stuff, uh, that we'll, that we'll come back to in a different episode, obviously. But for the hypertrophy results, I think they, they largely reflect what people are going to want to know in practice. And I think, you know, the, the set volume range obviously is, is something that we'll investigate. The frequencies are in the reasonable range of one to three times per most of the group. For the most part, repetition ranges are right around 10 sets or 10 reps per set on average. Um, rest intervals aren't egregiously long or short, although that, that one will obviously be a point of discussion that we'll hit on in a bit. Um, the intensity isn't a, you know, a major issue that we have to be concerned with. It seems like the sets, um, if we just, you know, go with what's reported seem to be relatively challenging for the most part, which I think again, just being in labs and doing research, I think for the most part, they're probably not all to failure that reported to failure, but I just don't think you're going to put the resources into a study and not have people train hard if you want the outcome or actually be able to investigate the question you want. You know what I mean? It's just one of those things where when you've spent time in research and realize how hard it is, how much time it takes, how much effort it takes, you're going to get your money's worth in terms of making sure you're trying to do everything you can to make sure they grow or be able to money. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Right. Uh, yeah. Um, so yeah, I, I think ultimately there's no major eyeopening things other than the obvious one with the intervention duration. Like that's, that's a fundamental limitation of every single training study that we're looking at a snapshot in time. That's relatively short in the grand scheme of things, or extremely short in the grand scheme of things. And the training status of the participants isn't going to reflect the average DDS listener almost certainly. Yeah. Does that completely eliminate the, our ability to take stuff from this? Obviously not. We wouldn't do it if we, if we thought that was the case, but it is, um, you know, important to keep in mind. The only other thing I'll say on the front end is I don't know if we have a plot for this potentially can be something we could add for a version too, but, um, the number of muscle groups trained, um, is that's a common kind of discussion that people have in terms of the, the literature being more about kind of, okay, if I specialize in muscle group, that's, we'll talk about this in the interpretation, I'm sure. But do you recall off the top of your head in terms of like what the, I can quickly pull something up to potentially give us insight on that while you're speaking. There, there was, there's a variable that's extracted in the data set. That's, it's coded as like N O period, unique period exercises, which I think we were trying to get at that. But then from extraction, we realized it was effectively useless. Um, but that, that you bring up a good point. I don't really have a way to quantifiably represent that. Um, if we look at this one, which we'll get to this in a second, I kind of gives away a little bit. Sorry. Um, the, uh, yeah, I'll take it off screen actually while we're talking about it. Um, but the reason I looked at that is it's the 10th or 5th percentile and the 90th or 95th percentile. And there was, um, oh no, that's not, that's not the same thing. I'm thinking the number of muscles trained, that's the number of hypertrophy contributing exercises. Yeah. There is a moderator variable, which is the number of exercises contributing to the measured muscle. So if I just did dumbbell curls for the entire program and my biceps were measured, that would be one. If I did dumbbell curls, preacher curls, cable curls and pull downs, that would be whatever I just listed for. Yeah. I guess I'm more so thinking the number of muscles that were experimentally manipulated essentially to say like, okay, is this true that it's more so about specialization muscle rather than it's, that's a really tricky thing to look at. Um, we, we could add a moderator variable for that and go through all the studies. I mean, an easy way to do it is to look at how many, uh, like the effects we actually have, because that means that they were measured, but like, sometimes there was an effect that was indirect that wasn't included. So it would require going through it again. But the, the, the, the point that Zach is making is if I'm measuring bicep hypertrophy and tricep hypertrophy, I'm probably going to have what resembles more of an arm specialization type program, as opposed to a balanced program where you're kind of equally prioritizing the rest of your upper body and your lower body as well. And hell, you might have some cardio goals as well. Um, and that is important to keep in mind that these are probably more on the quote unquote specialization side of things. I don't think that is unanimously true. Um, but that is probably directional true. Um, and yeah, these are like, I'd say low, lowish, moderish volumes on average, moderate frequencies on average, low to moderate rest on average and moderate rep ranges on average. Um, and that's just important to keep in mind. And, and we'll kind of circle back to some of the considerations and limitations as a result of these study characteristics. Okay. Anything to add there? Nope. Now that I stole my, stole your thunder. I mean, uh, go ahead. No, all good. So let's start by discussing which of the volume quantification methods performed the best. So the first step here is acknowledging that there are so many relationships here because we had multiple outcomes in this, in this project. We also had multiple independent variables, right? We had direct volume, we had, um, fractional volume and we had total volume. So step one is saying, Hey, which independent variable is the best? And to do that, we basically compared the, uh, best fit models and established Bayes factors to effectively, um, determine the level of evidence that one volume quantification model was better than the other. Now I can't read what's on the screen all that well. And I'm sure you, uh, listener at home absolutely can read it fantastically, but I believe on the left-hand side here, that is hypertrophy. And basically you have a a nice grid here. So at the top is the numerator. Um, and then on the left-hand side is the denominator. So if you look at fractional, which is on kind of the top left there, and you compare that to total, is that 9.49? I feel like I'm taking an eye exam. 9.48. 9.48. Sweet. Um, so basically a, a broad strokes interpretation of that is that there is, uh, it's kind of like close to 10 times the evidence for fractional, uh, better explaining the underlying data compared to total. And then if you scroll down a little bit, fractional compared to direct is even a little bit better than that at, uh, quantifying the underlying data. So ultimately the take-home here is, Hey, fractional seem to perform pretty dang well, even though there are limitations, like we mentioned before, the limitations appear to be less than total and direct. So as a result, that is what we're going to use going forward. The rest will go into supplementary materials because there's so many different models. Um, and this is pretty good evidence that this is going to be the best quantification method to describe the dose response relationship. Yeah. I'd say there's a few things taken into account there. Um, we might need to backtrack just a little bit. First thing here is that we look at the best fit for each one of these independently as a kind of a first step. So one thing that's built into this is that they are looking at different dose response patterns. We think that makes sense, obviously, is like you're looking at what's the kind of the, the best faith representation of this style of, um, you know, effect size or not effect size of quantification method. And then you're comparing that across methods. Um, but conceivably like, you know, I honestly don't know if we did this, but like comparing the same exact form between the different fractional and direct, that might be slightly different, but, um, I think that's only relevant here for direct, but, um, just, just as a concept. So that's just the point here is like, I definitely think fractional is the best, but I I'm not like totals useless directs useless or whatever. Um, and then the other thing here is that I don't know if you want to talk, touch on the types of effect sizes we use just because that's going to be a little bit different than typical. Yeah. So we use two effect sizes. Um, we used hedges G, which is, uh, probably a little bit more traditional, if you will. We also used what's called exponentiated response ratio, which is similar in concept to hedges G in the sense that it's also an effect size and therefore it's also a standardized change. And therefore you can kind of compare, uh, you can make broader comparisons compared to if you were to just use the, the actual percentage change. Um, but they are a little bit different in their nature and therefore they have individual kind of pros and cons. So they were both used for the, the model fitting and they were effectively averaged, but we reported the, um, exponentiated response ratios because the interpretation is a lot easier because it's effectively reported in a percent change as opposed to an effect size value, uh, in hedges G nature, which would be like say 0.2, which is really hard to kind of conceptually understand. Um, so as a result, the Y axes and the upcoming, uh, regressions are, are nice and intuitive. Is that kind of what you're getting at? Yeah. I just, I just wanted to mention it first and foremost, because it's different than I would say most meta-analyses. Almost everyone you're going to see is going to be standardized mean difference units, which is hedges G, um, which is basically how many standard deviations is this different from one another is essentially what you're doing. Um, but the other thing, the reason I brought that up, uh, too, is just because if we go back to this plot, that's another thing that's kind of, uh, um, you know, thinking about here is that, uh, we were looking at the, the best fit models from the response ratio that we went with and looked at the best fit across effect sizes. So there's just like a lot of, um, there's a lot of cross examination of things that go into that. Um, that I just want to be clear that again, that, that is like our best guess at which is the best quantification method, but for a variety of reasons, I'm not like, all right, this is what we need to go with absolutely from here on out. The rest of these are stupid. Don't use them. Um, particularly from a practical perspective as we'll talk, touch on, but, um, just, just adding some caution here, like saying that, like, you know, I could see somebody misinterpreting this and be like, Oh dude, fractional is 10 times the evidence of using total. Why are you doing it that way? And it's like, I don't think that that's probably the best way to kind of view this. But, um, from the meta analytic perspective to understand the dose response relationship of volume kind of broadly, it's going to provide us probably the best look is kind of the way that I would think about it. Yeah. So I've thought about this a decent amount and I don't think that you should like only use fractional quantification, the fractional quantification method for practical reasons. It's probably better than total to be honest. Um, but I, I do still see the value in just using direct because it's a little bit easier. I actually think it's a little bit more common and as long as the indirect work is pretty consistent, it's going to be fine. So like, in other words, maybe an example where it wouldn't be helpful is like, if you're trying to quantify the dosage for your biceps, but you're doing a back specialization cycle and you're only counting with direct, that will be quite limited. But like, ah, I think, I don't think you like need to have the perfect volume number. What matters more is what the dose response relationship is more, um, kind of conceptually. Um, so I'll probably still think of it in terms of direct, but what matters here for research purposes is that this is going to give us the best precision for modeling and therefore the, the best look at the dose response relationship, because that's what we care about from a physiological perspective. Yeah. I'd say the way that I think about it too, is like just at face value, like the most simple, like way of interpreting this and not like over-interpreting the base factors themselves too much. This is communicating that indirect sets probably provide some hypertrophy stimulus rather than none, or rather than the exact same as a direct set. That's, that's, if you take it from that perspective, that's the primary inference I would take away from this. Yeah. And then all the other things you said, we did this primarily as like, okay, where should we communicate things as like kind of the, the primary way of, uh, quantifying these effects. And, and, and the, the fractional approach seems to give us in most cases, the, uh, the kind of the best precision on our estimates and probably the highest probability of accurately representing the thing we're trying to estimate. Gotcha. Okay. Um, yeah. So, I mean, you could also pull up the figure of the, uh, like the more continuous one, but you could just put it on the split screen for a little bit. Okay. So, yeah, I mean that in and of itself will just like give us, I guess the best chance, if you will, um, to have the best possible dose response relationship. And as we've said multiple times, um, the continuous relationship of the percentage that an indirect set counts. So, another way to think about this is, you know, Zach mentioned that in that, uh, grid, you have the best fit model for total direct and fractional being compared. Another way to approach this is to choose a model fit and then say which, uh, quantification of indirect sets leads to the highest base factor effectively. Um, this is limited because again, you're making assumptions about the nature of the dose response relationship, but there's kind of another angle to look at it. And again, it's kind of confirmatory to us that, Hey, like Zach said, broad strokes wise indirect sets probably shouldn't be a hundred percent and they probably shouldn't be zero percent. They should be somewhere in between. Um, what is that about 40% for hypertrophy? Yeah. So just, just to walk through this very briefly, um, essentially what we did first step is, Hey, what's the best fit kind of relationship? What does that look like? We'll touch on that in a second. But once we know that we can go through and we can essentially model things with a different percentage of how much an indirect set is contributing towards the fractional set number. So very basic example, let's say I have a training program for my biceps in example, AI'm counting everything as a half a set. So my rows are contributing a half a set of volume to my biceps total, but then you could also make that a 10th of a set or three fourths of a set or whatever. And so essentially what we did here is we went through and refit the models with essentially every 10th of a percent or every 1% increments of the indirect set value. And this is very much like exploratory. So don't over-interpret this by any means, but, um, right around like 40 ish percent seems to be where the, the model fit is optimized in terms of, um, being the most predictive of the outcomes. And so once again, just like Josh said, the thing of this that I'm taking away from is that indirect sets are probably best classified as some stimulus, but not 100% of a direct set and also not zero it's somewhere in the middle. And, you know, depending on the outcome, depending on the assumptions, et cetera, it's going to kind of shift around where exactly that is, but around 50% seems to be a pretty safe bet. And that's what we pre-registered. And that's kind of where we started in terms of looking at these things. That's obviously can be contested by people in terms of, well, this should be a third of a set. This should be two thirds of like you can, you can go down that rabbit hole. Absolutely. But that's not the goal of this. It's to best approximate the kind of mean dose response relationship from which a practical perspective, obviously there's deviations you need to make from that depending on certain contextual factors that we'll touch on, um, at some point. But yeah, this is just another way to look at it in terms of saying, Hey, fractional sets probably contribute something to the hypertrophy stimulus and it's probably not 100% of a direct set, but it's also not zero. Yeah. Perfect. Okay. So as a result, we're going to focus on the fractional quantification method and we might touch on, um, the other quantification methods. And at this point we can actually get to the main results here, which is the primary meta regression for the effects of fractional volume on hypertrophy. And of the, the different model types that were assessed, a square root relationship was the best fit. And you can see that visualized here on the left-hand side. So on the X axis of panel a is increasing an increasing number of, um, weekly set volume again, quantified in the fractional method. And then on the Y axis is the exponentiated response ratio, uh, presented as a percentage change in muscle size on the right-hand side here. Um, that is the, um, marginal linear slope at the average set volume from the effects. So the average set volume of the underlying data we mentioned before was 13 sets. Um, that was not including control effects. So in this case, it's, I believe it's 12.25. That sounds right. Yeah. 12.25 sets per week. So what you're looking at on the right is the slope at 12 ish sets per week. Um, and as you can tell here, that marginal slope was positive, right? So we see a positive dose response relationship. Um, that value of the marginal slope is 0.24% for each additional set. Again, at that, um, average value of about 12 sets per week. And we mentioned before Schoenfeld's, um, linear regression indicated a about 0.38% per additional set. So this is smaller, but I'd say still comparable. Um, and ultimately that, uh, uh, marginal slope, the credible interval of that, the entire credible interval of that exceeds zero. So just kind of at its most fundamental level, what that tells us is that there's a positive dose response relationship here that appears to be pretty dang consistent. Um, now there's a lot more to get into in terms of interpreting this beyond that, but just broad strokes, Hey, it's positive. It goes up. And at the mean set volume, it is significant. If you were to, um, categorize it as such anything that there's Zach. No, I think that's a really good way of describing it. Um, does that face value, maybe you want to walk through some of the specifics of the plot, maybe just to kind of touch on each aspect. And obviously you planned on going into more in terms of your interpretation. So you can hit on that too. Yeah. So it's important to notice that the, uh, the kind of, so, so you have on the left-hand side there, the dark blue line, that is the estimate at each set volume. Okay. So that doesn't really account for uncertainty. Um, what the light blue band around it does is that is the credible interval at in a way, any given volume, but really what it's, what we're looking at, what's plotted here is the contrast compared to zero. Okay. So as a result, you're going to see a gradual widening of the credible interval as you get further and further away from zero, because our meta aggression was, um, basically you can think of it as anchored to zero or contrasted to zero because with this square root model, the effect at zero was not zero. And you would expect it to be zero or at least close. So this is statistical artifact, probably as a result of not having a ton of control effects. So as a result, we kind of need to anchor everything and put simply, it effectively shifts down the, um, the regression so that it starts at zero, zero is, is effectively what we did here. And that changes the credible intervals as a result. What Zach has on the screen here now is if you don't do that control adjustment and this, these credible intervals are more so related to the point estimates at any given set volume, um, and are therefore might vary a little bit like the, the way that they change as you get further and further away from zero is different. Um, now that doesn't mean that in the main meta regression model, that things like the amount of data or the consistency of the data are not contributing to the width of the credible interval, but the credible interval is largely impacted by the fact that it is effectively contrasted to zero. You want to add any color? Yeah, I think I just want to hammer home kind of again, because I can foresee us being pitted as a very pro volume. I just want to make it crystal clear, like what we're doing here at multiple levels to be conservative. Um, so first and foremost, like we have on the screen here, sorry, let me put my face up, um, is the, what do we consider like the non-control adjusted plot? So again, what we're doing here is by including control groups in our model, we're going to estimate the effect at a control condition, right? So the, the estimate at zero sets is non-zero, just like you said. Now, our understanding is that from a true training effect perspective, those control groups shouldn't be getting an effect, right? And so if I was to go to the estimate at 20 sets right now, and let's just, let's just call that 10%, just for sake of simplicity, that's overestimating the effect at 20 sets, because of the fact the model is suggesting a non-zero estimate for a control condition. And so essentially what including controls is doing is we're able to account for that, and then ultimately shift our expectations of the effects at any given volume downwards. Why is that relevant? It's relevant because of the fact that we are calculating that smallest detectable effect size, that is going to be influential at every single comparison you're going to make. That is going to decrease the bar that that's able to cross our kind of meaningful effect size. So just put very simply, if I shift down the scale, which all the numbers that I'm operating with are, are working on, it's going to be harder to cross the bar of an absolute threshold that's set completely independent of this data. So from multiple angles here, from control adjusting all of our estimates, and from referencing differences between any two volumes relative to this smallest detectable effect size from the meta-analysis from Steele, we're being conservative in the sense that you're going to need a greater difference to be able to cross this bar of what we would consider meaningful. So I think that's just important to encapsulate. So again, just to demonstrate what that's doing is it's just going from this plot where zero is, the estimate of zero sets is non-zero to essentially contrasting everything to that control condition to represent the relative effects to a control, which essentially shifts the entire curve downwards and ultimately impacts the credible intervals, like Josh said, for a few different reasons, but we won't belabor that too much, and ultimately is a better reflection of the absolute effects one would expect because we're accounting for that uncertainty and the upward bias and the control conditions. So I think, again, just hammering home, this has been conservative at multiple stops along the board, and this is one of them. The only other thing to hit on probably is the prediction interval, maybe? Yeah. I mean, I'll point it out. It's the very wide dotted lines, which is different than the credible interval. Zach, you want to just rip it? Yeah. So essentially, the difference there, and just, again, we're just trying to make every thing one of these as easy to interpret as possible, so nothing's intimidating, and just make sure everybody can kind of fully grasp everything so you can kind of understand the uncertainty of everything. So the darker blue line is the credible interval that's in reference to the actual estimates that we care about in this case. So that's the uncertainty in the mean at each one of those set volumes, whereas the prediction interval is essentially taking into account the uncertainty in the standard deviation of the underlying effects as well. So essentially, the prediction interval is going to include 95% of future data points. So it's more akin to, you know, if you have a mean and a standard deviation, standard deviation is kind of describing the spread of the individual observations that we may see in future research, but what we're trying to estimate is the mean of that distribution. So the uncertainty at the darker blue interval is kind of describing, okay, here's the range of values that the mean could take. And the reason that's important, I think, is because while we found the square root model was the best fit, if you look at the interval and interpret it literally in terms of the compatible directions that the dose-response relationship could take, it's far from excluding possibilities in terms of the functional forms that it could take, including an inverted U. So while this is absolutely our best guess, you know, given the data, it's not completely exclusive from other functional forms. You would imagine like a linear relationship where there is essentially no uncertainty in the mean in a very tight prediction interval. Both of those things would suggest that, hey, we're pretty darn confident it's linear, whereas that's not the case here. Yep. And if you stick around for future episodes, you'll see that those credible intervals are considerably narrower for strength outcomes because we have a lot more data. And maybe there's also just greater consistency of that data. And if you look at the two-stage models or the sensitivity stuff, which has less data but also doesn't have the beneficial effects. It's even bigger. It's even bigger. Exactly. So those credible intervals are wide. If we didn't have the indirect effects, they'd be even wider, which, again, we view as a feature as a result of all the things that we discussed. But still, it's 35 studies, you know. And while this is going to be my working model going forward as a researcher and as a practitioner in terms of the physiological nature of the dose-response relationship, that does not mean that that is absolutely the dose-response relationship. You can see that there's absolutely uncertainty in those point estimates or in that, you know, in the dose-response, basically, in that dark blue line. And it is still compatible with other functional forms. It was just better than the other functional forms. So even though some of the, like, runner-up functional forms did not show an inverted U, that doesn't mean that, hey, if we just had got a ton more data, especially above, say, 30 sets or more because there isn't a ton of data there, that we couldn't eventually see an inverted U on the group level. And I think that's really important to mention because we'll be the first to say that, hey, there's an inverted U if that's what the data suggests and that's what the modeling suggests. We'll also be the first to say, hey, it's linear. There is no diminishing returns if that's the case. And this is not our – like, that root model is not our opinion. It's what the underlying data seem to indicate. And, again, it's important to emphasize that it's not set in stone. This is exercise science that has limitations. Yeah, for sure. Probably good to mention it wasn't consistent across quantification methods. Yeah, so we can quickly touch on what the best fit model was for the other quantification methods. So for – you want to start with direct or total? Everything. Let's do total because it's pretty similar, actually. So it turns out that the total quantification method led to a similar model. So it's a root model as well. And it's visually similar. And I think it has – would kind of have the same practical take-home. So in this case, you're going to see more data points, which are effects from the underlying data. So group-level effects from the underlying data. You're going to see that the volumes are skewed a little bit higher, right? Because if I had a program that was 10 sets per week, but half of those were indirect sets, that would be a fractional volume of 7.5 but a total volume of 10, right? But nonetheless, this gives you kind of a similar outcome. And again, we can have some additional confidence in that general nature of the dose-response relationship because it is also a root function and kind of has a similar broad strokes take-home from this model. The one caveat with this one, which was a little bit weird and just can represent the – you know, some of the uncertainty and this kind of stuff, is that the one that was the best fit for total initially was the spline model. But first and foremost, we did compare that to everything else, and it was still a similar result. But again, after even just looking at that from a face validity perspective, we didn't feel like that was a good representation of what a plausible dose-response relationship was looking like. And ultimately, potentially would have been unfair to even compare that to the other ones because it was so much more complex. So this was kind of like the next runner-up that would actually fit without error. So I think the only reason I bring that up is, again, it just represents – there's uncertainty in the dose-response relationship. Not only was this one different, the kind of the runner-up that actually would fit was the root model, which, again, gives us a little bit more confidence that that's probably the best simplified version of the dose-response relationship in terms of a – for total as well. But direct, on the other hand, was best characterized by a different dose-response relationship, which, again, I think is just hammering home that while the root and fractional quantification is definitely our best guess, and we're pretty confident on that based on the base factors, it's by far not exclusive from any other dose-response form. So I don't know if you want to touch on direct for a little bit. Yeah, perfect. You can go ahead and pull up the direct one. So the best fit model for direct sets was linear, which is interesting. I think you could definitely over-interpret this. So if you look at the plot here on the screen, the volumes are kind of biased lower, because that makes sense, because indirect sets will not count as anything for the measured muscle group. You could over-interpret this and say that, okay, because you're only counting direct sets, which are going to be a more potent stimulus, therefore the effect is stronger, and there's really no kind of plateau of those additional potent sets. There might be some truth to that. I don't know for sure. I ultimately just think it's a worse way to look at the underlying dose-response relationship. So this is a great point, though. Sorry to cut you off. This is a perfect representation, again, of this is why it took us so long. Yeah. Because imagine the project if the quantification methods wasn't part of it. This is a completely different interpretation that we would have came away with than looking at this thing as systematically as we could. So I just think that's just absolutely crucial to understand all these little nooks and crannies and things that could completely flip the interpretation if you don't kind of understand this from a really, really big perspective. And the reason I keep harping on this is because this is going to happen on social media, 100%. We're trying our best to get out in front of it and put out a resource that hopefully is as systematic and nuanced and contextualized as humanly possible, but that's inevitably still going to happen. So just make sure you realize the degree of, you know, there's just a lot that goes into this, and this is one of those that can completely flip the interpretation. If you were to only investigate direct sets in terms of the meta-analysis that we were performing, and we weren't aware of the fractional, and, you know, if we – and I would say even coming into this, I would have said direct is a better way to do it than total. And so I think that would have been a reasonable thing to do. There's just a lot of studies that have, like, no direct sets. No direct effects. And that's something you can see in this plot is that if we flip over to, you know, look at the zero sets here on this direct one, you can see that there's a lot of really positive changes at zero sets, which would definitely not make sense for a control group, but the reality is those are effects that only had direct training, so like rows for biceps or things like that. And that's why I still think direct could be good practically if the amount of indirect work is relatively consistent. For sure. For sure. And I agree. I still think of it from a direct perspective, from a practical lens. But just from this perspective, I just wanted to quadruple down on the fact that the dose-response relationship was messy across quantification methods. And by no means, I think this is, like, the one and only way that it looks. And with future data, absolutely. Like, I don't know what your hypothesis coming in was in terms of the way that you thought it would look kind of post, maybe initial understanding of, like, all the things that went into this. I was expecting something with diminishing returns, but probably a little bit more was what I was probably expecting. So, like, a linear log model, which is just the same relative shape as the root model, but just a little bit more aggressive diminishing returns. Yeah. Was kind of what I was thinking. Yeah. So this largely comports with that. But if we get more data, I would not be surprised if it shifts to that, right? For sure. We'll get into this in the interpretation section, which we have 31 minutes here left. I think we should just focus on reporting, discussing what we found, and then circle back to the interpretation component later on. And I think that'll give us enough time to finish up the results here. So I'd say going into it before extraction, just, you know, having read all the studies at some point, but not, like, completely systematically, I definitely expected stronger diminishing returns. And if you pinned me down at that time, I probably would have said there would have been something resembling an inverted U, or at least the start of it. But you've got to keep in mind that that was a while ago. That was, like, before the NS paper was out, for example, and then, you know, maybe there was, like, more discussion around it, et cetera, et cetera. Kind of in the background, we were just extracting all the stuff, and as new stuff came out, I added it to the data set, that sort of thing. But, yeah, I'm surprised. I thought there would be at least a plateau. And I would not be surprised if upon additional data, whether that is at higher volumes and or at the control effects, whether we would see a stronger, whether we would see stronger diminishing returns. And speaking of the diminishing returns, while we're kind of double-clicking on that point, this might be a good time to discuss the table, which the table, which we'll pull up here in a second, is reported because I think it helps us do two things. The first is conceptualize and understand the diminishing returns that the plot is showing, and also, like, put them into context with the smallest detectable effect size we discussed before. Because if you look at that plot, it just looks like it goes up in a lot of ways. And you could definitely just, like, chuck that down on, you know, on the table or put it on the screen for whatever platform you're posting on, and just say, like, oh, there's a very strong dose-response relationship, which might be a fair interpretation, but I think this does a good job of kind of showing you the degree to which diminishing returns occur. So we've done what we believe to be the most balanced way to look at the minimum effective dose, which is basically, hey, after control adjusting, at what point do you have pretty high confidence that you are going to experience hypertrophy that's detectable, and that's unlikely to be due to error? In a lot of ways, the minimum effective dose is probably just one set, because that was still a positive value. And then you could get into a discussion of, like, obviously one set is effective because it's going to be better than zero, even if you're attenuating atrophy. But nonetheless, minimum effective dose, or maybe better characterized as minimal detectable dose, appears to occur around four fractional weekly sets. And then the tiers you see on the screen here are basically just additional increments to get another, or additional volume increments to get an additional increment in the smallest detectable effect size, which is 2.05%. And you can see the diminishing returns, I still think, are pretty strong. The kind of easiest way to interpret this is to look at the beginning of the curve and the end of the curve. So the first four sets, so the first increment in the smallest detectable effect size is the minimum effective dose, and that is, that requires four sets. But to get the final increment, which is the lowest efficiency tier from 30 to 42 fractional weekly sets, requires more than four times that, about 12.5 sets for additional, an additional increment of detectable hypertrophy. So your efficiency gets cut into a third, right? Or in other words, your initial sets are up to three times more efficient than your final sets at the end of this curve. And obviously it's kind of a, that those diminishing returns are gradual, and that the goal of the table is to portray that, those diminishing returns, with the best fit model. Yeah. I think just to restate what Josh said, maybe in a different way, is just essentially with this, what we're trying to do is, so in a lot of other meta-analyses, they've kind of categorized on the front end, right? And what we're essentially doing is categorizing on the back end after things have been estimated, you know, maybe arguably a little bit more appropriately. And so what we're doing here is we're saying, how many more sets does it take to increase by what we're considering a meaningful amount, which is this number that we've gotten from these, I can't remember how many it was, tons of control groups from the steel data. And essentially what that's doing is that's demonstrating that I think, and I don't know if you'd agree with this, that we haven't talked about this a ton, I think the diminishing returns are going to be underestimated across social media in comparison to what I think they demonstrate. I think if you understand this relative to kind of what we can detect, relative to, you know, our expectations and things like that, I think that to me, when I looked at these tiers and kind of understood and talked through it with you, because this is all your idea and it was a really, really good idea, I think it just highlights to me that these diminishing terms are maybe a little bit more aggressive than I realized relative to what we can detect and our confidence and things like that. So yes, volume demonstrates a pretty reliable relationship with improving hypertrophy. Yes, there's limitations to that in terms of the way the dose-response relationship looks, like we just discussed. But I think this incorporates the fact that yes, there is a reliable effect, but it also, depending on how you look at it, appreciably diminishes relative to what we can actually detect and consistently identify in research. So I think this is a really, really good addition because I think if we would have just left it with the kind of the main plot, people are going to see that linear marginal slope. It's positive. That's my kind of pooled effect size that I would get from a forest plot. I'll run with that and probably over-interpret it. But because we have a nonlinear dose-response shape, these types of classifications or practical tools to go out in the field with are really, really important. And I think this does a really good job communicating, hey guys, yes, volume seems to be an important aspect of the hypertrophy equation, but at the upper ends of the volumes that we've explored, they are increasingly less efficient. And I think for the average person, this is particularly important. Yeah. For people who are extreme, you know, strength and physique enthusiasts, maybe any gain is justifiable and they're kind of, their smallest effect size of interest really is zero. And if there's any identifiable effect, maybe they're going to want to increase the volume. And those are the people that are going to be doing specialization cycles with 45 sets per muscle group. Great. But for other people, particularly with multiple training goals or also just those with other considerations, I think this efficiency tier list is extremely helpful to kind of think through that from a practical lens and think about where is my greatest ROI, particularly when I'm considering kind of the whole body training program. Yeah. Very well said. And another thing that I think is worth emphasizing when looking at this table is that again, it's fractional sets, not direct sets. So I... Even more than what people think then. Yeah. Because I think most people think direct. Most people think direct, right? So when you hear 10 to 20 sets, it's like, are you talking about direct or total? It's just kind of, you know, we'll circle back to that in the interpretation portion of this. But like, I, even though there are like extreme volume studies out there and like, they are definitely high volume studies for sure. Like, it's not that hard to get to like 30 fractional sets. I wouldn't say that's low volume by any means, but the point I'm making, I'm trying to not like, bake my perspective into this too much. I guess I'm just pointing out that like, make sure you understand what you're looking at and you're kind of thinking through the various things we talked about throughout the podcast when you're looking at this table. And again, they're just not direct sets. So it's different than, you know, 42 sets of bicep curls. It might be worth double clicking on like, exactly how we got these tiers and also the minimum effective dose. So I think we can stay on this table because this also like, it's kind of a subjective thing. And again, that's the point of this podcast is to maximize transparency with how these decisions were made and the pros and cons as a result. So minimum effective dose, for example, I alluded to this a little bit, but basically, we used the point estimates throughout the dose response relationship of that square root, that square root model. And we compared those to the smallest detectable effect size. So therefore, there isn't necessarily uncertainty at the level of the point estimate, but instead there's just uncertainty in the level of the increment of that point estimate. Does that make sense? I know this gets like, this gets really fuzzy. Yeah, I was going to say, this is really, really like up in the clouds, but ultimately, I think what you're getting at is like, if you think about a regression with a interval around it, essentially what you're looking at is a distribution from the top. I don't know if that's going to help, but that's essentially that dark line in the middle is the peak of a normal distribution. And then the interval is the tails of that distribution. And so when you're saying, okay, the difference between 10 sets and 15 sets reaches this threshold, there's obviously uncertainty around that. Now, the approach for these tiers is we took the point estimates, which are obviously our best guess at what the means would be, but there's obviously uncertainty there. Additionally, there's uncertainty in the control estimate that we use from steel as well. So that is, again, our best guess of the variability underlying a control condition, but there's uncertainty at both of those levels that you kind of just need to, from a practical perspective, need to make some sort of determination on how you're going to do this. We could make 16 different control adjusted or tiers tables, which we definitely considered at one point. They're like, hey, let's make multiple. Yeah, there was a time where we're going to report like three to five different minimum effective doses based on criteria for determining the minimum effective dose. Yeah, so it's just... Like this is not the minimum effective dose. It's just, these are our best faith interpretations of what we think makes sense. and absolutely is like injecting a little bit of our own interpretation of doing these things. But again, point of the podcast, be transparent about that. Demonstrate how you were doing that and why we think they're reasonable. But that's why you could reasonably come to a different conclusion depending on if you don't agree with those presuppositions. Yeah, like this table is practical in nature because like we kind of went back and forth on whether to include it or not because as we've discussed, we think it's hopeful for literal interpretation of the model. But like at the same time, it assumes the model is correct. It assumes... And like it is almost certainly directionally correct, but like we've discussed before, maybe with additional data, we see stronger diminishing returns. Maybe with additional data, we see less diminishing returns and linear becomes the best fit. In that case, this model would make no sense, right? The minimum effect... Sorry, this table would make no sense. The minimum effective dose would still make sense, but the efficiency tiers wouldn't make any sense because there wouldn't be any diminishing returns. Like it kind of relies on the model fit, which is a limitation in and of itself. And like you said, with your kind of analogy of looking at the regression from the top, I think it's just important for folks to hear us talk through this to make sure that there are... minimal misinterpretations of what this is attempting to show. But I do think this is strong, like decently strong diminishing returns, I think is my subjective interpretation of this table here and ultimately of the model. Not as much as we expected. And then again, we can circle back to how we might apply this in practice in the interpretation section. Okay. With that, should we move on to the secondary analyses? Sweet. So as we alluded to before, we did some secondary analyses where we took the frequency studies or studies that manipulated both volume and frequency and we put them to the side, right? And we said, only the 17 studies that directly assessed the effects of volume, let's look at those to kind of confirm the directionality and the magnitude here. Even though, you know, we think those indirect effects are helpful, other people might feel differently and this is an important kind of conceptual check. So we're going to start... Actually, this has both of them. So on the right-hand side here in panel B, effectively, there's a lot going on here, but at its most basic level, what you see is the between... the various between group effects from the direct studies. And then that pooled estimate is below that. So you have both the credible interval, which is the width of the diamond, and then you have the prediction interval beyond that. And I can't remember the exact value of the pooled estimate here, but it was pretty similar to what Schoenfeld found in 2017. So again, our results generally tend to agree with theirs, just, you know, add these kind of nonlinear functional forms and the additional data. On the left-hand side here, we have the two-stage meta-regression, which is basically getting the linear slope from each study and meta-analyzing that to confirm the general magnitude and general direction. And you can interpret this plot quite similarly to how you interpreted the main plot, just understanding that, hey, those credible intervals are way wider. This is not going to consider the possibility for nonlinear functional forms. So therefore, it is just a linear form. There was no possibility for it to be otherwise. And it is going to be quite limited interpretation. I would not use this one to make practical decisions, but to kind of confirm our primary meta-aggression. What do you think, Zach? Yeah, I agree. I think the... Just putting my cards on the table, I wouldn't use these for any practical decisions, really, because I fundamentally just think they don't answer the question in the way that ultimately we could to the best of our ability. But, like you said, I think they're nice to have, nice to see that they confirm things directionally. And for the two-stage one, the other thing is, like, the width of those intervals is just, like, so much wider because of the fact you consider any individual slope that's just, like, crazy is not being pulled back in any way or any way accounted for of being, like, a massive outlier relatively to other effects. So it's just, like, it's... Yeah, directionally, it's helpful. Directionally, it's important to see that to kind of confirm things. But, as we said, there's multiple limitations to both of these that I think make them particularly less useful for a dose-response-related question. But, again, helpful to see. Helpful to see they both kind of suggest that volume does seem to have an effect. But if you just took these literally, again, without, you know, without knowing our primary results, donation returns don't exist here, right? Yeah, exactly. And, again, it's just another entire piece that could entirely change the interpretation if you didn't kind of look at this thing from all angles. So, yeah, nice to see. The panel, I think it's panel B in the top right, to me, that one's really helpful just to see kind of the consistency of the effects. Like, at the end of the day, this is like kind of looking at the question at its most basic level. When you have a higher volume versus a lower volume condition, what do you tend to see? You tend to see that the higher volume condition has a greater increase in muscle size. And in a lot of ways, that's, like, confirmed with the two-stage metaregression. So, I think they're helpful and I think some people are going to really value them. And I hope some people really value them. But, nonetheless, they are important to kind of add validity and, like, indirect robustness, if you will, to the primary metaregressions. Okay. At this point, let's move on to the moderator analyses. And this will be an interesting discussion where we can just chat about this for about 15 minutes. I mentioned this at the top of the show that going into this project, I think we had high... We had ambitions to, you know, save the world and understand exactly how volume is influenced by all of these other training variables, right? Or, whether they're training variables or just study characteristics like the training status of the participants. I guess just to use your analogy and put both of our cards on the table here, these are not going to be super practically helpful in our view. Reason being is if you slice and dice kind of the underlying data, you're much more likely to get results that are not truly what the effect is, I think you could get some insights potentially from these, but there are some other limitations specifically with meta-aggression in this case that, again, add additional uncertainty to them that we should lay out here. So, one issue is you are basically cutting up the data and therefore doing indirect effects in the absence of direct effects. So, for example, if I were to compare, like, if I were to try to understand the difference in the dose-response relationship between low rep training and high rep training, you would just have to look at studies that used high reps and studies that used low reps. But those are fundamentally indirect comparisons and you're not doing all of the various steps we did to kind of account for all of the heterogeneity in the main model. You're failing to do that with the moderator analyses. Another issue is the distribution of the variable, right? So, for example, a lot of studies used about 10 reps per set. Some used much higher reps per set, some used much lower, but the distribution makes kind of the analysis hard to imagine it being helpful, I guess, just to put it simply. And then another limitation is that you could conceivably have different functional forms of the dose-response relationship based on these different moderators, but now you're starting to fit a model to very little data, which is generally hard to do. So you basically have to assume the same functional form as the main model. So those are various reasons to just be cautious with these, and then we can move into what exactly they're showing from a research perspective, but I'll see if I missed anything there in terms of the limitations of them. Yeah, I think ultimately the fundamental thing to understand is like, we just went through how it is possible to take indirect effects or, you know, some people would call it like observational data essentially and estimate the things that we want to estimate. Like, again, in these kind of medical examples, you could get the effect of a treatment entirely with observational data. It just takes a lot of data and it takes a very, very concerted effort to make sure you're accounting for all the things that potentially could bias that comparison. So, the point with that is it takes a lot, a lot of focus and mental energy and that being the primary focus, right? So, like, just as an example, let's say the rep range one was the one that we wanted to think about. There's probably a couple confounding factors or, you know, maybe all the high rep studies are in some sort of other study design characteristic that makes that relationship a little bit cloudier that you would need to adjust for that or account for that in some way. And it would take a very, very concerted effort for every single one of these to make sure that we're uncovering every stone. And the point is, we just spent a year and a half, two years making sure that this main, the primary model was absent of a lot of those confounders and accounting for everything and all that. And taking that for an interaction is just, it's so much harder because in order to kind of appreciate this, a volume metaregression or the one that we did, the studies that were accepted, the variable that we're manipulating is volume, right? So a study that's able to investigate the volume slope has different volumes, right? And that would be, like you said, kind of a direct comparison or a study where all other factors are held constant and that is the way you're comparing it. That's like the ideal study for that comparison. Like we said, other studies can be useful, but you need a good portion of those in the absence of a ton of data and a ton of accessibility to these other things you may need to account for. So absent of that, small sample research, low number of studies that we have access to, we have to be really sure that we're accounting for all these things appropriately. And in the case of an interaction, there's a few things working against you. First and foremost, interaction effects take substantially greater sample sizes to detect them accurately. So that's the first thing. that probably is something where, you know, in a meta-analysis you're going to have more power than an individual study, but you're still limited. The second thing, like you said, a direct effect for an interaction is going to be a very specific study design. So let's take the rep range example again. What we would need to investigate on the study level, a direct effect of that interaction would be four groups. Low volume, high volume, with high loads, and low volume, high volume, with low loads. For pretty much all of these interactions, that is either never the case or very, very few is that the case. So essentially what you're limiting yourself to is just saying, okay, on average, across studies, what are the high loads looking like and what are the low loads looking like? Which again, directionally can help us and give us kind of a good indication on how things may lean, but it's almost entirely for hypothesis-generating purposes and not something you should run to the bank with. And we'll talk about probably the main one here in a second, but that's what you need to understand with these interaction effects. They are definitely exploratory. They are definitely primarily for the purpose of hypothesis generation. If a researcher looks at one of those and says, oh, this is interesting, it leans in a certain direction. I'd love to do a study on that. That's what those are for. And in the absence of any better evidence, I suppose they could be used for practical utility, although we would strongly, strongly wave the caution flag for that being the case, and I would not do so in any sort of super confident manner because of the fact that those are just fundamentally limited comparisons in comparison to the main model, which we've done a lot of work for in making sure that all these things are properly accounted for and are on the back of studies that can directly estimate these effects. So that is just me saying there is a massive caution label that's on these for any sort of practical interpretation that needs to be understood when we kind of look at them. So I don't know if I missed anything there you want to keep. No, that's perfect. Go ahead and pull up one of them. I guess it doesn't really matter which is which. If you don't mind making that full screen for your boy. Perfect. So this is the effects of age. So let's just kind of talk through what this is. So basically, again, we're assuming the same model fit from the primary meta regression of a square root relationship. And we're effectively using a linear main effect, in this case, for age and an interaction term between set volume and the moderator of interest. Again, in this case, it's age. And if I recall correctly off the top of my head, it's the 10th percentile and the 90th percentile of a continuous variable. But if it's categorical, then it's just categorical. And that doesn't apply. So on the right-hand side, that diamond is the interaction contrast between the 10th percentile of effects, of the age for the effects, and the 90th percentile. So 21 years old and about 35 years old. And you can see here that that contrast overlaps with zero, meaning, hey, the slope was maybe a little bit steeper, if you will, for older individuals. intervals, but that is almost certainly just noise and is very hard to distinguish from each other, if you will. So in other words, they're quite similar. Now, one that I think is going to catch some eyes based on previous hypotheses is the effects of rest intervals. And I think this one is interesting because of prior discussion on this exact potential moderator and also the underlying data and some of the limitations of it. So I'll give this a rip in terms of our perspective on this from what we chatted through, and then, Zach, you can fill in whatever you think I missed. So, again, a common narrative is that the dose-response relationship, especially at higher volume, times, is only going to show up because of shorter rest intervals, right? Now, the moderator analysis here indicated a stronger slope with shorter rest periods compared to longer rest periods. So an estimate of one minute compared to three minutes. So then the question becomes like, hey, is this strong evidence for that prior claim that the dose-response relationship is only a thing or only strong because of short rest periods? The short answer is not necessarily, and that's for a few reasons. The first reason is before we even get into our data here, you kind of need to question the assumption that longer rest periods are clearly beneficial for hypertrophy. I think we've done a podcast in the past about that, or at least some sort of content. Zach did a metaregression using some data from a recent meta-analysis, and it's not all that strong of evidence for longer rest periods. That's the first reason. The second reason is, okay, let's just interpret this literally for a second. You would also have to claim that short rest periods can lead to higher absolute effects, right? So once you get above whatever, 20 sets or whatever, your strongest effects are going to be low volume or low rest periods and very high volumes, which I think a lot of claims around rest periods would not necessarily, that wouldn't fit within the model. Yeah, it'd be a stronger slope in the low rest interval condition, meaning you need more sets to reach the same or even less effects in comparison to longer rest intervals. So put simply, you'd expect greater effects with long rest intervals straight up, no matter what, and then also the slope of volume would really only be pretty strong in short rest intervals. This is basically the opposite. In terms of where the effects exist on the y-axis at least. Yep. And then again, like we mentioned before, these are ultimately indirect comparisons because there's very few studies that have the four conditions necessary. So you would need low volume, high volume, each with short rest, and then you would need low volume, high volume, each with long rest for a direct comparison. comparison. Now, again, we need to understand the underlying data here as well because of these indirect comparisons. Because a possibility here is that longer rest period studies could just tend to be studies that explore larger differences in volume, right? So in other words, there are higher absolute volumes being explored with shorter rest periods, right? Because of some of the logistical constraints that you can imagine with resistance training. So in other words, you might just see a stronger estimated slope here with shorter rest periods because the differences in volume are just larger. because if you were to imagine designing a study and carrying out a study where you're comparing 10 versus 30 sets a week, you have to do those training sessions with the participants or at least be there with the participants for a 30 set per week program. You're going to probably want shorter rest periods so that you can have something resembling a life outside of the lab. And that does seem to be the case from kind of looking at the underlying data. And again, that is why our perspective is that this is probably just artifact. It also, this moderator effect assumes a linear term for rest periods, right? So that's, again, just a limitation of the approach here. Zach whipped up a log linear term for rest periods, which probably makes more sense. I don't think most people would assume that there is a... That was the best fit from the meta regression I did too. So like, yeah, basically what you're going to say is like the effects of rest interval on hypertrophy are probably the most dramatic when your rest intervals are really, really short. And then after the fact, there's probably a point where it becomes kind of sufficient. And I think the meta analysis by Singer kind of looked at that too. They had a couple different analyses there. They had a categorical one that was a little bit more akin to kind of a nonlinear relationship. And the binary classification when you were less than 60 seconds of rest, that was the one that showed some negative effects of rest interval. So I think once you're kind of beyond that point, that's where things maybe start to diminish a little bit. But the other thing I pulled up here quickly is that a categorical, the thing I actually just remembered, a categorical kind of looking at it, the one advantage that potentially has, I guess, is it's a limitation. Is it kind of sort of allows for nonlinearity in a way? So like you said, one of the assumptions of the rest interval analysis that we did is we assumed a linear relationship of all the continuous moderators, which in the case of rest interval in particular is probably not a super great assumption. And so that may be impacting the way that the effect looks a little bit. But when you look at things categorically, which I forget exactly what the cut was, was it 90? 90 seconds. So that completely absolves the leaning that I think people are going to look at. To be clear, the other one still overlaps zero. You know, I think in this case, kind of a binary cutoff of like, is this interesting or not interesting is probably the safest way to go about things. And in this case, it's not abundantly clear that rest intervals are playing a role. And I think one feature of a categorical examination of this, which obviously in general has more limitations, is less powerful, et cetera, is that it does allow kind of for a little bit of non-linearity in the sense that that's occurring. So to be very clear, this very well could be a thing. Rest periods very well could diminish the dose response relationship. They could enhance the dose response relationship. We don't know. We are just saying that we pre-registered moderator analyses. We wanted to include them. We think they're interesting. Just to be completely transparent, I think some are more useful than others because of like... It's just how well do they conform to those assumptions ultimately. Yeah, how well do they conform to the assumptions? And we just went through some of the limitations with the rest period one in particular. And you could go through each of those, each of the moderators in the analysis one by one. And just like think through all those things. But those are each like almost individual projects in and of themselves. Some of them require less of all of those considerations. So again, I kind of subjectively like value them a little bit more. But that's again me kind of baking in my own interpretation, which isn't the most objective thing in the world. So that's a long way of saying we are not saying, oh, this dose response relationship is absolutely the thing. And it's super, super robust, even with long rest periods, even with totally optimized training or whatever the case may be. Those claims can absolutely be made. We're just saying that our perspective is that this moderator analysis and really any of the moderator analyses for that matter would not be strong evidence for arguments like that. But those arguments we're not saying are right or wrong. Is that fair to say? Yeah, I think it's just it's just fundamentally a limitation of like I think it's kind of funny because like a lot of the critiques that like a meta regression approach to meta analysis would get from being kind of like this indirect stuff isn't often applied to sub analyses within meta analysis, which is exactly what you're doing. Yeah, is you're taking OK, here's all these between group effects. Here is some some factor across studies that I want to stratify by. And then do we see any differences? But ultimately that could just be in due to like the number one thing that I can I don't have a plot on hand this time, but I think just visually looking at, OK, if a if a study has higher set volumes, what's the likelihood that they also have shorter rest intervals? Yeah, it's like you look at it visually and you're like, OK, that's probably a factor here. Yeah. And just purely thinking about that logistically makes entire like perfect sense to anybody who's ever playing a study is like, all right, we're doing, you know, for my for my dissertation, perfect example. And I think yours as well. Like I was doing leg press and the traditional kind of rest periods in our lab was kind of three to five minutes typically for like multi joint exercises. I pick three. Yeah. Why? Because I was doing a higher volume study in one of the limbs that I didn't want to be there all day. And that's just like that's just what it is. And that's that's a limitation that can further shape how this looks. And I think that's just one of those limitations that you just can't really do anything about because we don't have evidence that looks at this directly absent like one study that we can talk about briefly if you want to. But the point is, like Josh said, to hammer this home and again, you've gotten some face time while I was talking is these these are really just like let's throw it so throw some darts at the board, see what sticks, what can be grounds for further investigation. And this is absolutely grounds for further investigation. For sure. Absolutely. I think this one's interesting and I think this one has some decent. That is one of my primary questions that we'll get. We'll we'll discuss in the interpretation section is like. OK, if you do grant the assumption that higher rest periods are more effective on a per set basis, does that change the nature of the dose response relationship? Maybe it does. Maybe it doesn't. We would need more direct. We would need direct studies on that. We have one by long gone colleagues in this case. We could go through it if we had a little bit more time, but we don't. But there's just so little data. The data we the direct data we do have wouldn't necessarily say that, hey, the dose response relationship is fundamentally different between short and long rest periods. But there's just so little. OK, we have some indirect data here, but then you take into account that the shorter rest period. Yeah, the shorter rest period studies probably had bigger differences in volume and also tended to investigate higher volumes. Therefore, it might exaggerate the slope of the dose response relationship in the moderator analysis, given the way it was. That was linear. Yeah, exactly. There's just you got 12 steps on the bus ride to say, hey, would we make all these assumptions and grant all of these potentially unreasonable classifications? It kind of seems like there might be something there, but it's not even consistent across classification methods, such as you know what most people would consider a practical cut point in terms of short and long rest. So, yeah, I think that makes the point pretty clear. Beautiful. And yeah. Cool. Now that we've presented all of the results of the project, or at least for the effects of volume on hypertrophy, we're going to move on to the interpretation. And if you were listening closely, if you're watching closely, you might have noticed some changes here. We're wearing different clothes. I think we each have a little bit more facial hair than we did because the previous sections took a little bit longer than anticipated. There's also now a hurricane here in South Florida. Luckily, it's not going to be a direct hit, so we are able to continue on, but we're back. We're merging this all into one video because we want this to be a fantastic resource that is nice and comprehensive. So with that, we're going to move on to our interpretation of the data. Again, up to this point, we've tried our best to be relatively balanced, and we're going to continue to try to be balanced. But we're definitely going to start to layer our perspective on the data, as well as practical application, because that's obviously important in an applied field like this. But we're, again, going to try to be nice and transparent when we are communicating our perspective, our interpretation of the data. Let's start by discussing the strengths and limitations of this project compared to previous projects or just what it could be alternatively. So some of the obvious strengths of our project are that we were able to explore nonlinear functional forms of the dose response relationship. And I really like the way you framed this earlier in the podcast is that we kind of determined the categories for volume on the back end, right? As opposed to saying, oh, at what point or as opposed to saying, oh, do you see greater growth above, say, five sets per week or 10 sets per week or 20 sets per week? Instead, we kind of found the best possible relationship and then tried to describe that relationship on the back end. So in my mind, those are some of the primary strengths of the project. Not to take us too much off the road here, but the reason that's such a tough thing or like it's kind of an important step is like you think about this like in the context of medicine, you know, people will kind of talk about the whole, you know, don't categorize continuous variable thing, which obviously, you know, given the scope of this project, we're generally on board with for a variety of reasons. But when it does come down to making practical decisions, it can be it can become challenging to ultimately make a decision based on this like kind of continuous relationship. Right. And that's why I'm like medicine a lot of the time to have the desire for these categorical cut points so they can kind of determine should I treat or should I not treat? Right. Like those kind of decision, you know, ways of thinking. Now, obviously, there's other approaches you can take to like make things more probabilistic and things like that. But from like a layperson perspective, at some point categorizing things is helpful for determining whether or not to engage in something. And I think that's the case here. We just wanted to try to delay that to the latest possible stages we possibly could. It's kind of like the one point six grams per kilogram of body mass rule of thumb for daily protein intake for maximizing increases in muscle mass. That almost certainly isn't perfectly correct, but it's kind of like you said for application, it's helpful to have that quote unquote cut point. And so our approach here was to model the relationship and then on the back end make quote unquote cut points or at least try to describe various categories accordingly. So I think our approach there is a strength. Another strength is that we explored the different ways of quantifying volume. Right. We had the direct method. We had the fractional method and we had the total method and the total method is what has been used before. And ultimately the fractional method performed better. So therefore that's probably a strength of our of our project here is that the fractional method is probably a more accurate way to investigate the dose response relationship. Is it perfect? Absolutely not. Is half a set for indirect sets perfect? Almost certainly not. But it is an improvement and hopefully a step in the right direction. And then the final strength I have listed before I'll see what you have to add here Zach is that we of course just have additional data. So we have just new volume studies since previous meta-analyses were published and we also have some indirect data which we spent a lot of time discussing how we incorporated that. And kind of a subsection of this strength is that we included multiple ways to look at the data. Right. So we tried to account for different perspectives on how to go about answering this question and hopefully did a decent job of touching on most if not all of those. Yeah. Really the only thing I'd add is just in addition to all these things try to make the entire process materials etc. as open and transparent as humanly possible to you know we realize there's other ways you can look at things you can want to investigate things from a different angle and I've tried to make it so that materials are available for people to look at things in whatever way that they see fit. But yeah I generally agree with the with the strength. Cool. Now let's move on to some limitations and this might not seem exciting on the front end but I think it's very very important for the interpretation because it's going to kind of add some uncertainty especially in certain volume ranges as we go here. So depending on your perspective this might be kind of a bad thing that there's so many limitations but I think it's a good thing and it's exciting for science in general and again very important for to kind of go beyond just the basic sound bites of the main findings here and acknowledge the limitations. So the first limitation is that at the end of the day our results are limited to the context of the included studies. So we have a table that we presented earlier in the podcast with descriptives of the range of set volumes that were explored, the frequencies, the rep ranges and the rest periods as well as the proximity to failure. I think you said this before Zach and I tend to agree. It's probably a pretty good look at just average hypertrophy programs. You know moderate rep ranges, moderate-ish rest periods, one to three times per week of training the measured muscle. So take that for whatever it's worth on your end in terms of how you view these descriptives but nonetheless we can't necessarily make claims beyond what these descriptives show us. So in this case we would focus on the blue plots at the top because those are the hypertrophy effects. Which look, yeah. Okay. No problem but hopefully you get the general idea here is that you can't necessarily extrapolate beyond these. Another thing to keep in mind is that we in a way a positive of this project is that we focused on site-specific direct measurements of hypertrophy. So if I was doing a study investigating the quads, I measured quad size as opposed to some whole body measure of muscle mass or something that's a little bit less site-specific, a little bit less direct. In a lot of ways that's a positive. But these weren't necessarily balanced programs and when we see this dose-response relationship we need to keep that in mind. That we're really talking about kind of site-specific dose response as opposed to extrapolating that to kind of a whole body program where things are balanced. And I'm sure we're going to get into that a little bit more. Another thing to keep in mind with the context of these studies is that the average duration of the training program was about ten and a half weeks. We didn't extract or aim to describe whether high volumes had higher rates of dropouts. A lot of studies didn't report that sufficiently and also we just didn't choose to do that on the front end. If I were to do it again I probably would. But nonetheless, I think it's important to keep in mind that if you have a subject contributing to this model, they had to have completed the study. And that's important to keep in mind is that this assumes completion. This assumes that you have a pre-testing value and you have a post-testing value. And at the end of the day, there's going to be some limitations that come into that, right? There could have been dropouts in higher volume conditions that just didn't, you know, tolerate the training very well. There could have been some biases in a way in terms of who was accepted to be in the study or what participants were like, yeah, this study sounds cool to me. Because if you know you're not going to do well with a very hard training program, you might not sign up for the study once you learned a little bit more about it. Or maybe the researchers have some ideas of who is going to actually be able to get through that study. And that can, again, lead to some downstream considerations for our interpretation here. So, again, this assumes completion and it's completion over a relatively short time period. So, again, we need to be careful extrapolating that to everyone and we need to be careful extrapolating that to time periods beyond that 10 and a half week mark. Additionally, we had in the descriptives figure, Zach, if you want to zoom in on the top right if possible, we have a figure describing the ultrasound timelines. And not every single study said exactly when post-testing ultrasound measurements were taken. But we did our best to describe what was reported. Okay. So, in the top right here, you can see that sometimes a study would say, hey, we measured muscle size 48 to 72 hours after the last training session. Some of them said at least 48 hours after the last training session. Some of them had a more specific indication. So, maybe they said exactly 72 hours post. And in a lot of ways, the reporting can definitely be improved here going forward in volume studies. But nonetheless, we tried our best to describe what was reported. And if you really want to dive into these, make sure you check out the caption of this figure in the manuscript because it kind of describes that. But nonetheless, this is a limitation. Is that we don't know exactly whether these effects would apply at, say, two weeks post-training. And just from a high level, measuring muscle hypertrophy isn't as straightforward as you think. And at the end of the day, there are some systematic factors that personally I can think of that could lead to an overestimation of muscle size from higher volumes. There are some things like connective tissue thickening. You could potentially make an argument with factors related to glycogen. Angiogenesis or the formation of new blood vessels might play a very small role as well. There are things like longitudinal hypertrophy, sarcoplasmic hypertrophy, and then also muscle damage-induced swelling as well, which I think is what a lot of people are going to kind of think of right off the bat with high-volume training programs. And we'll dive into the swelling stuff here a little bit more in a bit. At the end of the day, kind of drawing on a really nice review paper from Cody Hahn from a few years ago. So the title is something to the effect of muscle hypertrophy size matters, but so does the measurement or something like that, which is just a fantastic title. At the end of the day, I think they have a nice figure in there indicating that muscle tissue is about 75% water and about 25% other stuff. And of the 25% other stuff, about 65% of that is myofibrillar proteins. Yeah, exactly. So at the end of the day, I think that should just humble us in terms of whole muscle measures of muscle size. Okay. Because there are a lot of other things that could kind of shift around as a result of training and as a result of particularly high-volume training. My interpretation of this, and we're going to, again, dive into swelling specifically here a little bit further in a bit. My interpretation of this is that these things are unlikely to explain all of the dose-response relationship here, but it should add some uncertainty at higher volumes, especially because we don't have a ton of direct data indicating to us that these whole muscle measures of muscle size are going to kind of properly account for all of these factors, and therefore we might not be able to fully extrapolate these beyond these 8-12 week training studies. I think it might explain some of the dose-response relationship, but again, not all of it. So what do you think, Zach? Yeah, it's hard. It's hard to know how much this stuff matters in terms of, like, I guess just from a big, big picture, I think what people need to appreciate and understand how this could look a few different ways. It's like, let's take the muscle damage thing as an example. Essentially, what would need to happen for this to bias the results is that it would need to have a differential effect based on the training program, which in the case of muscle damage, I think makes sense, like how that could happen, like more volume, more damage. But I also think it's hard to intuit how those relationships work as well. Like, for example, on the muscle damage, is it the fact that, you know, 10 sets per week has doubled the muscle damage than five sets a week? Or is that a diminishing returns relationship, just like we described here? Like, there's so many different ways that those confounding relationships could look that I don't think it'd be appropriate to take a step back and say this is exactly how this is influencing this. It's just the fact that we don't know how this is, you know, potentially biasing the results. So like you said, it's the granddaddy of uncertainty in the sense that we just fundamentally there's a few of these things related to the measurement, which it's so funny. Like, in, like, other areas of science, like physics and things like that, they spent a really long time, you know, really perfecting their measurements. And I'm not to say that, you know, muscle research hasn't done that as well. And, you know, maybe some people that are more molecular in muscle biology would say, yeah, we've been doing that all along. But for people that are with more of an applied focus, I think that has very much potentially been putting the cart before the horse a little bit in the sense that, yeah, I think people are aware of measurement error. They're aware of these things. But really, really growing an appreciation for how many things can influence a training effect is something I think the average listener and just researchers in general, I know this is something we've changed, you know, completely fundamentally, I think over the last two years from our personal experience in the lab and stuff. So I think just growing an appreciation for this, I think, just makes you a little bit more humble in general for small differences and things like that. And it also just underlines the importance of meta-analysis and things like that, where we can take all these, you know, potentially noisy effects and try to get as best of a precise estimate as we can. But that doesn't mean that's an unlimited thing that doesn't have limitations with itself. Yeah. I think we would probably, again, this is our perspective, this is our opinion, we would probably fall more on the side of let's focus on studies that investigate the actual outcome of interest as opposed to more mechanistic or hypothetical type of situations regarding muscle physiology or mechanisms. But I wouldn't say we fall, like, super strongly in that side because, again, just experience in the lab and just when you go to look for answers regarding some of these fundamental questions, like to what extent might damage-induced swelling influence whole muscle size, why is it that we might have a study here and there where the whole muscle measure of hypertrophy doesn't really align with the fiber cross-sectional area from a muscle biopsy. Now, some of that just could be variability that is to some degree expected, but it just starts getting these questions going. And it's like we don't have clear answers to them. So I don't think staking, making the strong claim that, hey, we must always focus on the outcome of interest because we are measuring what we actually care about, to me, that is limited, right? Now, you could make that claim if, like, there were less considerations in terms of duration, but I think there are considerations regarding duration and how these might play out over a longer time period that I think we just don't have answers to. And, again, while we might say, hey, it's unlikely that these are to explain a good amount of the effects, they might explain some of them, and, hey, maybe in 5, 10 years we realize they explain all of them. I think that's unlikely, but it's a possibility that we are fully acknowledging here. Yeah, I think the kind of outcomes versus mechanisms thing is something that is another classic example of, like, a very simple concept philosophically on paper. And then when you get experience of actually applying that in terms of, you know, taking ultrasound measurements, etc., things just get a lot more complicated. So, yes, on paper, I would 100% agree. If we could measure the construct that we care about directly, that should be the evidence that predominantly guides your decision-making for said outcome. It makes perfect sense. The problem is, are we really that confident that we actually are measuring the construct that we want to know about? Of course, you could say we're probably a lot closer than a potential mechanism, but the point is, like, they're at least theoretically, and I think you could pay credence to the other side of the aisle of people that are a little bit more mechanistically focused in the sense that if they're really, really confident in their ability to measure things, which I think is a reasonable justification in some cases. Like, you know, just an example is, like, being able to work with rodents. Like, you have a lot more control over that situation. That said, there is some generalizability, you know, concerns, moving that over to humans, etc. And then also, I know there's, like, certain things that seem super science-y, for lack of a better term, but are also really limited, too. Like, you know, even just the biopsies in our field is, like, something that seems like, oh, that's the way you want to measure muscle size. But if you really think about some of the techniques that go into collecting the tissue, measuring it, the assumptions made to ultimately derive your measurement of muscle size, there's, like, six steps along that process where you're like, it feels like we're kind of missing the forest for the trees here now. And the point is, like, there is at least a conceivable point where you think you're measuring the outcome of interest that you want to guide your decision-making based upon, but the mechanism actually might be a little bit closer to guiding the correct decision, despite being a couple steps removed from that actual outcome. So I think for people who come from our perspective, which, again, I would say, for the most part, I generally agree with being an outcome-focused individual in terms of our decision-making. But if you are completely unaware in the fact that when we measure an outcome, there's a lot of assumptions that are built into that, I think that can potentially make you not give as much respect to a side that maybe takes a different perspective on that. Like, you could have two people that fundamentally disagree on the validity of ultrasound measurement for muscle size, and that could result in two different mental models about how to make a decision. And that's a reasonable thing to disagree about. So I think, yeah, that's a tangent and a half, but yeah, I think that's a good discussion. And when I kind of zoom out with this question, at the end of the day, physiology and skeletal muscle would fall into this, adapts to the demands. Like, that's just a very basic principle of exercise science, of physiology in general. The tissue is going to adapt to the imposed demands. There are a lot of demands that are occurring for skeletal muscle, and there are conceivably adaptations that can occur that can meet the demands that are quite constrained in terms of their timescale. That's ultimately where my head goes with these sorts of things, especially when you look at our dose-response relationships between volume and strength. I think things start to get pretty interesting, and I'm sure we'll dive into that a little bit more in future episodes, especially when we discuss the dose-response between volume and strength. But ultimately, the point we're circling around here is that skeletal muscle is going to adapt to the demands. Higher volume imposes multiple additional demands on skeletal muscle. Some of those might carry out for years and years and years. Some of those may not, and the short answer is that we just don't know. And further, there could be some other considerations related to the acute response to a given training program, whether that training program is lower or higher volume. So I think before we finish up the limitations here, we might as well just move on to some more specifics regarding swelling while we're kind of double-clicking on this point. Because this is where I think a lot of people's heads are going to go. Even up to what somebody might categorize as high or extreme volumes, we see additional hypertrophy. Some people are just like, how could that be? That just doesn't make sense. So it has to be swelling. Which, again, we acknowledge very well might be contributing, if not explaining all of it. So let's dive into what we know, our perspective on swelling up to this point. I think it's important to keep in mind that swelling that increases measurements of muscle size can absolutely occur. Absolutely occur. And in the context of highly damaging resistance training, it peaks pretty late. So you actually do see an increase in muscle size for multiple days. That increases for multiple days. And again, if you think back to the typical time periods of the ultrasound measurements following the final training session in the included studies, that could conceivably be an issue. Because for the most part, these measurements are about 48 to 72 hours after the final training session. Now, before we get into some more caveats there, it's worth noting the potential mechanisms of swelling. I'll note that there is not necessarily a consensus regarding the exact mechanisms for swelling. But there are, I'll call it two and a half mechanisms that I'll note. The first is fluid leaks from blood vessels effectively around skeletal muscle fibers. So within the endomycium of the fascicles. And to my understanding, this would impact whole muscle size measurements, but not necessarily measures of fiber cross-sectional area. The second mechanism would be intracellular edema. So this is similar to the muscle pump in the sense that there is additional fluid within the muscle cell itself. But again, the time course is different in the sense that if it is due to muscle damage, it'll be delayed. And ultimately that damage is due to damage of the sarcolemma. And that is probably the most common one. And if you think of our moderator analyses, so we did do a moderator analysis of studies that measured whole muscle versus fiber. And there wasn't a clear indication that one had a stronger or weaker dose response relationship. But there are so many caveats with those moderator analyses that I don't put a ton of stock into that. But for what it's worth, hey, we still saw a general dose response relationship between, like whether it was whole muscle size measurements or fiber measurements. There are other things related to muscle damage or kind of in this realm that could influence muscle size measurements, such as extra muscular connective tissue can become thicker from more damaging exercise. So again, point being is there are multiple mechanisms. There's no clear consensus regarding these mechanisms. But nonetheless, there seems to be the possibility that highly damaging exercise can increase muscle size. And again, this has been reported. Zach, there's an image by Kasanori, I believe, from 1996. And this is a single subject that was previously untrained. And again, this subject is just for kind of demonstration purposes. And I believe this was reflected on the group level as well. So these previously untrained participants performed 24 maximal eccentric contractions. And the increases in muscle size just from that single damaging bout peaked about three to six days after the resistance training bout. And on the screen here in a second, you'll be able to see how that muscle size actually increased. So if you look at the distance from the humerus to the superficial aponeurosis of the muscle, you'll be able to see that. Now, to my knowledge, these sorts of kind of dramatic increases in muscle size as a result of highly damaging exercise have only been convincingly and consistently reported in very highly damaging maximal eccentric training. And typically it's in untrained folks or at least it's in training that is very novel to the cohort. And this is often referred to in these studies as actually muscle injury. Okay. And sometimes this muscle injury is so high that it can cause atrophy. So it has been reported here and there that some of these very, very, very damaging bouts can actually cause atrophy. There's a study from Foley and colleagues. It's a pretty old study. And I believe. Is this the other one here? Yeah, exactly. So basically what you're seeing here is in the top left. I believe that's the pre. So that's before the bout. And then you can see if you go slightly to the right, that is post or one day, one day after the bout. And you can see the distance between the humerus and the superficial aponeurosis. That's basically how muscle thickness is measured with an ultrasound. That has increased. Right. And it's highly unlikely that that is just hypertrophy from one bout of resistance training. So a lot of like, I think this is a great example of, hey, highly, highly damaging exercise can absolutely cause swelling to the point that it increases muscle size. And if you look at some of the following panels. So if you go to day two and then day three and then day four. And day five, I think they have on there as well. You can see if anything, it continues to increase. And again, on the cohort level, I believe it peaked around days three through six. And you can also see a change in the echo intensity or some of the brightness there in the scan. So ultimately, again, this has a delayed effect that very well could be confounding our results here. Now, again, this is very, very damaging exercise. And I'll get to that next figure here in a second. But I think it's really important to emphasize that in that example of the highly damaging exercise. So leave it on the previous figure, Zach. In that example, basically, this is more along the lines of muscle injury is what it comes down to. So I'll throw a little anecdote in there for myself. This was a pretty long time ago. I think at the time I had been training for probably four or five years pretty consistently. And I was at a conference. And basically, they had this isokinetic type device. So what that means is it's able to adjust the resistance throughout the entire range of motion. So that the speed of the contraction remains consistent. So basically, to put it very simply, the eccentric portion is way harder than if you were to just do like a dumbbell bicep curl. And I think I did like one set on that at that conference. And my biceps were sore for like almost 10 days from like that one really hard set of isokinetic bicep curls. So point being here is that I think that in the cases, again, this is my perspective to be very clear, in the cases where we do see that swelling increases measures of whole muscle size, and potentially this might also apply to measures of fiber cross-sectional area from a biopsy, are not perfectly relevant to typical traditional dynamic resistance training. Okay. Further, to my knowledge from these included studies, I'm not aware of any case where this sort of pronounced swelling has coincided without a decrease in muscle strength. So in other words, typically what you see is that if there's really high muscle damage, muscle thickness is much higher as a result of the swelling. Almost unanimously, from my reading of the research, that would also coincide with decreases in muscle strength. Now, to be clear, the peak loss of muscle function often occurs before the peak increase in muscle swelling. But nonetheless, the peak swelling typically occurs while strength is still down. And again, if you look at our dose response plots of the effects of volume on strength, we don't necessarily see like this clear invertity relationship, which again calls into question the overwhelming possibility of swelling confounding our results here. Further, like I mentioned, when we do see this strong swelling response, it is in novel training. Okay. So again, almost unanimously to my knowledge, these are an untrained individual, untrained individuals. And that leads us to a brief discussion of the repeated bout effect. So there's a study from Nosaka and colleagues from 2005. And we have a figure for that one that'll be pulled up here in a second. And basically, I want you to focus on panel A of this figure once it's up. So effectively, the study design here is that there was one exposure to maximal eccentric training. And then four weeks later, they had their second exposure to maximal eccentric training. And as you can see in the figure here in a second, I've seen it argued that basically the repeated bout effect only occurs from session one to session two. Zach, you have that. That's not the same study, is it? It's the figure that you had behind it. Oh, just behind it? Okay. I was confused. I was like, oh, well, I don't know which one you're talking about. Yeah, it's in there. Perfect. Perfect. Which, can you make it full screen for me? What is that one titled? Mr. Nosaka has a lot of eccentric studies, it seems. This one is titled Nosaka underscore RBE in our shared folder here. Okay. I believe it's done with a brick on my device. Okay. Ultimately, what you see from this study is that one bout of these very intense eccentric contractions can confer this repeated bout effect for a bout that occurs four weeks later. Okay. Okay. So you'll see on the y-axis here in a second that the upper arm circumference slowly increases over the following four days from an initial bout. So on the left-hand side here in panel A, if you look at the darker dots here. So from pre to post, cool, we see an increase in arm circumference. And then again, due to the damage-induced muscle swelling, you see that this slowly climbs in the following days. Okay. Now, that was just one bout of very extreme training and in novel training, right? So untrained individuals. And then these participants came back four weeks later. They did the same protocol. And what you can see is in that same panel, the open circles are what occurred. So you do see an increase from pre to post, but then it slowly decreases in arm circumference and pointes. Again, still very damaging, still probably bordering around like this muscle injury as opposed to just like muscle damage sort of phenomenon. But that is from one bout four weeks ago, you see a really pronounced repeated bout effect. So if you take into account the fact that these studies are typically more traditional type training that is not nearly as damaging as maximal eccentric contractions, a good amount of the studies used trained individuals. They obviously adapted to the training volumes. And the fact that we see this strong of a repeated bout effect from just one bout four weeks ago, man, I have a hard time believing it's all swelling is ultimately what it comes down to. Now, I've seen it argued that, and I've seen this study cited before, that therefore most of the repeated bout effect occurs from sessions one to two. So just the first exposure, the second exposure, which I think makes sense. But it's also kind of been argued that therefore there's no more repeated bout effect that occurs from session two and beyond. I think that would be an inappropriate conclusion. I think that there would be additional protective effects that occur. And I haven't, like, kind of seen citations that convince me that all of the repeated bout effect just occurs from one individual session. So let's walk through this a little bit more. So in panel A, if I'm understanding correctly, you're kind of showing that in the white dots there, that's after an exposure four weeks later? Yep. Yep. Okay. Same exposure. Is it incorrect to say that they are remaining elevated from baseline four days later? Yeah, I think that's a fair conclusion. But you've got to keep in mind the fact that, again, it's a very highly damaging exercise. Okay. Okay. I was making sure I was understanding. Okay. So you're essentially saying that, like, in the most extreme scenario, we're still seeing a decent amount of recovery after a single exposure to this, like, absolutely insane training protocol. I guess the play devil's advocate, I'm just thinking of things people would potentially think of while they're listening to this. Do you think that it would be reasonable to draw a parallel between these volumes that are, like, relatively less explored and some of these eccentric training protocols that obviously are more extreme? If everyone's ever done one, you know that they're going to be considerably more extreme than a traditional training program. But those are probably, in terms of total amount of work, probably less than 45 sets, for example, for, like, one of the higher volume training programs. So, like, can you maybe talk about that just a little bit? Again, just playing devil's advocate for people listening. Yeah. I think that's a good direction to go. So there's a review paper from Dalmas in college from 2018 discussing exercise-induced muscle damage. There's no particular visual to show here necessarily, but they've done a bit of work exploring the potential role of edema in muscle size measurement. So this is an exact question that we've talked about. And the figure that they threw out there was 2.7% increases in muscle cross-sectional area could have been related to swelling. Because that is basically how much muscle size is elevated early on in a novel program. So, in other words, I think it was after four sessions of training and previously untrained folks, muscle size was elevated 2.7%. So if we said, hey, there's no way these untrained people could grow from four sessions, therefore all of this is swelling, that swelling would be probably maximum 2.7% because that's all that muscle size increase. Now, my perspective is that some of that is probably hypertrophy, again, especially in previously untrained folks. But the way that I view this is ultimately that in the context of dynamic resistance training programs, some of the effects of high volume absolutely could be due to swelling. But my kind of rule of thumb is I would have a hard time believing it's more than about 2.5%. And some of the effects we see from the dose-response relationship are considerably higher than 2.5%. Now, that DAMA study, I don't remember the volumes off the top of my head, but I think it was pretty moderate volume. So then the question becomes, okay, what about when you're going up to 30 to 40 plus sets per week, kind of like you alluded to, Zach? And I would say, yeah, for sure. We don't know. It very well could be the case that it's not kind of this linear effect of additional sets and additional swelling. It could be an exponential effect. Or it could be kind of like diminishing returns, almost like volume itself. I find it unlikely that it's this exponential effect, but I don't know. And maybe there's a conceivable hypothesis that that is the case. And therefore, all of the effects of very high volumes in our model are just due to swelling. But again, for the reasons mentioned, I think it might play some role, and it might kind of play an increasing role as you get to higher and higher volumes. But I think it's highly unlikely, for example, to explain the effects we see between moderate volumes and low volumes in our model. It might play a little bit of a role in the dose-response we continue to see beyond that point. Yeah. What I was going to say is, like, when we were first talking about this, honestly, I just thought about it from, like, a take a step back, think about it logically perspective, which can run into some issues. But I guess in this case, I think it's useful. First and foremost, if it is an entirely linear or additive effect, and just to be very clear what I'm saying there is, if every set you perform has additional swelling that comes with it, then essentially what you're saying is if you're doing, like, a crazy program, your muscles are kind of going to become balloons at some point. Like, that's the direct implication there. So I think immediately you're like, that's not what's happening. Yeah. And I think the anecdote, at least I've talked to a lot of people that this is the case, the subjective sense of swelling that you get is definitely the greatest for the first couple sets. And then at some point in a really high-volume training session, it may even start to go down in terms of the perception. Now, the perception obviously isn't the objective muscle swelling. You're more so talking about the acute pump, though. Correct. But I'm using that as a rough proxy for edema falling damage as well. But let's just think about that for a second. To me, that's potentially suggesting that, at least from the acute pump, like you're saying, that's definitely a diminishing returns relationship that you're kind of describing as like, hey, I'm going to get the biggest pump in the first couple sets that I'm going to do, and that's going to strongly diminish over the course of a training session and maybe even come down a little bit at the end. Now, like you said, the acute pump is not necessarily the same thing as the muscle damage associated with a given training session and then the edemia following that that could affect our measurements. But I think if you assume that is a reasonable proxy of a similar contract that's underlying things physiologically, to me that kind of makes sense that like, hey, if I'm doing 24 sets, that's going to be probably a meaningful greater amount of muscle damage compared to a program with six sets. But 45 sets probably isn't going to be, you know, a similar ratio there in terms of the amount of additional swelling that you're going to get. There's probably a state at which your muscle is, you know, considerably, you know, damaged and swelled, and additional tension beyond that point probably isn't going to exponentially increase things like you're saying. So, again, when we kind of come back to these general kind of patterns and relationships that, generally speaking, kind of underlie most of like physiology and stuff, I think diminishing returns just often is something I come back that makes a lot of sense. So, again, putting my interpretation hat out there, absolutely. I think swelling is probably contributing to some degree in terms of the actual effect sizes that we're seeing. 100%. I don't dispute that in any way. But to say that it is, again, like you said, to influence the interpretation of the dose-response relationship, it would need to be a disproportionately higher effect of swelling from the higher volumes, essentially. And that, to me, seems hard to justify. Yeah. Now, I do think it's very possible that there is truly a plateau in the dose-response relationship. And, again, because you see diminishing returns of additional set volume and hypertrophy, that the dose-response relationship in our model appears to continue to increase, but just due to a linear effect of swelling. I think with our perspective of just thinking about the possible mechanisms here, the data we do have, again, very limited, it's highly unlikely it's an exponential effect of swelling with additional sets. At most, it's probably a linear effect of additional swelling with additional sets, but it's probably diminishing returns. So the most, I guess, like charitable possibility is that additional sets later in the dose-response relationship are making an additional – the dose-response relationship show up when it's really not there. And to kind of spoil the plot a little bit, that is, like, one of the main takeaways from this project for me, is that moderate volumes are quite clearly better than low volumes. Again, that's my interpretation. But higher volumes compared to moderate volumes, there's some additional uncertainty here because those effects become smaller, and you have to consider the things that might confound our measurements of muscle size, such as swelling. 100%. 100%. Yeah, that's, to me, that's definitely the kind of a take-home here is that, yeah, for multiple reasons, there's additional uncertainty at the higher end of the volume ranges that have been explored, including the measurement-related stuff. But then also, I don't know if you want to touch a little bit more on kind of the completion effects or whatever you want to call it. I kind of think about it as selection biases, ultimately, is, like, not only are the data – we have less data at the higher volumes, fundamentally, too, the data seems to be less consistent, and ultimately the intervals on our estimates are wider. And then also, at the more extreme that you get on the volume, the less that we have confidence in kind of these acute projects that kind of give us some understanding of how things may influence our measurements. So just as a basic example, like, there's a couple studies that look at swelling in terms of muscle ultrasound, but those aren't doing 45 sets per session, right, or 45 sets per week. So that just becomes less relevant in those cases. So just for a variety of reasons, things get more uncertain at higher volumes, and I think that is something that, in addition to the diminishing returns, is something to definitely take into account when you're interpreting this. And I think the – to me, the kind of the selection bias slash effects are interesting to think about as well that may, you know, further contribute to that. I don't know if that's where you want to go. Yeah. Let's just continue to potentially beat a dead horse with the swelling stuff. I think there's also some indirect evidence here that might be worth considering. Again, putting our cards on the table, our perspective is that muscle swelling might be contributing to the dose response, but it's unlikely to be explaining all of it, and it just adds some additional uncertainty to our interpretation here. And part of the reason we don't think it's playing a massive role is due to the reasons mentioned and also some indirect evidence, such as the fact that we don't see – we typically don't see increases in muscle size as a result of tapers in research. So if you are just kind of at this chronically swollen state, if you will, from difficult damaging training, such as, say, a power lifter's type training, if I were to taper and reduce my training considerably, okay, now the swelling goes – sorry, now the muscle size has to kind of continue to increase as a result of the damage from the session, say, a week ago, which we don't really see. If anything, we might see a slight decrease in muscle size from tapers, but typically muscle size is in the ballpark of maintenance. Another indirect thing that we can draw on here is that in studies where you have participants are at a given training volume and the training volume is reduced, that doesn't necessarily lead to kind of this precipitous drop-off in muscle size, with the idea here being, okay, if I was at a higher volume, and part of the reason that higher volume might have been beneficial is because of the swelling, now I reduce my volume, so now I have less of the benefits of swelling after a few weeks, you would expect to see a decrease in muscle size, but you don't. So again, this is kind of a peek behind the curtain in terms of, hey, how do we consider some of these possibilities of swelling? There are multiple lines of evidence that we think would not explain all of the effects, but at the end of the day, muscle swelling is not well accounted for in the included studies. 48 to 72 hours is, I understand why it's logistically done. If you did it later than that, you'd probably have to have folks come the week after. Now they might be on winter break or summer break or whatever the case may be, and while it's unlikely to be a major factor influencing our results, it should add additional caution, uncertainty, especially with those higher volumes. Money. Cool. Let's circle back to some of the additional limitations when interpreting our results here. We mentioned this earlier in the podcast, but ultimately when you are modeling the relationship, decisions have to be made. And we mentioned a lot of those decisions. And there are two things I want to point out here. The first is that how you treat zero sets in a dose response relationship is difficult. One approach would be to just not include control effects. I think that would probably make the dose response relationship even stronger because you're not really anchoring the initial dose response relationship. So that is one possibility. But we recognized that that would probably misrepresent the dose response relationship in the positive direction in the sense that it would probably show less diminishing returns and maybe even be linear. So we said, hey, we think it's the most intellectually honest thing to do is to plot control effects. But then we just didn't have many. So therefore, while we tried to account for this possibility, there weren't a ton of control effects. And therefore, the effect at zero is almost certainly overestimated relative to the lower volumes. So said another way, if I had to guess, the dose response from zero sets to one set and from one set to two set is probably a little bit underestimated in our model for that reason. We tried to account for that the best we could. There are some other possibilities here in terms of modeling to maybe better represent that. But it comes with a lot of downsides. And we hash those out for weeks and weeks. But nonetheless, I just want to make that clear that how you treat zero is very difficult. What we did is what we had based on the included studies. But I wouldn't be surprised if we just, say, in the future had a ton of control groups at zero sets and that made the diminishing returns a little bit more pronounced. What do you think? Yeah, 100%. I think that's just a limitation of not having as many control groups. There's ways that you can kind of enforce that assumption. Or basically, in this case, you could just basically tell the model that it has to have the constraint that the effect at zero goes through zero sets. But that has additional assumptions baked into it that are generally less reasonable than, okay, let's go ahead, estimate the effect for controls that we have, and then ultimately correct the estimates to be relative to that control that we assume to be zero. So that's the approach that we took. So if you kind of hear what I'm saying, let's just say the dose-response relationship was completely unaltered, except for the fact that we're making this constraint that it has to go through zero for zero sets. The rest of the dose-response relationship, in terms of the amount of muscle that you're assumed to gain, could be overestimated. So that's the reason we did it this way, is, like, using what we have, let's estimate what we believe controls to be gaining from the data that we do have, and then you're ultimately making a secondary correction based on that control estimate to make sure everything's on a reasonable scale in terms of the absolute effect. So just like you said, the more control data that we get, and we have a pretty good estimate of what that's going to look like based on the stuff in steel, obviously it's going to be around zero, just to, you know, hammer that home. Like, we... And this is a great benefit of this podcast as well, is if anyone's made it this far, maybe there's someone out there with a really good idea for how...for other approaches. Some things that we've thought about are directly modeling these studies themselves to inform the point estimate. There are pros and cons associated with that, but it is something we could consider in the future. But, hey, we are open to ideas for sure. I mean, ultimately, the thing that is probably the most helpful long-term is just getting every single resistance training study and modeling it all collectively. Yeah. Probably the best. It's just logistically, like, we just spent two years for 50 studies or whatever in that. 67. 67, sorry. And that, you know, already was a massive undertaking. So getting more studies than that, coding all those, getting their volumes, correcting for, you know, heterogeneous effects across studies that you would need to consider for introducing more independent variables than just volume and frequency. There's just so many steps. But the point I was bringing up with this plot here is, like, we know, and even just logistically, like, thinking, a control group doesn't have a true effect for hypertrophy. For strength, it might have a small one. And you can see that here. They're generally a little bit greater, and that's important to kind of think about. And that's a very good reason why you do want to estimate the control in the first place because then you can say, okay, the control isn't zero, but I want to know the effects of the training intervention relative to the control so I actually know the training effect rather than just saying, what did the training groups see in their increase, right? It's, again, it's the same exact logic for an RCT is I don't necessarily want to say, what did the training or the experimental group do? I want to say, what did they do in comparison to the control group that theoretically is absent the actual intervention but all the other things are still in place. So when we look at these massive estimates of control groups, we're pretty very confident that, as one would expect for hypertrophy, a control group isn't getting any effect, so it's going to be right around zero. So the point of all this is to say, if we had a lot more data for control groups to be inserted at zero sets to better inform that estimate, in all likelihood we probably would see a little bit more diminishing returns, I would suggest. But obviously it's impossible to know. But it's more diminishing returns because I think it would increase the effects of the initial sets. So therefore, the later sets would have a smaller relative effect to the initial sets. That could slightly impact the best fit functional form and therefore have downstream effects on the effects at high volumes. Yeah, that's mostly what I'm thinking. Yeah, and that definitely could be possible. But I think this is important to highlight because I think Zach and I are on the same page here that we would not be surprised if with additional studies, especially the control groups and maybe some more higher volume studies because we just don't have a ton of those, we would guess that if anything, there's going to be stronger diminishing returns than what we see here. So that leads me to another limitation when it comes to just decisions that have to be made during the research processes. You have to draw a line in the sand somewhere regarding when to stop accepting studies. A typical approach for this would be, hey, when we do our systematic search, if there's an additional study published, we're not going to include it. We decided not to do that because there were multiple that were published after the fact. And it was a long process, so we included them. But then we kind of had to post hoc draw a line in the sand because we had to rerun the model so many times. We were just like, all right, this is getting ridiculous because we're redoing the project every single time we get an additional study. This is unrealistic. So we're just going to stop here. And for example, shortly after that, or not that shortly, but after that point, there was a study from Cassiano and colleagues with a relatively high sample size dose response study in the calves. And the dose response in that study was a little bit stronger than what our model would predict. So therefore, again, that's just an example of, hey, additional data might change things a little bit. I'm not saying that would necessarily change our model meaningfully. It might. I don't know. We also have some volume data from our lab since we kind of had that cut off. But the point is, decisions have to be made, whether it's the modeling itself, whether it is at what point you decide to stop accepting studies and say, hey, we need to stop rerunning this for the 50th time and just finish the manuscript and get it out there. So we've said this so many times, but it's just worth repeating. With additional data, things could change. This is not the functional form. These are not the estimates that you need to take to the bank. I wonder if you'd agree with this. So obviously, this is a probabilistic statement that you're hedging your bet on. It's not an absolute statement. But if you were a betting man, do you think it's accurate that this project has potentially elucidated that it is indeed a relationship with diminishing returns? Or would you not go that far and say it very well could still be linear? Obviously, it could be in concept. But I'm saying, you know, if you're a betting man, put your money on it, would you say, OK, I think pretty confidently I think that the relationship does have diminishing returns? Or would you not go that far? No. You kind of asked me two separate questions there. Well, you asked me the same question, but almost in two ways. If you asked me as a betting man, I'd say there's absolutely diminishing returns. If you were to say, like, as a scientist and with different modeling approaches, like, for example, not including control effects, I mean, we saw some of the best fit for direct studies was linear. Like, I could definitely see that being the case even for the fractional quantification method. So, man, it's hard to say. But I think personally, like, if you were to just ask me again my interpretation, this relationship absolutely has diminishing returns. And if anything, again, if I were a betting man, there are stronger diminishing returns than what our model suggests. No, final thing. I generally agree. And I think, again, I think a stronger control estimate in our data, I think, would bring that forward. But also, here's the final question. Do you think, again, this is not necessarily your scientist hat, but just your personal hat. Do you think there is a plateau at some point? Or do you think that is the point where we just can't really know, given what we have? From a physiological perspective or from a practical perspective? Physiological. So that's actually a really good thing to touch on after this. From a physiological perspective, again, just to make sure that the listener at home is understanding the difference there. Probably in a little bit, we're going to talk about the difference between these physiological concepts where there has to be a pre-post data point for each individual to be included in the model by definition and more practical considerations. From a physiological perspective, what I would say at this point is that within practical constraints, there's probably not going to be a clear plateau. So in other words, I think the plateau for most folks practically will be due to... Sorry, the... The plateau will be due to practical reasons. Thank you. Thank you very much. Now, that's kind of dancing around the question because you asked me physiologically. I think yes, probably. We've seen in some extreme cases that, again, things more along the lines of muscle injury from very extreme eccentric-based lengthened training in novel or in untrained folks can lead to atrophy. That has been documented before. So therefore, it stands to reason that there is a physiological inverted U to some degree. So at some point, additional training stress will lead to worse muscle growth and potentially even atrophy. So therefore, there would have to be a plateau. But again, I think within most reasonable training programs, that's going to be unlikely. But physiologically, yes, I do think there would be a plateau. Practically, I think that plateau is going to be informed by practical things. Yeah, so like in practice, absolutely a plateau. It's just it's likely due to logistical factors. Yeah. That we'll touch on here in a second. Something I want you to throw up here, Zach, is another thing I want to make it clear that we are not saying... We as the authors of the paper and also we right now kind of with our practitioner hat on a little bit more. We have a figure kind of showing the individual study slopes that effectively inform the model. So these are before you have any shrinkage or any of the random effects that we discussed earlier in the podcast. So something we are not saying is that no study in the future will show a benefit to lower volumes. There very well could be studies that come out that show no beneficial effect of higher volumes in the future. There very well could be a study that comes out in the future that shows, hey, lower volumes were even a little bit better. And in fact, some of the individual study slopes here are negative, right? So it makes total sense that some studies are going to show a very clear, crisp dose response relationship. Some are going to show no benefit. Some are even going to show a negative dose response. So lower volumes might be nominally a little bit better or maybe significantly a little bit better. There are so many reasons that that could be the case that I don't think should change your mind necessarily until you kind of re-meta-analyze it. It's very common for studies to differ in their findings. That's why I think you just need to be quite critical when you're consuming information. And, you know, when there's a new study come out, there's going to be tons of content on it, especially like a kind of exciting intervention study, whether it's volume or range of motion or rest periods, whatever the case may be. But it's totally normal for things to differ and for reasons beyond the underlying physiological effect. And I think this visual is really helpful to nail that home that, hey, we're not saying every single study shows the benefit of additional volume. But when you model it all together, the most likely underlying physiological concept is a dose response relationship. Yeah, I would generally agree with that. But I think the other thing just to keep in mind is, like, I think the biggest thing that happens when people kind of talk about new studies that come out and everything is just kind of like a vote counting approach. And the biggest issue with that is, like, there's just first and foremost, like you said, there's a hundred different reasons that an individual study could lean away from what we would consider the most probable kind of, you know, mean effect for whatever we're talking about. But the other thing that that just doesn't take into account is, like, weighting the certainty of the individual study in relative to everything else. Like, you know, you can see somebody say, oh, this had a, you know, moderate sample size or this had a low sample size or this had high variance or had low variance. Or it measured the quads. Yeah, all these little things. But, like, until you actually, you know, get down to the weeds of it and start to, you know, calculate things and all those kind of things, you just have no idea how much that really should shift your understanding of something. And so I think that's where vote counting can be, you know, it's the simplest way to kind of evaluate a study. And I think it's intuitive for people to say, like, oh, this study leaned in favor of this, this study leaned in favor of this, and we tally them all up. This is kind of how the evidence leans. But that can be deceptive for a lot of different reasons, particularly when you layer in the effect of, like, these variables that do have true systematic effects across interventions. Like, just a very basic one that I think is helpful to consider is, like, the effect of intervention duration. So I don't think people really think about that all too much. So, like, just as a basic example, some studies come out that are eight weeks, some studies that come out that are 16 weeks. That could, for the same, like, true difference or whatever between conditions, could have more time for it to diverge or whatever. So it's just these factors aren't considered when you're looking at something between studies. And I think, again, this is just where formally going through these things and really trying to answer the question the best you can is really, really helpful. And as you said, I don't think any one individual study coming forward, you know, barring some major, you know, 1,000 participant study or something to that effect probably shouldn't largely shift your beliefs, given that all those factors are pretty hard to do just informally looking at something. So, yeah. Yeah. I want to keep moving along here. But if someone's interested in just a really – we mentioned sampling variants earlier in the podcast. We mentioned some other reasons that studies might differ in their results. If you want a very nice introduction to sampling variants, I'd recommend an article from James Krieger. It's titled, Why Do Resistance Training Studies Differ in Their Findings? A Lesson in Sampling Variants. This is from 2018. I remember reading it around that time. And this being a – something I would have heard of, but this does a nice job of kind of explaining that. And, again, is nice and reader-friendly and can kind of give you a basic understanding of, hey, this is why studies might differ in their results, even though that shouldn't necessarily change our practical takeaways or our view of the literature as a whole because that is a very normal thing to occur for things to differ. Okay. With that, my friend, let's move on to, again, our opinions, our practical takeaways. And this is the point of the podcast where probably for the rest of the show, this is our opinions, just that. We've been nice and cautious. But now we're going to probably just be like, hey, when the rubber hits the road, this is where we're at. I mentioned this before, but just to make sure this is crystal clear, kind of our perspective here is that. In our opinions, this data and previous analyses that might have had slightly different methods provides pretty clear evidence that moderate volumes are more effective than low volumes. I think I feel pretty comfortable at this point saying that. Moderate volumes are going to be better than low volumes. Where exactly we categorize those is hard to say, but maybe like less than eight fractional sets versus more than eight fractional sets. Again, that's kind of just an arbitrary cutoff or ten. You could say ten. Point being is I think moderate is pretty clearly better than low volumes. Whether high volumes are more effective than moderate volumes. So once you get to like 25 fractional sets and above, I think that is less clear. I think it is something you could try if building muscle is one of the most important things in your life. But you need to accept the fact that it's probably going to become less and less efficient. And you very well might get no additional benefit from that given some of the uncertainty we've mentioned. And the likelihood that or the potential that the diminishing returns from our model may have been overestimated for a few reasons. Okay. Yeah. I think that's a really, really good way to summarize it. I think. Yeah. I think when at first glance, you can look at this and be like, okay, volume goes up. Therefore, largest gains are at the highest volume and kind of think about it uncritically. But I think that is just short-sighted for multiple reasons. And like you said, I think I very much view this as like, first and foremost, there is a positive dose response relationship. That seems to be best characterized by something with diminishing returns. So that is communicating that every set you perform is increasingly less efficient to some degree. And so those are the two big factors. And then when you layer on, hey, we can only detect certain differences, the amount of sets that you need to kind of bet on at higher and higher volumes gets pretty large in order to see one of those kind of meaningful increases. So to me, this is absolutely kind of just made me considerably more cautious in like a capital V recommendation of high volumes at the higher of what's been explored. And so I think I very much view it as like, okay, pretty darn confident in the dose response relationship up to, you know, the moderate volumes that you mentioned, you know, some diminishing returns there. But beyond that, that is where you're kind of just saying I'm hedging my bets that this is an accurate representation. But the uncertainty that we have there is just so much higher than I think is often kind of communicated. So, yeah. Now, this might come as a pretty like high volume perspective and I'll acknowledge that on the front end. But I mentioned at the very beginning of the show that ever since we've been aware of these results, it has changed things pretty fundamentally for me. And while we've acknowledged that, hey, there's diminishing returns and, hey, there could be more like stronger diminishing returns than what we see here. And at the same time, things are not leaning in the direction of an inverted U being a thing within what has been studied in a resistance – what is reasonable to study within a resistance training study ultimately. So, at the same time that I don't have confidence for high volumes always being better than moderate volumes, I do think another really big takeaway for me is that the kind of physiological inverted U is unlikely within the constraints of a typical program, even if it's quite high volume. So, another way to think about this is you're just going to kind of roll the dice if you decide to go to these higher and higher volumes, even what's in the plot. You're going to kind of roll the dice that that might give you no additional effect from a physiological perspective. We'll layer in some of these practical things here in a second. But, again, if we're to just say in a vacuum, more sets, I don't think that even once you start to get to like 30 plus fractional sets a week that you're running the risk of starting to come to the other end of the inverted U. So, I view volume as just by its nature, it is kind of infinitely modifiable, right? With something like range of motion or rest periods, you can only probably get so much benefit from that if there is a benefit to be had. But with volume, you can scale that a ton, and that's why I think people focus on volume so much. But, ultimately, it is very clearly a troubleshooting tool, and it always has been a troubleshooting tool. But, to me, the risks of higher and higher volumes are more and more clear because they're more tangible. It's additional time, potentially additional fatigue, potentially additional injury risk. We could debate that, and potentially some indirect practical things. But those are relatively easy to monitor, whereas in the past, I was like, hmm, maybe this person's inverted U occurs after six sets, and therefore they need to do five sets per week. To me, it becomes a little bit more flexible in the sense of you probably get really good gains at low to moderate volumes. You probably get better gains at moderate volumes, and you might get better gains at moderate to high volumes. And if you're really struggling, you really need to troubleshoot, it's unlikely that there's going to be kind of this inverted U effect. Worst case scenario is that it's a plateau. Communicate that to the individual. Communicate that to yourself if you're applying it to your own training and realize you might just be wasting your time with additional sets. I think that's very much a possibility, but it's unlikely you're going to get worse results. So, to me, that is a pretty paradigm shifting in my practice in how I view volume prescription is that, again, that inverted U is pretty unlikely. It just might be a difference of where that plateau occurs. You just kind of need to hedge your bets based on, really, your values, your time availability, what you care about to what degree. Maximizing hypertrophy is at the top of the list in your day-to-day schedule. Yeah, I agree. I think, ultimately, what you're saying is that we have the most confidence in the lower end of the plot, which obviously demonstrates the things we've already said. At the higher end of the plot, if you interpret it literally, it doesn't seem like it's very probable that there is an inverted U, at which point you'd be making worse progress with higher volumes. So, the biggest risk that you're associating with training with higher volumes, at least from a physiological perspective, and, again, just to hammer home, what we're saying there is you can have a theoretical effect on your muscle. But when you layer in on all the practical things of your lifestyle, your preferences, all these kind of things, that can lead to different, you know, quote-unquote optimal programs, depending on the context of all those additional factors. But if we're kind of purely looking at your muscle and, like, the effect that that would receive from a given training stimulus, it's unlikely that it's going to be something that's going to end up decreasing the stimulus or making your results worse. Yeah. It's just that we are not really sure how confident to be that it's going to be, first and foremost, it doesn't seem to be a massive effect necessarily. And we're just not sure how confident you're going to be in terms of is that additional time investment worth it. Like you said, the worst case, it seems, from what we have in a muscular sense and not a logistical sense, it seems to just be you might be wasting your time. Yeah. So I think it is, you know, you spin it from the positive perspective, like, it seems like it's a valid troubleshooting tool. And in terms that, you know, if all the other variables in terms of training quality are checked off, you know, the directional troubleshooting tool here would be to increase the volume if you believe you would, you know, be more satisfied with the rate of progress you'd be making if you were to increase the volume. So I think I agree from that perspective, it's important to kind of, you know, paint both those sides of the picture in the sense that we are saying there are diminishing returns. We are saying that the sets become less efficient. But at the same time, if you're somebody who's really trying to eke out every single thing you can and bet on all the kind of neutral to positive effects that we think may exist, you know, increasing volume to those higher ends of things could be potentially indicated. If you're kind of, you know, logistical situation allows that to be recovered from and tolerated and ultimately fits into your schedule and things like that. Yeah. And Zach and I have both really emphasized that, like, when we're just zooming in on the muscle, when we're just talking about this physiological relationship, I think it's important to emphasize that there is a high likelihood that there is a practical inverted view. So what do I mean by a practical inverted view is, again, think about all the limitations we've talked about, potential selection bias of the participants that complete high volume studies. The fact that they're only 10 and a half weeks long may be training status as well, just because they're lifting lower loads and maybe that has effects on the fatigue experience from training or injury risk, whatever the case may be. The way that the term that we've landed on is that there can be indirect negative effects from high volume training that could indirectly cause there to be an inverted view. So things like injuries, things like psychological burnout, things like having to deload more often, because, hey, if you're deloading every three weeks now or every four weeks instead of every eight weeks, that's changing your total volume over a longer time period. So I think a really important practical interpretation for me is that zoom out when you're thinking about this dose response relationship. Don't focus on, hey, how much volume am I getting in this block? Think of what are the downstream effects on how much volume I might get in over the next calendar year. As a result of the decisions that I make, because I think that's probably a reasonable approach to say, hey, what is sustainable? Because ultimately that's going to give me the net most dosage over a given period of time. And I think this training skill just becomes more and more important. And in our coaching practice, an emphasis on training skill becomes more and more important. And monitoring these sorts of things and helping with these more practical things from an objective viewpoint has become, again, more and more important. Whereas before I might have been a little bit more focused on exactly how much volume are you doing for your pecs or your quads or whatever. Now it's more so monitoring to say, hey, how can we balance these potential physiological benefits while minimizing the practical downsides that higher volumes might impose? This is something I've thought about based on what you said, but I would be very interested to see kind of calculating someone's volume per year from kind of some of the different camps that exist. Like, you just got me thinking about that. It's an interesting way to think about it in terms of, like, the people that are performing the lowest volumes probably deload the least and are able to kind of keep that up for more weeks out of the year. So people that are moderate volumes, maybe somewhere in the middle, people with high volumes are probably deload the most and maybe also have the most fluctuation in their volumes too. If you go down a calendar year, it might end up being a range that's, like, a little bit more reasonable in terms of, yeah, just, like, what you would expect in terms of these kind of things, especially when you're translating what I think people think of in the trenches in terms of almost certainly almost counting direct sets. Whereas you translate at the fractional, I think now we're, I don't know, I just think that kind of ties together nicely if you think about it that way. And I think things, you get a little bit less extreme, and ultimately it's just you have more options to kind of put things there. I think a cool takeaway is that at least from the participants studied here, which more than half were trained participants, meaningful, detectable muscle growth can definitely occur with low volumes, right? Like, in a lot of ways, if, as a coach, I see detectable hypertrophy, which might be a little bit harder to detect via the means you have in a coaching relationship compared to in a laboratory, but nonetheless, you kind of catch my drift here. Hey, if things are moving in the right direction, I'm typically happy as a coach, and we don't see that you need these super high volumes for things to just move in the right direction, you know? Now, if I were to use, like, an investing analogy, if you can save X amount per year or invest X amount per year versus an investor save 2X per year, obviously you want to invest or save 2X per year, but, you know, hey, at least being in the positive direction in the context of lifting, it's pretty nice. And as a coach, you're pretty pleased if you can detect that in a reasonable amount of time. So, with that, I'm going to move on to kind of a recap of some physiological, technical, and practical reasons that the diminishing returns from our model might be a little bit overestimated. And I'll try to make this quick because we've really touched on all of them, but I think it's worth taking a couple minutes to go through these all at once. So, from a technical perspective, swelling and other unknowns when measuring muscle hypertrophy should just add some caution. We also have a lack of control effects. So, you know, if we had more control effects and also if we had control, if we would have included control effects in previously trained people, that might kind of change the way that you think about it as well because you would actually expect to lose muscle. So, again, there are some decisions we had to make specifically around control effects that might have led to us slightly overestimating the diminishing returns. Actually, sorry, underestimating the diminishing returns. I always get that mixed up, but you get the idea. Another one is selection bias, right? Participants that won't handle high volumes may not finish or even start a study. Now, moving on to physiological things. There is unknowns as to whether, quote-unquote, optimized training changes things. We talked for a good bit about the potential interaction effect of rest periods. So, if you were to grant the assumption that, hey, longer rest periods are going to enhance the effects of a given set, it's unclear how things like rest period or other variables like proximity to failure might impact the dose-response relationship. So, I don't know if we're, I'm not necessarily making a claim one way or the other, but instead just, again, adding some uncertainty. Another thing that might be interesting to consider at the very end of the show here is potential ceiling effects. This ties into this more, quote-unquote, optimized sort of training. So, if you have more optimized training and there are ceiling effects. So, in other words, there's only so much muscle you can grow in a given period of time. If you can get closer to that ceiling quicker because you have more optimized training, maybe you have really good training skill, your exercise selection is on point, your proximity to failure is on point. But maybe the dose-response relationship is not quite as strong because you're just getting to the ceiling a little bit quicker. And now there's really not as much to gain. So, therefore, you kind of hit that ceiling. That is a super interesting topic that we don't see show up quite as much in the research as you might expect. So, I think it's, but just something to kind of add some uncertainty. And lastly, our practical reasons. We talked about things like sustainability, burnout, potentially deloading more often. And then also we alluded to the fact that if you are using a balanced program where you're trying to grow everything, a lot of logistical things come into account, whether it's exercise order, total training time. You know, kind of related to both of those is, am I doing leg press fifth in a session or am I doing it first in a session? And that can have effects on just what is practical, what is sustainable, and what is reasonable to give to someone in kind of a balanced program where you're not just measuring one, two, or three muscles. So, that's where I'm at. I think there's a dose-response relationship here. I think, if anything, the diminishing returns might be a little bit stronger, but that's just my guess for the aforementioned reasons, whether that's from a technical perspective or from more of the practical slash physiological perspective. Yeah, I wasn't going to add too much more. The only thing I was going to say, I don't know how much we discussed the kind of how things would be different if you did this for every muscle in your body versus a specialization program. I know you touched on that, but maybe worth reiterating that for just a few more minutes here. Just to touch on next, I know that's a large consideration about like, okay, to set the stage is what I'm saying is, you know, we do a study looking at training volume and we're going to measure the biceps. So, the training program is for the biceps and the back musculature, but the rest of the training either isn't included, the participants don't do it, are given a training program to do on their own that may or may not be completed, or maybe they're left to their own devices. Any of those options, the point is you're not performing necessarily the super high volumes for all the muscle groups in your body or multiple. Do you think that has any implications on how things may look, or is it more just a logistical consideration that kind of further adds color to the uncertainty in practice? But again, research is maybe a little bit more focused on the muscular effects. What do you think there? Yeah, I think the practical implications here are quite clear for anyone that's coached for any amount of time. It's like, you know that there are negative consequences to really specializing something, right? If I'm measuring my biceps and therefore really prioritizing them three times a week, doing them first in the session, whatever the case may be, doing high volumes, things are going to suffer. I think that's pretty apparent from a practical perspective. Now, from a physiological perspective, that gets really tricky to tease out. I know there's not super strong evidence for exercise order negatively impacting hypertrophy outcomes. So if you were to do an exercise later in a session compared to earlier, I have a very hard time buying that, at least in a quote-unquote real-life setting. I think that's like a very clear negative consequence of higher volumes is it's just hard to prioritize a lot of things within a point in your session where you have a decent bit of, even if it's just psychological energy and motivation at that point in the session. Now, from a physiological perspective, I think that ultimately gets to kind of this concept of ceiling effects or this concept of like an adaptation capacity. So I've heard it proposed before, and I'm very interested in this concept is, hey, there's only so much our body can adapt to at once, right? So in other words, let's just assume our dose-response relationship is perfect. It's all-knowing, which obviously isn't true. But let's just say at 40 fractional sets, you're going to get really good growth. And now let's apply that to every single muscle. So delts, pecs, and hey, let alone different like regions, if you will, of all of these muscles. If I were to do it for every muscle, would I see the same dose-response relationship? Well, good luck studying that. I'm not going to volunteer to study that. That's going to take a really, really long time to do those training sessions, to do a study like that. I don't know. I think intuitively in an adaptation capacity or these sorts of ceiling effects make intuitive sense. But I think finding evidence for them is hard, has been my experience with it. For example, you would kind of expect that, okay, I have an untrained person in just any given resistance training study. Even if they go into the group that does, quote-unquote, worse training, you might expect them to still get maximal results because they have such a strong ability to adapt. Whereas the untrained person going into the, quote-unquote, better training program, they might not get the benefits of the better training program because they can only adapt so much in a given period of time. But we see differences in better and worse programs in untrained individuals all the time. And then we also see that, hey, there isn't like a clear plateau in the dose-response relationship, at least up to this point with the way we modeled things. So I just, I think practically there has to be kind of this adaptation capacity. Physiologically, I think it makes sense, but it's hard to find evidence for it. And I'm really interested in this concept, but I'm sure you have some two cents as well. Yeah, I think ultimately it's just the way that I view it is like, I like to think about a lot of these questions as kind of like if-then statements. To me, this is another one that's like, if performing the desired volumes for multiple muscle groups in your body compromises some aspect of your training quality, it probably, or then it will probably have negative implications on the return on your investment essentially. But if you find that that's not happening, then like you said, I haven't seen super strong evidence of that kind of an effect occurring. I guess to some degree that the fact that there is diminishing returns maybe suggests that sort of, kind of, in a way. But again, we don't know the source of that. And maybe all of the additional hypertrophy past a certain point is swelling and there is just this adaptation capacity. Like, again, that's totally possible. Yeah, it's definitely possible and we're not entirely sure. So, yeah, I think it's just, again, it's another layer of caution at the upper end of the volume when you kind of multiply that by the number of muscle groups that you're going to try this approach on. So, a low volume approach for multiple muscle groups, probably pretty safe in assuming that you're going to get growth pretty much across the board. You know, you go further up on the volume spectrum or you introduce more muscle groups into that equation. I think you get less and less certain ultimately is kind of what you're working at. But again, based on the reasons we said here, I don't see a super strong reason to think that that's going to, like, fundamentally alter things in the sense that, okay, if I'm trying this on my quads, my pecs, and my biceps, one of those muscle groups is going to shrink. I don't think that's the case. It's just that the return on the investment, you know, may have some sort of limit that maybe makes that volume point that is theoretically beneficial maybe is decreasing. So, I think that's totally reasonable. I think that fits within the realm of the fact that the diminishing terms may be potentially understated a little bit. But we don't know. And that's another really interesting study would be, you know, doing one of these dose response studies in multiple muscle groups, but on one side of the body doing it in both and on the other side of the body only doing it in one. But wouldn't it kind of be a global thing? That's part I don't know. I mean, muscle growth in general, it seems to be a pretty local process, but maybe this is a systemic effect. Right. Like something that might come to mind for the listener is being in a deficit. I think, I'm trying to remember, I think I did a YouTube video that kind of talked about this or at least would have. Yeah, like atrophy of untrained muscles, that study. Yeah, it was within participant design and one of the limbs, I can't remember now, but it's going to haunt me. I had a good example. It's going to come to you as soon as we finish recording. But nonetheless, these are just remaining research questions we don't have clear answers to. I mentioned that, hey, one of the reasons people suspect an inverted U or have suspected an inverted U in the past, or maybe still do, or at least suspect a strong plateau is because of muscle damage with higher and higher volumes. Again, just based on the fact that we do see this dose response relationship without a clear plateau up to this point. To me, it's not like that would be like indirect evidence that the muscle damage at least is not having a overwhelming effect and therefore changing the outcomes within the constraints of a reasonable training program. But I am curious, does muscle damage ever kind of cause an inverted U with extreme volumes? Is there a point? Does that point exist? Or could it even just counteract? So maybe there is no ceiling effect. Maybe it is just all a linear dose response relationship, but muscle damage is just kind of taken away from that. But I don't know. These are all things that will be, you know, hopefully we'll get some insight in. And hopefully this paper can play a small role in kicking off some additional research questions. But I know we've said it multiple times, but that is my, the question I'm most interested in is like, how does the efficiency of the dosage, exercise selection, proximity to failure, maybe rest periods, how does that influence the dose response relationship? And again, that's related to kind of this adaptation class. That is the number one question in my mind. I think from a practical perspective, given higher volumes, for the most part are going to increase training time, all things held equally. Obviously you could do things like drop sets, antagonist paired sets, but let's assume you're doing that already to, if time is an issue, changing the efficiency of the dosage for the most part is going to have less of a time effect, right? So to me, given these results, in a lot of ways, I'm like, man, let's really make sure that efficiency is as high as possible for each individual site that you're doing. Let's have really good exercise selection. Let's be smart about proximity to failure, which will probably mean training close or very, or all the way to failure. Let's have solid rest periods. And then from there, let's kind of titrate the dosage within what's reasonable, given the potential cost benefit analysis from both a physiological and a practical perspective for that individual. That might mean person A is doing about five fractional sets per week. That might mean person B is doing 45 fractional sets a week. And that's not for us to decide. I like that. Awesome. Okay. So to end off here, we've just spent, I think, a collective four and a half hours going through this with hopefully an appreciated amount of nuance and caution. But I'm going to make you not do that here. Good luck. The reality is when it comes to communicating science, people don't, and I learned this the hard way very much with the proximity to failure one, is they ultimately are going to simplify the results to an extent that people start to play a game of telephone and you've completely lost control of ultimately the narrative that is propagated from this project. So something that I think is useful is, once again, on the back half of four and a half hours of discussion, nuance, context, limitations, etc., if you had to boil this down into kind of the new soundbite recommendation for set volume, hypertrophy, and generally thinking that on a weekly time frame, how would you... So essentially what I'm trying to compare this to is, you know, if anyone has looked up a YouTube video on training volume recommendations for hypertrophy, they've probably heard somewhere in the range of 10 to 20 sets per week for a muscle group and blah, blah, blah, blah. You almost certainly have heard that soundbite. And again, that's probably from the collective results of the Schoenfeld meta-analysis and the Boswell meta-analysis, kind of collecting those together to create that kind of general recommendation. The same thing went for RAR for 0 to 4 RAR. That's the magic RAR range that I'm sure you've heard when describing what's hard enough for a set for it to count. And, you know, that concept is going to happen whether we like it to or not. So my goal with this question is being the lead author of this project that put a lot of time thinking into this and ultimately trying to chew the food before people get it ultimately and give that recommendation that you think is the most appropriate in terms of the representation of the results. What would you say to that question? Yeah, I think all that context is important. And I think all of the four and a half hours before kind of this quick takeaway portion is very, very important. There's a lot of uncertainty here. There's a lot of decisions that had to go into this, and we really value transparency and trying to give the best answer to the question and also point out all of the limitations. And in a lot of ways, when we think back to the previous recommendations of 10 to 20 sets per muscle group per week, I understand where they came from. But I also think there are some meaningful limitations to that recommendation and recommendations like that in general. For example, previously the questions have been more along the lines of, on the front end, let's take kind of a nice round number like 10 and let's determine if less than that or more than that is better. I don't want to strawman previous approaches, but that's directionally correct, I think. Whereas our approach here is to not necessarily come in with priors about exactly what cutoffs there might be and instead try to establish some cutoffs on the back end based on what the data say and try to be very cautious with how we're producing those cutoffs and communicating those cutoffs as well because they're definitely not perfect cutoffs. All of that is to say is that the previous recommendations, such as 10 to 20 sets per muscle group per week, ultimately, in my opinion, there should have never been a recommended volume range. And I think there isn't and there never should have been a volume recommendation range. That is my opinion because that is not for us to decide like we've mentioned before. Instead, we can provide an analysis that describes the nature of the dose-response relationship. In this case, you can make fantastic muscle growth progress from low volumes and it is probably better. Your muscle growth progress will probably be better with moderate volumes and it might be better with high volumes. So ultimately, I don't think it's our place to make volume recommendations. And I don't think, in a lot of ways, I don't think there ever should have been volume recommendations. So we still need to come up with recommendations because a lot of people will come to us for practical recommendations and practical recommendations are helpful. So instead, the recommendation that I've landed on is more conceptual in nature and leaves the door open for all of these different factors primarily related to an individual's values, their goals, and time availability, how they might tolerate a given set volume, and keeping in mind that this is a continuous variable. This is not a categorical variable. You can select any volume you want. It's not a volume range. It's not low, moderate, or high. It's not 9 sets or 11 sets. So ultimately, what we've converged on is that more volume is better with a smaller and smaller payoff until it starts working against you. We see a positive dose-response relationship, right? More is better. But we see diminishing returns. So there's a smaller and smaller payoff. But we also acknowledge that, hey, a lot of these studies might not perfectly represent how someone trains in practice. They are short-term. And there are a lot of other considerations when it comes to recommending volume or prescribing volume for a client or choosing a volume for yourself. So therefore, you need to think about some of those indirect negative consequences, such as deloading more often, psychological burnout, and ultimately just keeping the long run in mind. So therefore, you need to keep in mind that more is better with smaller and smaller payoff until it starts working against you. Beautiful. I think we're done. Yeah, I think that's it. Let me finish by saying, and we probably didn't emphasize this, or I didn't emphasize this enough on the front end, that this whole project was absolutely a team effort. And we are standing on the shoulders of Dr. Zordos in the sense that he has given us the freedom to study what we want to study, which is not something we take for granted and is not always the case for PhD students and you now having finished your PhD. You know, like I mentioned before, Jake has been absolutely integral throughout this entire process, and we'll be having him on soon. And also other people in the field that have, you know, communicated ideas, whether it's publishing papers, whether it's communicating ideas on the internet that have not only inspired us, intrigued us, but also given us ideas to kind of integrate into our mental model. We probably disagree with a lot of them. We probably agree with a lot of them. But there's no reason that that influences how we think about, like, the character of the person, even if we, in the very back end of this podcast, might fall in line with some people more than others. We really appreciate all perspectives. We value all perspectives. And multiple perspectives are vital to learn more and more about this. Fundamentally, I think they improve the trajectory of the product. Absolutely. Like, I think, you know, I think one thing that I've seen from afar, and I've tried to do it myself as well, but I know you have for sure, is I've tried really hard to go and seek out different understandings of this topic and make sure that, like I said in the first part, like, every perspective that we tried our best to acknowledge in some way includes some sort of information that would at least, you know, that person might be looking for because of the fact that they have a certain position or a certain view or a certain contextual factor that they may think is important to understand in this question. You've tried really hard to understand those at a very deep level, and hopefully that's reflected in the materials that are available for everybody and the nuance that has been communicated over the last five hours. So, yeah, I think this is – I'm really excited for this to be out there to hopefully, you know, guide interpretation. I'm sure things will get a little bit rocky along the way, as they always do, but this is out there, and I think it's a really cool thing. Yeah, and lastly, not to butter up my business partner too much because I have a clear conflict of interest, the whole reason for looking at this in a continuous manner is kind of a – not necessarily a follow-up, but, like, similar to the project that you did on Proximative Failure, and you're kind of reconceptualizing of how to look at meta-analysis in our field to inform practice has been your doing, and this is an extension of that. And if you hadn't kind of come with all of these different perspectives and built these statistical skills because Lord knows all of these considerations and the thousands and thousands of figures and models that have been produced along the way to make sure we understand this have been from your end, and that has been absolutely vital to get this paper to where – or get this project to where it is. So the execution, but also the synthesis. And, you know, it's an honor to, I guess, have my name first, but it's, in my view, pretty inconsequential given it is such a team effort. And, again, huge props to Jake, Seth, Dr. Zordos, and especially to you because without kind of your trailblazing, if you will, in terms of how to think about these questions, how to answer these questions, this absolutely would not have occurred. And fun fact, this is Zach's birthday, so wish him a happy birthday. And – Wish him a happy birthday in the comments. Make sure you subscribe on YouTube. That's probably going to be the best place going forward to keep up with the podcast. Subscribe on your podcast player of choice. And we're going to have a lot more episodes coming out in this general area related to this project because this was one-fourth of the outcomes, ladies and gentlemen. And I will shut up. Let you close it out here, Zach. Yeah. Thanks. Thanks for everybody for tuning in. Give us feedback in the comments. Obviously, new setup with the show. Very interested to see what you guys think. And, yeah, I'm excited for this to be out there. Guide interpretation. And, obviously, put any comments or questions or follow-ups that you have in the comments below so we can make sure that we have something out there to address anything that's inevitably going to come up. So, without further ado, thank you for joining us for, I think, officially approximately five hours. And we'll see you next time. Peace. Peace.