 is the day that we're finally going to kind of finish the job, if you will, on the fourth of four effects from our, not even recently at this point, pre-printed metaregressions on the effects of volume and frequency on hypertrophy and strength. So if you're a new listener, you might be interested in looking back at those. So look back on the YouTube channel, look back on Spotify or your podcast player of choice. Go check out those other full length episodes where we go through the effects of volume on hypertrophy, the effects of frequency on hypertrophy, the effects of frequency on strength. And now finally, today, we're going to discuss the effects of volume on strength. And I'm here with my colleague, Zach Robinson, Dr. Zach Robinson. And Zach, I'll let you maybe give a little bit of background or context as to why we kind of held this one off for last, even though it wasn't one we necessarily expected to be discussed as much as it has been up to this point. Yeah, a hundred percent. I think the reality of it is the way that the projects and just science in general kind of populates on social media and the conversations that stem from those pieces of work are entirely unpredictable. I think that's the number one thing that we've learned in terms of the arguments that take hold, the things that people, you know, maybe agree with the conclusions of the project and where people maybe have different points of view. I think that's always something that is an exercise in humility when you do these kind of things, because people just tend to take things differently than you may expect for good and bad reasons. I think when we were kind of, you know, first lining up the outlines for this podcast, that's when some really big discussions on the overlap and the interplay between volume hypertrophy and volume and strength started. So what became an extremely straightforward podcast where we were just going to discuss the primary results of the strength findings, which we have a lot to say about, and everyone in the comments that has been yearning for strength content from data-driven strength, we will finally, you know, get to this in a good amount of depth. We're also going to cover hypertrophy folks too. Don't worry. So if you're a hypertrophy focused person, I think this one will actually be quite relevant for a lot of reasons. Yeah. It's relevant for both. It's relevant for both, which is exciting. Strength, this is your episode. Yeah. Yeah. We got to, we got to give some more load to the strength side of things. So I think that, that kind of line of argumentation and kind of that line of thinking, like I said, transform what seemingly was a very straightforward podcast just to discuss the primary results, very similar to the other episodes, has changed it quite a bit. And I think now there are just, as you mentioned, multiple lines of kind of crossover, crossover between hypertrophy and strength results that deserve discussion can be confusing for the average person and probably leads to some pretty unintuitive things just from a data perspective that as always, as we've learned throughout this process, data can be very deceiving. I have a very cool infographic that I think is coming up in the slides here that I, that I made one day that I thought was quite interesting to kind of reflect on the spirit of my PhD and all the times I was wrong. And I think that is something that's similar today. Data can be deceiving when something seems extremely straightforward. Sometimes it's not. And I think to some degree, that's the case today as well. Yeah, totally. So in terms of what you can expect, again, if you are science interested and you're interested in strength. Got to get the retention back up. Retention's tanking. And you're interested in strength and or hypertrophy. I, I hope this is a must watch, a must listen. If you're not already subscribed on YouTube or Spotify, go there and you can see some nice visuals as we go. If you're listening on a Apple podcast, you're some other podcast player, you should do just fine, but there will be some, some visuals basically the entire time throughout this. So just a heads up there. And if you're not already following or subscribed, please, please do so. It very much helps us out. And a little bit more detail about what you can expect is we're of course going to present the results. And we're also going to address some ongoing discussions. So someone that's kind of keyed in on this area right now will be familiar with the overarching question of how in the world can the dose response relationship between volume and hypertrophy be different fundamentally potentially than the dose response relationship between volume and strength. We're going to, we're going to address that and some other potential blind spots that we think some, uh, the community at large has had. Um, another thing I want to say on the front end is I hope it comes across not only in this episode, but in previous episodes that we very much value not taking sides. Um, and by looking at comments and also like coaching inquiries in terms of people being like, uh, like why they're interested in working with us or something like that is we've had people claim that we're on both sides at different times. So in other words, some people are like, Oh, you know, you published a, uh, a meta regression demonstrating that higher volumes, you know, are generally better for hypertrophy. So you guys are high volume people, but then you might've watched some of our content where we discuss limitations and practical considerations and all that good stuff. And then we've also had people say like, Oh, you guys are clearly on the low volume side of the fence. Um, ultimately I don't, that's not our goal is to take sides, especially when we're representing like our work. Um, so our goal is to represent the data we have as objectively and as transparently as possible. And that's key at the same time, we're going to give our practical take on things and we're going to aim to be very clear when that's the case. Um, so again, I just want, that's probably going to come up multiple times. That is our goal is to represent the data we have as objectively and transparently as possible. And again, especially when you are the researcher doing a project and you have a research question, that is your job. Um, now we also play the role of science communicator at times, and that's where you can start to layer in some of this other stuff, um, in a medium like this. So we're going to hopefully do both of those kind of scientist hat on and then science communicator hat on as well. And I, uh, last thing I'll say before I kick it over to you, Zach is just a big shout out to the entire research team here. So, uh, that includes Jake Remmert, Seth Hinson, and our, uh, both of our PhD advisor, uh, both of ours, both of our PhD advisor. Yeah. Yeah. That's what we're trying to find like a way to make it plural. Uh, Dr. Mike Zordos. So shout out to everyone. Everyone was, uh, played a big part in this and, um, yeah, couldn't have done it without them. Okay. Anything to add in terms of an intro here before we get into kind of some background context on the topic? Cool. So as we set the stage here, let's kind of take a step back and I'll put myself in the, uh, the lecture halls of, of the great Ohio state university when we're doing the, and no, not infamous, the, the world famous Buckeyes, the world famous Buckeyes, um, sitting in the, those sitting in the, the lecture hall, learning about periodization theory, things like that. Um, what are kind of like the historical narratives of this topic? So the figure you see on the left here is basically the very, if you go back decades to the, the OG strength conditioning textbooks, this is what you'll see is basically as you progress throughout a macro cycle, um, you're going to go from higher volume periods to lower volume periods. And generally you see that intensity, which who knows what that actually means, but generally speaking, they're probably talking about percentage of, of one run max that increases granted that's typically more so in the context of strength, conditioning sports performance. Um, but I think a lot of that stuff has seeped into just general strength and hypertrophy training as well. Um, so that is kind of the background context is a lot of people would view low volume training as the right approach for strength and power sort of adaptations and less so for hypertrophy adaptations. Of course, our goal here is to say, what does the data actually say about that? Zach, do you want to talk a little bit about some other programs you might've seen? Yeah. The kind of one of the interesting things about putting both these things on the screen, I think is just kind of comparing and contrasting them. So as you mentioned, the, the figure on the left is kind of just describing traditional periodization theory, but initially, although some of the periodization stuff kind of came from weightlifting, um, a lot of it was, like you said, applied from strength conditioning, field sports, team sports directly into strength. And so I think that's where some of these like, um, crossover narratives to kind of came from, um, which may not have been entirely applicable to the, the event that they were actually training with. And the reason I bring that up is just kind of comparing it and contrasting it with some extremely, uh, different approaches to strength. And that's where kind of the, the famous small law of base mesocycle, which is an extremely high volume and high frequency approach to strength that, you know, tons of people anecdotally have, have reported, um, really good results on. And so the point, point kind of being here, there are narratives that kind of stretch, uh, stretch all over the spectrum in terms of what's the correct way to approach the problem of volume per strength. Um, and I think there's some good reasons for that, but in general, um, you can, you can find anecdotes kind of all over the spectrum, which I think is just interesting when kind of looking at this historically. Yeah. I always like to think about myself in like undergrad, um, kind of learning about these things for the first time. If I'm curious for you, if you were to put yourself in that, uh, in that position when you're just kind of getting into exercise science, what would you have expected in terms of the dose response relationship between volume and strength gains? Um, I think I came from a, an uneducated perspective of just like the harder you work, the better results that you get in general. Um, so I think I probably would have said it'd be pretty aggressive, um, just for the, from that perspective. Um, and obviously the contents of the training matter a lot. Another thing that's notable in these kinds of contrasting narratives is just the overall level of specificity. Um, and we'll constantly come back to that as a kind of a theme throughout this, um, podcast, but you know, the small, wild-based mesocycle is designed for strength and a couple of very specific movements. Whereas like the history of strength conditioning, kind of more periodization at large, again, maybe outside of weightlifting is a lot more generally varied. So there's another source of those kind of varying anecdotes, but in my mind, um, yeah, I definitely came from the perspective of the harder you work and that mindset, the more volume you do, uh, the better results you're going to get probably. Yeah, that's fair. It's interesting. When we first started data driven strength and started talking about training, I probably came from a more of a perspective of like leaning quite a bit more into periodization than you. Um, so not to the extent that you see on the left-hand side here of, of the slide in terms of like, you know, volume dropping off a cliff completely and intensity being very low early on in the macro cycle. But, um, just as a basic example, when we were like forming some of our initial, uh, programming systems, I would kind of vouch for, hey, in a strength phase in a, in the, you know, four to six weeks before a powerlifting competition, you know, you got to pull back on the volume. That was kind of my bias. Whereas you kind of shifted me towards, um, I was biased in the opposite direction. You're biased in the opposite direction. I'd say we've probably landed somewhere in the middle since then. Um, but we're getting ahead of ourselves a little bit in terms of talking about where we're at right now, but it is interesting to think about the narratives are all over the place. The narratives are all over the place. Yeah. So let's, let's think about the actual published research and stuff that is relevant to our project here. And the way that I view it is basically what have we done here to build upon what has been done in the past. And up to this point, I think the best cited meta-analysis on the effects of, um, volume on strength is a paper from Ralston and colleagues. I think it was published in 2017, I want to say, um, plus or minus a year or so. And in my experience and, and also what I've done personally is cite this paper to say that there is a dose response relationship between volume and strength, but it is, the dose response is not quite as strong as what we see for hypertrophy. When you compare it to, uh, this, the Schoenfeld 2017 meta-analysis, which was the most up-to-date one, um, for a while. Ultimately, this paper does demonstrate that higher volumes seem to lead to higher, to, to greater strength gains. And you can see that on the, uh, the forest plot there on the left-hand side, you can see that there, uh, when you, when you pool the effects, it favors HWS, which stands for high weekly sets compared to LWS, which is low weekly sets. Um, however, the authors had to kind of categorize the different volumes that groups in the studies that made up the meta-analysis actually did. Um, and at the time, honestly, when you were kind of looking back at a lot of the research, it's kind of comparing single set to multi-set protocols. Um, and if memory serves most of the studies, if not all of them compared single set to multi-set protocols, um, so ultimately we see, okay, doing more than just a little bit of training is probably better than doing a little bit of training. That's really what you can take away from this meta-analysis. Um, and another thing that I think people have kind of, uh, wondered is what about non-specific training? So in other words, how does the dose response relationship between, uh, volume and strength gains, how is it impacted based on whether you are doing more work with the tested exercise? So for a powerlifter doing more squat, bench, or deadlift work versus doing accessories such as leg press, leg extension, chest press, or just anything that trains the involved musculature, but it's not the specific movement. And ultimately this paper didn't have like a very clear definition for how they quantified sets. So we wanted to build on this great piece of, of work and say, okay, we have a lot more research. Um, and we also want to look at this in a continuous fashion because just comparing low to high or low to medium or medium to high might not give you the detail you want as a practitioner or as an athlete in terms of what happens when I go from two to 10 sets on average, what happens when I go from 10 to 20 sets on average? Those are the sorts of questions we can start to answer now that we have, um, more data in the area in general. The last thing I'll say is that while this Ralston paper was kind of the most up-to-date meta-analysis for the effects of volume on strength, I think a lot of people just took the 10 to 20 sets per week recommendation that was, I would say roughly derived from the Schoenfeld 2017 meta-analysis on volume and hypertrophy and just kind of assumed it also applied to strength. Um, there's a reason why when we're interested in hypertrophy outcomes, we look at studies that measure hypertrophy. And when we want to look at strength outcomes, we look at studies that measure strength outcomes. So just to note there, if you like are thinking about, Oh, I heard 10 to 20 sets per muscle group per week for strength, that's honestly probably coming from hypertrophy research. Um, so I just wanted to call that out as well. Zach, anything to add about most recent data and, um, kind of setting the stage here before we get into our specific methods? Honestly, not really, but I think like you said, um, the Ralston analysis and we're putting our hands up here. Like, I think that's probably one of the most miscited pieces of research in terms of the level of support that it probably provides for a point. Um, I think the, not the limitation, not necessarily the limitations, but just the scope of that project, I don't think is often taken, um, as, as, uh, people don't scrutinize it as much as maybe it really deserves in terms of the categorical comparisons you're talking about often being a single versus multi-set protocols. And kind of, like you said, kind of pushing that in the direction of strength kind of trends in the same way as hypertrophy. When I don't really know if the data are the same level of, um, strength to make that claim. Right. Um, and I, I've definitely kind of probably cited this, um, without thinking about it too critically. Um, and that, and I think that's just, this project has been a good opportunity to dig into that a little bit more and kind of really sit on that historical narrative and realize that that, um, the hypothesis that strength has a really strong relationship. I don't know if it was necessarily well-founded. Yeah. I think there were a lot of assumptions made and some conflations of, with different outcomes. Um, to give us some credit though, I remember maybe like 2021, we had a podcast about, uh, I think it was titled is 10 to 20 sets per week, a good recommendation for strength. And I mean, we didn't do any like formal analysis for that, but, um, we were kind of saying like, Hey, we're kind of making the points we are right now. Um, but definitely before then probably put too much stock in the meta analyses we had at the time. I always think about the, you know, you're, you're thinking about a couple of years after we got our heads on straight a little bit. I think about the blogs that never got published. Those are, those are the things that keep me up at night in terms of, uh, the citations we made and stuff. So yeah, no, you're right. Yeah. Okay. So let's move into what we actually did, um, in terms of our meta analysis that we're, we're gonna, we're gonna dive into here. Um, so we're going to spare you guys a lot of details today, so I'll start by saying you're welcome. But for those that are very interested, you can check out our other episodes. Um, again, go to the full length episodes, not the clips on YouTube to dive in and, and really understand the thinking behind meta regression and ultimately what we're doing here. Um, but we'll, we'll still go over the methods a bit, but we'll keep it brief. So the first thing I want to point out is for the first time, to my knowledge, we looked at the dose response relationship between volume and strength, and we actually distinguished between direct training and indirect training. And that was ultimately to create three different volume quantification methods. The first is total. The second is fractional and the third is direct. So let's walk through each one of those. So total sets include any training that is specific to the measurement and it equally weights. It equally counts training that trains the musculature of the tested exercise, but isn't the tested exercise. So a basic example is if you're doing five sets per week of back squat training and five sets per week of leg extension training, and you're testing back squat strength, that would be a, uh, total volume of 10. Okay. The next volume quantification method we had was fractional. And that would take, in that example, the leg extension. So the indirect exercise, and that would count it as half of a set. So in our example, that would be five sets for back squat plus only two and a half sets for leg extension, because we're counting each of those five sets as basically half of a set. And then lastly, we have direct volume and that would basically just ignore the leg extensions in our example. Okay. So, um, again, indirect sets were basically any training that were likely to meaningfully train the muscles involved in the strength assessment. And that would include the primary force generator. So most likely the quads in the squat, but also synergists. So that would include any sort of glute training for, uh, for squats, if, if that's the strength assessment. Um, and again, I think we're the first to do this. Um, is this a wholly objective sort of way of counting volume? Yes. And no. Yes. Because we only like you had to train the exact exercise for it to be a direct set, but the indirect sets, there is a little bit of judgment calls that have to be that, uh, that have to occur there. So as you can see on the screen right now, we have some examples of, um, what indirect exercises were. If you look at the bottom of that, that image, you can see for bench press, there are a ton of indirect exercises that were included throughout our data extraction, things like close grip bench, things like a machine chest press, things like tricep extension, things like pec fly, things like barbell shoulder front raise. So basically anything that trained the delts, the chest and, and, or the triceps would be an indirect exercise. I could easily see someone making the argument that a close grip bench should have just been counted as a direct set, but these were all decisions that have pros and cons. Um, and we decided to do it. We decided to basically say, Hey, it has to be the exact exercise that was tested. The rest would be in direct volume. Um, the next thing to discuss is the inclusion criteria. Um, and I don't have a visual for this one, but it is important when you are looking at results as, as we'll get to, to think about where those results come from, right? Um, so in this case it had to be any dynamic resistance training intervention. So what I mean for the most part there by dynamic is that it has to include an eccentric and a concentric contraction. So if the training was just like isometric training or you're pushing against an immovable object and that's your training, there might be specific research questions where that's relevant, but I don't think that's all that relevant for folks looking to understand the dose response relationship for strength gains. So it had to include an eccentric and concentric contraction. And it had to have groups that differed in volume and or frequency. Okay. The reason that we included studies that manipulated frequency is because we also did, um, a meta regression on frequency. So that was included in the data set as well. So that's important to keep in mind is that, Hey, we're not just taking, you know, any study that we think is cool off of PubMed, but instead we systematically went through basically entire multiple entire databases like PubMed had specific search terms, had thousands and thousands of results. Then we have to screen the title, screen the abstracts, screen the full text, et cetera, and to make sure that it's a dose response study. And that's important, um, for meta regression as, uh, we'll discuss a little bit more here in a bit. Uh, the studies had to be at least four weeks long in terms of the training intervention and, uh, maximal strength had to be measured, of course. And that's important that it's maximal strength. So if, um, you know, it was, Hey, put your 70% of one rep max on the bar and let's measure velocity and then kind of do some calculations to understand, um, what your strength was that wouldn't count. That would be in a way, a measure of strength, but it's not maximal strength. So it had to be maximal strength and it could have been dynamic contractions. So just think of like a one rep max back squat, or it could have been, um, like a five rep max, anything up to a 10 rep max is what we accepted. So a one to 10 RM, it could have been isometric strength outcomes as well, or isokinetic strength outcomes. Um, we did include both trained and untrained participants, which is something to keep in mind as we'll discuss, uh, potential differences or lack thereof in a little bit. And we did not include older adults. So we did not include any participants that were older than 70 years. Another thing on the methods front, that's important to, uh, talk about because we'll, we'll mention it once we get to the results is what's called the smallest detectable effect size. And again, if you want a little bit more detail, go back to season two, episode one, where we, uh, discuss the hypertrophy outcomes and we get into this, uh, in, in quite a bit more detail. Um, but basically you can think about the smallest detectable effect size as the sum of all variance components from non-training control groups in resistance training studies. So the data on the screen that you see here is from non-training control groups. So that means if these folks would have had to be untrained, if I'm recalling correctly, right? So they had to be untrained because if you take someone that's been training and then have them do a non-training protocol, that's basically D training. So it had to be someone that's not resistance training. And then you basically randomize them to a control group. So it would kind of suck if you're all fired up to do a resistance training study, get into lifting, contribute to research. Uh, and then they're like, Hey, you're in the control group and you basically, uh, don't get to do that. You have to just report back to, uh, the lab for post-testing. That's what this data is from is for those folks that don't do anything, um, throughout a resistance training intervention, because that can help us quantify the error of someone that is still having an intervention undergone, but there's error associated with that. And importantly, the smallest detectable effect size for strength is pretty high. Okay. The smallest detectable effect size is 3.96%. Um, whereas for hypertrophy, it was lower. It was 2.05%. Okay. And that makes sense because if you do a pre-test and a post-test strength assessment, when you do the post-test, you're going to have some familiarity and there might've even been some strength gain from just doing the test itself. Whereas if you go into a lab and you lay on a massage table and, and get, uh, muscle thickness assessed with ultrasound, not a whole lot of learning is going on there. Not a whole lot of stimulation is going on there in terms of any sort of training effect. Um, Zach, do you want to add any color about the smallest detectable effect size or, um, anything to point out in the figure here? No, I don't think so. I think for the most part, you nailed it. It's ultimately just when you want to go any type of statistical analysis, you kind of have two questions that you're, that you're posed with is quote unquote, is the effect real? And then is the effect meaningful? And typically speaking, it's hard for, um, any, you know, individual to come up with a quote unquote source of meaningfulness that is objective or applies to the reader in any assured way. So what we decided was like, Hey, we know that there are multiple sources of within participant variation that control groups can give us some insight into. You've mentioned a couple of measurement error, biological variability, and then just sampling variance between studies. All of those are going to give us some sort of within participant variation completely absent any training intervention. So we're essentially saying on the individual level, if we know some of this variation exists, that would obscure your ability to kind of detect what's going on. It probably wants to exceed that sort of a difference for us to be confident that the effect is quote unquote meaningful for you. Now, as we'll discuss later, this is to some degree, not arbitrary, but it's a, it's a choice that you could not agree with. And you could have some other threshold that you determined to be meaningful, but we thought this is a helpful step to help contextualize the results further that I think is a good use of the available data. And then the second thing you mentioned, which I was going to echo is that it makes perfect sense that the variability for non-training controls for strength is very different than my hypertrophy because a single strength test is essentially a training session for a non-training control. Even though that seems kind of, kind of silly, it is, it is true. And there are studies where they demonstrate the effect of increasing strength gains simply from practicing the test. Exactly. And you can look at the mean change there, the dot for the strength condition is actually marginally positive. Whereas the, the hypertrophy effect is basically clustered right around zero. And that kind of communicates the same idea, but yeah, this is a, I think, I think it's a cool thing that we did. It is by no means like the only way to do it. And I think there's multiple other justifiable approaches to kind of get at this concept. But I do think it's a very important, demonstration of the fact that something can have a real effect, but not necessarily be a meaningful effect. But that is a subjective criteria that we just tried to do our best to give something to further contextualize the results. The only thing I'd add is maybe we should use the word detectable instead of meaningful. What do you think? Yeah, I guess to me, the reason it's, it's like there's gray area there. The reason detectable to me is the re the reason we said detectable was because that's more so what a control group is kind of telling you is that saying, um, Hey, on the participant level, so the individual, not necessarily the level of the group. The whole reason we do research on groups is because we have a better ability to detect effects. But on the individual level, if I'm going to go to apply this in the gym, um, what's the kind of threshold it needs to cross for me to be able to kind of notice it in the context of the measurement techniques and the studies, et cetera, et cetera. Um, that's detectability, but meaningfulness is entirely subjective. But if it's not detectable, you could argue that that's kind of a lower bound of being meaningful. And that's kind of the rationale that we use. Um, cause often in people in kind of the optimization sphere of exercise science, they're going to say, I care about small effects. I care about anything, which is fine. But on some level, if you're not even able to reliably detect those effects, it's, it's questionable whether that's meaningful or not. But again, it still comes down to the distinction. Some, some people would be totally happy with the fact that if they know the effect is kind of real in concept, even if they can't detect that in any individual way, they're, they're going to bet their chips on that and still go in that direction because that could still stack up a real effect, um, over time. So it's, they're both very, very important aspects to the interpretation process. But to me, this is kind of helpful, particularly from interpreting the results from different populations perspective. Like you go gen pop all the way up to somebody who's an elite advanced bodybuilder. There's different levels of quote unquote meaningfulness that are probably relevant there. Yeah. Right on. Um, think about that number for a second, 3.96% as our smallest detectable effect size. Um, and, and I want to like double click on that for a second, because I do think that's at the core of some misinterpretations or potentially over interpretations of our model. Um, in the sense that, um, I don't know about you, but if I'm, and that's, that's about 4% in an absolute sense, not in a relative sense, compare 4% strength gains versus 8% strength gains over the course of a 10 week study. That's a, that's a, that's a difference I'm interested in as a coach for sure. Um, if that shows up reliably, reliably, I'm interested in 4% versus 5% if, if we would have enough, um, uh, basically power to, to detect that. So it's the point I'm making here is there's a lot of variance with strength outcomes. Um, and we quantified that I'll be imperfectly. It's not a perfect method, but that was our best approach for quantifying, um, what we can confidently say that we're detecting a, an actual difference. And, and that shakes out to about 4%. That's a big smallest detectable effect size in my view. Yeah, for sure. And I think, I do think like that makes sense why that is the case, but that is why it's crucial to understand the difference between a real difference or quote unquote real difference versus something as we are considering detectable or considering meaningful. Another note here that I, I can't remember who made this comment, but I do think it was a good one is these aren't necessarily the control groups from the same studies in which we're meta-analyzing. These are a separate body of research. Um, theoretically though, the, the conditions in the studies that we are meta-analyzing could be fundamentally different to some degree than, than the control groups that were analyzed here. Maybe the strength outcomes are different. Maybe the hypertrophy measurement techniques are different, all of which would inherently change what would be the best estimate of the smallest detectable effect size. Now that said, this is a lot of studies. So I'm, I'm pretty confident this is our best quote unquote unbiased estimate of, of what kind of control groups can kind of, uh, estimate the, the within participant variation on a standardized scale. I feel good about that, but I think that is also a totally valid feedback to say this doesn't directly apply to the studies in the meta-analysis. So maybe that bar is a little bit too high, a little bit too low. We're not entirely sure. Yeah, it was the best, it was the best we could think of. Correct. Exactly. It's, it's, it's giving us a bar to measure against. That's not necessarily to say it's the right bar, right? Because if memory serves, we had, uh, 13 studies in the data set that had a untrained non-training control group. So our original plan was to say, Hey, we're just going to take all the control groups from the studies that meet our inclusion criteria and that we're extracting. And then we're going to take those control groups and basically calculate our own more specific smallest detectable effect size for our data set. But then once we did the, uh, all the screening and, uh, finish the extraction, we're like, Hmm, not very many, not very many. I think there's a ton of effects from like one specific study too, that like really predominates some of that thing. So yeah, it's, it wasn't a reliable enough data set for us to be confident. So we went to the steel net analysis, which had way more data. Yeah. Cool. Uh, before we get into the, the results here, um, is there anything about the model that you think is worth touching on beyond like kind of the, the basic fundamental steps of meta regression that we'll get to in a second? Um, I think the quick thing that we have on the outline just to quickly mention is that, you know, when we have, uh, the studies that come from, uh, different independent variables, volume and frequency, um, sometimes you have to adjust for a couple of things in order to make sure that you're estimating the, the effect of the variable that you care about. So in this case, um, we have adjusted for that effect of frequency and, and for strength outcomes, that's particularly important because of the fact that in our previous episode, we, we, uh, mentioned that the direct effect of frequency seems to be pretty strong for strength. Um, and then for the other variables that we also adjusted for, we're just improve the precision of our predictions. And this was the duration of the intervention and then the training status of the participants. If you just think about, okay, if I have a group of untrained and a group of trained participants, the untrained participants are probably gonna have much larger strength gains. So we bake that assumption into the model, which is a pretty safe assumption and should improve our precision. And then also intervention duration, generally speaking, longer interventions are also going to have greater strength gains. So we make that assumption in there as well, which all of those adjustments are either to make sure we can isolate the effect of volume, um, independently or to improve the precision of our model. But that's really as far as, uh, other things besides the basics that you mentioned, the step-by-step process, that's really all that's relevant. Perfect. All right, let's get into the results here. Um, and let's start by discussing what was kind of the, the best volume quantification approach. Cause that's the first step here is to say, okay, we, we basically have all of these effects from all of these studies. The total for, uh, strength was 66 total studies that had, you know, one group with a lower dose and one or multiple groups with a higher dose and using that, those outcome datas, we extracted volume in the three different ways. I mentioned, we extracted it in the total method, the fractional method and the direct method. And again, the first step is to say, okay, which of these is most likely to best represent the underlying dose response relationship? Cause that's what we care about is like which of these volume quantification methods give us the best predictive power, if you will. Um, and therefore we can make further inferences from the data. And what you can see on the screen here is the various comparisons. So you have the numerator identified at the top and the denominator on the left-hand side there. So you basically have three by three comparisons. Um, so nine total spots in the grid, but of course there's some comparisons to themselves. So there's zeros there. Um, but if you just look at the first column, you can compare fractional to the other two methods. So if you compare fractional to total, you see that the base factor is 18.21. And then if you compare fractional to direct, the base factor is 45.96. And this is using, uh, a scale from like a 1995 paper, if memory serves. And basically, uh, that scale says that anything above a base factor of 10 is very strong evidence. Okay. So we have very, very strong evidence for the fractional method being better, better describing the underlying data than direct. And we, we also have very strong evidence that fractional does a better job of describing the underlying data than the total method. So in my view, what this says is that accounting for indirect training in some way is good. That's basically what this says. Um, because if you only look at the direct sets, there's going to be a bunch of similar movement patterns and, uh, exercises that train the included musculature, but they just aren't accounted for at all. And you could imagine an extreme scenario where you're doing like, you know, three sets of bench press per week, but then you're doing like 20 sets of a bunch of other training. If you're just doing the direct method, you're going to lose out on that entirely. And then with total, I wouldn't have been surprised if that one won. Um, because, you know, maybe that's a little bit more accurate. Maybe, you know, all that pec fly training or tricep extension training is, you know, similarly effective to direct training, such as, you know, a strength assessment like bench press. Um, but ultimately this is in line with our hypothesis that the fractional method would be best. And therefore that gives us the best dose response model to work from is the fractional dose response model. Anything to add there? Not really. Cool. All right. So with that, let's get into the primary results from the paper in terms of the dose response between volume and strength gain. So again, refer back to season two, episode one for more details on the various models, the various candidate models. Um, I think there were seven or seven. Yeah. Something like that. Um, seven candidate models. And then on the backend, basically what you do is you say, okay, what best describes the data and what is also kind of a good mix of really describing the data, but also being, uh, something that is feasible physiologically. So there, there are various, uh, metrics that, that, uh, are quantified. And then you can objectively determine that, you know, a certain model is the quote unquote winner. And in this case, the quote unquote winner is a reciprocal model, which is what you can see on the left-hand side. So on the left-hand side, which is identified as panel a on the X axis, you have increasing fractional set volume. Okay. So just as a basic example, uh, at 10 sets, if you see a data point, that means that the condition had, um, 10 fractional sets. So you could have various ways of getting to 10 fractional sets. You could have all direct training. So it could be, you know, just 10 sets of what was ultimately measured in the strength assessment, or you could have five direct sets and 10 indirect sets of kind of accessory type movements. Okay. And then on the Y axis, you have, um, the exponent shaded response ratio, which is just the effect size that we used, um, which gives us a, a proxy for the percentage change in maximal strength. And then the thickest line that you see going through the data points there is the best fit line. And then, uh, kind of that shaded orange area there is the 95% credible interval. Um, and then the, uh, the dotted line is the 95% prediction interval. Um, and those are just various metrics of where we would expect not only the trend line to be with additional data, but also future data points with additional data. And then on the right-hand side, you can see the mean linear slope at the average set volume in the data set. And that average was around 10 fractional sets per week. So basically what we see by that diamond being exclusively on the right-hand side of zero is that the dose response is generally positive. That's just a way to, uh, confirm the directionality and confirm the confidence in the directionality. So we can say with pretty high confidence that the dose response relationship is positive. Um, at the same time, we do of course see that there are diminishing returns, right? So we see pretty early on that there's a really strong, robust response, which is what you'd expect when you go from no training to some training. Um, and then you see that it kind of tapers off and then eventually it almost looks like it, it plateaus, but we'll dive into that with a little bit more detail here in a second. So Zach, unless you have anything to add, we can move on to another way to kind of conceptualize how you ultimately get at this figure. Yeah, no, I think we can go to the next one. The only shout out I wanted to give was, uh, um, so alongside these projects, we also published per session meta regressions led by, uh, Jake, uh, Jake Remmer. And one of the comments he got on Instagram was you can't just fit a line to dots. And so I, I, I think this is, uh, helpful to go through, um, conceptually just to really hone in on what's actually happening. Um, because I think it can be potentially counterintuitive when you just see a trend line and a bunch of dots and the line doesn't necessarily, um, coincide with the dots perfectly. So I think it's important to kind of see what happens. So I'm going to try my best to take this off the reins here a little bit and hopefully be able to demonstrate this a little bit closer. So here we have a three-step demonstration on what's actually happening underneath the hood for multi-level meta regression. So one of the first parts of this process that we mentioned was that it's port, it's important that we have studies that compare the, uh, variable of interest, right? So in step one here, you can just see all of the individual data points. And so those are separated by trained and untrained purely for visualization purposes. You can see all of these individual data points, obviously a good amount of fanning and good amount of variation, um, that kind of represent all of the effects in our dataset. Now, what people think is happening is that you're just fitting a line to those dots. You, you, you fire up Excel, you fire up something, Google sheets, you throw in a trend line on there, like you maybe do with your finances or something like that to, to see if you're spending too much on groceries. And you know what, there you go. You pretty much did a meta analysis. That's essentially sometimes I think what the interpretation is, but this is actually what's happening underneath the hood. So we have these between study effects in this first step. However, each one of those effects belongs to a study, right? And so you have what's called clustering, or you're creating a level in the dataset where multiple effects belong to a study. And those effects have different levels of volume. And so what you can do is you can create what are called within study slopes that are representing the dose response relationship of each effect in a study in isolation. So that's essentially allowing for the within study comparison of volume level A versus volume level B within a given study where all the other variables in that study are accounted for load, proximity to failure, um, intervention, training status, all those things are comparable, which is why it's advantageous to calculate those studies, uh, within study slopes. Then you can see I have this up here, this little thing called plus shrinkage. And so essentially what a meta regression is going to do, it's going to say, Hey, all of these individual slopes, because you're, you're estimating those in isolation, it's actually counterintuitive, but having information across other studies can actually provide a better estimate of that study slope in isolation. This is, you know, can go into this in a whole, another podcast, and I'm sure we will, um, later down the line, but there's a statistical paradox that the group in which you belong actually helps you estimate your individual effect a little bit better. So in this case, understanding all of the study slopes can estimate the within study slope of a given study, maybe a little bit better. So once we do that, we're going to adjust all of these little individual study slopes back towards the overall group mean just a little bit. And then that's going to allow us to aggregate the curve or the overall study slope, aggregating all of those individual study slopes into this nice, neat, overall best fit line that you see in the primary plots. But it's important to note this important step here in the middle is making sure that the within study comparisons that do control for all the other factors are being respected when we actually compare this overall dose response curve. Um, is there anything I'm missing there? I just, I vouched for, uh, having this make it into the podcast. There's a lot of things that didn't make it into the podcast, but this is something that, um, these within study slopes, I just think is so helpful to see because you can look at any single, uh, within study slope. And if that's all you're looking at, it tells a totally different story. Um, and there's a lot of potential reasons why the within study slopes can differ so much. Um, and probably the main one is just general variance, which will be a theme probably from this point forward throughout the rest of this podcast episode. Um, but I think this is really, really helpful just to visualize and see what's going on under the hood. You know, Zach talked about some of the fixed effects like accounting for how long the study was the training status of the participants, um, any other training variables that, uh, we would have good reason to believe would also have an effect and ultimately get to a dose response relationship. That is our best fit model. So, um, at the end of the day, the primary meta regression that you see here, and you might've seen on social media, uh, really those data points, you can make a case for not having those data points there. We've actually talked about that before. There's been a couple of papers, um, that have published, uh, dose response meta-analyses recently that didn't have the dots there. Um, and I think, it's like, where's the dots, bro? Yeah. I think, I think it's, it's interesting to, to pro and con that because it can lead to misinterpretation. Yeah. Like you said. And like, it's just, I just hope this, uh, is clear to the reader that, or the reader, the listener that like, again, those, those dots just aren't really what we care about necessarily. Um, they're of course make up the first step, um, in the process here of getting to the primary meta regression. Um, but this is why, you know, the methods we mentioned, especially in season two, episode one are, are so important. And, um, you know, I, I would say if I was not familiar with the field at all, I would definitely assume that you're just kind of fitting the line through the dots. So, um, all of that is to say is these are the general steps that are going on under the hood. Um, the last thing to point out here within step three is a, a candidate fundamental difference is differences in training status. The thinking goes that, okay, if I take someone that's never trained before and I have them start and finish a resistance training intervention, they might not benefit from a given difference in a training program such as volume or frequency quite as much because they're just going to get really, really strong no matter what. Or you can make the opposite case. Make the opposite case really quick. You could also make the case that an untrained individual who has no experience with the exercises could benefit a ton from the additional practice and really hone in those neural, um, those things. Whereas the trained individual may be only getting additional fatigue because they're already, um, well experienced with the movement. So you can make very valid cases in both directions. Yeah, that's fair. Um, and then yeah, same idea with trained, you can make the case both ways. Yep. Um, so we'll, we'll talk about that a bit. And I think that, um, you know, when you see the strong diminishing returns in the main meta regression line, that could be a thought. It's like, maybe that doesn't apply to me because I'm, I'm an advanced lifter and, and, and maybe you're right. Maybe not. We'll, we'll, we'll discuss that some more. Um, but in step three here, you do see that, um, when you kind of subset the data between trained individuals and untrained individuals. So you kind of have a thinner orange line there for trained individuals. Um, and then you have a thin dashed line there for untrained individuals. And what you see is that the best fit model when you subset the data between the two is still generally, generally follows this reciprocal pattern. And to be clear, those, those lines are, those aren't actually representative of like what would happen if you actually fit the data appropriately in each one of those subsets, but they're simply, we have done that. And that follows basically the same reciprocal pattern. Um, but those are just to demonstrate the point that they all kind of trend in the same direction. Um, and just demonstrating that just, just as a basic example, if you look at the, the line for trained individuals here, and like Zach said, this isn't necessarily a reciprocal model. That is just fitting the lines and the dots, but it's just for visualization purposes. Yeah. Just for visualization purposes. So that's why I said reciprocal pattern and you said reciprocal pattern as well. And like Zach said, there's a lot of things that didn't make it into the visuals here. Hundreds and hundreds, hundreds of, of discussions. Um, yeah, we'll, we'll put a pin in that, but just, just as an interesting thing here is like, we discussed at the very beginning of the podcast, the Ralston paper where it subset of the data between less than five sets and greater than five sets. Um, another method that's been used is like less than 10 sets. You're more than 10 sets. And then there's the Baz-Vell paper. What were the cutoffs? 10 to 20 versus 20 plus. Yeah. I think it was something like that. Um, it is interesting to look here that, uh, with the trained individuals, you kind of happen to see a negative slope from 10 to 20. And then you happen to see a positive slope from 20 to 30. Um, again, this is not a best fit model. So we're not, that it kind of follows this, like, what would that even be like an S shape curve or a sigmoid curve in a way? Yeah. But, but basically it kind of goes up and then it comes down and then it goes back up. Like that is something that would be penalized in the model fitting process. And even if that was the underlying data, it would kind of be smoothed out because that's almost certainly not what happens. Yeah. Um, but that is just interesting to, to kind of recognize is that even when you have 66 studies and then you categorize, it's like, yeah, really clearly strong relationship here. And then like kind of negative, kind of positive. And then you, you look at all these effects, you're like, man, this is a mess. Um, and that's why we focus so much on the best fit curve. Yeah. The only other thing here that's not visualized that I probably could have done a better job putting on there is also, you have to take into account, um, the weighting of every individual study. So you can imagine each one of those data points or each one of those lines, I'm so mad I didn't do this now, um, would be bigger or smaller depending on the variance within that individual study. So you could imagine I could get a, let's say I have three groups in a study, but each group has three people in it. And so I have an estimate of a dose response relationship, but the amount of total participants that I have in that study is nine. Whereas another study may have 10 participants in each individual group. That is represented here, right? Yeah. Yeah. That's obviously there, but it's, it's not just in the visual. Yeah. To like demonstrate that. Um, yeah, actually go back to that other plot. That's actually a better way to describe it. So you can see the dots in this individual, um, in the primary plot, those are all sized by their inverse variance weight. So studies that have greater sample sizes, more precise, uh, effect measurements, those are ones that are going to be up weighted a little bit, um, in comparison to studies who have smaller, uh, sample sizes and more variance in their measurements. Um, those will be down weighted. So that's just another, uh, component to this equation that if you just look at, if you just plot the data in Excel, there's so many different areas and places where your eyes can kind of play tricks on you, depending on the clustering of the data, the within study effects, the weighting of those individual effects. And then, and then like you said, Josh, just the overall aggregate process of, okay, let's take all that together and see what actually, um, makes the most sense from the balance of complexity and also simplicity. Yeah. Right on. Cool. I really like this slide. Yeah. Got anything to add or are we good? No, I think, I think that hopefully summarizes it well. Cool. All right. Let's discuss the secondary analysis or actually, sorry, before we get to that, we'll, we'll discuss the diminishing returns. Then we'll get to the, the secondary analysis. Yeah, man. Um, so we discussed the smallest detectable effect size. Um, and one of the reasons is that it can give you like a helpful interval, if you will, to say, Hey, how in, in this volume range, how many more sets do I have to do to get something that we can be confident is detectable within the context of typical resistance training air, what this is. Um, I go back and forth on how I feel about this table, to be honest with you. Um, but basically what we see here is that the minimum effective dose within the context of this, these studies is literally one set. Um, so the estimated effect at one set is greater than the smallest detectable effect size. And then what we see is that there's still a really strong effect going from one to two sets. And that the, the best fit model gives you a prediction, um, that is greater than an additional increment in the smallest detectable effect size. But then once you get to, higher and higher volumes, it kind of tapers off, um, which is what you see in the main meta regression. So this is literally just using the, uh, the, the estimated effect at like throughout the, the dose response relationship and comparing it to additional increments of the smallest detectable effect size. So basically going from zero to 4% gain, four to 8% gain, eight to 12% gain, et cetera. Um, and here's something that has gotten a lot of attention is the fact that once you get to this final row here in these volume efficiency tiers, is that once you get around five ish sets per week, you don't get an additional increment in the smallest detectable effect size. Um, I can't remember off the top of my head, the estimated effect at five sets, but whatever it is, there's no point in the meta regression that is greater than 4% more than that estimated effect. So two things that I want to make clear here. The first is that the diminishing returns are quite notable, quite strong. Okay. And this is a way to, to demonstrate that. The second thing I'll say is keep in mind, the smallest detectable effect size is 3.96 or about 4% for strength. Okay. So just because beyond five sets, we don't see an additional increment in the smallest detectable effect size. And that does not necessarily mean that this is the cutoff point. That's one reason why we wouldn't necessarily say that this is the cutoff point. Um, but I think that is how it was interpreted, which I understand why it was interpreted that way. And I don't think it's a bad interpretation, but I think it just, it's a quick way. It's a quick, if you skim the paper, that might be what you take away from it. But if you really think about it, um, and you understand what was done under the hood, I don't think you would use that number all that much, but that's my perspective. What do you think? Yeah. I was actually going to say like, one of the biggest things I wish we could have added to the paper is that when we discussed this on the front end, we mentioned there's a big distinction between a difference being real and a difference being quote unquote meaningful or detectable in this case. Um, and I don't think people really get that. So in our case, and I think we should actually skip the next slide and go to the pairwise comparisons after this, because I think it is more relevant for this comparison is that this volume efficiency, uh, table is addressing if the differences are detectable. So if I was going to implement this in the gym, based on the assumptions that we mentioned about the smallest detectable effect size of which there are many that you could argue, is this something I would quote unquote detect? That's, that's one conversation. But another conversation is, is the difference real? And if you go to slides now, this is where this is relevant. So very, very early on, I think it was Dr. D'Souza that, uh, asked for the pairwise comparisons as soon as the paper was published, which is, which is, was a very, very good, um, addition. We did that within like an hour because we're like, yep. Great. That was a great comment. Yeah. It was great. So, um, and it's important because it demonstrates this difference perfectly. So on the left here, this is basically the same information contained in the, uh, the diminishing returns table, just slightly plotted in a different way to explain kind of what you're looking at here is on the X axis. We have the low number of sets in a comparison. So we're comparing set volume A to set volume B on the X axis. We have the low volume there. So let's say we're comparing 10 and five sets. That would be five on the X axis on the Y axis is the high number of sets. And that would be 10 versus five, right? The first number in the comparison. And so what these plots are demonstrating is if the box is colored, that is telling you that that comparison was greater than the smallest detectable effect size. And basically the way that those efficiency tiers operate, um, although not the exact same criteria, but it gets you to kind of the same point is the, the point in which the quote unquote plat question mark in the efficiency tiers is you're basically just counting the final row where there is no longer any colored squares, uh, basically right here, which is five. Exactly. So on the left, we're saying that the plateau is five, right? However, when you flip over to the comparisons versus a null point estimate, or in this case, let's compare the differences between the two volumes versus zero, the differences are small. They're not exceeding our smallest detectable effect size, but they're very precise. We have a ton of data for strength and we have a, a best fit model that fits pretty darn well. The precision of the interval width on those, on those estimates and the main meta regression table are really, really narrow. So when we compare all of those differences against zero, every single one of them exceeds zero. So the effect may be very, very small. So this is where the whole, um, statistical significance versus, uh, practical significance or clinical significance. You could, you've heard that distinction before that that's basically what these two different graphs are, are kind of demonstrating. The left is saying, Hey, is the average person going to be able to quote unquote detect this? And the right is saying, are these differences real or something that we can be confident, um, are the case. And you can clearly see that on the right, I don't think anyone's taking this away, but this is the reality of what the model is saying is that there is a quote unquote linear effect of volume. It's just that the diminishing returns make the increments of that such that we wouldn't necessarily expect that to be something so overwhelmingly, um, massive, um, in the magnitude that we would be able to notice it a ton in practice. So I think this is something that is extremely overlooked in this overall model and saying that, yes, there are very aggressive diminishing returns, but that does not mean that the additional returns aren't giving you anything. We're pretty confident. They are giving you something. It's just relatively small and the diminishing returns are relatively large. Yeah. And we can't say with a ton of confidence that in the context of just the, the fog of war that comes with research that it's, it's truly happening, but that fog of, but it's just basically what we're saying is that fog of war is, it's quite foggy. There's quite a bit going on. And that's why we just hopefully made it relatively convincing that using five as a, a practical cutoff is, I don't think the best for, for a lot of reasons. This is the first one. This is the first one is just fundamentally. And don't get me wrong. Like researcher hat on looking at the, the control data from steel. Um, I feel good about our methods there. Like don't, yeah. And, and like, I do think from a scientist perspective, I can't say that above about five sets per week, like it's not giving you a lot. It's not, it's not giving you a lot. It's basically the, yeah. Um, but I, I, again, going back to a theme that we are, we're going to continue to mention is just the difference between the, the scientist job of, uh, basically representing the data as objectively and transparently as possible versus science communicator hat on, how do we apply this? What are, what are the various limitations, et cetera? So, um, with that, I think we can move to the secondary results here. Um, this is basically just another way to do a meta regression. That's almost certainly not as good. Um, but there are some perspectives that might lead folks in that direction. Um, honestly, I, I don't think there's that many, but it's just a different way to do, uh, um, a meta analysis basically. So for just sake of familiarity, I think for, for somebody that maybe is a little bit less familiar with, Hey, we're just some, uh, you know, biased researchers drawing some random line to the dots, a forest plot or something like that, maybe it's something that somebody is a little bit more familiar with. Yeah. So we can start with, with the forest plot and then we can talk about the pairwise meta regression on the left-hand side here. So what we see here on the right-hand side with the, um, the forest plot is basically each individual effect. So there's limitations here because this is simply a categorical comparison. Basically every single effect was, uh, okay. We have a lower volume condition and a higher volume condition. And in which direction did that lean? So you can see that I don't know exactly what it is, but maybe the first, what would you say? Maybe like 30% of the effects happen to be on the left-hand side of zero. And then the rest, maybe about 70% of effects are on the right-hand side of zero. So basically that would mean that about 70% of the effects favored the higher volume condition. Um, and about 30% favored the lower volume condition. Okay. And then when you pull that down here at the bottom, we see the pooled mean effect for the percentage difference and change in strength gain between low versus high volumes. This doesn't tell you about, uh, you know, low versus moderate versus high versus very high volumes. That's the goal of the meta regression, but this is just like, Hey, generally speaking, if we categorically compare these and try to pull the effect, this is what happens. And you can see that it, it, I'd say pretty clearly leans towards higher volumes being beneficial, but the credible interval of the, um, of the effect does cross zero, which is pretty interesting to think about. So like categorically, you know, if that would have been the meta analysis approach we take, we wouldn't have been able to say with a high degree of confidence that higher volumes lead to, uh, higher strength gains. Anything to add on the forest plot there, Zach? No, not really. I mean, ultimately the, this is just a good example where categorizing a truly continuous variable, um, leave some information on the table. Um, just as a basic example to demonstrate this, one of these, uh, comparisons within a study could have been 10 versus 20 sets and the other one could have been one versus five. And all of those are treated the exact same, which obviously give you different information, um, underneath the hood. So, um, so yeah, I think it's a, it's a helpful tool, especially for people to kind of get familiar with things. But like you said, if this was the only approach we went with, it'd be quite a different conversation. Right. Yep. And then very quickly on the left-hand side here, basically what you see is what's called a, uh, contrast based or probably we've gone back and forth on this. Maybe a two stage meta regression is the best way to describe it. This one's, this one's tough. We probably would do it a little bit different in hindsight. Um, but it's just, yeah, go ahead. I was just going to say really quickly, basically each there, there's some similarities with the steps we discussed here. Um, but each effect basically got a slope and an intercept and then those slopes and intercepts were meta analyzed. Um, but keep in mind that we only looked at linear models here. This is very tricky to look at nonlinear relationships, which is almost certainly going on with, uh, the dose response here. So just because this is linear, um, don't necessarily view this as like, Oh, that is definitely the effect. In my view, this is nice confirmation that along with, um, you know, the, the mean effect here, the mean linear slope that we saw before, you know, the, the effect does tend to be positive. We see most of this, um, most of this pooled mean effect, uh, on the, the positive side of zero. So we have, we have multiple vectors pointing in the direction of a positive, uh, dose response relationship. Yeah. I think this, this one would probably be the most limited of all the approaches. I think probably would have done a little bit different in hindsight, but like you said, I think directionally, um, kind of pretty much anyway, slice it directionally leans positive, but the primary meta regression that has the richest ability to detect nonlinear patterns, I think is, is there's a reason it's the primary model and it has those, um, sensitivities that these other approaches don't. Right on. Cool. So now we're getting into the fun stuff because basically up to this point, we set the stage. We gave you a brief overview of some of the most important aspects of the methods. We discussed the primary and secondary results. And now we can start thinking about interpretation of these results. Okay. Um, and we have discussed that a bit in terms of contextualizing the smallest detectable effect size, that sort of thing. But keep in mind that meta analysis and just research in general is descriptive. Okay. So in other words, when we think about that primary meta regression as our primary, that, that was our primary result for this research question that is descriptive based on the underlying data that went into the model that fit our inclusion criteria. Okay. So let's start asking ourselves the question of what was the nature of the studies that did make it into the meta analysis? Okay. So this is a, uh, part of a figure from the paper. Um, and you can see basically the distribution of a bunch of key resistance training variables. Okay. So let's start with the first one. We see a distribution of weekly sets from all of the effects and the average volume from the effects. So the average volume of all the effects was 8.14 fractional sets per week. So it's probably, you know, a little bit more than like eight sets as a lot of people think of it because of the fractional method. Um, but nonetheless, you know, if, if you're counting volume in the total method, maybe think of it as like the H12 range, something like that. So I would say pretty low volumes, maybe starting to get into that moderate range. Okay. Frequency. I'd say this is pretty reasonable about, uh, about two fractional days per week in terms of frequency on average. Okay. We can see most of them clustered around two here, a good amount at three and, and, uh, some around one as well. Next is a big one. Repetition range. We see a ton of clustering kind of in this six to 12 rep range or so. And then we also see some, uh, effects where the average rep range was kind of in that 10 to 20 rep range, then even a couple above 20 in terms of the average rep range that those effect use in the average there is 9.85 reps per set. Rest periods, average of two minutes and two seconds or just over two and proximity to failure. So this was a tricky one when we were extracting because, um, this is less common these days in terms of studies that are, have been published recently, but, um, especially like some older studies, proximity to failure just wasn't as top of mind, I don't think. Um, so if you're interested in really understanding like how we categorize between failure, mixed and non-failure, check out the, uh, the paper itself. But generally speaking, failure was anything that, uh, kind of indicated that either concentric failure occurred. So you had to try a rep and actually fail the rep, or you were going for max load at a, at a given rep range, for example. So like if they, if the paper said, Hey, we trained with four sets of 10 rep max, we assume that that 10 rep max was quote unquote failure training. So do some of these failure effects probably shake out to more like one RIR probably. Um, but we had indication to believe that they were training with, you know, zero reps in reserve, maybe even all the way to concentric failure. I could, but again, I could see some of those effects being more like one RIR. Nonetheless, the majority of them were failure in some way, shape or form. Okay. So that's interesting. Right. And I want you to think about these training variables, every single one, eight sets per week, two fractional days per week, about 10 reps per set, two minute rest period, and mostly training to failure. What does that sound like to you? It sounds like, uh, like a bodybuilding.com program or something like that. Um, although eight sets per week is, is way too low for a bodybuilding program and also training, uh, two times per week, probably more be like one. It was per muscle group though. Yeah. No, no, no. I know. It's for like a given effect, right? Yeah. It's for a given effect. And it's, so you're doing, you know, four day up or lower, you know, six days, push pull legs. That's all two times. Oh, no, no. I'm talking about chest Monday. Oh, right. Oh, you're saying it's too high. Yeah. No, it's too high. Yeah. So this is important to keep in mind that, um, these study characteristics do honestly kind of represent just good hypertrophy training. So keep that in mind. So with that, let's, let's discuss those limitations in a little bit more depth. Um, and keep these limitations in mind because we're going to discuss them more in the next portion of this podcast as we discuss why the hypertrophy dose response and the strength dose response are just a little bit different. So the first limitation to point out is the intervention duration. Okay. The average intervention was just over 10 weeks. I think it was 10.4 weeks on average. Let's, let's pause on that one. Um, why might that matter specifically for strength? I'll see if you want to start. Yeah. I mean, ultimately it's just strength is something that, you know, even just going back to the first slide, thinking about the aspects of periodization, the aspects of phasic training, the aspects of, there are different components to training for strength. When you say that the studies are on average 10 weeks, and I think that it might be slightly upperly biased depending on the distribution. Um, I bet it's somewhere closer to like the mode might be like eight, if I recall. Uh, the median, I don't know if I have that top of mind, but yeah, I think a little bit lower to lower. So, you know, if you hear an eight to 10 week period, what does that immediately make you think of? It makes you think of a eight week powerlifting program. You're going to download off the internet to get you ready for your, to test your strength in eight weeks. And so it immediately kind of sets the constraints to be slightly different. Um, in the sense that the amount of muscle growth that you could accrue, the amount of work capacity that you could accrue, um, different potential adaptations, you could argue whether those are contributory to strength in the short term. But the point is, you don't have a ton of time to manifest other things outside of what's going to be immediately applicable to your maximal strength in the short term around the eight week window. And so that is just a fundamentally different problem. And if you think about that in practice, how people train for maximal strength in the eight week window, that is in direct opposition to the study characteristics that we just mentioned. And so that degree of, uh, non overlap in terms of the training variables and the duration of training that we're looking to target. That's just a really, really important consideration when we're interpreting these results. Yeah, totally. Next is the novelty of strength assessments. Okay. So a decent bit of the effects were from untrained individuals. And I'm trying to quickly pull it up here because I didn't jot it down. Um, do you have it at the top of the number of effects that were trained versus untrained? There we go. So about a little more than a little under half were untrained. Yeah. Does that sound right? Okay, cool. So a little under half were untrained individuals. That's an interesting math problem. Yeah. Um, also for the studies that included trained participants, the, um, a lot of the strength assessments were potentially novel to the individuals. Now, don't get me wrong. There were definitely some studies where they tested squat one or max strength and they were the inclusion criteria is they had to be able to squat, you know, 1.5 or 1.75 times their body weight. Um, and clearly in order to squat that amount of weight, you have to have squatted before, um, with, with rare exceptions, but you know, we did include isometric strength outcomes. We did include, uh, some isokinetic strength outcomes as well, which are basically just laboratory, some other laboratory techniques of measuring maximal strength. Um, and almost certainly folks were not practiced with those strength assessments. Okay. So at, I would say at minimum half of the strength assessments making up the dose response relationship come from novel strength assessments. So what does that mean practically or for our interpretation is that almost certainly a huge portion of the effects experienced by the participants on average was just from learning the strength assessment. We alluded to this before with the control groups, right? That smallest detectable effect size of 4% is big. And part of that reason is because you just get stronger from doing the strength assessment. You have some control groups that are reaching 20% strength gains purely from doing the assessment, which is not surprising to me. Like I would say if I didn't, like before I got involved with research, that would be surprising to me, but you do see pretty frequently that people just learn it really quickly during the assessment. Um, we've done a couple, uh, unrelated like acute studies. Um, and you know, never bench one or M before we did, uh, uh, biomarker study one time. And as they were doing the assessment, I swear you would have bet your, your life savings that we're not getting up, getting up another two and a half, five kilos. Yep. And six attempts later, you're like, what the heck just happened? Yeah. And it's just, it's crazy. It's crazy. Yeah. So I'm sure that the train folks, you know, if you put me or you on like a isometric knee extension, even though we don't regularly train that, you know, we, we, we train knee extension regularly. Therefore there's probably not insane learning effects, but I'm sure there's still going to be some, you get that with an exercise, you rotate in a training. I was, yeah, I was literally just going to say, if you've been flat benching for the last two years and you changed to incline bench, you'll probably be pretty dang strong at incline bench to start, but you're going to see much faster gains on incline bench than you are going to see on flat bench. I always think about it. Like there's an envelope. So like your, your, um, you know, let's say you're training flat bench for like a year, your capacity, when you come back to incline bench has definitely increased. So like your baseline strength on incline bench is definitely is going to increase as well, but there's like that initial envelope of proficiency that you're just going to skyrocket your ability to do incline bench in the first couple of weeks. And then it's going to be steady, steady, hard training from there for the most part. But yeah, it's just, I think even in trained individuals, that's a pretty meaningful component. Again, coming back to the intervention duration that we're looking at eight weeks is still around that time where some of that stuff can still be happening, particularly if you're only training it, you know, twice a week for high reps. And then lastly is the specificity of training, which we just went over with those descriptive training variables where, you know, these training variables that you see on the screen are not very representative of a power lifter. Some of them are fine, like rest periods, probably not a huge deal. Um, you know, two times per week, um, specific to the exercise tested. That's reasonable. Um, I'd say the volume is on the low end, but also like reasonable, but really the big ones are the reps per set and the proximity to failure. Most power lifters are not doing 78% of their training to failure and are not doing an average of 10 reps per set. Now, with all that said, there are big limitations here. That's not to say we can't get like anything from the, the meta analysis. Um, but we definitely need to keep these in mind. And ultimately what I think, especially with number one and number two on the screen here is these are going to make the strength gains. I would say like exaggerated and probably pretty equal across groups. So in other words, if I'm in a low volume, let's say Bozak and I are completely untrained and I'm in a low volume group, you're in a high volume group, like volume might help you a little bit if, if, if it does like from a principle perspective, but like, it's going to be pretty low down the list in terms of what's driving, um, any differences between the two of us. Um, so I think that's, that's worth keeping in mind and we will, um, discuss these limitations a little bit more, uh, later in the show. Anything to add on the limitations before we kind of quantify one of these limitations specifically? No. Okay, cool. So we mentioned that the specificity of training to the strength tests was not all that high and we kind of just showed the distribution of the main training variables a couple slides ago. Um, but we wanted to not only see that from a general perspective, but we also wanted to consider what the specificity of training was across the different dosages. Okay. Now, before I kick it over to Zach to explain this plot a little bit more and kind of really conceptualize what's going on, I will say that any study to be included had to have an even distribution of volume, right? So, um, we're not saying that the high volume groups just did a bunch of non-specific training while the low volume group in that same study just did specific training. It's a between study difference. It's a between study difference. So with that, Zach, I'll, I'll let you, uh, tackle this one. So one thing that's always interesting when, when we've done these projects, I think this is, this, this runs in line with the rep range narrative with the hybrid or not rep range, sorry, the rest interval narrative with hypertrophy is that, you know, having been in the lab, having run some of these studies, um, now you think of little like quirks of how studies could be designed that, that could potentially provide additional insights. And so one of the ones with the rest interval data with hypertrophy, I've mentioned a few times, the degree to which this is like something like hang your hat on. I'm not saying it's just an interesting kind of, uh, thought experiment more or less is like people have made the claim that shorter rest intervals are the only times that high volumes seem to be beneficial. But if you're the one that's planning the study and designing the study and thinking about the research staff that would need to be there for all the training sessions, there's probably some bias to say higher volume studies are probably going to trend to also have lower rest intervals so that you can have, uh, each participant having a reasonable session time so that they can train with the height of volumes in the first place. So you can get these kind of weird quirks that kind of occur, um, that, um, can, can further kind of add clarity or, uh, or maybe lack thereof sometimes, um, to the relationships that we're kind of trying to estimate in the first place. And so when we were kind of talking about this one, there was a few things that popped in our heads to look at a little bit closer with this. So put yourself in the position of somebody that's running a strength study, right? A volume strength study. Typically speaking, you're not going to have a CrossFit box with 12 squat racks, right? You're not going to have, um, you know, six ER racks all with, even just thinking about, um, the amount of plates that you have available for certain exercises. Those are all constraints that we're not pissing off the subjects. Yeah, exactly. You have, and you have to think about those things when you're planning a study to make a logistically feasible intervention to be able to test your hypothesis. So one thing we thought of was, Hey, for these higher volume interventions, it's almost certainly not going to be coming from the direct exercise you're testing purely due to these logistical constraints. If I have a study where I want to test high and low volumes and I have back squatting, like you said, it's typically going to be an even distribution within a study that's, that's controlled for, but you're probably not just going to have them only do squats. You're going to have, Hey, let's, let's distribute this workload across a couple of different exercises, if nothing less to have our two available squat racks being able to be distributed through the participants so that we can get these sessions done efficiently. So actually moving to this plot, that's exactly what we kind of took a look at. So on the X axis here, we have the volume that was given, uh, for a given effect. So, uh, all those effects that we had the, the dot plot, that's all conceptualized here. And I'll discuss what this is all saying in a second here on the X, we have the volume in which these effects occurred on the Y axis, we have something called composite specificity. So what we did is we took two measurements that are the kind of the primary aspects of specificity. Of course, there are more, but these are the two that we thought were going to be particularly informative here was we took the average training load, which in this case is quantified by the rep range and which participants trained versus the rep range that was tested. So if I'm testing a one RM, I'm looking at the rep range that I trained with relative to that one RM. So if I'm training with sets of three, that is considerably more specific than if I'm training with sets of 20. And so that's essentially what's quantified here. And you can see the distribution of the rep range tested is considerably lower than the rep range that was trained. That's the first thing. The second thing is the number of sets that were performed with the exercise that was tested. And so this is just utilizing our different volume quantification methods, the direct sets versus the total sets. And once again, you can see the number of sets that were performed with the direct exercise is considerably less than the total number of sets. And so when we take both of these measurements, turn them into kind of some ratios here at the bottom, and we just take the mean ratio there to kind of create this composite percentage of the specificity of training, you can see a very clear pattern emerges. At low volumes, the training is really, really specific. If I'm designing a study for squat one RM, squat one RMs are going to be in my program if I have a low, low volume intervention, or at least low reps, low reps, right. And so those, those interventions are characterized here at the top corner of the plot with 100% specificity or very close thereof. And these are just like, if you think about viewing a distribution from the top, that's what this plot is looking at. So right here, this, this really dense, dark orange component is like the peak of this distribution, you're viewing it from the top. And so you can see the data at low volumes are really tightly clustered up here at high specificity. And then we have a nice nonlinear curve, as volume increases, the specificity of training also decreases. And so the point of this is to demonstrate that this isn't necessarily an issue with the models, this isn't necessarily an issue with the way things were done, but it is an inherent limitation of the data set. And again, it comes back to the idea that meta analysis and meta regression in this case, is a descriptive process, all we have are the data that we can work with. And in this case, it's a data set in which increasing the volume is probably going to come with slightly less specific training, which is going to have some inherent limitations to how we end up generalizing this. When people think of volume for strength, they're probably not thinking about adding a bunch of sets of 10, even on the competition exercise, but let alone leg extensions, etc. Now, it's not to say that can't have benefits, we'll get into practical implications later. But that is an important constraint to think about, particularly in the intervention durations. Again, I keep coming back to that limitation, because in an eight week window, that non specific training is going to have different effects than maybe considering your entire training year. So this is a pretty important consideration that just underlines in a different way, the study characteristics that we already looked at. These interventions are relatively non specific. And the constraints of adding volumes within these studies is probably going to come from pretty non specific places, which is important to realize. Yeah. So let's, let's nail that point home by giving an example. Let's say that I'm, let's, let's start with a low volume example and a high volume example. Let's say I'm exploring the effects of like three fractional sets per week. So like a single set protocol versus eight sets per week. And I'm testing bench press one rep max. Basically what this plot is showing is that that'll probably all be bench press and it'll probably be pretty low rep training. And then what that means for the model is that you're going to have a within study slope that is quite positive because as our model suggests, there is a pretty strong effect of volume, especially when kind of, you know, at the, at the very start of that curve in a low volume range, like we're talking about here. So we're going to see a positive within study slope there. Okay. Is that fair for the low volume example? Cool. So now let's use another study example. And let's say, honestly, this is probably a hypertrophy study and we're, we happen to be taking one rep max strength at the end of it. So it would fit our inclusion criteria. Um, but we're comparing 15 weekly sets to 30 weekly sets. Okay. Basically what this plot is, is indicating is that if we're again, testing bench press one rep max strength, there's going to be some bench press training in there, but there's going to also be a lot of accessory training in there as well, right? Whatever it might be, machine chest press, trice, direct tricep training, uh, vertical pressing, that sort of thing. Okay. And it also seems again, this might just be because it's a, if it's a higher volume study, they're probably like kind of just hypertrophy studies that happen to measure, um, strength gains that it's also probably going to be higher rep training on average. So what that means for the model is from 15 to 30 sets, you're going to have a within study slope that is probably pretty flat. And again, the reason I'm suggesting it's probably pretty flat is because of what we see in the model that once you get to moderate to high volumes, the effect of, of strength of additional volume is pretty minimal. Okay. Um, and all that that's saying is that at higher volumes with lower specificity training, adding volume doesn't seem to enhance strength gains in the short term. That's different than saying that once you get to moderate to high volumes, that adding additional volume of the exercise you're going to test will or will not or the rep ranges or the rep range. And so the one, the one thing, you know, the listener may be asking is, you know, you could do a, you know, a moderator analysis where we're kind of looking at this as a, as an additional variable in the model. The issue is, is that to some degree you, you won't be able to tell whether that's an actual causal effect that's happening, or if that's just a constraint of the data set that just happens to be there. That's the, you know, and we can link out to our long discussion of moderator analyses, but the point of this is just generally to show again, which we already underlined with the study characteristics is that the training interventions are relatively not specific. And that tends to be the case, particularly with increasing volumes. That's again, not necessarily saying that the overall model is misrepresenting the underlying data. It's just that this is an important constraint of the data that we have to work with that needs to be taken into account. We're not going to apply this to practice because this is just simply not how people train the, again, doing a moderator with this is, is, you know, it's post hoc. It's something we just kind of came up with that the composite specificity metric. I think it's interesting, but it's not something I'm like super, super confident necessarily, but it does paint a, an important picture to kind of keep in mind. Yeah. And again, returning to one of our main themes that the meta analysis process is descriptive. This is another way of being descriptive, or I should say contextualizing what we're describing. Yeah. Right. Um, for hypertrophy, I tend to think that, you know, the training variables used on average are, you know, pretty solid. They map closer to what people do. Yeah. Um, and this is just important stuff to keep in mind before you say that strength plateaus at five sets. Like that's, that's really what it comes down to. Um, it's not to say that like some of the concepts that we, we see in these meta analyses, um, can't be extracted and used, um, as, you know, to, to, to, to inform, yeah, to inform principles. Um, but this is, yeah, contextualizing the, what we're actually describing, um, for better interpretation and, um, practical application. Okay. With that, let's get into the juicy question that a lot of people have been talking about. And there's been various viewpoints is, is what I would say. And let's put our cards on the table after going back and forth on this for more than six months now. And, uh, attempting to record this, not attempting to record the podcast, but scheduling the podcast, preparing for this podcast multiple times, some false starts, yada, yada. Let's get to the question of why do these curves disagree? These are both volume curves. One is hypertrophy, one is strength and man, high volumes are just so good for, for hypertrophy clearly. And high volumes are just so bad for strength clearly. Why? How is that possible? How's that possible? So let's discuss further this potential difference here. Okay. Um, I want to walk through a series of considerations here. Um, Zach, do you want to go through like some premises that are required to get to certain conclusions before we go through our thought process on the matter? Yeah, a hundred percent. So anytime these kinds of discussions come up, I think it's crucial to try to understand and really understand the arguments before you, you know, start to, to, to put your position or jump on one side of the fence. Right. And so that was one of the reasons we've waited on this podcast is just, we want to really, really understand both perspectives and, um, come at things again, trying to be as objective and as transparent as possible to say, what is the underlying data actually, um, suggesting. And so I think it is important to steel man, the, the kind of the claim that's being made so that we can evaluate it as objectively as possible. So the, the kind of this overall spirit of the argument goes something like this. And this is just, like I said, a series of four bullet points, and then an ultimate conclusion that follows from that. And then we'll kind of attack it from there. So looking at the, um, the visual here, this will kind of helpful to, to think about as I kind of describe this. So if I pivot this slightly, so the first is we observe a positive dose response relationship between weekly training volume and changes in muscle size, and that continues through high volumes. So a positive dose response relationship, even around 10 sets here, it continues to trend upwards, right? The second one is we do not observe a positive dose response relationship between a weekly training volume and changes in strength at high volumes. So they're getting at the point that things quote unquote plateau at this point, right around here, around 10 sets or so things peter out. There's no additional gains to be had is the claim three changes in muscle size that are due to increasing contractile protein content. So think the things like myosin act and the actual components of muscle that contract and produce force. Those correlate strongly with changes in strength or strength capacity. So if you are gaining muscle from contractile proteins, you're also going to be gaining strength. Those things trend together. Four, we do not observe a strong correlation between changes in muscle size and strength capacity at high volume. So that's what this red area is indicating. It's a, the correlation is decreasing because strength is flattening out while hypertrophy is still trending upwards. So the conclusion is thus those changes in muscle size at high volumes right here, or this area in the red, must be due to factors other than increasing the contractile protein content. And so there's multiple hypotheses that are out there. You'll touch on those in a second, but that's kind of the general idea. Hey, we see a really positive dose response relationship with hypertrophy, obviously, so it has diminishing returns. However, strength has much stronger diminishing returns. And that creates this kind of envelope or this window of hypertrophy that is not explained by strength gains, or at least that is the claim. And so that is kind of, to me, that's the best faith relationship of kind of the spirit of the confusion that has been in the community. Perfect. So that is like not unreasonable is what I would say. Not at all. Obviously, you can pick apart some of those premises that ultimately lead to the conclusion, but just like very high level, I totally understand why you would look at the curves and be like, oh man, like what's, what's the deal here? Why do the curves disagree? We need to explain this and buckle up because we're going to go on a ride and we're going to, we're going to walk you through how, how we think you should think about this. Cause it's ultimately what we've landed on up to this point. Okay. Before we even think about why these curves seem to disagree, I just want to get something off my chest. I think I speak for you to get it off our chest is like, this is not a new question at all. And it's just so wild to me that, um, this has become like such a big thing. It's because it's, it's been something that's been debated for a while. Zach, do you remember when the Leneke and Tabor papers are from, I want to say like 2018 or something like that? I can tell you in a second, but basically the, uh, and I think it was in sports medicine, there was a point count point counterpoint basically, uh, back and forth within the, the journal between, uh, Leneke and colleagues and Tabor and colleagues. So Leneke and colleagues had a paper titled exercise induced changes in muscle size do not contribute to exercise induced changes in muscle strength. Tabor and colleagues had a paper titled exercise induced myofibular hypertrophy is a contributory cause of gains in muscle strength. So opposite perspectives point counterpoint. I returned to those papers all the time. And one of the classes I teach, we have, uh, uh, an in-class discussion between the two papers and like, I always learn something new 2019. Okay, cool. Um, I always learn something new. So this is not a new question by any means. Folks have noticed that like it's, if you gain muscle size, if you experience hypertrophy, that's not necessary to gaining strength. So in other words, you can gain strength without gaining muscle size. Both sides of this argument agree with that. I also believe that both sides would agree that, um, it is muscle hypertrophy is not sufficient for strength gain. So in other words, you could have muscle hypertrophy, but not additional strength gain. Okay. The key word here is contributory. Basically what Tabor and colleagues argued for, um, is that hypertrophy is contributory. It's one thing that contributes to muscle strength gain. Okay. Here's the issue of why this is still an open question. And, you know, I think both sides still have like a fair case to make. And, and I, I don't even know if I identify with one side or the other. Um, I think they both make really good points. The issue is that it's very hard to study this. Okay. So if you resistance train, you're going to experience hypertrophy probably. If you resistance train, you're going to experience muscle strength probably. What's the independent variable here when asking whether hypertrophy contributes to strength, it's hypertrophy. We're not randomizing the hypertrophy. We're randomizing the resistance training. Okay. So there are various factors here that make it such that it's almost impossible to study this question, but most, I don't want to say impossible. It's hard to study the question. But most importantly, for our purposes here are, that was not the question of our meta analysis at all. We are not isolating the causal effect of hypertrophy on strength gain, but people look at the curves, see that they're different and say that therefore that additional hypertrophy is not contributing to strength gain. So therefore going back to your premises, that additional hypertrophy is non-contractile tissue and it must be explained some other way. Anything to add there? This is the most important thing. Yeah. No, it's, it's, it's so crucial and it seems really basic, but it is absolutely foundational. Like the reason we went so hard to explain like the within study slope components and all those kinds of things is that those, those, uh, trying to get those causal effects of something that you care about is, it's pretty challenging and you have to be really, really thorough about it. Um, it's not to say that our data set can't offer any inferences into the kind of this question. We'll touch on that a little bit, but it is absolutely crucial to note on the front end is that there are many, many explanations in an individual study that could make these relationships slightly divergent and still, uh, still compatible with the idea that hypertrophy is a contributory cause to strength. So think about that in an individual study. There are multiple reasons why we can gain muscle size and that has a contributory cause to strength, but that still isn't something we can totally isolate the causal effect of in an individual study. Now let's play that forward and aggregate a bunch of study data and try to do the same thing. Typically speaking, identifying these causal effects between studies is possible if you have some, some sophisticated techniques, but that takes a really, really, um, thorough look at, as you can see in this, in this, uh, it's called a directed acyclic graph. They highlight confounders that would potentially, um, have a cause towards hypertrophy and also strength that you would need to account for. And there are so many of those, but most importantly, we didn't set out to think about that graph. We didn't set out to think about those confounders. So the, we'll get into the reasons, but it's just important to realize that this project is not intended to answer this question. So when people go and compare the outcomes across one another, it's interesting, it's intuitive. I understand it, but there are just so many steps along the way that you could potentially fall prey due to these kinds of causal aspects of, of, of drawing these emphasis from, from different studies that that's tough to, um, do that too confidently. Yeah, I, I agree totally. So honestly, if, if you were to imagine, as I put some chicken scratch on the screen for you guys to, to follow along with, if you were to imagine hypertrophy about what we saw, that's not perfect, but bear with me. And let's say you imagine that strength kind of runs in parallel like this. I think that's what a lot of people that like follow those premises. And ultimately the conclusion you said would expect, right? Is that in order for this to be truly, um, contractile protein or protein, uh, sorry, hypertrophy, that is the result of additional contractile proteins, you'd have to see strength gains like this. When, when like peeling back the layers and thinking about when we first started this project, because we are aware of this stuff, we're not experts on this stuff, but we're, we're at least aware of it. I would have been very surprised if hypertrophy and strength followed similar dose response patterns, particularly given the RR meta. Yeah, exactly. Like this is not new, the load meta by any means. There's so many training variables you can point to where they diverge. So yeah, exactly. So point being is, and can you think of a variable off the top of your head where they do basically run in parallel? Like it's hard because we don't have great meta regressions on everything. And like, um, we just don't have a lot of data on some things, but yeah, I was going to say rest intervals, but I honestly don't know. Yeah. But the point is, is like, to me, this is more surprising than the fact that they're different. Yeah. So this is more surprising. Yeah. So I like, I don't think about the, think about the historical narrative too. So yeah, like that, that's the other thing I think about too, is like, think about Ralston, think about Schoenfeld. Obviously you're limited to the data you have at the time, but the, you know, everyone, like everyone's thought they're different for a while. Like I don't, I don't think it's surprising that they're different. And like, I also think like, just bear with me for one more second. Imagine that instead of following this, you know, strong diminishing returns, like, like we see, imagine that we kind of saw like an inverted U for strength. What would the narrative then be? That's interesting to think about. To me, I think a lot of people would just say that this is due to fatigue. Yeah. Right. And I also don't think that would have been that surprising to some people. So it is interesting how we like kind of just see things we don't, that don't jive with our, preconceived beliefs that are very narrow on a specific topic. And then we assume that something is wrong. So my blood pressure is a little bit higher than I want it to be. But I think the fundamental takeaway from this first graph is just like, to me, it's almost the null hypothesis that they're different. Exactly. Like that's, to me, that's the, that's the million dollar question is like based on previous research, but also based on the theoretical grounds of establishing the causal effect between these two variables, which is a really, really challenging process to do in individual studies, let alone between studies in a meta-analysis. The null hypothesis is that the curves will probably be slightly different due to the variety of things that kind of go into the, the bucket of strength, one of which we think is hypertrophy. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Um, and I guess just to put our cards on the table and this might be helpful for, uh, context going forward, it's like, we would probably identify a little bit more with this position. Is that fair to say? Because at least in my mind, it's a little bit easier to defend, uh, hypertrophy being one of many contributory factors for strength gain than to prove that, um, it does not contribute at all. But at the same time, I wouldn't say that there is like very clear, verifiable, repeatable evidence that it does contribute because it's so hard to study. This is a topic I have a lot of cognitive dissonance with, um, particularly because of some of the stuff in my dissertation that again, we'll talk about soon. Um, and I, I try to be cognizant of the fact that, like you said, to my knowledge, there isn't a really strong demonstration. You can show very strong correlations. You can show all these other things that kind of make me opt into that from a, um, absence of evidence perspective rather than like, there hasn't been anything that directly affirms the fact that hypertrophy is a contributory cause of strength. You obviously can make some pretty strong cases, but there also hasn't been anything like directly counters it. You know what I mean? Falsifies it either. So like you said, purely out of the idea that, man, it probably contributes in some way. I kind of lean in that direction, but I will say I am, I am trying to be intellectually honest and I'm considerably more open to the idea that, um, there could be a lot more going on than maybe I initially thought there. So yeah, strength, strength is complex. And we've, we've known that for a while is what it comes down to. Um, so honestly we could stop this segment right here and just say, Hey, this wasn't even, this wasn't even the research question. This is not even close to the design. Um, for looking at that question. So let's move on. But at the same time, like Zach said, there are some things that can kind of get the wheels turning and say, okay, all right, we have the data set. Let's, let's dive in. Let's see what we, let's see what we got. And let's, let's see what the data may or may not point towards, if that makes sense. And, and, and try to get a little bit more insight because you know, this is a, a data set we worked hard to get. Um, and even though it's not designed to answer the question, let's, let's see what we got. The next thing to keep in mind is that the data sets are fundamentally different. Okay. Um, so the term that we kind of landed on for this, or maybe it was Greg Knuckles when we were chatting with him about this topic in general. Um, but ultimately kind of, kind of what we figured would resonate the most is apples and oranges. So in other words, you're not comparing apples to apples in terms of the hypertrophy data from a given data set and the strength data from the same studies. You're comparing apples to oranges because there were about 66 total studies in the meta analysis and all of them had a strength assessment, but only a fraction of them had a hypertrophy assessment. Okay. It was around, um, a little more than half of the studies had a hypertrophy assessment. Okay. So keep that in mind when looking at the two dose response, uh, the two dose response relationships in isolation is like, we're, we're kind of looking at, uh, you know, just different data sets in general, because if you say, okay, we, this isn't even designed to causally look at the effect of hypertrophy on strength gain. So we're going to look at the, uh, the data we do have. Let's at minimum, look at matched studies. Okay. Because at least we can say, okay, if this study had a, uh, squat, one rep max strength assessment, and they measured vastus lateralis muscle thickness. Okay. Now we can at least get some insight and look at the general relationship between hypertrophy and strength assessments in those matched assessments, but notice how much this cuts down the data. If you were to look at just matched studies and just trained participants, which is this darker part of the, the gray bar here, it's eight studies for strength for trained participants. We had a lot more. It's like 30 something. Okay. So you're cutting down the data quite a bit overall in order to get to this question that, you know, we think that you're able to answer with the, the data set in general. Okay. Um, so I think that's important to just really make sure you understand is that, um, those data sets aren't looking at the, the relationship between hypertrophy and strength because they're ultimately different data sets. Anything to add there, Zach? Yeah, no, I mean, ultimately it's just, you know, you, you literally have to subset the data in this case to be able to like, even come at an angle of this question that we kind of already mentioned that is kind of starting from behind the eight ball here. And we're kind of trying to get the best look at this as we can, but ultimately it's just a massive limitation because any differences that we're seeing here purely just due to the subsetting could arise as opposed to some, uh, relationship between the actual, uh, the, some difference that we're actually trying to find, right? If we take a data set that we think shows one thing and then we subset it down to, I don't know what it was, like less than half, right? Um, purely because of that, we could see something different. Um, and obviously we want to try to, there's a reason our inclusion criteria was what it was. We think that's probably the best way to evaluate the overall dose response relationship for the given outcomes. But when you have to try to compare the two, we just have to go with the data that we have, but it is crucial to realize that that is a fraction of the data that that is available, right? And particularly, and there's a lot of studies and trained individuals that aren't even, um, able to be included, right? Yeah, exactly. And why is it a big deal that we're just taking a subset of the data and looking at the, uh, the potential relationship here or the potential reliability or agreement, which we'll get to in a bit is that it's important to keep in mind that a single observation is chaotic. So this is a basic demonstration of what's called a Galton board. Um, do a YouTube search for that. If you're interested, it's basically the point is, is that when you drop this ball from the top, it's most likely going to cluster around the middle of the distribution, which is the mean and the median, but a single observation is, is chaotic. So before you get all of the balls in the distribution, it's not going to look like a distribution, right? So any single observation is more likely to end up near the mean, but that's why you meta analyze because if we go back a ton to those individual level study slopes, it's the same idea. A single observation is chaotic. Of course, that's the study level, not a single observation of a given participant, but there's various layer layers of chaos, if you will. Okay. So in other words, you wouldn't necessarily expect that the subset of a data set would show the same thing as the entire data set because of just the very basic concept of the law of large numbers or, um, or normal distributions in general. Um, okay. Okay. Now, before we get into the subset of the paired hypertrophy and strength data that we pointed out, um, while acknowledging that, you know, now we're starting to talk about a distribution that probably isn't as fully formed because they're just less data. Let's like kind of take a mini step back and let's just think about whether the data disagree that much. Just, just take a step back and bear with me. Okay. Um, they both are positive. They both have positive dose response relationships. They both have diminishing returns, which means that as you get to higher and higher volumes, the marginal effect gets smaller and smaller. And also neither showed a clear inverted U, which I think surprised a lot of people such that there's not a point where additional volume actually leads to worse strength gains. So you, there's a point of doing too much. So just qualitatively from a high level, they're not that different. Or if you were to even look at what you see on the screen right now, which is just a basic forest plot of a categorical meta regression, which is the typical approach. I think a lot of people would look at this and be like, Oh, categorically, they both lean in the same direction. They agree. Therefore we can kind of assume that they run in parallel. Um, and this is like, this is what meta analysis up to this point really did. Right. It's kind of these categorical comparisons. So just directionally and also qualitatively from a high level, the fact that they're positive, they have diminishing returns, but not an inverted U man, it's just, I don't feel like they are fundamentally different, particularly given the null hypothesis, particularly given the null hypothesis. Tell me more about that. Just like we come in with the assumption that, um, they're going to be, they're going to be slightly different, um, in terms of like the strength maybe, but like in general, they kind of move in the same direction. You know, Ralston did find an effect. It was just smaller. And then the Schoenfeld meta analysis found an effect that was larger, very, very similar here. Um, it's, it's kind of, it's all telling the same story. It's just, now we have a visual that kind of tells that in a little more clarity. This is what we had before with, with Ralston and some of the strength and with Schoenfeld in terms of high perch. That's what I mean. That's the null. Yeah. We just have more, more clarity on what that might look like across varying levels of the dose across varying, um, volumes there. And there are also just different measurements, right? As a scientist, sure. You think about muscle growth, getting jacked, improving your physique. But as a scientist, you think about like the individual measurement method, right? That strength assessment, that method of using ultrasound to measure hypertrophy, right? And all of those are going to come with, uh, considerations and issues and, um, confounders. Okay. So it's like, it's just, when I take a step back, I, I personally don't feel like the data disagree that much personally. Um, here's another way to visualize it. Um, Zach, I'll let you take this one. Yeah. I think it's just, uh, it's just another look at kind of just qualitatively assessing, uh, the curves. And I think the, the distribution of outcomes is helpful for the kind of a, an upcoming slide that we have. But in general, again, just like visually describing things, obviously you have some, some scattered data, um, at really, really high effects at very low volumes, probably from untrained individuals for strength. But like you said, I like the way that you kind of summarize it in terms of generally positive diminishing returns. Um, there was one more thing you had. It made it sound really nice. No inverted you. Yeah. Those got to have it in threes. Got to have it in threes. Um, yeah. Generally positive diminishing returns and no clear sign of an inverted U. If you think about it from that perspective, they really aren't that much different. And considering the null hypothesis that the degree is going to be slightly different. Like you said, it's really all the same stuff that we've had. It's just with more clarity. Um, you know, additional data to, to have a little bit more confidence and then maybe presented in a way that's a little bit more intuitive to kind of grasp where they do diverge potentially. Um, but yeah, I, I think it's just another visual to kind of demonstrate that point, purely looking at the raw data. Um, but ultimately this is, do you have anything else to add there? No, I can tee up the next part. So at this point we've basically said, Hey, this data set isn't even there to assess the causal question. Um, and secondly, because of the apples to oranges consideration, AKA the lack of overlap or the lack of full overlap between hypertrophy and strength assessments, um, in terms of the studies that, that measure just one or both of them, it's just not really designed to look at the question, but let's still go a layer deeper and let's still grant you those things. Let's, let's just say that the data set is informative of the question and let's, let's subset the data, um, for whatever reason, cause, and, and just look at those matched effects. So just to make sure we're on the same page about the matched effects, basically what that means is saying going through each strength outcome and then saying, okay, for that study, was there a relevant hypertrophy measure? So if they measured bench press strength, did they have some sort of measurement of like pec hypertrophy or tricep hypertrophy? If so, then that effect, right? The effect for hypertrophy and the effect for strength would be paired or it would be matched. Okay. Again, this loses over 20 strength studies. Um, and also those 20 studies in trained individuals. Okay. So again, massive grain of salt. Um, and now we're starting to get into the point where like, we're really getting into more like science communicator hat on as opposed to scientists hat on, because as a scientist, my, our job is to represent the underlying data as, uh, objectively and transparently as possible based on the research question. Now we're making multiple, um, multiple compromises, if you will, to try to get some insight, um, and, and, and see what's there. So if you grant those things, here's ultimately what you see. And there's generally two ways that you can look at this. One is reliability and the other is agreement. So reliability is basically putting the effect of one outcome on the X axis and the effect of the other outcome on the Y axis and seeing what you got in terms of the, you know, basically as you see greater changes in hypertrophy, do you also see greater increases in strength? And then agreement is basically saying, okay, let's actually take the difference between the strength gain and the hypertrophy gain for that matched effect. And let's see if that changes across the dose. So basic example there is maybe at low volumes, you see a, you know, really big difference between strength gain and hypertrophy. Cause at this point you haven't gotten the lion's share of the benefit of hypertrophy, but as you get to higher volumes at this point, strength gains are maybe the same as the lower volume condition, um, or the lower volume example, but hypertrophy gains have caught up. So now the difference is lesser. Okay. So basically it's, uh, that's a way of looking at agreement here. So I've teed that up for you, Zach, and, um, I'll let you dive into the, the individual plots here for reliability and agreement. All right. Yeah. So before we get, you know, going here, I think it's again, just important to underline the assumptions that we're making to kind of get to here in the first place. First, we don't really have the, the, the data set or, um, what our approach was in terms to really, uh, isolate these causal effects from hypertrophy strength. And then we really had to slash down our data set to get to these matched effects, which again could introduce spurious relationships just inherently. But once we have these matched effects, what can we do with them? And so there's kind of two main things that we're looking at here is if the hypothesis that the underlying data between strength and hypertrophy outcomes are fundamentally not compatible with one another, we would expect two things. The first is that the correlation would be basically zero or negative non-existent suggesting that as we see greater changes in muscle size, we don't see, uh, greater changes in muscle strength. If you look at both of these correlations, that's not the case. It's clearly positive. The correlation isn't super strong, but as we see greater changes in muscle size, we also see greater changes in muscle strength, suggesting that the underlying data of our primary dose response curves, which obviously has a lot more other effects, is encapsulating this data that's showing a positive relationship between the changes in muscle size and changes in muscle strength. The next approach you could look at is actually comparing the magnitude of the differences between those two outcomes. On the left here, we have a more standard Bland-Altman plot, which is used to assess agreement with the average change between outcomes on the X and the difference between those outcomes on the Y. This plot is showing what's called proportional bias, which is just saying that as the average change is increasing, the difference between those two changes is getting a bit larger. This one is a little bit less intuitive in this context when we have an additional variable that we kind of want to categorize these differences by in the case of volume. So this is where I'm going to definitely give another hat tip to Greg, who's someone we, Greg Knuckles, that we've been discussing this topic with at length. This is very similar to the plot in his article, and this is just demonstrating that the difference between the two outcomes is relatively flat across the volume spectrum, suggesting that the curves run roughly in parallel with one another. We're mostly concerned with the underlying data that make up our primary dose response relationships. So the point of these curves is, or point of these plots is to say, we have our primary dose response curves that seemingly disagree, right? Those are based on much larger data sets than we have access to with only the matched effects. However, they represent the underlying data that do have a pretty decent relationship between the changes in muscle size and changes in muscle strength, suggesting that these two things are compatible. Now, the last thing I'll say is that these approaches and why I mentioned kind of the assumptions they get here, they're not the most sensitive thing in the world for my playing around with this. So I've simulated a ton of data, and you can have dose response curves that I've made to look exactly like the ones that we have in our main model, and they can still show outcomes in these plots that would be relatively unintuitive. And that's just representing the point that the data sets aren't necessarily designed to answer that question in the first place. But if you're going to hold our arms back, make us quantify this in some way, this would suggest that the dose response curves that we have are relatively compatible with the idea that changes in muscle strength, muscle size and muscle strength track in the same direction from that underlying data. Yeah. So this is interesting. And I think these plots, like it's a lot to take in, right? So just to kind of underscore the main thing that the viewer can conceptualize from these plots, so the ones on the top are two different methods of looking at reliability, like you said, very, very simply, you know, as muscle size, sorry, as hypertrophy increases, does strength also tend to increase in these matched effects? And the answer is generally, it points in that direction. So generally, yes. And then the one on the bottom right is basically saying that, hey, the difference between changes and outcomes isn't anything, isn't, there's not a crazy difference as you go from lower to higher volumes. So the difference between outcomes would literally be taking the percentage or the effect for strength. So think of it as like the percentage change in strength versus the percentage change in muscle size and just subtracting those. So the difference between the two, as you go from lower to higher volumes, there's not this massive change. So when you just look at the paired effects, you see that, okay, these things aren't totally divergent, and there's no clear like pattern indicating that these aren't compatible with each other. And the way that I conceptualize this is, is like you said, these are not sensitive methods of like looking at the dose response relationship. I'd even go as far as to say, and I'd be curious your thoughts on this. I'd even go as far as to say, like, this is a, an interesting check, but it's by no means providing like novel insight that we don't get from looking at the dose response curves. However, the key here is that this is just the paired, the matched effects, right? Because we couldn't add any more studies to this because there are no more studies with those matched effects, right? Peck hypertrophy, bench press strength, quad hypertrophy, quad strength. So these are nice checks, just to kind of confirm some of the points we made a little bit ago, that like, at the end of the day, the curves don't disagree that much is kind of the take home here. So that's the way that I've come to conceptualize the reliability and agreement plots here. Is that pretty fair? Yeah, a hundred percent. I think it's, I think it's a really good, like check, like you said, like a, a conceptual check to see like, Hey, we have these large data sets when we extract the, the, the data points or the matched effects that allow us to actually assess the underlying relationship between muscle size and muscle strength. Does this roughly track with our intuition? And I would say, yes, it does. Um, generally speaking, greater changes in muscle size trend positively with greater changes in muscle strength. And that's not like fundamentally or categorically different across volume levels, um, the difference between them. Um, so I think, like you said, I think it's, it's a, it's quick conceptual check to make sure that, um, you know, the underlying data is roughly tracking in line with what we would expect. But I think, like you said, from, from playing around with it a good amount and simulating some data, um, I don't think these are the most sensitive things in the world to detect, um, you know, minor differences in kind of the dose response relationships. Um, and I think it's perfectly compatible with our overall dose response curves. Um, when you layer on all the considerations that, um, we kind of have. So, so the last point of clarification I'd, I'd add is, okay, Josh and Zach just said, you know, the strength and hypertrophy data, they like kind of sort of run in parallel or, or, you know, the directionality is at least like kind of similar between, um, hypertrophy and strength in this subset of data. Does that mean that this subset of data has something fundamentally different than the whole data set? The answer is not necessarily, um, is at least my take. Um, it's just, this is the only way that we can do this check. Um, and doing a meta regression with just the subset of data is, is fine. Um, but it probably is limited because now the null is the fact that you have this reciprocal dose response model. What do you think? Yeah. I mean, it's, it's just tough to, to, um, it's, it's tough for me to justify going beyond this step. I view them kind of as, as different tools, right, is we have the entire body of literature for, um, volume and strength to best quantify that dose response relationship. But there's a secondary question to say, Hey, does the underlying data that makes up that or the effects contained within it, does that roughly track with hypertrophy? But because you have to subset the data so much now we're no longer able to put our best foot forward in terms of actually quantifying the dose response relationship. So to me, that would be kind of a, um, a less powerful way to do that. You're, you're simply losing a bunch of information in that subset of the studies. But this is obviously, like you said, it's the only way we can assess the, the question of whether these two things kind of track, um, under, underneath the surface, if that makes sense. And it's, and it's not like the paired data or the, the matched data, which we've kind of been using those interchangeably. It's not like those were designed to look at the contribution of hypertrophy to strength. So in other words, like, I think this agreement and reliability is, is yeah, like a nice quick check of these, you know, generally run in parallel. Do these, uh, change dramatically at different levels of volume in terms of the difference between the two outcomes? Okay. You know, not really, we can move on and kind of return to the main dose response models and then consider the context behind the data that it's describing. Again, returning to one of our themes that meta regression is describing the data we have access to. Um, and, and we'll return to that point here in a minute. The last thing before we, we move on is that just another, uh, like caution flag when looking at the plots you see on the screen right now is the pairing of the effects or the matching of the effects is kind of tough. Um, just as an example, like I mentioned squat strength and measuring the vastus lateralis muscle thickness, who's to say that that's like, we've had people squat in the lab where I'm like, that's a glute exercise. Um, or like some people squat and like, Oh wow, that's a amazing, uh, it's amazing quad, uh, hypertrophy movement for them. But the point is, is like, it's a, a very limited aspect of muscle hypertrophy. Some of the quad measurements, um, might be more relevant if it was a different vast eye muscle, or maybe, um, they measured rectus femoris, which, uh, might not contribute quite as much to squat strength. Or if you're measuring tricep muscle thickness for bench press, that's something we did match tricep muscle thickness and bench press strength. But you could make the argument to just do the primary force generator, which is the pack. So long story short, another caution flag, because these studies, these paired studies, um, that we've, uh, looked at reliability and agreement for are not necessarily designed to answer this question. Good. Yeah. All right. Um, so let's kind of zoom out here and quickly recap and then move into, um, what we think is the most important aspect. So again, our project was not designed to look at the causal effect of hypertrophy on strength gain. Um, and then if you just compare the dose response relationships, you're making a big mistake because they're, it's an apples to oranges comparison. They're different data sets. Um, in our view, the dose response relationships probably don't disagree quite as much as you think. And if you were to just look at those matched effects, you don't see that they're just like these overwhelmingly different adaptations. That's where we're at right now. Is that fair? Yep. Cool. Now what we think is probably the most important is that the strength data has specific limitations that are likely to exaggerate the diminishing returns. Okay. What I mean by exaggerate the diminishing returns is that we see what looks like a plateau. Again, it's still generally positive for a while. Um, in fact, throughout the entire dose response relationship, but it does, you know, really taper off quite a bit. We think those are probably exaggerated from the true dose response relationship. A lot of people would experience in practice. Again, science communicator hat on, not scientist hat on right now. Okay. Um, and that's for a few reasons. The first is a repeat and really all of these are going to be repeats, but hopefully we're putting it all together right now. Um, the first is that the timescale probably matters more for strength than it does for hypertrophy. So this is, um, basically looking at the, um, effect on the Y axis here of leg press strength. And then on the X axis is time in weeks. This was a really long study from steel and colleagues. Um, it was a low volume training protocol. Um, and I believe untrained individuals. So I think so, or at least a minimal training experience, like not super advanced folks. But what I want to point out here is the fact that at the very start of an intervention, you see the largest effects, right? So that's basically what you're seeing here. And then this is zoomed in on the first 12 weeks. You even see that within a 12 week study, which is more representative of our data set. Basically what you're seeing here is really strong learning effects early on in the intervention. Okay. This also aligns with our lab experience. Like you were saying before, sometimes people get stronger from set to set, even though there's probably muscular fatigue just because they're learning the movement. Okay. Um, another one is the fact that there is novel strength assessments, right? So we just explained why study duration is a limitation and why that probably matters more for strength just because of those really strong learning effects. The second is the novelty of the strength assessments. As we mentioned before, even for trained individuals, uh, this probably still applies such that, you know, even a trained person learning a new strength assessment is going to have pretty big learning effects. Um, the specific specificity of training, which we dove into in terms of the composite specificity there. Um, and then a couple other things we haven't mentioned up to this point is the potential impact of fatigue. And I think this is one that I'm definitely not going to like, you know, put my money on if you will, but it is very possible that fatigue is kind of blunting the strength effects and ultimately the strength that can be expressed from high volume resistance training. Um, a lot of people have experienced overreaching in training and, um, some definitions of overreaching include a decrease in performance. I don't know about you, but I feel like I've gotten to that before where like you, you train hard enough, you train hard enough for long enough, you kind of see a dip in performance. Um, with that said, what I, you know, say that fatigue is a big reason why, uh, we don't see the diminishing returns, uh, like less diminishing returns. Um, no, I think that, you know, taking a few days off is probably a sufficient taper if you will, but do keep in mind that a lot of strength athletes taper for about a week. And, um, it's also possible that the effects of fatigue are greater at higher volumes. So that's just one to consider. Another thing to consider is just that skeletal muscle is complex. There's a lot going on. It's not just the contractile elements connected to a tendon that, you know, produce force and then ultimately lead to, um, you know, changes in joint angle and strength expression. Okay. There's a little bit more going on under the hood. So, um, again, uh, we'll, we'll mention Greg Knuckles again, because we've talked about this quite a bit, um, with him talked about this topic just in general with him quite a bit. And something that he pointed out in his, uh, recent article is, uh, what's called connective tissue de-adhesion. Okay. So check out his article if you want to dive into that a little bit. Um, and my interpretation of the article is not that he's, you know, putting a stake in the ground and like, this is the reason why the, why the, the dose response relationships aren't the exact same, but he's saying, this is an example of an adaptation that is divergent from high volume that might be divergent from high volume training. That's like moderate reps and mostly to failure. So hard fatiguing training, there are some things that could potentially blunt strength while hypertrophy continues to increase at higher volumes. Rate of force development is another one I think of more so, you know, from the perspective of the proximity to failure stuff. Um, yeah, to my knowledge, all of those things would harm rate of force development, particularly in the earlier phases that would potentially improve or have some, uh, route to improve strength. Whereas for a birch phase is relevant. Yeah. Um, so yeah, there's just multiple candidates there for sure. So again, we're kind of explaining at this point, why we think the diminishing returns for strength are potentially exaggerated. So in other words, the plateau happens earlier than it might actually in practice. Another angle to consider is whether the diminishing returns for hypertrophy are understated, right? So basically in other words, the dose response relationship, isn't quite as strong for hypertrophy, uh, than what we saw in our meta-analysis, which I also think is very possible and would also lean to these result in these adaptations in a practical application being a little bit more similar than what we see from the research. Um, so I'll cover the part on the right and then Zach, I'll kick it to you to cover the part on the left. And I'm not going to repeat myself too much because if you want a little bit of a deeper dive in terms of swelling and sarcoplasmic hypertrophy, check out season one, episode two, we do a bit of a deeper dive into that. Um, but it is possible that there is some stuff going on under the hood in terms of this starting muscle fiber growing in terms of just the overall cross-sectional area or the muscle thickness, right? What's going on under the hood could not be myofibrillar hypertrophy. So one possibility of sarcoplasmic hypertrophy, um, honestly, sarcoplasmic hypertrophy, we don't know whether it actually exists. First of all, second of all, we don't know whether different training styles influence the degree to which it happens, but it is a possibility. Another possibility is swelling. So on the left-hand side here, these are completely untrained people doing very dramatic, maximal eccentric training. And what you see is, so this is the muscle thickness to start. This is the muscle thickness of day five. I believe it peaked around three to six days after on average, but you can see that echo intensity is much higher. And basically like this person didn't grow all that muscle. And just from looking at a lot of ultrasounds, that's a big increase in muscle thickness right there. And also, uh, this is probably like on the verge of muscle injury, but point being is that swelling can occur. But again, this is maximal eccentric training in completely novel individuals, but we do see the repeated bout effect occur quite a bit. So, um, if memory serves, this is from a given training intervention. Okay. And we see upper arm circumference, which is a rough proxy for the swelling because in untrained folks have them do resistance training, their upper arm circumference increases over the course of days. That's probably not hypertrophy. It's probably swelling. So we do see that it's possible for swelling to occur, right? This is almost certainly swelling. Okay. But just by doing the same intervention four weeks later, we see this reduction in swelling. Okay. So we do still see some swelling, but this is literally one bout of training. Then four weeks later between the two. And then you see that reduction in swelling. Imagine what happens over the course of a 10 week training program. So ultimately my position is we don't know whether sarcoplasmic hypertrophy and or swelling is leading to the diminishing returns for hypertrophy being understated. I think there's enough evidence. And again, we discussed this in season two, episode one, if you want to go back that I don't think it's a huge effect at moderate volumes. When I say moderate, I'm thinking up to like 15 cents per week or so. Once you get above there, I'm like, ah, I just don't know. We just don't have really any data. And the data that we do have just isn't all that conclusive by any means. So all of that is to say that it's possible. And our perspective is that there's probably some factors leading to the diminishing returns being overstated in the strength data. And there might even be some factors leading to the diminishing returns for hypertrophy being understated. So that would kind of bring the curves a little bit closer together, make them run closer in parallel and might align a little bit more with what people expect. Morning. Anything to add? No. Cool. All right. That was a lot. So I'm going to summarize our kind of argument, let you not argument, our perspective, our thought process. Again, we're not pro high volume, pro low volume necessarily, just trying to represent the data the best we can, then factor in the context of the data. So I'll summarize and then I'll, I'll kick it to you, Zach. So to start again, the research question was not the relationship between hypertrophy and strength gains directly. So whether additional hypertrophy is leading to additional strength gain and the nature of those adaptations. But if you do want to use our data for insights, that's totally fine. Just keep in mind that it's apples and oranges. They're different data sets just because some studies didn't measure hypertrophy. Now, if you say, okay, there are different data sets. I understand this isn't really the research question. We would say, do they really disagree that much? Like when you, however, we don't really think that's the best way to get insights in the question. If you want to get insights to the question of why the curves ultimately just seem to disagree. And instead we think the curves disagree because of specific limitations that probably are resulting in exaggerated, exaggerated diminishing returns for strength, right? Things like the specificity of the training, things like the timescale of the intervention that are kind of flattening out that curve. Whereas we might think it's, it's not as flat as early as it is in the data. And there are also possibilities for why the hypertrophy curve should really be more flattened out than it is because of things like swelling and sarcoplasmic hypertrophy that we just don't know a ton about. So ultimately our view is that the dose response relationships between volume and hypertrophy and volume and strength are compatible with the idea that as someone gains muscle, they also gain strength. So in other words, muscle growth is contributing to additional strength gain, even at those higher volumes. So just because you see one's flat and the other isn't for the reasons we just spent a bunch of time going through, we don't necessarily think that that is something that isn't compatible with the data. But at the same time, we just don't know for sure what the data set, because that's not what the data set is designed to answer. That was absolutely beautifully put. Cool. All right. With that, this is when, when Zach made this thing, I've never seen someone be so happy. So giddy is the correct word. I think giddy is definitely the correct word. Yeah. I just think this is a cool, cool metaphor. I didn't put, I didn't put both kind of components into it to kind of visualize what's happening, but I kind of just view this is like what's occurring in the behind a lot of research in general. Meta-analysis was just an easy example. And it's just like this thing I call the variance demon that's pulling on all these individual effect sizes away from the known truth using the kind of the marionette hands as kind of an analogy. And I think that's just a really good metaphor to kind of keep in mind when you're interpreting lots of things, lots of studies, subsets of studies, moderator analyses, individual studies, precision, and pretty much anything you can think about with respect to interpreting research. I think that's just like an important metaphor to keep in mind. And I think it is particularly relevant on just how to responsibly apply metascience in general. And part of responsibly interpreting metascience is to again, return to this theme is to keep in mind that meta regression is. Meta analysis in general, meta analysis in general, it is an approximate description of the data we have, not a precise prescriptor of what to do. And maybe it's helpful to think of it as to think of a different area because our heads are so like, we're so in the weeds with, with strength and hypertrophy right now. Let's think about, um, changes in, in lean body mass as a result of, uh, increasing protein intake. This is a meta regression from Nunez and colleagues from 2022. And I just think this is an interesting thought experiment because the best fit in this case is linear, right? And that's interesting, right? We see that across the range of, um, protein intakes all the way. It looks like the highest effect is above four grams per kilogram per day. I weigh about a hundred kilograms. So that would be over 400 grams of protein a day. That would be crazy. Um, we see a linear effect. Of course, you know, the, the confidence intervals are super wide at that point. So that's obviously don't go eat four grams per kg, please. Um, but the point is, is that that's not really how you would prescribe protein in the sense that, Hey, more is better. Get as much in as you can. Right. Whereas I think if someone saw a linear effect or even like the, the degree of diminishing returns we have for the hypertrophy meta regression, someone could say, Hey, more is better. Do as much as you can. So think about it that way in the sense that just like this protein and no one, no one is actually going to conceptualize that. Like it's a linear effect, right? Because there are other considerations happens that you should probably eat the other two macro nutrients as well. Right. Um, and I think that this might be a hopeful thought experiment. I know it is for me to just think about like, we shouldn't be trying to extract exact numbers because in this case, the exact number of before it would be 400 grams of protein for me. Whereas people look at the, the, uh, strength meta regression and they say, okay, the number is five sets per week. Don't do that. Right. And hopefully we've made that clear up to this point. Um, another thing to keep in mind in terms of avoiding these hyper specific conclusions is that these data sets are not the final say by any means. The model is wrong. I guarantee the models plural are wrong. I guarantee you that they will change with more data and that's okay. Right. Um, maybe there are improved statistical methods that, um, like develop or the field evolves in that area as well. These, these are not the final word by any mean, and that is totally okay. Um, there's always going to be more questions than answers. And ultimately, hopefully we've made it clear. The goal is to extract principles and not prescriptions. Yeah. I think ultimately, um, like the point of both the approximate descriptors and not precise predictors, and then ultimately not making hyper specific, um, conclusions is just that you can take a linear meta regression on protein, the, the, the root model from the hypertrophy meta regression, meta regression on volume, the reciprocal model from the strength, that you can, you can get a specific number from it, but I view those much more as kind of conceptual anchors rather than exact numbers that kind of take into the gym. Obviously the numbers, they matter and they apply to some degree, but they are derived from the manifestations of the studies that are included in the meta analysis. So you have to consider the, you know, the length of the studies that the exercise selection, the training quality, the specificity of training, particularly for strength, all of these considerations that we've already talked about, but the numbers are specific manifestations from those data sets. So when we talk about a linear effective protein or a diminishing returns relationship for hypersphere strength, that's the way that we apply it as coaches. And that's the way we think about things conceptually as you have this entire backdrop of external environment variables, preferences, et cetera, when you actually go to apply these things. And that is just one factor of understanding that rough overall shape of these relationships to say, okay, out of all the changes I can make to a training program, they can help me kind of weigh those decisions to some degree and think about what direction I should take them given what I'm seeing in an individual's, um, given case. So if I'm looking to optimize my gains in lean body mass, which aren't the same thing as hypertrophy necessarily, but let's just say that that's the case for, from based on the new year as meta regression, probably going to lean on the side of greater protein intakes and thinking that's a relatively consistent effect throughout. At least I'm not sure if they looked at nonlinear models, but you know, just, just taking that as the case, it's not deriving the exact specific recommendation. Like you said, at the very top end of the data range and saying, that's not the best protein intake. That's not, that's not the way to responsibly apply those things because those exact numbers are manifestations of the data that was included in which your exact context could be entirely different. The principles are our best guess on what generalizes, but at the same time, the exact numbers, the exact prescriptions are probably less helpful in that regard because of so many of the different underlying factors are just fundamentally different in practice in, in, in the populations that we typically communicate these things to. Yeah. I think a good example of this is like we had seven or eight or six, whatever different model types that were potential were ones that we explored for potential best fit models. Um, of course there, the data will give you constraints in terms of what you can actually like get from one of those models. But just as a basic example, let's say that for whatever reason, the reciprocal model, which is what ended up being the best fit, um, for the, the dose response for strength was not one that we, we explored probably the best fit would have been like some sort of logarithmic curve, which probably wouldn't have shown this like clear plateau. Right. So that's just an example of we, we really value, like I I've learned a lot from like practical things from this project, probably more than any other project that I've read or been a part of, but at the same time, I don't extract five sets from that. Right. I don't extract five sets as the optimal volume from that because I know, um, how like humbling a lot of these things can be and how there's kind of like, uh, I'll steal this word from you, kind of like a multiverse of decisions that can be made at all the different steps of the process. Right. And that's why, again, like, I just don't think the curves differ that much between hypertrophy and strength. I don't take it too literally that there's this plateau at five sets. Instead, the principle is, man, maybe in the short term, specificity is really important for strength and man, the dose response between, uh, you know, frequency and strength in a similar subset of studies. That one's a little bit stronger. Maybe I need to kind of reconceptualize my troubleshooting process when I'm thinking about, uh, breaking through a plateau for a power lifter. Right. Um, well also keeping in mind again, all of the limitations about like, like basically the limitations are baked into those principles. Um, so I hope this was helpful for folks. Um, and I hope this adds some clarity and less confusion about how to conceptualize the strength dose response. Cause I think this one has definitely caused the most confusion or the most controversy when in a lot of ways I don't think it's necessary. I think we're trying to like over explain something that isn't all that, uh, all that big of a deal in a lot of ways. Cool. Um, anything to add before we move on to a practical application? I don't think so. Cool. All right. Um, now for the stuff where definitely science communicator had on and even coach hat where, you know, we can bake in experience quite a bit in terms of just saying, Hey, this is what the data says. This is what, um, I've experienced. And this is what I do practically. Um, but our job now is not necessarily to say like, Hey, this is the most objective and transparent way to look at the underlying data, but instead, okay, take those principles, factor in all the practical things. Where do you land? Um, I know that you have like returned quite a bit to just like some higher level principles about specificity. Um, and it kind of being something that you have reflected on not only in the strength data, but also in other data sets as well. So I'm curious your thoughts about just like high level principles about how it's impacted, how you view programming and coaching. Yeah. I mean, as far as, um, looking at basically all the research that we have in terms of principles for strength, I think specificity essentially shows up at every corner. Um, I think everybody knows specificity is important, but I don't know. I expect that it to be to the degree that it is. Um, and I think there are areas in practice that have been explored that haven't been explored in the research, um, that just further shine that light to be the case even more. Um, so whether you're looking at volume, frequency, proximity to failure, load, exercise selection, any of those variables, whether they're meta-analyzed or individual studies, whatever the kind of the highest tier level evidence that we have, I think every single one of those variables, if you think about it, kind of on a principle-based perspective, kind of leans in favor of trying to essentially accumulate as many maximal force, uh, um, contractions as you can. So just briefly going one by one, you think about load. If you're training for a one rep max, the closer to a one rep max you're, you're training with, those are going to be higher forces that you're ultimately producing, which are more similar to the maximal force one rep that you're performing for your strength assessment. For frequency, you're essentially saying, I want to split up the amount of work that I'm doing so that the performance for any given set that I'm doing is higher, which inherently comes with greater force production, which again is, is more in line. Volume, um, initially, obviously you have to do some contractions to be able to produce high force contractions, but after a certain point that may start to take away to some degree in the short term, how many truly high force contractions you can do. If I'm doing a ton of training volume that might in the short term, not allow me to have as much performance under the curve. That may be offset by the fact that that has some positive effects, but in the short term, maybe that's not the best strategy. Approximative failure. If you put a given load on the bar, the closer to failure that you go, the more I am going to be dropping my force production throughout that set. And that also probably has greater implications on the rest of my session and the rest of my training block in terms of the fatigue that may be accumulating, which is going to be less overall force production in that block. So you can basically pick out any single one of these training variables. And from my perspective, that's the story that comes out through dramatically. And then further, when you take all of those principles and put them in the real world, I think every single one of those is also coming through. And whether you look at Louie Simmons, we got a comment recently that someone mentioned that I didn't give enough love to Louie Simmons. Anyone that listens to the podcast regularly, I try to make it clear that Louie Simmons had a lot of these principles that we use from modern kind of strength programming down early with kind of a different way of application. But you have your heavy singles, your top sets from the max effort method. You have your kind of lower velocity loss back offsets from the dynamic effort method. You have the training close to failure for hypertrophy from the repeated effort method. And then you also have trying to really specifically isolate the strength limiter or the area of the weakest link for a given lifter to make their total progress the fastest and the shortest amount of time with his exercise selection and the rotation of the variations and all the things that he did. So I think these principles have been kind of distilled. And you look further into today, modern powerlifting is trying to essentially maximize the specificity over the course of a, over the course of a calendar year in different ways. And specificity doesn't just mean the training that you're doing. It also could mean the adaptations that you're trying to seek. So long story short, I think if you zoom out and look at the research from a high, very high level and take the considerations and limitations on board, like you mentioned, I think that's really the, the, the story that it paints to me is that specificity is king. Everyone knows that, but I think it really, really is the case and can be thought of on deeper levels as kind of that primary principle we can use to kind of derive our decision-making in a lot of different ways. So, yeah. And then in the case of volume you could make the case that like excessive volume could take away from variables that permit greater, um, specificity, you know, so, um, volume is probably the, one of the bigger, potentially the biggest lever to just bury yourself in fatigue. And if it's making it really hard to recover for the next session, you're not able to express as much force output and perform as well for training. It's probably going to cause issues for, um, your ability to train specifically for the next session. So I would say my observation is like when people go extreme with powerlifting training these days, they don't really go extreme with volume. They tend to go extreme with frequency. Um, is that a fair observation? Um, I think you can crank up the volume, but, um, at least right now, as of recording, there's kind of a trend towards higher frequency. It seems, I do think that squares somewhat with the data. Um, and that kind of leads me to the way that I've kind of reconceptualized dosage specifically for strength athletes. Um, I would say before I probably conflated, like basically direct and indirect sets quite a bit. So what I mean by that is if I'm thinking of someone's deadlift training, I would not only think of their deadlift sets, their close variations, but I'd also probably layer in like their hamstring and their, their glute training, um, or potentially, uh, training for the spinal erectors. Um, I would say that for the reasons we've, we've discussed and, and understanding the role of specificity, I would probably split that up into two these days. Um, and I would think of it as specific dosage. So that would be basically the sets per week with the main movement or a close variation and then non-specific dosage. So it'd be sets per week to build the musculature, um, that is contributing to the main movement. Um, so it'd be basically what people would think of as their accessory work. Um, and the way that I think about it is that non-specific dosage is going to have, I would just have minimal expectations of this enhancing short-term strength development is the way that I would think about it. It enhances capacity of non-expression. It enhances capacity and not necessarily expression. And in these short-term strength studies, we're really looking at expression more than capacity. Um, or at the very least, because of all of those factors that we mentioned before, the study duration, the novelty of the strength assessments, the low specificity of training, um, potentially fatigue as well. Those are all things that basically just move volume down the list over the course of a 10 week study in terms of what you should prioritize and what's going to be the difference between me gaining 12 and a half kilos on my deadlift and you gain seven and a half kilos on your deadlift or vice versa, right? Volume is probably gonna be really low on the list in terms of what's describing that, especially the non-specific dosage because specificity is so important, especially in the short term. Um, and then this is a little bit beyond the exact discussion we're having right now about just volume for strength. But when we combine the volume for strength stuff, um, when we combine it with the frequency for strength meta-analysis and also the per session volume meta-analysis that we've done, we have a full podcast on the, the, the frequency for strength one. We don't have a podcast yet for per session volume on strength, but when I, I kind of triangulate all of those personally, I think that kind of your specific exposures. So basically the number of days per week that you're doing the main lift or close variation is a primary input to manipulate in practice. So before I might've thought of it more in terms of volume, right? So, okay, if I'm going to make a change, if I'm going to dial things up, I'll go from 12 to 18 sets per week. That's A-50% change. Whereas now if you're going from 12 to 18 sets, um, but you're staying at a two times per week frequency, I probably have lower expectations that that's going to move the needle a ton for strength. I think it might increase strength capacity. Um, but I also think it might have some negative effects on short-term strength expression. Um, and I think in terms of short to moderate term strength development and expression, I think the specific exposures and keeping those specific exposures within pretty narrow bands of per session volume is kind of the way that I think about hypertrophy or sorry, strength training these days is really the, one of the main dials I'm playing with a, from like a volume and frequency perspective is just the number of those specific exposures. So the number of days per week you're doing the squat bench or deadlift or a close variation and less of an emphasis on total weekly volume. In a way, I think that is kind of volume in disguise is the way that I'm kind of conceptualizing it. If you consider the quality of those exposures and that, and when you say in disguise, that wouldn't show up in our analysis. Correct. Correct. It's essentially saying the effect of frequency to me in a roundabout way kind of is volume. If you say that the quality of the exposure determines whether it counts or not. So let's say I had six sets of squats, right? That's six sets of squats. But if I split those up into two sessions now, and that first set now exceeds some sort of, you know, threshold of performance that's relevant, that's really specific, high enough force, et cetera. Now I have two of those exposures that count towards this, this really specific performance instead of just one, because the fatigue within the session of doing six sets of squats makes those later sets. They, they obviously contribute to some degree, but maybe substantially less. So, that's exactly how I kind of think about it too, is like, all right, we have this bucket of work. This bucket of work is going to provide stimulus for strength expression via multiple routes, neuromuscular adaptations, just sheer number of repetitions for practice. It's going to provide some stimuli for the actual strength capacity, muscle size, other adaptations, work capacity, et cetera. It's going to provide some fatigue. And then that's all going to play out into the performance dynamics that you need to manipulate on what's the goal right now. Are we trying to optimize our ability to express our strength capacity, or we're trying to optimize our ability to develop the capacity to later then express it? And I think that has pretty meaningful implications on how you would set things up and the quality of the work that you're ultimately going to do. But yeah, I think, I think fundamentally the, the, the frequency analysis to me is kind of indicating that quality matters for strength. And I think that's true. And I think the potentially the more aggressive diminishing returns than, than expected for strength is because the quote unquote quality or the specificity of that training is so low that, you know, the, the positive stimuli that you're going to gain from it after a certain point is going to be kind of washed out. Um, whereas frequency may preserve that to some degree. So what do you think about now? Like we're outside of the bands of what the data can describe, because I want you to think about someone that's interested in long-term strength development, which I think should be your focus. Um, are you doing periods of really piling on the volume? For long-term development. Pure, purely if I'm, if I'm anecdotally talking about this again, scientists had off just totally, totally saying that I think so. Like I think ultimately, um, the way that I think about training these days is, and we've talked about this, but it's essentially entirely input based. And so I'm trying to set up a training program for an individual to maximize the inputs that I think drive the adaptation that we need right now. And so for a large majority of the year, when we're trying to develop strength capacity, I think there's kind of two primary inputs there. The main one is just the amount of hard quality work that you can get in, in the relevant areas that will increase the strength capacity. So that's basically your kind of standard hypertrophy block. So you think about the types of training that are going to maximize hypertrophy, probably going to be higher on the volume spectrum, probably going to be higher on the proximity to failure spectrum might be manipulating some other variables to make you be able to tolerate some more work, slightly higher repetition ranges, slightly less specific exercise selection, et cetera. Um, you might need to do an occasional phase where you're trying to get in shape kind of to tolerate those, those, those workloads. But in general, yeah, an offseason to me is you're essentially trying to push yourself to perform as much quality work over that given time period, which isn't the same thing as maximizing your weekly set volume, that maximizing the volume completed with a high quality over this, a six month period may result in you doing moderate volumes for the entire time period, as opposed to doing the 52 week, uh, 52 set experiment for four weeks and then burning out. Um, but yeah, I think periodization to me is very strongly indicated, um, from, from practical experience, but also kind of the way that I conceptualize the data. And then when you kind of shift into that strength expression mode, the goalposts kind of shifts to, Hey, this is about performance. Now we want to have maintenance of the adaptations that we built. So you're still going to have some quote unquote hypertrophy work, capacity work, et cetera, to maintain those adaptations as best you can maintain the size of your engine, but then you're trying to manipulate the training to drive the car as fast as you can. And I think purely from the data perspective, I think that makes sense from my conception of the data, if you view it conceptually, but I also think if you layer on practical, um, experience and, and what high level lifters have been doing for a long time and what they do today, I think all those things kind of track in line with one another. Yeah. Um, and yeah, I think it's really just about shifting that bias slightly to kind of maintain a given adaptation and then trying to maximize it once it's time to do so. So it sounds to me, and at this point in the podcast, I have free reign to just start scribbling. So you can follow along on the screen if you'd like. So if I just roughly draw, uh, that's a little too much. Something like that for hypertrophy. Uh, gosh, I keep screwing myself over because the effects for strength are greater, but let's just focus on the shape, right? Let's say it's something like that. Sure. It sounds to me like that makes it fair with me. I kind of want to show this isn't perfectly accurate, but hopefully it gets my point across because it shows this area here between the two. It sounds to me like you kind of almost, you conceptualize it as like this purple line between the two in the sense that during some periods you're going to bias towards the hypertrophy line. And in some periods you're going to bias towards the strength line because this allows you, so lower volumes allow you to potentially, um, prioritize variables that maximize specificity in the short term. Exactly. Is that, is that fair characterization? I think so. Yeah. That's the way that I think about it is kind of a power lifters line in my opinion is like the middle because you're going to have periods again, this, um, orange line, 10.42 weeks, right? Keep that in mind because if you buy into hypertrophy contributing to strength again, even in those 10.42, 10.42 week studies, um, the data is still compatible with hypertrophy contributing to strength as we pointed out. But we would expect that that contribution would be quite a bit more over longer time durations. Which is why the correlation is not super strong. Right. But it's there. So what that leads to is basically just a shifting of emphasis and ultimately a decent bit of periodization in my view, nothing dramatic, right? And the way that I view it is like, okay, far out from competition. Competition, I can't, I I'm trying to build this athlete up, right? If this athlete is a hundred nine has a, uh, let's say they're 200 pounds at, um, you know, 20% body fat or so. If they want to like level up as a lifter, let's say they're in year two of training, they want to level up as a lifter. They're going to have at 20% body fat. They're going to have to weigh more. They're going to have to increase their lean body mass. So I'm going to lean into training that I know is going to build them up. Right. Um, when I'm thinking about long-term development at the same time, I know specificity matters in terms of their sport, if they're a power lifter. So I'm going to do that to the point where they can still get decently high quality training with the main lifts. And when I say quality, that means fresh enough going into the session session to perform pretty dang well. Um, and the training is split up across the week in such a way that they can maintain good quality over like within the session. Right. So they're not doing 12 sets of squats because by the time you get to set 12, it's like, all right, what are we really doing for practice purposes? Um, and skill development purposes. So you, you basically have enough to maintain decent quality. And then if they're eight weeks out from a competition, now I'm starting to think about, okay, we can only do so much in terms of build this athlete up. Um, we're not going to fundamentally change their body composition. I'm probably still investing a little bit in that. We want to at least maintain their adaptations, but now I'm going to really make sure that that specificity component is, is maximized, um, in a way that they can tolerate. And often that looks like just a slight shifting of the dial between these key variables of volume, proximity to failure, frequency to some degree, and, um, to some degree exercise selection, exercise selection. Am I missing anything else? There's probably some other things. I mean, the, the simplifying thought I just had is like, it really is about, you know, the dosage of training of certain qualities in both cases for hypertrophy and for strength, for hypertrophy. That's like very high quality training, close to failure, targeting the target muscle, et cetera. You know, you want to try to maximize that within your recovery capacities is what it seems to suggest for the most part. Dimination returns, obviously for strength. I think it's the same thing. It's just what volume means is different to me. Now it's talking about these very high quality, high force, highly specific exposures. And the counterintuitive thing is if you just ramp up volume, you actually might hurt that number. Yeah. And the same thing with increasing frequency that might actually increase that number, increasing the overall specificity of training without reducing the volume, which may have some sort of recovery costs may decrease that in the course of six months. So it's, it's a interesting kind of shifting of the goalposts from the perspective that the optimization game to optimize that number versus just the total number of sets that I can complete with high effort and targeting the target muscle is entirely different. And particularly when you have to use fixed constraints like squat bench deadlift, certain exercises. So yeah, I think it's, it's interesting to look at this and kind of think about it more holistically than just the project itself. But yeah, it's, it's definitely been a good thought experiment for sure. Cool. All right. Any final reflections, parting words? Ultimately, just, I think this experience has been awesome. Um, yeah, just thanks for everybody that's watched the, the five hour podcast, you know, talked about, um, stuff, left comments and discussed it on social media, good and bad. Like, honestly, it just been extreme, extremely fruitful experience. I think for us as scientists, but also just in general, um, I've enjoyed it and I think it's been fun. Um, I don't know when the next time we'll record a three plus hour podcast will be, but, um, but yeah, I think it's just, it's been, it's been a cool experience and I'm glad we've been able to hopefully make at least a marginally positive, uh, impact with the overall scope of the project. So yeah, my, maybe we'll talk about this more another time, but my, my hope is, um, we can spend less time with, with projects like this. We can spend less time debating what the data we do have says. And instead we can debate how relevant is the context of the underlying data that a meta analysis is describing. And we can also spend more time discussing how to apply it. And, um, those two things are a lot more productive than, you know, people hashing it out. One study says this. One study says this. People have, yeah, exactly. Timeline study. Exactly. Like I think back to, man, like some of the nutrition debates, um, like keto versus non-keto debates from like, uh, Gary Taubes. I'm not saying any names, but like very, very early on there were like some Joe Rogan podcasts where there were debates. That's the one I remember. And like, and I, I just, I think back to, to some things like that. And I think there are some, uh, maybe much lower view counts, but like debates in the fitness realm as well for strength and hypertrophy where it's like point counterpoint about what the data says. This study says this, this other study says this. I just don't think that's all that productive, right? Go back to the variance demon meme that you, you showed, right? Like instead, let's see what the data says in aggregate and then let's discuss how we can better answer the questions that, that ultimately, that ultimately brings up more questions. So let's discuss how we can answer those, um, and get a clearer picture and also discuss how to apply it. Um, my hope is that this just kind of expedites that process and, um, makes things more efficient. That's probably the best way to characterize is it makes things more efficient. Um, and can, can move things along that way. So with that, thank you for tuning in. We appreciate you, you getting through this. If you've watched all the way through, um, if you're not already subscribed at this point, please do so. Let us know what you thought of the show. Let us know what follow-up questions you have. Cause this was obviously pretty messy.