 If there is clearly a plateau in muscle growth that you're just going to reach, as long as you're doing sufficient volume, even if it's a non-optimal or a non-ideal exercise, then you're just going to get to that plateau anyway, you're going to get the growth you get, it doesn't really matter. Where biomechanics is the one thing that I really think can be very different between people. An obvious one in terms of like where we got a lot of data was range of motion and its sister, if you will, exercise selection. We could definitely sit here and debate like the current status of length and bias training and whether that seems to benefit the outcome of interest. We can put a pin in that for now. I'm not all that interested in doing that, to be honest. But we got a lot of data on range of motion and exercise selection in general. So to me, in reflecting on 2024 in terms of like just my mental model of training and how that has changed, I think it's less so about saying like, oh, now, you know, 80% of exercises are length and bias instead of 50%, right? Like that's not really how I think about it. But instead, I view it as like, I think that's been a nice vehicle for me to just be a lot more targeted with exercise selection. I think in the past, I would have been, and this was probably like many years ago, not necessarily like the beginning of 2024. But a while ago, I probably would have just thought like a hack squat and a leg press for any individuals, like totally interchangeable. Whereas now, I'm very curious about the exact hack squat and leg presses you have access to, how those look, the settings you're using, and giving you some feedback on how to execute them. Because I think that is probably some of the lowest hanging fruit for progress. So in this case, if, you know, we're trying to do one of those exercises for quad hypertrophy, again, I would have put way less stock in that in the past. But now I view that as like absolutely fundamental to pursuing the outcome of interest. And again, these things kind of seem obvious in hindsight. But I think if, I mean, like there's a time in the evidence-based community where proximity to failure doesn't seem to be like this very important variable. We've discussed why I think we were kind of led astray with that. And now it's more clear that, hey, this seems to be an important variable. Not to say you have to train to failure every single set or even one or two IR every single set. But it seems to be a variable to prioritize. So when I think about it now is like, okay, if you're trying to do an exercise for a given muscle, you're going to want the thing that's limiting you to be the muscle that you're trying to train. Again, seems pretty obvious now these days. But I do think that's almost been taken like even further in my mind. And I think that applies for hypertrophy outcomes for obvious reasons. But also in terms of trying to target quote unquote weak points or like we like to call them strength limiters for power lifters. I just care a lot more about very targeted exercise selection, the execution thereof. And I think the vehicle for that has been more conversation, more discussions, more thinking about exercise selection and range of motion and how to target the desired muscles. Right. And, you know, I think with our pre-printed meta regressions on the effects of volume on hypertrophy, you might almost think the opposite of me of what I'm saying. So you might you might assume that I'm just like, oh, it's just like, yeah, sure. Like press hack squat. Maybe one's a little bit better than the other for someone. But really, what matters is the amount of sets that you do. I almost think the exact opposite. I kind of view it as like, OK, because we don't see this very strong plateau again, there very well might be a plateau for numerous reasons. I kind of suspect that there is and et cetera, et cetera. But there seems to be a pretty strong dose response relationship, at least in like low to moderate volumes. OK, to me, I almost view that as less like a strong case for moderate to high volumes, but instead a strong case to make sure your training is as efficient as possible. Because one line of thinking is if there is clearly a plateau and muscle growth that you're just going to reach, as long as you're doing sufficient volume, even if it's a non-optimal or a non-ideal exercise, then you're just going to get to that plateau anyway. You're going to get the growth you get. It doesn't really matter. Right. You could do a high bar squat or a hack squat, even if you have long femurs like me and the high bar squat. You know, you kind of look like Bambi doing it. Whereas now I would say I want every single set you do to be as effective and as potent and as efficient as possible because I have strong intuition that the more stimulus the muscle gets, the more it's going to grow. There's not going to be this clear plateau point. So I kind of want to make sure we get off the ground as efficiently as possible. And I want exercise selection to be to be very, very dialed in. And I use the example of like leg press or hack squat or high bar squat because I think quad training just happens to be the one that requires the most thinking. You know, this probably has less of an effect on the average bicep protocols that I prescribe for a client. It impacts it to some degree, but it seems that lower body. Just multi-joint stuff. Multi-joint stuff in general seems to impact a little bit more. So that's where I'm at in reflection of 2024 is I'm still team low volume from a personal perspective. And I think with a really good exercise selection, you can make a lot of progress and kind of shortcut it, if you will. Yeah, I 100% agree. Like the way that we were just talking about it for me and for better or worse reasons, I was definitely more so on the just not as sufficiently nuanced view on exercise selection and how you can modulate those things. And I think really what happened for me, I guess, this year is like just kind of understanding better how things fit together and like how to place things and swap exercises out based on like more nuanced factors. Like you said, like I don't want to say like it was like a completely brain dead way of thinking about it, but it really was kind of like, yeah, leg press, hack squat, like whatever. That doesn't that's not there. There was a time in the exercise science community where it was like, dude, if you're performing knee flexion, like you're going to train your claws. Squat pattern. Boom. Easy. Done. Squat, hinge, leg central, leg curl. That's all you need to think about it. And while I still think that, you know, that's going to cover most of your bases and from like a simple recommendation standpoint, I think that's really, really effective. There are, again, coming from my perspective, where biomechanics is the one thing that I really think is can be very different between people, particularly when you interface those people upon machines and fix implements and things that have less flexibility. Like that's where you can get to some pretty goofy looking solutions that probably could use some tweaking. Like you said, in the case of what leg press are you using? What hacks flat? Where's your foot placement? How does that look? Oh, actually in this machine, let's let your heels come up because that's going to more better. Like it's going to better accomplish our goal of what we're trying to do here. Those kind of things I think is just a more nuanced view in coming into 2025 that I think now kind of, for me, at least I think reaches that point of 80-20 of, you know, you can get really, really nerdy of like the exact resistance profile and the exact muscle length. And like that's where we are kind of getting into the. I think it is a little bit. Okay. So here's, here's something I just thought of. So you can, you can check me on this if, if I'm off base, but I think it's harder to get the 80-20. So the, the, it's harder to get the lion's share of benefits of really good exercise selection than it is to get the lion's share of benefits from volume. So like. 100%. Like I think it's, it's, I think it's a lot harder. There's an experience component to exercise execution too. It's a lot, it's a lot harder to mess up volume. Like most reasonable programs, if you find a program, even out of a magazine, even out of a magazine, like a bro split, like the, I think could those be better? Sure. But I think it's probably going to be in a fine range, especially for, for a beginner or like an early intermediate. But I do think you can like not even get off the ground. That's a little bit extreme, but you can not even get off the ground from a muscle growth perspective if exercise selection is not in a good spot. And I think that's just become more of a focus for me. And like, I look back at the years where I did a lot of low bar squatting and I'm thinking in terms of years here. So I, if I had to guess, I probably for every one year of training with like a leg press and hack squat at my gym right now that I really, really like, I think for every one year of that is probably equal to about three to four years of quad growth from doing just a ton of low bar squats. So that's an example of like, I don't think I was really getting off the ground in terms of quad growth from doing a bunch of low bar squats. There's confounders here, but I think that principle holds true. And I think that's why exercise selection is, is quite high in the priority list these days for me.