 I think there's things that each side can learn from each other. On our end, this allows our coaching approach to evolve with the lifters values and preferences and interests as they go and have good productive conversations about that, not to be flippant with those changes, but instead intentional, thoughtful and using the coach's expertise to understand the pros and cons and the investment required for an outcome that they're interested in. So let's start with some things that power lifters do well, that bodybuilders can learn from, then we can flip the script. And because of our perspective of working with both power lifters and bodybuilders or just physique-focused people and then everywhere in between as well, I think there's things that each side can learn from each other. And again, on our end, this allows our coaching approach to evolve with the lifters' values and preferences and interests as they go and have good, productive conversations about that, not to be flippant with those changes, but instead intentional, thoughtful, and using the coach's expertise to understand the pros and cons and the investment required for an outcome that they're interested in. So let's start with some things that power lifters do well that bodybuilders can learn from, and then we can flip the script. I think the number one thing that power lifters do well that bodybuilders can learn from or just folks interested in physique goals is being performance and logbook-oriented. So they, of course, have these core lifts, squat, bench press, and deadlift. They know their PRs, right? You ask them, and they have their gym numbers, their competition numbers, and maybe that one bench press they hit where it was touch and go and their butt came up a little bit. So they might start with the ladder, and then they'll work their way back. And I think that's great because kind of similar to the structure that a training program inherently gives you is it keeps you honest, right? And it pushes you to get those three sets of stiff-leg deadlift in after you've done your main deadlift for the day that you don't really want to do but you need to do. In the case of being performance and logbook-oriented, if you know what your best is, it gives you a challenge to meet. And I think humans are really good at meeting challenges or really good at seeing a finish line or seeing a bar and reaching it. Not to step too far outside of our lane, but someone breaks an endurance record like the first four-minute mile or whatever, and then you see a bunch of other people beat it. Or you have a deadline for work, and you get a lot more juice and a lot more motivation. You become a lot more efficient at getting that work done. I think there's a lot of similarities and parallels there with just the logbook aspect of things. And as a result, to kind of keep them honest, there's more psychological readiness for training, right? Sometimes this can be taken too far, and as you'll see in this conversation, a lot of these things are a double-edged sword. But I do think it's generally a positive that powerlifters are performance and logbook-oriented. They're going to ensure physical and psychological readiness for their training, and they have a bar for themselves that they're looking to beat. That is far and away the thing that powerlifters do well that I think bodybuilders could learn from. Anything to add to that one, or does anything else come to mind? I think that is just so key. Yeah, for the most part, that's the biggest thing, I think. I would say the other thing that comes to mind, just in kind of following with that, is just like, quote-unquote, pacing stuff that you've mentioned a good amount. Ultimately, we've talked about this a lot. But just like the basic example of if someone just took every set to failure but they didn't really log versus someone who consistently logs, I think there is still that aspect of pacing that you'll probably never quite achieve the same level of progression in the lift or whatever. Pacing within a session or week to week? I kind of more so mean it like I don't know if you'll be able to achieve the same performance on a given day unless you kind of have that nudge to say, like, no. Like, you have to try for 110 kilos or whatever it is. Oh, yeah. So you're saying pacing in the sense that, like, if you don't have – like, a very basic example is the presence of spotters. Yes. Yes, exactly. In the sense that if there are spotters there or perception of ever – basically, it's easy to convince yourself that something is hard when you actually have more in the tank. Yep. And pacing is basically the phenomenon. Like, if you have a 20-set quad workout versus a four-set quad workout, you better believe that first set in the four-set quad workout is generally going to be higher performance because you know you only have to do it three more times, not 19 more times. That's the example of pacing. That could bias your load selection, et cetera, like, despite the fact that you know your objective performance was trending, X, Y, Z thing. So point being, like, you know, I used to – I think there was a phase, I think, in the community where logbooking was a little looked down upon. Maybe not the right way to say it. Pendulum swings. Yeah. It wasn't as – it was more caveated, I guess, is the way to say it. But now I'm, like, very much of, like, just more so the act of doing it and having standards to reference is the positive aspect from doing so. And like you said, I think piloters do that extremely well. The other thing I was going to say is kind of to go along with logging is the intangibles that go along with making that logging valid. So movement standardization, tempo, just little things like that. How much arch did I have on that chest press when I was doing – just little things like that that I think go a long way that, you know, you could – you actually could say that in either different direction because you could argue that a bodybuilder cares a little bit more about the experience of the set. Whereas the powerlifter is only cared about the output. It's a double-edged sword, right? You could put it in either direction. I think movement standardization is, like, a really good thing to experience early in your training career. Yeah. Johnny Candido had a video about this where he said – he kind of, like, laid out his, like, ideal training arc. I can't remember the details of it. But what I mean by training arc is, like, okay, you get into lifting in high school and then, you know, basically from that point until you're 40 and then 40 onwards, whatever, maybe you coast. And by the time you get to 40, you know, you're kind of on maintenance mode and you're just the guy that can be able to do a bunch of physical tasks and you always have a six-pack. But basically the reason I bring that up is I think he mentioned, like, he's a big advocate for powerlifting for, like, that initial chunk of training. And I think a big benefit of that is movement standardization and the efficacy of the log booking, like you just mentioned. Yeah, I understand. Cool. Now let's flip the script a little bit and let's talk about what bodybuilders do well or folks that are, you know, just folks on maximizing hypertrophy, maximizing body comp, looking yickety-yacked. The number one thing for me is they track body composition well. And don't get me wrong, not all physique-interested folks do this well. I think a lot of people could do this better. But if there's one thing I could go back and change, because when we started Data Driven Strength, almost exclusively our clientele were powerlifters. These days, again, it's a little bit more of a mix. But if I could go back to those powerlifters early on, especially the ones that I'm still working with and I would love to have this data, it's just better assessment of body composition through two things. And they're pretty easy. The first is standardized physique photos, both flexed and unflexed photos. You can kind of see different things going on in both of those approaches. And secondly are some easy circumference measurements. You just get a, you know, $2 or $3 tape measure on Amazon. Or if you're really balling, you could get a myotape, which is a self-tightening tape measure, which does seem to enhance accuracy a notable amount, especially if you're doing the measurements on yourself and you don't have someone to help you out. You know, you could get a handful of sites. So you can do thigh, calf, hip. So basically around the glutes, you could do a navel measurement. So around your belly button, you could do, I like to do two inches above and two inches below navel, chest, and then arm. That's like full sweet. But if I'm like, let's just get the easiest, like lowest hanging fruit, it would just be a waist measurement. Because especially in males, it can be quite sensitive to overall body fat that you have. So tracking body comp I think is a massive one that bodybuilders do well that I think powerlifters would benefit from. Bodybuilders are also put lifestyle variables higher on the list. So they might keep a closer eye on their step count. They probably keep, they're probably a little bit more dialed in with their sleep habits and sleep duration and sleep consistency. And perhaps most importantly, they probably put equal thought into their nutritional approach as their training, which I think a lot of powerlifters would benefit from. So that might mean just like basic tenets of a good dietary approach, like having lots of fruits and vegetables, good lean sources of protein. But from our perspective as strength and hypertrophy coaches, perhaps even more important than that is the changes in body weight over time, the rate of change, the high level nutritional periodization or body weight periodization approach. I think bodybuilders do that very well on average that powerlifters could do a little bit better. This is kind of the flip side of something you mentioned before is I think that a lot of bodybuilders will have less movement standardization. Do you mean exercises by that? Yeah. Yeah. So like for powerlifting, I meant within an exercise. Okay. Yeah. The execution thereof. So I just make sure I understood that. Yeah, exactly. So like I think bodybuilders on average do a really good job or at least a better job of not worrying about arbitrary constraints. Right. In the example of a competition squat, you have to get to parallel. Right. And then you come up. Whereas once you get below parallel, I guess the next objective point would be like hamstrings to calves. But a bodybuilder is probably just going to do what works best for them to train the target muscles. And I think that's a good thing. So they're not really worried about these arbitrary constraints for movement standardization. Instead, they're focused on training the muscles. So a better way to think about that or a simpler way to think about that is muscle over movement instead of powerlifters focus quite a bit on movement. I think there's pros and cons to each. Again, there is everything's kind of a double-edged sword here. But I think a lot of powerlifters would benefit from their non-squat bench deadlift training being less about kind of these random or arbitrary standards like, you know, touching your chest on a – touching the bar to your chest on a bench press or getting to competition depth for deadlift. The last thing that bodybuilders do well that I think powerlifters could benefit from is they listen to their bodies quite a bit such that, you know, they might be quicker to change exercises or change rep range or change the RPE or add some work or take away some work. So kind of returning to our earlier discussion about structure and rigidity is they're probably more likely to autoregulate more than powerlifters do in some ways. We think of powerlifters as autoregulating because they have a single at 8 and they're going to adjust their load plus or minus 5 kilos. Whereas in actuality, there's probably some bigger autoregulation levers that powerlifters could learn from. And if you're interested on a longer discussion about kind of the pros and cons of sticking to the program versus not, rewind the podcast quite a bit and you can get that. But I think if you are on the powerlifting side of the spectrum and you listen to what I just said about things bodybuilders do well, I think you're going to benefit from that and vice versa. If you're a bodybuilder and you listen to what we said about what powerlifters do well, I think you'll benefit as well.