 οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο οπο There's more that goes into it than just taking a study finding and just assuming that that is correct. There's a lot of fog of war in terms of interpreting studies and also applying the concepts we get from studies. And there are some basic ones that you could probably find on the Internet if you do a search for it, such as just understanding what statistical versus clinical significance is, like a common one, which I see you kind of cringing a little bit inside because that in and of itself is a little bit of an oversimplification or just thinking about the relevance of the participants used in the study. There's a lot of basic ones, but I think there's maybe another rung of the ladder in terms of things to consider when interpreting training studies that are often overlooked by a lot of folks and maybe even your favorite evidence-based influencer is making one or multiple of these mistakes. So can't think of a better person to take us on this ride than you, Zach. And I'm looking at your outline for this. This could be five separate podcast episodes. So have fun attacking this one. Cool. So like Josh said, I think one thing that has been helpful throughout the PhD process, I think we can both be firsthand and kind of talking about is just how much you realize that you're making inappropriate conclusions from things. And just like I always talk about just like I should write a blog post or something like just how data deceives us. And just like that, that to me was like just the biggest rabbit hole I went down throughout my PhD is just learning all of these different ways that seemingly obvious conclusions that you can draw from data in a lot of different ways are actually way more complex and sometimes completely counterintuitive to what you would expect. And it's just made me value the times that my head has got slammed into a door that I'm trying to go in because I've been making an error and someone corrects me for it, whether it's a colleague or whether it's somebody on my committee and through just independent reading. And so, you know, when we look at the cross the landscape of social media, you come across a lot of these same misinterpretations for for better or for worse. And I don't think they're malicious by any means. I don't think people necessarily are are always intentionally misinterpreting things. But I do think kind of talking through some of these can be helpful so you can kind of be on the lookout for potentially some of these cases of misinterpretation in a year own interpretation of training studies to to hopefully come closer to the truth. So and this one has got a lot of discussion recently, but this is kind of a more umbrella way of describing is just what I'm going to call the false attribution fallacy. And so anytime you have a study or a group of studies, it's really, really, really tempting to go through the method section with a fine tooth comb and really try to find out why this study may slightly differ from the other studies and kind of the related area of research and may attribute that to the exercises or the participants or the length of the training intervention or these numerous characteristics that you could probably drive yourself insane going through. And even sometimes really strongly convince yourself that this this is why it's different. It all makes sense. It all makes sense. If you if you comb through hard enough, there's a reason. And I think that is a really, really noble pursuit. And I think it comes from a good place of really trying to be detail oriented and understand the studies at a very, very high level. And I never think that should be sacrificed. But I think it's really important to realize necessary, but not sufficient. Exactly. I think it's it's really important to realize that none like you could find these different factors and a perfectly valid and likely and expected explanation is just what I'm going to call the variance demon. That's just kind of lurking in the background. So I think the concept of variance that's gotten a lot of like talk recently has been has been sampling variance. So sampling variance, I'll kind of go through these each quickly. Sampling variance is just the fact that let's say we have this overarching population that's in the clouds. This is kind of an assumption that we typically make in research that we're trying to gain information about a population. But it's not easy to obtain all the participants or all the individuals that exist in that population. So we have to take a subset. So every time we take a subset, you're going to have some variability in the subset that you gather from that population. And so necessarily there's going to be some variability every time you take that subset. If we're able to get the entire population at once, there is no variability. We know what the population is going to tell us. And so when we have small sample research, the variance that we get from each one of these samples that we that we have is going to be greater and greater and greater. And so even if we know what the population, you know, their mean is or whatever we're trying to calculate with a given study, the difference between two groups, even if we know what that is, because of the fact that we have small sample research, we're going to have a lot of variability that may lead some studies to find positive findings, some studies that have negative findings, purely because of the sampling variance and nothing to do with the underlying reality of the matter. And so that's the first thing to consider. The next one is measurement error. And that's something I think people have like an intuitive sense of is that even we have, you know, lab grade tools, we measure the exact same quality twice that we like assume to have the same true value. Like, for example, if I was to measure your quadriceps twice or three times in a row, it's not like your quadricep is changing its true value in the span of 30 seconds when I'm measuring it. So any differences between those measurements, I'm going to assume is some sort of user error. And so those types of errors can, in small sample research, can sometimes pull on one side of the direction. Maybe it's going to systematically, upwardly bias the measurements that we're making or downwardly bias the measurements that we're making. The point is, typically what we're assuming is that if we have enough of a sample size and we're able to estimate this measurement error well, it's going to kind of wash out. It's going to be normally distributed and it's not something that we're going to necessarily need to worry about our ability to gain that information that we're looking for. But in smaller sample research, things can happen where greater measurement error is just going to lead to findings that we wouldn't expect. And the same thing goes for sampling variants, like we just said, more measurement error, more the effects that we observe in every individual study is just going to bounce around even more. And then finally, we have another source of variability called biological variability that can also influence the results that we get. You know, these are just the natural fluctuations and whatever we're measuring, those are going to naturally vary over time. And again, the point of this is all of these sources of variability are constantly lurking in the background anytime we do a study and are magnified when we have small sample research that is usually low in power that we often have in exercise science research. So instead of attributing the differences between studies to these exact methods differences that we see or we may think is what's leading to the difference, it very well could be and often probably is the case. It's just the variance demon that's kind of lurking in the background. That's probably the true explaining factor of the matter. And we would just be falsely attributing the differences to something else if we don't acknowledge that. So I think that's the first thing to just kind of have in the back of your mind anytime you're interpreting studies, particularly with small samples, as an exercise science. Anything on that one? No, I think you nailed it. I'll give an example of one that has actually caught on quite a bit. And I also agree with it. I tend to think it's true. But I think it's an example potentially of false attribution fallacy, as you're calling it, is in your meta regression on the effects of approximative failure on muscle growth. You had a sub analysis of different loads. So you have low, moderate, low, moderate, high, low, something like that. Call it 30, 50, 90, something like that. I can't remember the numbers. But nonetheless, basically you saw that the slope of the relationship did tend to change depending on the load. So at higher loads, the effect of approximative failure on muscle growth seemed to be less. So approximative failure seems to be less of a consideration when training with higher loads to maximize muscle hypertrophy. However, based on the nature of those sub analyses, there is also variance amongst the studies that independently look at that question that could be causing that to show up. Because to my knowledge, there are few studies, if any. Well, this is a good one. Yep. Direct. Is there, I think that might be the only one. It's not very many. Yeah. Yeah. Call it one to three. Sure. There's one to three studies that directly look at the question of how does load mediate the effect of approximative failure on muscle growth. And I think I speak for you in saying that those sub analyses are exploratory and hypothesis generating as opposed to conclusion generating. Right. Yep. So you could falsely attribute the effects of load from that sub analysis, even though, again, there's other sources from that variance demon going on there. And I struggle pointing that one out because I do think that is the case. Like, I think it just checks out from other areas of research as well. And I think it's okay to use a visual of that sub analysis to kind of make a point, even though it's not like I get it. But I do think that's an example of where in evidence based fitness we can like use research when maybe we just should say what we think. Yeah. That's what do you think about that? Yeah. I think meta analysis is a tough one because the meta analysis is a tough one. And it's particularly in the case of sub analysis or moderator analysis. The point you're bringing up is that, and the question ultimately is, if there are no other factors that are quote unquote causing the studies that have higher loads. It's not causally designed for that. Right. If there's no other confounding variable, essentially, that, let's say, studies with heavier loads also tend to use greater volumes or something like that, something to that effect. If there's no other like clouding causal variable that's systematically biased in that direction. So, like, again, the volumes really tend to be higher in the higher load conditions and really tend to be lower in the lower load conditions. Something to that effect. If it's kind of normally distributed and there's kind of, you know, noise that kind of cancels each other out in a way, it's less of a concern. And with meta analysis, we're trying to take all of those studies and try to detect the signal from the noise if there is one. So, if there is a best case for trying to find attribution that is true to these kind of systematic differing factors. But, as you say, there's kind of this unknown factor of is there another variable that's confounding that relationship that we can glean from it. Variables, plural. Exactly. And so, what you say is exactly true is that it can be hypothesis generating. It can be quite literally better than nothing, but you have to acknowledge the fact that there also could be something that's completely biased in that relationship and it could be incorrect. So, I think those types of relationships, this is something I'm workshopping, so don't take this too literally. I think moderate analyses are helpful when they are first, first and foremost, are very strongly theory driven in which ones we're looking at. That's the first thing. Because when you have a strong theory or strong a priori predictions about what that may be the case, I think you can have better theoretical rationale to take that with a little bit more confidence if you do find what you would expect. That doesn't necessarily mean it's devoid of these limitations that we just discussed. Not necessarily. But coming with strong theory and predictions on what you may expect, I think, gives more credence to it because it's more biological plausibility, more theoretical plausibility. And then, ultimately, if you do find the signal and you're able to verify there doesn't seem to be any massive candidates of strong confounding, I think that's not an unreasonable take to use that in practice. But it's very hard to verify that without direct evidence. Now, in this case, like I said, I think there's one to three examples of direct examinations of the question, so I don't think it's totally unreasonable along with the fact I think it makes theoretical sense. But you're totally spot on in the sense that, to some degree, that attribution should come with a massive asterisk that I didn't even do a great job communicating before I thought about this more.