 RIP-errullinex, aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur in our hearts and the belief that together we could turn the unknown into home. And home we built, brick by brick, dream by dream, until yours and mine became ours. And now the next chapter, the greatest leap yet, to grow what we've built, to welcome the tiny echo of us into this world, to take this love, this life, and watch it grow. Not perfect, not predictable, but ours. Wild, real, and beautifully untamed. Does that bum you up? I was hoping for a yes, of course. I'm pretty sure that's not right. We're about to take another pregnancy test, which is number four, after three negative ones, only because she's six days late, which I don't think... Only six days late? Yes, it's normal, it can happen, especially if you're stressed out. Yeah, I've been stressed. But I'm like clockwork, like I... Three negative tests. I'm never late. Yeah, that's a very clear negative. I don't know, that's a pretty clear note on me. Good next time. Sorry. You don't have to say sorry, I thought this one was going to be yes. I don't know why. It's helpful. Yeah, I think this is going to prove to be difficult. No. I don't know. Next time. It's okay, baby. I love it. I had this dream last night. This dream was like telling me, like, how do you not know you're pregnant? And so I just like woke up, and it was the first thing on my mind. I was like, oh my god, I'm pregnant. I got him pregnant. But we've had two negative tests in the last, like, four days, five days, six days, I don't know. So I didn't want to tell Robin. I didn't want to get his hopes up. So let's do it. Let's do it, right? I don't know. It's going to be so happy. She's going to be so happy. Robin's asleep. I should have pregnant. Okay. Okay, I'm going to tell Robin. I want to take a second test before I tell Robin, because I don't want, I don't know. I don't want to give any false hope. That was like a cheaper test anyway. And now I'm starting to doubt. I need to wait until I have to pee again. We're filming a recipe video today, and I've noticed that Robin's kind of, he's been a bit sad. And it's kind of been since a couple days ago when we took our last pregnancy test, and he won't say that's why, because I know he doesn't want to make me sad too, but I can just tell his mood has been a little bit, it's been a little bit down. So somehow in my head, I was like, I can, I can wait. I can tell him on his birthday, which is like, yeah, it's in two weeks, which is ridiculous. I wouldn't obviously wait. It's like hard to do with mascara. I'm shaking. I'm shaking. It's definitely right. Really clearly two lines, right? I need to find like a box. I need to find something to put it in. Can you say something to say something to say something? Can you say something to say something? Okay, let's do it. Hey baby. Baby. What? What's wrong? No, nothing. Everything is going wrong? Everything is past your day, you don't have a breath, it's not. Want something that will make you feel better? Is it a positive pregnancy test? No, it's a birthday gift. This? No, baby. Yeah. No, why? No, it's not my birthday, I don't want it now. It's an early birthday gift. No, I don't want it. Baby. Baby, I don't want it. Why? Is it really? Oh my god. Oh my god. I have so many feelings. Is this real? Yeah. Yeah. If you can give that to yourself, you're falling out. I just found out this morning. Really? Yeah. The first one was this morning and the other one was just now. So I thought you were keeping it for the last week. Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? No, I found out today. Really? Yeah. I need to cocoon you now. How can I cocoon you more? No more driving? July 15. Perfect. Is it summer, baby? Is it summer, baby? Thank you for having breakfast. Thank you for being pregnant. My heart is racing. I feel like I'm going to puke. I can't tell if it's the morning sickness or if it's nerves or both. So I'm about to call my sister and tell her that I'm pregnant. And she has to be the first person I call because she said as much. I was with her the moment she took her pregnancy test and found out she was pregnant with her first. And so she was like, it's only right that I also find out first. Well, naturally that didn't happen. Robin's the only other person who knows. But before we tell the rest of our family, I have to tell her first. I have a gift idea. Oh, you look cute. You can't outdo me. I'm getting her a baby cousin. Oh my God. Here right now, just give me one quick second. Sorry. Go ahead. Okay. But I've known for two weeks and I'm dying. The morning sickness is killing me. Two weeks you've known. You f*** her. No, don't give her balloons. Two weeks. I'm sorry. I told you within five seconds. I know. I can't believe it. I'm quitting my noodles. You're seven years old. Like you're just a baby. My mom just got back from one month of like backpacking through India. So I'm going to call her to just ask her how it was and how it went and then drop the news. How was India? Hello, hope. Hope. Next year I can go to Nepal. And one other thing that is going to happen next year is you're going to have a new grandkid. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Tell them kiss her for me. Kiss her tummy for me. I do it every day. How's it feel for you? Happy that you're told? Yeah. I think especially because I know my sisters and my mom have experienced nausea. How does it feel for you? Happy that you told me? Yeah, I think especially because I know my sisters and my mom have experienced nausea It'll be nice to at least talk to somebody about that And one more too actually, July 15th My dad's saying he loves you I love you too So much, so much I'm going to give you a grandkid Oh my god, I'm the top of the world Oh my god, oh my god We have nothing new to you Yay, the best angel right? Thank you, Al So we just bought a box of chocolates And we're going to hide a t-shirt in there that says You're going to be a grandma And then we're going to give that to my mother Oh nice chocolate, what's this? I'd love it, it's perfect right? She'll never know She'll never know She will never know She will never know What! Aaaah! You already know you know me! This is not the thing! I'm about to tell my best friend that I'm pregnant. I'm so happy for you. Come on! So we're gonna tell our friends today. And what I did is I made a whole quiz with a little trivia about last year to see like who knows what everybody was up to. So when everybody's hyped up and we did the quiz, then we dropped the news. So I'm very curious to see how that goes. I'm six weeks pregnant. And this nausea is just totally killing me. Oh, our team doesn't know yet. So I'm homesick, which I think I am actually also sick. I feel like I can't really do anything. Like I can't scroll social media. That makes me nauseous. The TV, the moving elements makes me nauseous. Being nauseous and being in this first trimester and working with food, like that being the primary thing I do for work is just kind of like... I am just like so tired of this nausea. It's relentless. And I feel like I know I need to eat. I feel so hungry, but I can't. I know if I don't eat, my nausea is going to get worse. So I know I need to eat, but I don't want to eat. So I'm literally eating the plainest of plain crackers so that there's something in my stomach. It's so dry. It's brutal. For somebody who loves food and who works with food, I need to review the recipes that are going to go into the app. And even just looking at the photos, bringing about a gag reflex. It's terrible. Oh, I feel so useless. I feel like I'm not... I haven't been doing anything. And I know it's okay. I have been growing a little human, but it's exhausting. I'm not used to not being productive. I'm at this stage of pregnancy where I'm like, what did I get myself into? I'm like trying to remind myself that this is something to be very grateful for. We tried for a while to get pregnant. Not everyone can. And so I'm grateful. But at the same time, I'm so sick of being sick all the time. I feel so nauseous all the time. What we did see is that it was a very active baby. Very active. We are going to our 20-week ultrasound. I'm very excited. I'm very nervous. Mom and Dad. Mom and Dad. Mom and Dad. I'm 45 feet. It's not a lounge, of course. Oh, no. Mom and Dad. Oh, you can see the little... Oh, my gosh. Oh, I think I had the... Oh, that's like you. Yeah, that's right. That's a long girl. That's you. I don't have that. Now I'm just really relieved. So everything is very good with the little one. I always felt like when people showed these before, they were so uninteresting. They're just like little blobs. But now I'm like, look at the little nose. And then we didn't want to know if it's a boy or girl. So that's in this envelope. Although I did... She did say in the beginning, I will always call a baby... I'll say he. He. And she said... She said her spine. No. You didn't hear that? No. I heard that. Maybe she didn't even notice, but... No way. Yeah. Yeah. If I'm honest, I did hear her say her. After she checked the... After she checked, she said, now I have to check her spine. So I hope that she maybe just misspoke, but I think we already know. You want to just open it now? No, no, no. Really? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. She's getting emotional? Yeah. Yeah, we can... It's still up in the air. I mean, she didn't confirm anything. The confirmation isn't here. So it's still... It could still be anything. Okay. So our options were... We were either... Not gonna know till the day of. Let it be a surprise. I'm still okay with that. But holding this now in my hands is difficult. Yeah, I know. Of course. Option number two is we make a date. We do some baby stuff. We go for a nice dinner and we open it then. I like that idea. And then option number three is we just open up. Yeah, I'm pretty sure I already know. But let's make a date. Let's make a date out of it. Yeah? Nice little event. What are you doing? Looking up crib, baby. So Robin, the lady said the baby weighs 300 grams. 300 grams. It's heavy even. Yeah. I think it's also actually like this size too. Hehehehehe. Oh, this could be the best thing that I'll ever know. Mmm. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.