

=== FILE: 7 vegan mistakes to avoid 🌱 [xKOjEXBd3yc].txt ===

 So I've been vegan for more than eleven years now, and with my background in dietetics, I've learned a lot along the way. I've had so many moments where I felt confused, I worried about my nutrients, I had a lot of questionable meals, and essentially, I don't want that same fate for you. So today I'm sharing seven things I wish I knew before going vegan. Let's dive in. One, the restriction mistake. I know veganism can sound incredibly restrictive, like no meat, no fish, no eggs, no dairy,, sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic sic And if not, just add one in. Three, the soy mistake. Soy has this oddly dramatic reputation. Even when I first went plant-based, I avoided it because I heard it could mess with your hormones. And I know a lot of men worry about it too, thinking it's gonna affect their testosterone or manliness in some way. And what I wish I knew sooner is that a lot of the soy fear is built on dated, disputed, or overblown research, often also from rodent studies that use isolated compounds in these super high amounts that you would never get from eating whole soy foods. Instead, when you look at human studies, eating whole soy foods, even a couple servings a day, is considered safe for most people. If anything, according to the American Cancer Society, there's growing evidence that eating soy foods may even lower the risk of breast cancer. And the research also doesn't support the idea that soy throws your hormones out of balance, whether you're a man or a woman. In reality, soy is one of the most practical staples in a plant-based kitchen. It's convenient, it's affordable, and as a bonus, it's a complete protein, meaning it contains all the essential amino acids in one. Four, the bland food mistake. If we're being honest, if you're cooking with animal-based ingredients, it doesn't take a whole lot of effort to make food taste good. Because things like butter, cheese, and cream, they come with a lot of flavor in and of themselves. They're quite fatty, they're quite salty, but when you're working with plant-based foods, it can sometimes ask for just a little bit more intention. And so what I wish I knew sooner is just how to work with flavors to make any food taste amazing. So here's the simple framework I now use anytime I'm constructing a meal. I ask myself, is it missing any of these four components? Fat, acid, salt, and a hint of something sweet. If it is missing any of these components, just add it in. For fat, add tahini, olive oil, nut butters, avocado. For acid, lemon, vinegar, anything pickled really. For salt, you want to season properly. And then you can add things like soy sauce, miso, or olives. And sweetness can come from fruit, a touch of maple syrup, or some chopped dates. And look, you don't need to always add something sweet, but if you're noticing that your food is a little bit bitter or maybe a little bit acidic, sweetness can really help to cut through that. And so if you balance these four components well, every meal is going to taste amazing. I never thought that being vegan was going to make me a better cook, but here we are. Five, the fiber mistake. If there's any nutrient that as a society we need to focus on more, it's fiber. In the US and UK, for example, nearly 95% of people don't meet their fiber goals. That's honestly scary. I feel like fiber needs the marketing team that protein has. Because fiber does so much. It keeps you regular. It feeds your gut bacteria. It supports a healthy gut lining. It can help reduce inflammation, steady blood sugar levels, lower cholesterol. I could keep going. The good news is that eating more plant-based usually boosts your fiber intake without even trying. The catch is that if you're coming from that 95% low fiber camp, I know I sure was, that jump can feel a bit uncomfortable at first. You might load up on chili or lentil curry, feel gassy and bloated, and think, see, my body can't do this. But what I wish I knew sooner is that especially in the beginning, gut discomfort isn't a sign that plant-based eating doesn't work for you. It's just your microbiome adapting. And people usually notice this quite specifically with beans and lentils because they're so high in fiber and easily fermentable. But the takeaway here isn't to avoid beans or fiber, but instead to just ramp into it gradually and to stay consistent. That consistency is really important for your gut microbiome. And one thing that also really helped me, I don't know if you knew this, but smaller legumes, things like lentils, they can be easier for our bodies to digest than larger legumes like beans. So it's a great place to start if you're new to plant-based eating. Six, the tracking mistake. So when I transitioned, I wanted to make sure I was getting all of the really important nutrients. So I very meticulously tracked everything I ate. And that quickly turned into a bit of an obsession. And it really started to harm my relationship with food. And so what I wish I knew sooner is that you don't need to track calories or nutrients to feel confident you're getting enough. You just need to follow the plate method. So the plate method is just a very simple visual tool that you can use anytime you're building a meal to make sure it's nutritionally balanced. Essentially, you just want to make sure that half of your plate is fruit or veg. Ideally, the more colorful, the better. A quarter of it you want to be grains or starches for energy and a quarter of it plant proteins. Things like beans, lentils, tofu, tempeh, or edamame. Then add a small amount of healthy fats to round it out. And that's pretty much it. If you build most of your meals this way, you're going to be covering almost all of your bases without needing to measure a thing. And if you think it could help, we do have a free printable PDF of the plate method. So you can download it, put it on your fridge and use it as a reference anytime you're building your meals. Seven, the self-doubt mistake. When I first started my vegan journey, I was not prepared for the questions, the doubts, the little challenges that I'd get from the people in my life for my decision to eat more plants. And the problem was I was just starting out. So I didn't have the answers. In fact, I had a lot of those same questions myself. And so what I wish I knew sooner is that learning just a few basics about plant-based nutrition makes everything easier. And so obviously you don't need to be a nutrition expert on day one, but I do think it really helps to build the fundamentals so that you do feel more confident in your choices. And you know things like, how do you get enough protein? Why does B12 matter? What does the research actually say about the health benefits of plant-based eating? And now we do cover a lot of this already here on this channel and in the free articles that are on our website. So be sure to check those out. But if you want help building that foundation without going down an internet rabbit hole, I just want to share that we've just launched our Beginner Guide to Veganism ebook. It's written by myself and two other dietitians. And it's essentially everything you need to know in one place, evidence-based and beginner-friendly with one small lesson every single day for 30 days so that by the end of those 30 days, you are mastering vegan nutrition. Plus there are three very balanced meal plans in there to help you kickstart your journey. Great for Veganuary. So if you want to learn more, I'm going to leave a link for you in the description box below. And I think that's it for today, friends. I do want to say that if you're new to veganism, if you're willing to try it out, just know that you're unlearning years, sometimes decades, of habits and cultural norms around food all while you're building new ones. So give yourself some grace. Celebrate the progress. Every plant-based meal is a win in my books. And I'm curious to know too if you've already been on this journey, if there's anything that you wish that you had learned sooner. I always think we can learn from each other, so I'll see you in the comments. Thanks so much for hanging with me today. I really appreciate it. Pick up Limes, signing off, and I'll see you in the new year.

=== FILE: A new chapter. [5zyjfNfzLqk].txt ===

 RIP-errullinex, aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur aur in our hearts and the belief that together we could turn the unknown into home. And home we built, brick by brick, dream by dream, until yours and mine became ours. And now the next chapter, the greatest leap yet, to grow what we've built, to welcome the tiny echo of us into this world, to take this love, this life, and watch it grow. Not perfect, not predictable, but ours. Wild, real, and beautifully untamed. Does that bum you up? I was hoping for a yes, of course. I'm pretty sure that's not right. We're about to take another pregnancy test, which is number four, after three negative ones, only because she's six days late, which I don't think... Only six days late? Yes, it's normal, it can happen, especially if you're stressed out. Yeah, I've been stressed. But I'm like clockwork, like I... Three negative tests. I'm never late. Yeah, that's a very clear negative. I don't know, that's a pretty clear note on me. Good next time. Sorry. You don't have to say sorry, I thought this one was going to be yes. I don't know why. It's helpful. Yeah, I think this is going to prove to be difficult. No. I don't know. Next time. It's okay, baby. I love it. I had this dream last night. This dream was like telling me, like, how do you not know you're pregnant? And so I just like woke up, and it was the first thing on my mind. I was like, oh my god, I'm pregnant. I got him pregnant. But we've had two negative tests in the last, like, four days, five days, six days, I don't know. So I didn't want to tell Robin. I didn't want to get his hopes up. So let's do it. Let's do it, right? I don't know. It's going to be so happy. She's going to be so happy. Robin's asleep. I should have pregnant. Okay. Okay, I'm going to tell Robin. I want to take a second test before I tell Robin, because I don't want, I don't know. I don't want to give any false hope. That was like a cheaper test anyway. And now I'm starting to doubt. I need to wait until I have to pee again. We're filming a recipe video today, and I've noticed that Robin's kind of, he's been a bit sad. And it's kind of been since a couple days ago when we took our last pregnancy test, and he won't say that's why, because I know he doesn't want to make me sad too, but I can just tell his mood has been a little bit, it's been a little bit down. So somehow in my head, I was like, I can, I can wait. I can tell him on his birthday, which is like, yeah, it's in two weeks, which is ridiculous. I wouldn't obviously wait. It's like hard to do with mascara. I'm shaking. I'm shaking. It's definitely right. Really clearly two lines, right? I need to find like a box. I need to find something to put it in. Can you say something to say something to say something? Can you say something to say something? Okay, let's do it. Hey baby. Baby. What? What's wrong? No, nothing. Everything is going wrong? Everything is past your day, you don't have a breath, it's not. Want something that will make you feel better? Is it a positive pregnancy test? No, it's a birthday gift. This? No, baby. Yeah. No, why? No, it's not my birthday, I don't want it now. It's an early birthday gift. No, I don't want it. Baby. Baby, I don't want it. Why? Is it really? Oh my god. Oh my god. I have so many feelings. Is this real? Yeah. Yeah. If you can give that to yourself, you're falling out. I just found out this morning. Really? Yeah. The first one was this morning and the other one was just now. So I thought you were keeping it for the last week. Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? Can you say you know the last week? No, I found out today. Really? Yeah. I need to cocoon you now. How can I cocoon you more? No more driving? July 15. Perfect. Is it summer, baby? Is it summer, baby? Thank you for having breakfast. Thank you for being pregnant. My heart is racing. I feel like I'm going to puke. I can't tell if it's the morning sickness or if it's nerves or both. So I'm about to call my sister and tell her that I'm pregnant. And she has to be the first person I call because she said as much. I was with her the moment she took her pregnancy test and found out she was pregnant with her first. And so she was like, it's only right that I also find out first. Well, naturally that didn't happen. Robin's the only other person who knows. But before we tell the rest of our family, I have to tell her first. I have a gift idea. Oh, you look cute. You can't outdo me. I'm getting her a baby cousin. Oh my God. Here right now, just give me one quick second. Sorry. Go ahead. Okay. But I've known for two weeks and I'm dying. The morning sickness is killing me. Two weeks you've known. You f*** her. No, don't give her balloons. Two weeks. I'm sorry. I told you within five seconds. I know. I can't believe it. I'm quitting my noodles. You're seven years old. Like you're just a baby. My mom just got back from one month of like backpacking through India. So I'm going to call her to just ask her how it was and how it went and then drop the news. How was India? Hello, hope. Hope. Next year I can go to Nepal. And one other thing that is going to happen next year is you're going to have a new grandkid. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Tell them kiss her for me. Kiss her tummy for me. I do it every day. How's it feel for you? Happy that you're told? Yeah. I think especially because I know my sisters and my mom have experienced nausea. How does it feel for you? Happy that you told me? Yeah, I think especially because I know my sisters and my mom have experienced nausea It'll be nice to at least talk to somebody about that And one more too actually, July 15th My dad's saying he loves you I love you too So much, so much I'm going to give you a grandkid Oh my god, I'm the top of the world Oh my god, oh my god We have nothing new to you Yay, the best angel right? Thank you, Al So we just bought a box of chocolates And we're going to hide a t-shirt in there that says You're going to be a grandma And then we're going to give that to my mother Oh nice chocolate, what's this? I'd love it, it's perfect right? She'll never know She'll never know She will never know She will never know What! Aaaah! You already know you know me! This is not the thing! I'm about to tell my best friend that I'm pregnant. I'm so happy for you. Come on! So we're gonna tell our friends today. And what I did is I made a whole quiz with a little trivia about last year to see like who knows what everybody was up to. So when everybody's hyped up and we did the quiz, then we dropped the news. So I'm very curious to see how that goes. I'm six weeks pregnant. And this nausea is just totally killing me. Oh, our team doesn't know yet. So I'm homesick, which I think I am actually also sick. I feel like I can't really do anything. Like I can't scroll social media. That makes me nauseous. The TV, the moving elements makes me nauseous. Being nauseous and being in this first trimester and working with food, like that being the primary thing I do for work is just kind of like... I am just like so tired of this nausea. It's relentless. And I feel like I know I need to eat. I feel so hungry, but I can't. I know if I don't eat, my nausea is going to get worse. So I know I need to eat, but I don't want to eat. So I'm literally eating the plainest of plain crackers so that there's something in my stomach. It's so dry. It's brutal. For somebody who loves food and who works with food, I need to review the recipes that are going to go into the app. And even just looking at the photos, bringing about a gag reflex. It's terrible. Oh, I feel so useless. I feel like I'm not... I haven't been doing anything. And I know it's okay. I have been growing a little human, but it's exhausting. I'm not used to not being productive. I'm at this stage of pregnancy where I'm like, what did I get myself into? I'm like trying to remind myself that this is something to be very grateful for. We tried for a while to get pregnant. Not everyone can. And so I'm grateful. But at the same time, I'm so sick of being sick all the time. I feel so nauseous all the time. What we did see is that it was a very active baby. Very active. We are going to our 20-week ultrasound. I'm very excited. I'm very nervous. Mom and Dad. Mom and Dad. Mom and Dad. I'm 45 feet. It's not a lounge, of course. Oh, no. Mom and Dad. Oh, you can see the little... Oh, my gosh. Oh, I think I had the... Oh, that's like you. Yeah, that's right. That's a long girl. That's you. I don't have that. Now I'm just really relieved. So everything is very good with the little one. I always felt like when people showed these before, they were so uninteresting. They're just like little blobs. But now I'm like, look at the little nose. And then we didn't want to know if it's a boy or girl. So that's in this envelope. Although I did... She did say in the beginning, I will always call a baby... I'll say he. He. And she said... She said her spine. No. You didn't hear that? No. I heard that. Maybe she didn't even notice, but... No way. Yeah. Yeah. If I'm honest, I did hear her say her. After she checked the... After she checked, she said, now I have to check her spine. So I hope that she maybe just misspoke, but I think we already know. You want to just open it now? No, no, no. Really? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. She's getting emotional? Yeah. Yeah, we can... It's still up in the air. I mean, she didn't confirm anything. The confirmation isn't here. So it's still... It could still be anything. Okay. So our options were... We were either... Not gonna know till the day of. Let it be a surprise. I'm still okay with that. But holding this now in my hands is difficult. Yeah, I know. Of course. Option number two is we make a date. We do some baby stuff. We go for a nice dinner and we open it then. I like that idea. And then option number three is we just open up. Yeah, I'm pretty sure I already know. But let's make a date. Let's make a date out of it. Yeah? Nice little event. What are you doing? Looking up crib, baby. So Robin, the lady said the baby weighs 300 grams. 300 grams. It's heavy even. Yeah. I think it's also actually like this size too. Hehehehehe. Oh, this could be the best thing that I'll ever know. Mmm. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

=== FILE: BUDGET meals (save on groceries!) 🤑 [TlnyWhW3wek].txt ===

 Hi Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke Luke and trying out our app, or if you wanna return to it, we're gonna keep helping you out with your budget by offering a 25% discount off of our one year subscription. This is gonna be available for a limited time only and only through our website. So if you wanna check it out, scan this QR code right here, or there's a link in the description box. For now, let's dive in to making these recipes. First up, we're gonna make a homemade peanut granola. Some granolas can be super pricey, especially the ones that are loaded with a bunch of fancy nuts, but this recipe keeps things super simple with just seven simple ingredients. We're gonna start with adding three cups of rolled oats to a large bowl, along with half of a cup of peanuts, which I'm actually gonna just coarsely chop first. Plus we can add some ground cinnamon and a bit of salt, and then just give it all a quick mix. And now for the wet ingredients, I've just got some natural peanut butter here, made from 100% peanuts, no added oils or sugars. We're gonna add some of this to a small pan, along with some maple syrup, or you could use agave syrup for a more budget-friendly option. I'm just Canadian and love maple syrup. Plus we're gonna add a bit of melted coconut oil and vanilla extract. Then we're just gonna let this gently heat up so it all mixes together easily, and when it's smooth, we can pour it over the dry mixture in the bowl. Once you've given everything a really good stir, and it's all very well coated, we can then transfer the mixture to a lined baking tray, and then we can pop it into the oven at 320 Fahrenheit, or 160 Celsius, for about 20 to 25 minutes. Just be sure to give it a stir halfway through. Once you've taken it out of the oven, just let it cool down. It will continue to harden as it cools, and then you can transfer it to a jar to store and keep for breakfast for days to come. I like to enjoy this with either plant milk, or most often some yogurt, plus whatever fruit I've got on hand. I know I'm showing berries here. It's not the most budget-friendly ingredient, but truly, any fruits that you have and that you love will work right. For the next recipe, we're making a buffalo pasta salad. This one's big on flavor, low on cost, and we're gonna be using beans as the protein source because it's filling and affordable, but first, let's cook our pasta. One little quick tip. Anytime you're cooking pasta specifically for a pasta salad, cook it for two minutes longer than al dente. The reason is because when pasta cools, it hardens, but you don't want a hard pasta in your pasta salad. So to keep it nice and soft and a beautiful texture, just slightly overcook it, just a little bit. While that cooks, we're gonna prep our veggies, shredding some carrots, chopping some celery and red onion, along with some cherry tomatoes, and the best part, in my opinion, the pickles. Then we're gonna plop everything into a large bowl, and we can move on to the stove. We're gonna, in a small pan, heat up a splash of oil and lightly crisp up some butter beans, just for a few minutes. In place of the butter beans, if you prefer, chickpeas, lentils, or mock meats would work well here too. For the creamy, luscious dressing, we're gonna use vegan mayo, some unsweetened soy yogurt, Frank's hot sauce, that's what's making it buffalo style, and we're also gonna add our own homemade ranch spice mix. This is such a versatile spice mix. We use it in loads of recipes, so I'll link the recipe for this for you in the description box below as well. And then just mix everything together. When the pasta is cooked, we're gonna add it to the bowl, along with the beans. We're gonna pour over the dressing and toss everything together. Come on, how good does that look? It's so creamy, hearty, spicy, tangy, all at once. When you're ready, you can serve it up in some bowls. It's just like the perfect recipe for a weekday lunch, or even for meal prep. This next recipe is my new favorite weeknight dinner. It's a cozy eggplant orzo. You're gonna love it. We're gonna get this recipe started by cooking the orzo first, until it's al dente. All right, while that's cooking, we're gonna prep the only two ingredients that need chopping for this recipe, one medium onion and one eggplant that we're just gonna cut up into bite-sized pieces. Then we can heat up a bit of oil in a saute pan, add in the onion, and cook this until it's soft and golden. Then we can add in some tomato paste and a few heaping spoonfuls of vegan red pesto, and then just let that cook for about a minute to really help bring out the flavors and caramelize the tomato paste a bit. Next, we're gonna toss in the prepped eggplant, along with some cooked cannellini beans for plant protein, a splash of water, some soy cooking cream, nutritional yeast, salt, and pepper, and then give everything a stir, cover the pan with the lid, and let it simmer until the eggplant becomes soft and melt in your mouth, creamy. All right, while that's simmering, I'm gonna make an optional topping that's really simple to make, and it adds the perfect crunchy finish to this dish. So even though it is optional, I do definitely recommend it. We're just gonna heat a little bit of oil in a small pan, toss in some croutons with some Italian seasoning, and just cook it for a couple of minutes until it's golden and toasty, and that's it. When the orzo is al dente, we'll drain it and add it to the sauce in the pan, and then just stir it all together. When everything is beautifully coated, you can then plate it up right away, top it with those crispy, seasoned croutons, and a sprinkle of fresh basil if you've got it. This orzo is just so creamy and comforting and full of flavor, and it's made with just a handful of very simple ingredients. And that's it. Three easy budget-friendly recipes that'll help you save money without sacrificing on flavor. If you want even more budget-friendly recipes, be sure to check out our new filter for it in our app, and actually, we've even created a curated recipe collection with budget-friendly recipes that you'll find on the homepage of the app. So if you wanna snatch our 25% discount through our website while it's still available, be sure to scan this QR code right here, or check out the link I'll leave for you in the description box below. But thanks so much for hanging with me today, friends. I really appreciate it. I hope you enjoy these recipes. Pickup Limes signing off, and I'll see you in the next video. And that's it. What's that? You can't see really with this shirt, can you? If I pull it also, then yes. Six months now. This recipe keeps things super simple with just seven simple ingredients. I said simple twice. Who cares, right? Come on. Come on. My little rabbit. My little rabbit.

=== FILE: Make RESTAURANT-LEVEL salads ｜ 5 quick dressings 🥗 [6UjRjPvMJFM].txt ===

 Let's be honest, the best part of any salad is the dressing, but I feel like most store-bought dressings fall a little bit flat. They're not usually made with the highest quality ingredients, they can taste a little bit processed, and they're not particularly healthy. But today, we're going to fix that, because we're going to make our own five wholesome, completely different homemade salad dressings that take just like five minutes to whip up. So let's get right into it. If you're a balsamic lover, this first dressing is for you. It's our balsamic Dijon dressing, and it comes together in just a couple of minutes. So first, just grab a jar and add in a third of a cup of balsamic vinegar, a quarter of a cup of extra virgin olive oil, two tablespoons of Dijon mustard, two crushed cloves of garlic, a tablespoon of agave or maple syrup, two teaspoons of onion powder, and an eighth of a teaspoon of black pepper. Then just give this one a really good whisk, and you're ready to use it. This dressing pairs especially well with mixed greens and veggie salads that maybe have some fruit like mango or strawberry in it. The tartness of the vinegar and the sweetness of the fruit is just a lovely pairing. If you'd also like a great salad that pairs well with the dressings that we're making today, we actually built out a whole brand new collection in our app that has a whole bunch of dressings and all these different salads that go well with them. I'll link that link for you below. This next dressing is for my herb lovers. This is our green goddess dressing. This time instead of a jar, you're going to grab either a blender or a small food processor. So we're going to add in two thirds of a cup of unsweetened yogurt. I'm using soy yogurt, plus a third of a cup of vegan mayo, two tablespoons of lemon juice, which is the juice from about one lemon, a quarter of a cup each of fresh chives and parsley, and about two tablespoons each of fresh basil and dill. In general, we're just adding about three quarters of a cup of fresh herbs and you can add them in any combination that you'd like. Mint would also work great here. This is just my favorite combo. Then we can add in two cloves of garlic, a tablespoon of maple syrup, half of a tablespoon each of capers and miso paste and optionally a little pinch of salt. Then just blend this all up until it's creamy and gorgeously green and then you can pour it into a jar and you're good to go. Oh, they're so good. This is my favorite one. This one is just magic. Drizzled over leafy greens or chopped veggies, nourishables, honestly anything. This one is silver style and so delicious. So all the dressings that we're making today make enough for several servings, but if you're looking for just enough for a single serving salad, you can actually use the scaling feature that's on both our website and in our app to scale it to the amount that you'd like to make. It's probably the best salad I've ever made. Ever. This next dressing is for anyone who doesn't shy away from big flavor. It's our shallot vinaigrette. So I've got a medium shallot here that I very thinly sliced and we're just going to add this to our jar along with a quarter of a cup of white wine vinegar, but you could use apple cider vinegar or regular white vinegar. And the reason I love this dressing so much is that generally I just like shallots and onions in my salads, but they can be very sharp and very intense. And so when you let it mellow out and sit in this vinegar, you're kind of like pickling it, takes away some of that sharpness and in turn it also flavors the dressing. Then we can add in a third of a cup of extra virgin olive oil, a quarter of a cup of maple syrup, two teaspoons of Dijon mustard, and about an eighth of a teaspoon each of salt and black pepper. Once it's all mixed together, you can already add it to your favorite salad. It pairs really well with lentil or grain based salads or salads that have really hearty greens like this green bean salad for example. That is better than you think. That is so good. This next one is for the creamy dressing lovers. It's our tahini vinaigrette. You know the drill by now. Grab a jar, but this time we're going to add to it half of a cup of golden creamy tahini. Some store-bought tahinis are made from raw sesame seeds so they're very pale in color. Don't buy those ones. You want to buy the one that's golden in color. It means the sesame seeds have been lightly toasted. It gives a lovely rich flavor to the dressing. To that we're going to add half of a cup of water, about two tablespoons of lemon juice, a tablespoon each of olive oil and red wine vinegar, one clove of crushed garlic, half of a teaspoon each of ground cumin and paprika powder, and finally an eighth of a teaspoon of salt. Then just give this all a good mix. At first this dressing is going to look way too runny. Like you've done something wrong but you haven't. Keep going. This is a little bit of food chemistry actually at play here. So nut butters and seed butters like tahini, they have starches and proteins in them that soak up the water and it thickens up the mixture as you continue to stir. But that's the thing. You just got to keep stirring and then you're going to see it's going to transform into a creamy luscious dressing. This dressing is rich, nutty and full of warm earthy flavors and it pairs really well with roasted veggie salads like nourish bowls, simple chopped salads like the one you see here, or grain based salads. This next dressing is for the Asian-inspired salad lovers. It's our sesame ginger dressing and it comes together in just a couple of minutes. All right, just grab a jar and juice in one lime to start. Then we can add in three tablespoons each of rice vinegar and soy sauce and then two tablespoons each of toasted sesame oil, agave syrup and grated ginger and then lastly a teaspoon of toasted sesame seeds. Then we can pop the lid onto it, give it a good shake and it's ready to pour. This dressing is especially delicious with cabbage salads or noodle-based salad bowls. It's savory, tangy, a little sweet and totally addictive. I hope you love all of these dressings as much as I do and I'm curious to know which one you're going to try first. But all of the dressing recipes themselves are on our website and all of the salads are in our app so I'll link everything for you in the description box below. Thanks so much for hanging with me today friends. I really appreciate it. Pick up lines signing off and I'll see you in the next video. The best part of any salad is the dressing. Would you agree? No, that's really cheesy. So bad. You know, the dressing, oh, oh, what are you? At first this might look, the full dressing, that's it, five, I'm gonna pick up a lime. Come on, okay, I'll do that again.

=== FILE: One-pot WEEKNIGHT meals ｜ batch-friendly! [9we4K9AvLH8].txt ===

 naringin, Hey friends, welcome back! Today we're going to be making three different one-pot meals that check all the boxes. Minimal clean-up, quick and easy, and batch-friendly, so you can enjoy it for days to come. If you're interested in even more one-pot recipes, we've got a filter for that in our app. And by the way, you can now sign up to our app through our website. And to kick off the holiday season for a limited time, we're offering 25% off our annual subscription and our app gift cards. So if you're still looking for the perfect Christmas gift idea, use the code JOYFUL25 to snatch it. If you want to check that out, I'll leave a link for you in the description box below, or you can scan this QR code right here. But for now, grab your pot and let's get cooking. Our first recipe is proof that budget-friendly dishes can still be bold, hearty, and so delicious. This is our smoky lentil stew. To start, we're going to finely chop two medium onions, or if I can share a little kitchen hack. This is a new little gadget in our kitchen that we are growing very quickly obsessed with. It's a vegetable chopper. So if you're not a fan of chopping veggies, you can just add your veggies to this. If you slam down on it, it's just going to chop it up into these uniform little pieces. And I especially love using it for onions, because then you're not going to be crying as much. If you're interested, I'll leave a link for you in the description box. All right, next. We're going to heat up some oil in a saute pan, add in the onions, along with some salt. This is going to help them sweat out and just slowly stir it and let it caramelize over the next 15 minutes or so. You do want to be patient here. This step is where so much of the flavor develops. If you need to, you can always deglaze the pan with a little bit of water. While the onions cook, we're going to mince up some garlic, chop up some kale. Though spinach works just as well if that's what you've got on hand. And we're going to rinse some basmati rice. Then we can set all of this aside for later. Once the onions are beautifully golden, we're then going to add in some tomato paste, the minced garlic, smoked sweet paprika, and ground cumin. Then we're going to cook everything for another minute or two. Just make sure to stir it throughout so everything is toasting. Now it's time to bring the stew together. We're going to add in some veggie stock, the chopped kale, some cooked brown lentils, the rinsed rice, and a splash of dark soy sauce for a hit of umami. Let this all simmer gently for about 15 minutes. Be sure to stir it often though, because the rice can stick to the bottom of the pan as the stew thickens. And when the rice is fully cooked and tender, we can then dish it up. To serve, we're going to ladle the stew into bowls. And don't forget this step, this is crucial, we're going to top it with a dollop of vegan aioli. It's garlicky and creamy and it's just this beautiful rich contrast to the smoky stew. Now for convenience, we're using a store-bought aioli, but if you're interested in feeling adventurous, we do have a recipe for a homemade vegan aioli on our website that is so worth giving a try. It is so delicious. I'm going to leave that link for you in the description box below. But in a pinch, you can also use yogurt instead if you'd prefer. Now optionally, you can garnish it with some fresh dill or just dig in as is. The stew is thick, hearty, and incredibly satisfying, proving that budget-friendly doesn't have to mean boring. Mmm. Mmm. All right, for the next recipe, we're making a soup that's perfect for a chilly autumn or winter's day. It's our gnocchi soup. So we're going to first start with a little bit of prep. We're going to finely chop an onion, grab a couple of celery ribs, and finely chop those up as well. And then we'll shred one carrot. Then we can head over to the stove and grab a large pot, heat up a drizzle of oil, and then add the prepped veggies to the pot along with two crushed garlic cloves. Then we're just going to cook everything for about three to four minutes until it's fragrant. Next, we're going to sprinkle in a couple of spoonfuls of flour, and then stir constantly for about two minutes to help toast the flour. So this step just helps to thicken the soup slightly, but if you don't want to add any flour, you can skip this step. Just keep in mind the soup will be a bit thinner, and in that case, I'd also add a little less liquid later, just to help balance things out. Now we're ready to build the flavor. We're going to add two crumbled vegetable bouillon cubes, some water, a splash of vegan cooking cream, though canned coconut milk works great here too, a touch of nutritional yeast for a cheesy kick, an Italian spice mix, and finally a spoonful of miso paste for some rich umami. Then we're just going to let everything simmer gently, partially covered, for about 10 minutes so that the veggies can soften and the flavors can meld together. Now while the soup is simmering away, we're going to coarsely chop a couple of handfuls of fresh spinach for a little bit of extra green goodness. And once the veggies are cooked to your liking, you can add in the spinach, some vegan gnocchi, and a handful of frozen green peas for a boost of protein. We're then going to let everything cook for about three to four minutes or until the gnocchi is tender. And when you're ready, you can serve up this creamy, comforting soup in some bowls. Now I definitely recommend finishing this up with a drizzle of fresh lemon juice. It really brightens the dish and ties all the flavors together beautifully. But then I'm also going to add some optional toppings. I've got some vegan parm, some black pepper, and some chili flakes for heat. And there you have it. It's an easy, warming gnocchi soup that's perfect for cozy nights in. All right, next we're making a comforting chili that's going to bring coziness to your dinner table in just 20 minutes. The prep work here is so minimal. All we need to do is slice up two stalks of green onions. Just be sure to keep the white and the green parts separate. Then we're going to heat up some oil. Add in only the white parts of the green onion along with three crushed garlic cloves. And then we've got some spices. Ground cumin, coriander, chili powder, cayenne pepper, salt, and black pepper. We're then going to cook this mixture over medium-high heat for about three to four minutes or until it's fragrant. Okay, so a little tip about the heat here. This dish is on the spicier side. So if you prefer it to be a bit milder, you can either reduce the cayenne pepper or just skip it all together. And if you want this to be even easier, you can always use a Mexican seasoning mix instead of all of the individual spices that we've used. Now it's time to add the base of our chili. We're going to add in two cans of diced tomatoes, some cooked kidney beans, some tomato paste, adobo sauce, and a touch of brown sugar to balance out the acidity from the tomatoes. And now for some extra protein, we're also going to add some veggie ground. This comes already pre-cooked, so we're just going to add it straight in. But if you're using something like Beyond Meat or another fresh alternative, you're going to want to cook that and brown that first before you then add all of these other ingredients. If you're not a fan of muck meats though, you can always just add lentils or pinto beans instead. Let this all simmer gently for about seven to ten minutes, partially covered. And be sure to stir occasionally to keep everything from sticking to the bottom. The chili is going to just keep thickening beautifully and the flavors are going to melt so perfectly. And then whenever you're ready, it's time to serve it up. It's really that easy. So we're going to spoon the chili into our bowls. And then you're going to want to pair it with some crusty toasted bread to help scoop everything up. And the best part are the toppings. I'm piling on some diced avocado, quick pickled red onions, optional cilantro, and some crumbled vegan feta for saltiness. How good does that look? This chili is everything you need in a comforting meal. And the best part is it freezes like a dream. So make a big batch, save it for later, and you're going to have this delicious homemade meal ready to go whenever you need it. That's it for today, friends. Three different one-pot meals to simplify your weeknights. If you're hungry for even more delicious recipes, I welcome you to check out our app. And for a limited time, you can use the code JOYFUL25 only on our website to get 25% off our one-year subscription or our gift cards, a great holiday gift idea. I'll leave a link for you in the description box below or you can scan this QR code right here. Thanks for hanging with me today. I really appreciate it. Pickle Blinds signing off and I'll see you in the next video. Adding the flour here just helps to thicken the sloop. Adding the flour here just helps to thicken the sloop. Sloop. But if you'd prefer a thinner stoop, stoop. Don't eat too much because I need it for the... But also don't take small bites because then it'll be... It'll be obviously weird. But just don't take like massive bites and keep going. Okay, ready? Action!

=== FILE: The BEST Bakery-Style Chocolate Chip Cookies (egg-free, dairy-free!) 🍪 [hqd8i8eXDsQ].txt ===

 Every person needs to have a knock it out of the park chocolate chip cookie recipe in their arsenal, and this is that cookie recipe. We've tested dozens of variations in the quest to find the perfect cookie, and to me, this is how cookies should be. It's crunchy on the outside and soft on the inside. And in addition to showing you how to make the cookies, I thought it would also be fun to just dive into the science of why certain ingredients or certain steps are used so that you can understand baking a little bit better. So let's get started. Now, a good cookie recipe uses butter. We've got some unsalted vegan butter here, but we're gonna level this up by browning it. This is the secret step that really sets these cookies apart. So we're gonna start with adding this butter to a saucepan. Let it melt down. Eventually, you're gonna see it starts to foam. This is normal. We're just gonna keep cooking it until the butter turns brown. So you're gonna know it's done. We're gonna add the butter to the pan. We're gonna add the butter to the pan. We're gonna add the butter to the pan. We're gonna add the butter to the pan. The butter turns brown. So you're gonna know it's done when you see these grainy solids at the bottom of the pan. The butter's gonna be a bit brown, clear, and it's gonna have this nutty aroma. So for now, we're gonna set this to the side. We don't wanna add it in too soon because it's gonna melt the chocolate. Now, for a quick comparison, we tried this recipe with coconut oil and another one with just regular butter that isn't browned. Now, visually, they look similar, but on the tongue. The one made with coconut oil is kinda greasy and it lacks flavor. And the one that's using just regular butter, it's not that deep in complexity of flavor, but it's alright. It just tastes like, you know, your typical chocolate chip cookies. Alright, next, let's grab a bowl. We're gonna add to it both brown sugar and granulated sugar. So you might be wondering, why two different kinds of sugar? Why not just one? Well, it's a strategic choice. Brown sugar gives a caramel-like flavor, so that's lovely, but it also has molasses in it, and that adds moisture. So the cookies are gonna have more of this, like, soft and chewy center. And then the granulated sugar, that helps to crisp and harden up the outside, so it has a lovely crunch, and that's because of the way that the sugar crystallizes. Alright, next, we're gonna add in some milk. And then lastly, vanilla extract. And we can now pour the slightly cooled brown butter over everything and mix it all together. Look at that beautiful golden color. Next, we're gonna measure out our flour, but a little bit of background first. I grew up in Canada, and I feel like in North America, in general, we're taught to bake with cups and tablespoon measures, and it wasn't until I moved to Europe that I learned everyone here weighs their ingredients using a kitchen scale. So first, for my North American friends, if you're gonna be using cup measurements, just be careful not to scoop the flour directly with your measuring cup. This is gonna pack it down too much, and then we're gonna be adding too much flour. So instead, what you wanna do is just gently spoon the flour into the cup, and then level it off. That being said, the best method for accuracy is always to use a kitchen scale if you can. Baking is a science, and precision really matters, so the Europeans know what's up, but either way, we have both metric and imperial units of measure on our website for this recipe. So now, we're gonna sift the flour into the bowl. We're also gonna add some baking powder, baking soda, and salt. We're gonna stir these dry ingredients into the wet until it's partly combined, but not completely. And then finally, for the star of the show, we're gonna chop up some dark chocolate into big, satisfying chunks. I always prefer to chop my own chocolate, because it just creates these irresistible, melty pools of chocolate, whereas chocolate chips, in my opinion, they tend to hold their shape, but those work too if you prefer. We can then add these chocolate chunks to our bowl and stir until it's just combined, but make sure not to over mix. Now we're gonna chill our dough for exactly one hour. And just as a little experiment, we also baked some of these cookies without first refrigerating it, just to see what we could do with it. So we're gonna put some of these in the oven, and we're gonna start refrigerating it, just to see what would happen, and I think when you take a look, you'll see what went wrong. They obviously spread too much. This is like a pancake cookie. So why we refrigerate is it helps to solidify the fat, and that's gonna help prevent spreading, excessive spreading during baking. When the dough is finished cooling, we can start to make our cookies. I like to use an ice cream scooper for this, just because it creates uniform little cookies, but otherwise you can just scoop up about two tablespoons worth and roll it into a ball. And then we're gonna bake them on a lined baking tray. Just leave about five centimeters or so between each cookie, because they do spread. And then for a bakery-style look, I like to just put one or two chocolate chunks on top of each cookie. All right, now we can bake these. One tray at a time on the middle rack of the oven. It's been preheated to 350 Fahrenheit or 180 Celsius, and we're gonna bake it for 13 to 14 minutes or until they're golden. It's also worth mentioning that our oven is top and bottom heating only, so not fan-assisted. We're gonna over-cook the cookies. When cookies come out of the oven, they tend to spread unevenly, and that's totally okay. But if you're going for a bakery-style look, a little hack is to grab a cup and then just place it upside down over top of the cookie and give it a little shimmy. It's gonna shape the cookies into perfect circles that are all uniform in size. Pretty cool, right? And while the chocolate is still melted, I also like to sprinkle a little bit of flaky sea salt on top just to help boost that chocolate flavor. And now we're gonna let the cookies cool on the tray for a few minutes before we move them over to a wire rack to finish cooling. And there you have it, folks. The best bakery-style chocolate chip cookies, crunchy on the outside, soft on the inside, with a lovely complex flavor from browning the butter, and of course, those pools of melted chocolate. Ugh, it's so good. Oh, this is so good. Wow. Perfect. Thank you. The full recipe for this is on our website. The link is in the description box below. And if you're hungry for even more cookie recipes, more baked goods, more wholesome meals, we have a Pickle Blinds app. If you want to check it out, you can get seven days for free. I'll leave a QR code for you right here, and there's also a link in the description box below. And thanks for baking with me today, friends. I really appreciate it. I hope you love these cookies. Pickle Blinds signing off, and I'll see you in the next video. I'm sure it'll also work out just fine. That was terrible. Two tablespoons worth of the... One hour. That was aggressive. Without first refrigerating it, refrigerating it is without first refrigerating... Oh. Also, Alex knows my good side. Is that your good side? Yeah.

=== FILE: The BEST fudgiest brownies (egg-free + dairy-free!) [VxTfRrXOKC0].txt ===

 Today we're whipping up the ultimate double chocolate brownies. This is the only brownie recipe you're ever going to need. It's not too cakey, it's not too gooey, it's just that perfect ultra fudgy texture that we all love. And I guarantee, if you make these, everybody will be asking you for the recipe. So grab a bowl, let's get started. So traditional brownies rely on eggs for their binding, but what we're going to use instead is some ground flax seeds. These are a great alternative. So we're just going to add these flax seeds to a large bowl, along with some water and some freshly brewed espresso. The espresso enhances the chocolate flavor beautifully, but strong pour over coffee works too, or if you're in a pinch, you could just use some water, but trust me, the coffee makes all the difference here. And now we can give everything a good stir. And next we're going to add in some granulated sugar, some brown sugar, and vanilla extract. Using both granulated sugar and brown sugar is a crucial choice. So the granulated sugar adds this classic sweetness, but it also helps to crisp up the edges of the brownies, whereas the brown sugar adds moisture, so that's going to contribute to chewiness, but also it adds this like subtle caramel undertone. So now that everything is in the bowl, we're just going to mix it all together. Next, let's set up a double boiler. For this, we're going to add a few centimeters of water into a saucepan, bring it all to a simmer, and then place a heat-proof bowl on top. And then into the bowl, we're going to add some unsalted vegan butter and some dairy-free dark chocolate. So the gentle heat from the steam is heating up the bowl, and that in turn is going to heat up the chocolate without burning it. And as soon as the chocolate is melted, we're then going to take the bowl off the heat, just be careful because it will be hot, and then just transfer everything to the large bowl and give it all a good mix. Next, we can add in the dry ingredients. One thing that's important to mention, if you're using measuring cups, try to measure out the flour gently with a spoon, just placing it into the cup and then leveling it off without packing it. If you over-pack, it means there's going to be too much flour in these brownies. That's going to contribute to a more cakey texture instead of a lovely fudgy texture. But ideally, if you've got a kitchen scale, you're going to want to use that to weigh out the ingredients. It's going to allow for more precision. So next, just grab a sieve and add to it the flour, along with some Dutch process cocoa powder. Other kinds of cacao and cocoa powder might work too, but we like to use Dutch process because it's alkalized, which means it's less acidic, and that's going to contribute to a more rich and smooth chocolate flavor. We're also going to add a bit of baking powder to give the brownies just the right amount of lift, plus a bit of salt to balance the flavors. This is why we always want to use a sieve when adding our dry ingredients. The cocoa powder in particular really likes to clump, and so by sifting it, we're helping to break apart those clumps. And now we can just mix this all up until it's partly combined, and for the best part, we're going to chop up some more chocolate into chunks, reserve a little handful of it for later, add the rest of it to the bowl, and mix until it's just combined, but be careful not to over-mix. Now, what kind of baking pan should you use when you're making brownies? Ceramic, metal, glass. For the best brownies, you want to use a metal pan if you can, and especially the lighter-colored ones. So metal conducts heat very quickly and evenly. That's going to make sure that the baking is very consistent. If you're using a darker-colored metal pan, though, just remember that darker things absorb heat a lot more, so you might want to drop your oven temperature by just a few degrees. And while glass and ceramic, they work too. They tend to take a lot longer to heat up, and so that could end up, you know, under-cooking the middle of your brownie or over-cooking the outside of your brownie because it's not cooking as consistently. So a lighter-colored tin is best. Now, here's a little hack on how you can perfectly line your baking pan with parchment paper. First, we're going to cut a piece of parchment paper slightly larger than the pan, and we're going to place the pan on top of the parchment and just mark at each corner. Then we're going to fold along those markings, and then using scissors, we're going to make one cut at each corner to wear the folds we need. And now the paper should fit perfectly into the pan. If you want, you can also use a little bit of butter to help the parchment stay in place, and voila, your pan is perfectly lined and ready to go. Now, we're going to transfer the batter to the prepared dish, and since it's on the thicker side, just be sure to smooth out the top. For a bakery-style finish, you can sprinkle the reserved chocolate bits over top of everything, and we're going to place the brownies in a preheated oven set to conventional top and bottom heating. Avoid the fan-assisted setting. We're just going to bake these at 350 Fahrenheit or 180 Celsius for 30 to 35 minutes. When these brownies come out of the oven, this is the hardest part I feel like, which is we have to wait, and patience is a virtue that pays off with brownies, so ideally, we want to wait a couple of hours. For it to come to room temperature, it's also going to make it easier to cut, but if you want the ultimate fudgy texture, pop these brownies into the fridge. I find the texture is even better the next day, which makes it perfect to prep if you want to, but if you can't wait, enjoying the brownies' warm is of course delicious, too. And that, my friends, is how you make extraordinary, rich, fudgy, and utterly packed with chocolate brownies. The full breakdown for this brownie recipe is on our website. The link for that is in the description box below, and if you're hungry for even more, we have an incredible app. If I do say so myself, that has lots of delicious baked goods on it, and some wholesome recipes, if you want to try out seven days for free, I'm going to leave a QR code for you right here to scan. There's also a link in the description box below, and if you try these brownies, let me know what you think. Very curious. Take a while I'm signing off. Thanks for baking with me today. See you in the next video. We've got some strong pour-over, what, measuring double chocolate brownies. The gentle heat that's... It's like one little beat. I think it's this guy. Three, two, and one. The gentle. Is it okay? It came back? Yeah. You gotta get that perfect slice. Oh my God! Why can't I... There we go.

=== FILE: These small word shifts change how people respond to you. [p8XCBNylI7g].txt ===

! languageеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньеньень It's a great read. I'll link it for you below, but for now, let's dive in. One, turn actions into identities. So there was this nursery classroom in California where researchers tried something interesting. They asked one group of preschoolers to help clean up, and then they asked the other group to be helpers and clean up. But that tiny little shift in wording made a huge difference from a verb, to help, to a noun, a helper. The group of kids that were asked to be helpers actually helped significantly more, and they were more likely to help again later. Why? Because the verb help is just an action. You do it once and move on. But the noun helper is an identity. It describes who you are, and identities are powerful. Because when you feel like it's part of who you are, you don't feel like you have to force it. You just act in alignment with it. It also works so well in how we connect with other people. Essentially, if you and someone else aren't seeing eye to eye, instead of saying something like, can you be more understanding? You can try, you've always been such an understanding person. Can we talk about this? It's less criticism, and it's more like an invitation for them to show up as their best self. And people, most people, want to live up to that positive version of themselves. Two, shift away from first person language. Sometimes the way we say things can build walls without us meaning to. So let's first talk relationships, whether this is friends, family, partner, doesn't matter. If things are getting heated or emotional, and you're using you or I, which is first person language, it can accidentally sound like blame, even if that wasn't our intention. So if I were to say to my partner, you never have time for me, it can come across as an accusation. You did this to me. Now compare that instead to saying, it feels like we haven't had much time together lately. The you and I have disappeared, and so does the blame. It now focuses on the situation instead of the person, and so it makes it feel a lot more caring and less confrontational. And you can use this little language shift when you're talking to yourself as well. If you were to say, I'm so bad at this, the I makes it personal. It turns one moment of frustration into self-judgment. If you were instead to say, though, this isn't going the way it's supposed to. Notice how the I is gone, how the focus moves from I'm the problem to the situation is the problem. And when the situation is the problem, we can ask ourselves, you know, how can I fix this? Three, replace should with could. The word should, I've always felt like it's just pressure. It carries with it the sense of like guilt and obligation, like there's only one right answer, and you've been getting it wrong. Like I should work out more. I should eat better. I should be further ahead by now. Every time we say the word should, we create a gap between who we are and who we think we're supposed to be. And that feels heavy, right? But if we were to change that one word instead to could, the energy completely changes. I could go for a walk after lunch. I could make something nourishing for dinner. I could spend a few minutes working on my project. It shifts our mindset from guilt to choice, from I have to, to I get to. And the research backs this up, that using high pressure or controlling language, words like you must, you have to, you should, it makes people push back. It triggers something that psychologists call psychological reactance, which is essentially our brain saying, nope, I don't wanna do that because our freedom feels threatened. And we don't like that. We want self-determination. But now when the same message is phrased in a more open way, you could, you might consider, one option is to, people become far more receptive because you're supporting their autonomy. So this works anytime you're talking to other people or even to yourself. Four, replace but with and. How many times have you heard something like, what you wrote was really good, but it's like the moment we hear the word but, everything that came before it disappears. It's like hitting the delete button on the compliment. So instead of using but, try using and. I've always felt that and is a bridge instead of a wall. It connects ideas instead of canceling them out. For example, if you were to say, you're doing great, but here's what to fix. You could instead say, you're doing great. And here's what could make it even better. It changes the tone. It goes from being corrective to collaborative. And we can also use that whenever we're talking to ourselves. You know, instead of, I did a lot, but I could have done more. You could try, yeah, I did a lot, and I can keep improving. But creates tension and builds connection. Five, add a because. This one might sound small and trivial, but it can actually be really helpful, which is just to add the word because. There's a very well-known psychology experiment where researchers tested what would happen if they approached people who were about to use the photocopier and ask if they could cut ahead. They tried three different versions of the same request. In the first version, they gave no reason at all. Excuse me, may I use the copier? About 60% of the people said yes. In the second group, they gave a clear, meaningful reason for why they wanted to budge ahead. Excuse me, may I use the copier because I'm in a rush? Compliance then jumped to about 94%. In the third group, they gave a reason that wasn't even helpful. It was practically just filler, but they still used the word because. Excuse me, may I use the copier? Because I need to make more copies. Even still, surprisingly, compliance was over 90%. What this shows is that people respond far more positively when they hear the word because followed by a reason. Why? Because it gives the request a sense of logic and purpose. Our intention becomes clear, and that little bit of clarity makes us more willing to cooperate. So let's say, for example, you're in a meeting and you feel like it's running long. Instead of saying, can we wrap this up soon? Which can sound abrupt, maybe even rude. You could instead say, can we wrap this up soon? Because I want to be mindful of everyone's time. It's the same request, but now instead of it feeling pushy, it feels thoughtful. And you can use this whenever you're talking to yourself too. Instead of saying, I need to get this done, you could try saying, I need to get this done, because I'm going to feel so much better once it's off my plate. That word because really just puts your why in focus. And when you remember your reason, motivation naturally follows. But I'd love to hear from you. I'm curious if there are any language swaps that you make yourself or that you'd like to make after watching this video. I always think we can learn from each other's examples. Thanks so much for hanging with me today. I really appreciate it. Big Up Limes signing off, and I'll see you in the next video.

=== FILE: What I eat in a day + gender reveal 🥹🧸 [rQ24EaY6r_g].txt ===

 What is today? Today we're going to find out, if it's a baby girl or baby boy. Are you awake? Do you feel it? No. No? Is it falling back in the chair? But it did move to your voice before, just here. Hello, this is your papa. Come on now, my voice is empty. Hello. Good morning. Hello. Good morning. Hello. Good morning. Hello. Good morning. For me and the bubs, we have officially entered the third trimester, so I'm seven months pregnant now. On the one hand, it feels like baby's coming so far into the distant future. On the other hand, it feels like it's tomorrow and I'm totally not ready. But, I'm gonna make some breakfast right now. Lately, all I've been craving are like fresh things. So, I'm gonna make some a little bit more fresh for breakfast. I wanted to just do a top shot while I'm making the recipe and I just was gonna tape my phone to the ceiling. But instead, I don't think that's a good idea. And Robin's building a c-stand like contraption on our ceiling. The perks of being an engineer. No way. Hello. Hello. So I've just used canned peaches because peaches aren't in season right now, but if they are for you, use fresh, ripe peaches. That would be best. Cooking it gets it so nice and caramelized and it makes it just sweeter. I am making what Americans would call bruschetta, what Italians, and I'm gonna butcher this, would say bruschetta, but this is like a modified version, obviously. This is also not traditional, but I'm kind of making it breakfast style because I'm gonna put cream cheese on it and then layer on the peachy, tomatoey mixture. Gonna add a little bit of basil on top, a little bit more olive oil, and that's it. Voila, breakfast. I'm so nervous. I'm so nervous the Italians are gonna get mad at me. This is delicious. Really? I'm not just saying that. No, of course not. It's really quick. It's so fresh with these tomatoes. Yeah, right? Bubs is happy. I am somebody who is chronically dehydrated and I feel like it's just such obvious classic advice. Have a water bottle. It'll help you drink more water. Honestly, it does. I don't know why I haven't done this sooner. I try to have one of these by noon, one by the end of the afternoon, and one before I go to bed, on top of anything else I might be drinking. And if I'm being honest, if it's just plain water, I'm not drinking it, so I gotta flavor it. And I'm noticing ice, this is probably such a pregnant person thing to say, really helps. I don't know why. There's something about the coldness that keeps me coming back. And then I flavor it either with like mint or cucumbers or sometimes just like a syrup. This has no added sugars. And just a little, I just need a little bit to flavor it. And then I'll actually drink the water. But I'm noticing it's like helping with my digestion so much. And it's helping with like, the stretch of my stomach was actually really painful. And I feel like it's because maybe my skin was dry. But ever since I've been having three of these a day, the discomfort of like a growing belly has decreased so much. Okay, so it's lunchtime and I want to make a Lebanese feta for lunch. This is a dish I grew up eating all the time. It is so delicious. And one of the other reasons I wanna make it is that it's very high in iron. It has 10 milligrams of iron per serving, which is a lot. And I'm trying to be more mindful of my iron intake because my needs have increased now that I'm pregnant. And I know this because for the last two years, myself and our dietitian teammate in Canada have been working so hard on a resource that I can now finally share with you, which is our pregnancy ebook. So essentially, when I knew I wanted to become pregnant, even I had questions about my nutrient requirements, even though I studied to be a dietitian. And I was wondering, you know, can I meet my needs while I'm plant-based? The answer is unequivocally yes, by the way. And we've done a deep dive into the research and we share everything from what your needs are per trimester to what some common concerns are. We bust myths, we give recipes. There's just so much wealth of information all compiled into one little place. So if you or anyone that you know is curious about being plant-based and being pregnant at the same time, we've got you covered. This ebook is now on our website, which I will link for you below. I'm really proud of it. I hope you enjoy it. But for now, let's make some lunch. All right, first up, we're slicing these into little bite-sized pieces. You could also tear them if you want to be a little bit more lazy. Traditionally, this is deep fried, but I'm gonna bake it so that we don't need to use as much oil. Oh my gosh, it's everywhere. This bump is just... I'm not used to it being in the way all the time. Oh, I didn't turn it on. Wait. This is a trick my mom taught me. You gotta toast the tomato paste to get it nice and kind of like caramelized. It gets a little bit sweet, gets more fragrant. and then we add in the eggplant. Did you know, actually, right now the baby's the size of an eggplant? Oh my god, oh no, oh no, oh no. Though, eggplants come in such different sizes, I never understand the whole, like, your baby is the size of a leek. Is it a little skinny and long? What does that mean? This recipe is inspired by a dish that a Lebanese family that we grew up with, they would make it for us all the time. We'd immigrated to Canada around the same time. My friend's mom, she would always do it with meat. We're doing just the plant-based version with chickpeas. All right, let me just cover this and let it simmer for about 10 minutes. A couple of these are crispier than I want them to be, but that's okay. That's okay. It's gonna be crunchy. How good does this look? And we got springtime sunshine. I wanna show this wisteria plant. Look at that. We planted that a few years ago, and look at how beautiful. It's finally giving flowers. It's so saucy. It's good. I like it. It's good. I like it. It's good. I like it. So we have finally gotten started on the baby room, and that room is just really boring. It's just white walls. I wanted it to look a little bit cuter. I had seen online some DIY wall paneling. So let me take you back to the last week when we got started on that. We got about two things about this. We got about two things about this. color that my mother has in her living room. So she had a little bit left. And so I thought maybe we just try it. Very soft neutral color. And then yesterday we wanted to work on the room some more. So essentially our objective is to create a gender neutral room before we find out if we're having a boy or girl because we don't want to be influenced. But painting walls that went all kinds of sideways. I like this color but it's not bold enough. So we got another paint. Because you know you're looking at a little sample that's like that big. How is it going to reflect on the wall? We'll see. We'll see. We'll see. It's peachy though. It is a bit peachy. I knew it. I knew it. But we'll see when it's on the wall. Who knows? Oh my gosh this is really curly. For reference I was going for terracotta. But a lighter one. You wanted a shade lighter. Faded terracotta is what I was going for. If it was a girl we just keep it and screw it. And if it was a boy I don't want to clean it up. I like the color. I think. Okay. For me it's I think simple. If it's supposed to be a neutral color groom that works for both genders equally well. I don't think this color works. I agree. Do we have a different color now? I think so. Yeah. This time I choose it. Sure. Yeah. Yeah. I think we've now swung in the opposite direction. It's going to be like too neutral. Now we're really it's just going to be a beige room. Yeah. This is like the classic millennial. But what else? You have no color. You're just beige. What else? Looks white. Warm cream. Oh my god. It still looks kind of pink. Like this is just a baby pink and that's just a deep pink. What the hell? What the hell? Previous color. Second color. This selfie is pink. Are you happy? I feel like if we get a new paint probably it's a little risk. It works. We're keeping it. We're keeping it. Yeah? We're making a nice room for you. But we have a lot of stress on the color. Are you a girl or a girl? It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. So now that the groundwork and the foundation have been laid our goal for today is to just decorate the room. So let's go. That's always so satisfying. I see a girl in the field. I see a girl in the field. I see a girl in the field. So this is dressed out. I don't know. That looks weird man. It makes so much sense. Look at this. It's weird. It's jutting out into the room. But it's the main thing. It's the baby. I see a girl in the field. You can see your face. It's the male thing. You said I can see her in the field. I can see her in the field. I get your way. Remember, I get my way next time. I get my way next time. That's so cute. I get my way next time. I get my way next time. Lately, I've been making sure to keep a batch of energy balls in the fridge or freezer. I make loads of different flavor combinations or different kinds. These ones are raspberry ones. You can find these in our app. But I find that when I get hungry lately, it's not gentle hunger. Baby needs to eat now. Hangry. But this one looks so weird. It's very cheesecake-like. I've been keeping one or two of these by my bed because I wake up in the middle of the night ravenous. Back to baby room. I'll just take one to rob him. I'll just take one. Do you have it? It's time. Are you nervous? Yeah. Me too. The giraffe is just staring you down right now. Yeah. So in our last video, we had mentioned how Robin thinks he heard the ultrasound technician tell us whether we were having a boy or girl. Although, she did say in the beginning, I will always call a baby him. I'll say he. He. And she said, she said her spine. No. You didn't hear that? No. I heard that. So I hope that she maybe just misspoke. But I think we already know. That was already like two months ago. So we still don't know if we're having a boy or girl. And it's here in the envelope. And we had told ourselves that when we get the baby room set up as gender neutral as we can, though this is still looking pretty pink, then we would kind of reward ourselves with finding out. Reward. That's the wrong word. But you know what I mean. So I've done enough cooking today. I felt like it feels a bit more like a date to have our favorite takeout and learn more about this little bugs. I'm nervous. Okay. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. It's a girl. Are you glad the walls are painting? Yes! It wouldn't have mattered. Maybe I was the world's universe's way of telling us. Isn't this pink paint all the time? Hey, baby girl. Kate ate smack in it. Almost feels bad to you now. It felt like a good idea, but I'm not eating to process. I can't eat right now. I'm gonna have a girl. Oh, she's gonna break you. I know. I know. I know. Yes! We're gonna gang up on you so hard. Whoa. I'm just gonna say that for the next few days. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. I'm gonna eat a snack. It's really good. Gosh, it's so spicy. I'm a good one.

=== FILE: easy AIR FRYER snacks 🫒 (+ oven instructions) [lQU8pi0COAs].txt ===

 followed followed, followed, followed, followed, followed, followed, followed, followed, followed, followed, followed, followed, followed, followed, followed, followed, followed, followed, If you buy a one-year app gift card, we're going to throw in an extra one for free. So you're going to get two for the price of one. Perfect if you want to give the gift of not having to think about what to make for dinner. So I'm going to leave a QR code for you right here to scan if you want to check that out. For now, let's dive in. We're starting with potatoes first because when have potatoes not been the star of the show, right? And these potatoes are going to disappear fast, I promise. But before we begin, we have to do a little potato 101 because the type and variety of potato that you choose is going to make a big difference in how crispy these get. I think that was it. For this recipe, starchy potatoes work best. This is something like russet potatoes if you're in North America or flowery potatoes as they're called if you're in Europe. When they boil, they develop this kind of like fluffy, rough exterior. And that's exactly what makes them really crispy and crunchy once they're out of the air fryer. Now, waxy potatoes like red potatoes, these stay more firm, which is great if you're making something like a potato salad, you want it to keep its shape. But for a recipe like this one, they don't get that rough exterior that then makes them crunchy. So I don't recommend choosing these ones. Now, all-purpose potatoes, something like Yukon Gold, that's medium starch content. Somewhere in between starchy and waxy, that'll work too. But for this recipe right now, I'm going to be using starchy potatoes. Okay, first we're going to peel our potatoes. And then you can chop them up into roughly one and a half centimeter chunks. Then we can pop them into a pot of cold water. Now, why cold water? Because if you're using boiling water, the outside of the potatoes are going to cook way faster than the inside. So it's going to get kind of soft, even maybe a bit mushy on the outside while the inside is still firm. It's a bit of a mess. But if you start with cold water, then the potatoes are going to heat up gradually with the water. So the outside and the inside are cooking evenly. At this point, we're going to add some salt. Don't skip the salt. This is really important in seasoning. It's going to make its way through the potato. Don't skip the salt. And then we're also going to add a little bit of baking soda. The baking soda is just like a little hack that roughens up the surface of the potatoes. And that helps to make them extra crispy. And so now we're going to let this cook at a gentle boil for about eight minutes. Meanwhile, we're going to make our seasoned coating. To a small bowl, we're going to add some vegetable oil, salt, garlic powder, a touch of smoked paprika, and black pepper. Then just whisk it all together. Then we're going to drain the potatoes, add them to a bowl, pour over the coating, and very gently toss everything to coat. You do want to be gentle while you're stirring this, but if it does get roughed up a little bit, that's actually okay. It's going to contribute to the crunchiness later. Now, into the air fryer they go at 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit. First for 10 minutes, then give it a shake, and then another 10 to 15 minutes until they're gloriously golden and crispy. It may be a bit chaotic. Yeah, you can almost flip that over yourself. Hot. Woo! But it's good. You can serve them just like this or with a little bit of vegan mayo, ketchup, or your favorite dipping sauce. Honestly, this could be the recipe of the video, but there are still two more. This next recipe is breaded feta stuffed olives. Literally my obsession. I love olives, and I'm sorry, if you don't love olives, I don't think we could ever be friends. Or better yet, maybe try this recipe. It'll convert you, and then we'll be besties for life. Also, they're so crunchy. To a small food processor, we're going to add some firm tofu, coconut oil, a sprinkle of nutritional yeast, apple cider vinegar, onion powder, smoked paprika, salt, and a touch of agave syrup. Then pop the lid onto it, blend it all together until it's creamy, and then transfer this mixture to a piping bag or a Ziploc bag, snip the corner, and then proceed to pipe the filling into your green olives. This is oddly satisfying to do. Okay, then we set up our dipping station. The first bowl is a dry mix with some flour and garlic powder. Mix, mix. Then a wet batter with equal parts flour and soy milk. Mix, mix. And lastly, a breading featuring breadcrumbs, panko breadcrumbs, and some raw sesame seeds. Mix, mix. Mix. Okay, now you could coat these olives one by one, but I find that's pretty time consuming, and I'm always looking for shortcuts. So my tip is to just plop a few of these into the flour bowl, and then just give it a twirl to coat them. Then you can drop them into the milk mixture and use spoons to cover them, and then pick them up one at a time, letting any excess wetness drip off before you transfer it to the breadcrumb bowl. Then you can bury them to coat them in the breading, and then it's like a treasure hunt. Find them to scoop them back up. Okay, now into the air fryer basket they go. Spray them with cooking oil, and then just 12 minutes later, you've got these golden little bites that are perfect for entertaining as an appetizer, as a snack, during movie night, whatever. They're so good. Oh my god. I could eat this whole thing to myself. And last, but certainly not least, dessert. Cinnamon sugar-coated donut holes. So grab a large bowl and add to it some flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt, and just mix it all together. Then we're going to add in some soy yogurt and a tiny splash of soy milk, and then we can stir it all with a spoon before bringing it together gently with our hands. Now you don't want to knead it. You're just bringing it together and scooping up any bits of flour as you go along. Now once it all comes together, if it feels too wet, you can add a little sprinkle of flour as needed, and then divide it roughly into eight portions. It doesn't have to be perfect. And roll each of these portions up into a small bowl. Now we can pop these into the air fryer basket. Spray it with some cooking oil. And cook at 350 Fahrenheit or 180 Celsius for about 10 minutes or until they're golden. Now while that's cooking away, we're going to melt some vegan butter in the microwave or on the stove. Up to you. And then combine some sugar and cinnamon in another bowl. Now once these balls are lightly golden and while they're still warm, we're going to want to coat them. First, we're going to dunk them in the melted butter, fully coating them. Just make sure to let as much of the melted butter drip off as you can before you then transfer it to the cinnamon sugar mixture to roll it around in that. Oh, it smells like a bakery in here. It smells so good. And how fast is that? A dessert that comes together so quickly, it's impossible to eat just one. Mmm. And there you have it, friends. Three of my personal favorite air fryer recipes right now. Perfect for the holidays. But if you're hungry for even more, we have a brand new collection that we launched in our app. I'll link that for you below. And just remember too that for a limited time, buy one gift card, get one free. I feel like it's the perfect holiday treat. So be sure to scan this QR code right here if you want to learn more. Thanks for cooking with me today. I really appreciate it. Pick a Blym signing off and I'll see you in the next video. It's going to be a good day. It's going to be a good day. I'm on fire. I'm on fire today. This is really important in the season. Why am I? Now I'm stammering. And we've been, like I said, being... What's happening? This is like rosset potatoes if you're... I was going to say sweet potato, but just a normal potato side dish. No, okay.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.616757Z ===
