 What is today? Today we're going to find out, if it's a baby girl or baby boy. Are you awake? Do you feel it? No. No? Is it falling back in the chair? But it did move to your voice before, just here. Hello, this is your papa. Come on now, my voice is empty. Hello. Good morning. Hello. Good morning. Hello. Good morning. Hello. Good morning. For me and the bubs, we have officially entered the third trimester, so I'm seven months pregnant now. On the one hand, it feels like baby's coming so far into the distant future. On the other hand, it feels like it's tomorrow and I'm totally not ready. But, I'm gonna make some breakfast right now. Lately, all I've been craving are like fresh things. So, I'm gonna make some a little bit more fresh for breakfast. I wanted to just do a top shot while I'm making the recipe and I just was gonna tape my phone to the ceiling. But instead, I don't think that's a good idea. And Robin's building a c-stand like contraption on our ceiling. The perks of being an engineer. No way. Hello. Hello. So I've just used canned peaches because peaches aren't in season right now, but if they are for you, use fresh, ripe peaches. That would be best. Cooking it gets it so nice and caramelized and it makes it just sweeter. I am making what Americans would call bruschetta, what Italians, and I'm gonna butcher this, would say bruschetta, but this is like a modified version, obviously. This is also not traditional, but I'm kind of making it breakfast style because I'm gonna put cream cheese on it and then layer on the peachy, tomatoey mixture. Gonna add a little bit of basil on top, a little bit more olive oil, and that's it. Voila, breakfast. I'm so nervous. I'm so nervous the Italians are gonna get mad at me. This is delicious. Really? I'm not just saying that. No, of course not. It's really quick. It's so fresh with these tomatoes. Yeah, right? Bubs is happy. I am somebody who is chronically dehydrated and I feel like it's just such obvious classic advice. Have a water bottle. It'll help you drink more water. Honestly, it does. I don't know why I haven't done this sooner. I try to have one of these by noon, one by the end of the afternoon, and one before I go to bed, on top of anything else I might be drinking. And if I'm being honest, if it's just plain water, I'm not drinking it, so I gotta flavor it. And I'm noticing ice, this is probably such a pregnant person thing to say, really helps. I don't know why. There's something about the coldness that keeps me coming back. And then I flavor it either with like mint or cucumbers or sometimes just like a syrup. This has no added sugars. And just a little, I just need a little bit to flavor it. And then I'll actually drink the water. But I'm noticing it's like helping with my digestion so much. And it's helping with like, the stretch of my stomach was actually really painful. And I feel like it's because maybe my skin was dry. But ever since I've been having three of these a day, the discomfort of like a growing belly has decreased so much. Okay, so it's lunchtime and I want to make a Lebanese feta for lunch. This is a dish I grew up eating all the time. It is so delicious. And one of the other reasons I wanna make it is that it's very high in iron. It has 10 milligrams of iron per serving, which is a lot. And I'm trying to be more mindful of my iron intake because my needs have increased now that I'm pregnant. And I know this because for the last two years, myself and our dietitian teammate in Canada have been working so hard on a resource that I can now finally share with you, which is our pregnancy ebook. So essentially, when I knew I wanted to become pregnant, even I had questions about my nutrient requirements, even though I studied to be a dietitian. And I was wondering, you know, can I meet my needs while I'm plant-based? The answer is unequivocally yes, by the way. And we've done a deep dive into the research and we share everything from what your needs are per trimester to what some common concerns are. We bust myths, we give recipes. There's just so much wealth of information all compiled into one little place. So if you or anyone that you know is curious about being plant-based and being pregnant at the same time, we've got you covered. This ebook is now on our website, which I will link for you below. I'm really proud of it. I hope you enjoy it. But for now, let's make some lunch. All right, first up, we're slicing these into little bite-sized pieces. You could also tear them if you want to be a little bit more lazy. Traditionally, this is deep fried, but I'm gonna bake it so that we don't need to use as much oil. Oh my gosh, it's everywhere. This bump is just... I'm not used to it being in the way all the time. Oh, I didn't turn it on. Wait. This is a trick my mom taught me. You gotta toast the tomato paste to get it nice and kind of like caramelized. It gets a little bit sweet, gets more fragrant. and then we add in the eggplant. Did you know, actually, right now the baby's the size of an eggplant? Oh my god, oh no, oh no, oh no. Though, eggplants come in such different sizes, I never understand the whole, like, your baby is the size of a leek. Is it a little skinny and long? What does that mean? This recipe is inspired by a dish that a Lebanese family that we grew up with, they would make it for us all the time. We'd immigrated to Canada around the same time. My friend's mom, she would always do it with meat. We're doing just the plant-based version with chickpeas. All right, let me just cover this and let it simmer for about 10 minutes. A couple of these are crispier than I want them to be, but that's okay. That's okay. It's gonna be crunchy. How good does this look? And we got springtime sunshine. I wanna show this wisteria plant. Look at that. We planted that a few years ago, and look at how beautiful. It's finally giving flowers. It's so saucy. It's good. I like it. It's good. I like it. It's good. I like it. So we have finally gotten started on the baby room, and that room is just really boring. It's just white walls. I wanted it to look a little bit cuter. I had seen online some DIY wall paneling. So let me take you back to the last week when we got started on that. We got about two things about this. We got about two things about this. color that my mother has in her living room. So she had a little bit left. And so I thought maybe we just try it. Very soft neutral color. And then yesterday we wanted to work on the room some more. So essentially our objective is to create a gender neutral room before we find out if we're having a boy or girl because we don't want to be influenced. But painting walls that went all kinds of sideways. I like this color but it's not bold enough. So we got another paint. Because you know you're looking at a little sample that's like that big. How is it going to reflect on the wall? We'll see. We'll see. We'll see. It's peachy though. It is a bit peachy. I knew it. I knew it. But we'll see when it's on the wall. Who knows? Oh my gosh this is really curly. For reference I was going for terracotta. But a lighter one. You wanted a shade lighter. Faded terracotta is what I was going for. If it was a girl we just keep it and screw it. And if it was a boy I don't want to clean it up. I like the color. I think. Okay. For me it's I think simple. If it's supposed to be a neutral color groom that works for both genders equally well. I don't think this color works. I agree. Do we have a different color now? I think so. Yeah. This time I choose it. Sure. Yeah. Yeah. I think we've now swung in the opposite direction. It's going to be like too neutral. Now we're really it's just going to be a beige room. Yeah. This is like the classic millennial. But what else? You have no color. You're just beige. What else? Looks white. Warm cream. Oh my god. It still looks kind of pink. Like this is just a baby pink and that's just a deep pink. What the hell? What the hell? Previous color. Second color. This selfie is pink. Are you happy? I feel like if we get a new paint probably it's a little risk. It works. We're keeping it. We're keeping it. Yeah? We're making a nice room for you. But we have a lot of stress on the color. Are you a girl or a girl? It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. So now that the groundwork and the foundation have been laid our goal for today is to just decorate the room. So let's go. That's always so satisfying. I see a girl in the field. I see a girl in the field. I see a girl in the field. So this is dressed out. I don't know. That looks weird man. It makes so much sense. Look at this. It's weird. It's jutting out into the room. But it's the main thing. It's the baby. I see a girl in the field. You can see your face. It's the male thing. You said I can see her in the field. I can see her in the field. I get your way. Remember, I get my way next time. I get my way next time. That's so cute. I get my way next time. I get my way next time. Lately, I've been making sure to keep a batch of energy balls in the fridge or freezer. I make loads of different flavor combinations or different kinds. These ones are raspberry ones. You can find these in our app. But I find that when I get hungry lately, it's not gentle hunger. Baby needs to eat now. Hangry. But this one looks so weird. It's very cheesecake-like. I've been keeping one or two of these by my bed because I wake up in the middle of the night ravenous. Back to baby room. I'll just take one to rob him. I'll just take one. Do you have it? It's time. Are you nervous? Yeah. Me too. The giraffe is just staring you down right now. Yeah. So in our last video, we had mentioned how Robin thinks he heard the ultrasound technician tell us whether we were having a boy or girl. Although, she did say in the beginning, I will always call a baby him. I'll say he. He. And she said, she said her spine. No. You didn't hear that? No. I heard that. So I hope that she maybe just misspoke. But I think we already know. That was already like two months ago. So we still don't know if we're having a boy or girl. And it's here in the envelope. And we had told ourselves that when we get the baby room set up as gender neutral as we can, though this is still looking pretty pink, then we would kind of reward ourselves with finding out. Reward. That's the wrong word. But you know what I mean. So I've done enough cooking today. I felt like it feels a bit more like a date to have our favorite takeout and learn more about this little bugs. I'm nervous. Okay. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't do it. It's a girl. Are you glad the walls are painting? Yes! It wouldn't have mattered. Maybe I was the world's universe's way of telling us. Isn't this pink paint all the time? Hey, baby girl. Kate ate smack in it. Almost feels bad to you now. It felt like a good idea, but I'm not eating to process. I can't eat right now. I'm gonna have a girl. Oh, she's gonna break you. I know. I know. I know. Yes! We're gonna gang up on you so hard. Whoa. I'm just gonna say that for the next few days. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. I'm gonna eat a snack. It's really good. Gosh, it's so spicy. I'm a good one.