 Welcome to section 2 of renal pathology, in this section we'll be discussing chronic renal failure, let's get started. In this lecture we'll be covering the basic principles, the causes and features and treatment of chronic renal failure. Let's start with the basic principles. Chronic renal failure is the gradual irreversible decline in kidney function. This decline in renal function leads to excess retained nitrogenous waste products and electrolyte disturbances. In other words, electrolytes and toxins that are normally secreted from the body will build up in the serum. This can lead to a variety of systemic complications seen in chronic renal failure. Next, let's discuss the causes of chronic renal failure. Many insults to the kidney may lead to chronic renal failure if they happen over time. And keep in mind that the insults I'm referring to are primarily responsible for causing acute renal failure. But over time, they may progress to chronic renal failure, especially if the acute renal failure is not treated properly. Glomerular diseases, like focal segmental glomerulosclerosis and membranous nephropathy, disrupt normal kidney filtration and may progress to chronic renal failure. Other, more common causes of chronic renal failure are diabetes and hypertension. Let's focus first on diabetes. Diabetes mellitus is a state of hyperglycemia. And hyperglycemia leads to non-enzymatic glycosylation of the vascular basement membrane. And this glycosylation, or sugar, getting added to the basement membrane of the vasculature, results in hyaline arteriosclerosis. And the vessels we're referring to specifically are the afferent and efferent arterioles of the kidney. This sclerosis eventually leads to hyperfiltration. Here's an image of the glomerulus with the afferent and efferent arterioles labeled. In diabetes, as I mentioned, hyaline sclerosis can affect these vessels. However, this hyaline arteriosclerosis affects the efferent arterioles more than the afferent arterioles. Remember from physiology that constriction or narrowing of the efferent arterioles will decrease kidney blood flow. So that means there's an increase in blood being filtered and entering the glomerulus. So there's increased filtration pressure. Another way of saying this is that there's an increase in GFR leading to hyperfiltration. And that hyperfiltration leads to irreversible damage to the nephrons, which is what causes chronic renal failure. So now we've discussed how diabetes works in causing chronic renal failure, but how does hypertension cause any problems? Well, hypertension causes blood vessels of the kidney to harden and narrow. This means that the nephrons are unable to receive oxygen and nutrients. This leads to a decrease in filtration, or hypofiltration. So you could think of hypofiltration as essentially damaging the nephron through starving it of the oxygen and nutrients that it needs. Whereas hyperfiltration, like we discussed in diabetes, damages the nephron by overworking it. Next, let's discuss the features of chronic renal failure. Chronic renal failure can lead to many issues, and we've listed them on this slide. Uremia results from increased nitrogenous waste products in the body. It presents with nausea, anorexia, pericarditis, platelet dysfunction, encephalopathy with asterixis, and deposition of urea crystals in the skin. And this skin finding is often called uremic frost. I want to point out why asterixis occurs. Well, this is a tremor of the hand when the wrist is extended, and it resembles a bird's flapping wings. So if you have somebody's arms out straight and their wrist fully extended, so they're looking at the back of their hand, then the wrist will be flapping. Now, the sodium and water retention can lead to several problems. For example, sodium and water retention congests the heart and prevents the heart from working properly, which can lead to heart failure. And if the heart is unable to pump efficiently, blood can back up into the lungs, eventually leading to pulmonary edema. Lastly, by causing extra strain on the blood vessels, sodium and water retention can lead to hypertension. In chronic renal failure, potassium is not properly excreted from the kidneys, which can lead to a buildup of potassium in the serum, or hyperkalemia. Metabolic acidosis occurs due to a combination of two main problems, impaired ammonium excretion, which means more acidic serum, and also because the kidneys aren't functioning properly, there is decreased bicarbonate formation, which you'd normally expect and need in the renal tubules. Lastly, the kidneys are often unable to make urethropoietin, or EPO. This can lead to anemia. Now let's talk about renal osteodystrophy. This is another complication of chronic renal failure. Here's the underlying pathophysiology here. There's hyperphosphatemia, because the kidneys are unable to excrete phosphate the way it needs to. There's hypocalcemia, because the kidneys are unable to reabsorb calcium the way it needs to. And there's failure of vitamin D hydroxylation, because the kidney is not able to activate vitamin D. This can lead to secondary hyperparathyroidism. And if left untreated, this can progress to tertiary hyperparathyroidism. And with that hyperparathyroidism, we're basically saying there's elevated PTH. And that can lead to hypercalcemia and subperiosteal thinning of the bones. The thyroid gland is shown here. And posterior to this gland are the parathyroid glands, which release PTH, which then stimulates the bone, which you can see labeled here. And it causes the bone then to release calcium into the serum. PTH will also stimulate the intestines, which you can see on the right, causing it to absorb more calcium from the gut, which of course leads to increased serum calcium. Now, PTH also stimulates the kidneys, here in the middle, to reabsorb serum calcium. Also convert vitamin D to its most active form. And excrete phosphate. Normally, high serum calcium, low serum phosphate, and even high vitamin D can negatively feed back and inhibit the release of PTH. However, in chronic renal failure, the kidneys are damaged and can't perform these functions. This leads to a decrease in serum calcium, decreased active vitamin D, and increased serum phosphate. These signal to the parathyroid gland to release PTH. So PTH will be high. Despite the increased PTH, the kidneys are still unable to respond to the PTH. After all, they're failing. However, the bones will still respond to all the PTH, so the bones will release their calcium. However, this can cause problems over time, because the bones need calcium to remain strong. So the chronic loss of calcium can lead to bone loss with subperiosteal thinning. So as we've described, there's lots of issues because of the kidneys not working, which leads to secondary hyperparathyroidism. In other words, lots of PTH. This may present with bone pain, because remember, there's subperiosteal thinning. And if this is poorly managed or left untreated, it can actually progress to tertiary hyperparathyroidism. This is a condition in which the parathyroid glands no longer respond to high calcium levels. So this means that even when the calcium is high, the parathyroid glands will continually secrete PTH. So there's persistently high PTH. This will stimulate the bones to continually release calcium, causing hypercalcemia, and obviously subperiosteal thinning of the bones. So how do you treat chronic renal failure? Well, chronic renal failure is treated with dialysis. It's important to note that dialysis can actually lead to the development of cysts with shrunken kidneys. And this feature can actually increase the risk of renal cell carcinoma. In addition to dialysis, chronic renal failure often requires a renal transplant. Let's try a question to wrap up this lecture. A 57-year-old male with a history of hypertension presents to the emergency room with nausea, vomiting, chest pain, dyspnea on exertion, and dizziness. His chest pain has been present for two to three days and is described as burning and worse on inspiration. On physical examination, his skin is pale with numerous areas of bruising. Lung auscultation reveals bilateral rails. Chest x-ray shows moderate cardiomegaly with increased pulmonary vascular markings. Assuming the parathyroid glands are still able to respond appropriately to serum calcium, what are the most likely serum findings in this patient? A, low PTH, low calcium, low phosphate, and low vitamin D. B, increased blood pH. C, increased PTH, decreased calcium, increased phosphate, and decreased vitamin D. Or D, increased erythropoietin concentration. So this man presents with dyspnea, chest pain that's burning, and he's also got rails, and he's also got cardiomegaly with increased pulmonary vascular markings. What does that tell us? It tells us that he has pulmonary edema. He also presents with nausea and vomiting and platelet dysfunction. At least that's what we're thinking right now because of the numerous areas of bruising. So what does that tell us? Well, that tells us he likely has uremia. And the pulmonary edema and uremia together point toward complications of chronic renal failure. So which answer choice is most consistent with chronic renal failure? That would be choice C, increased PTH, hypocalcemia, hyperphosphatemia, and low vitamin D. Now, if you were thinking about tertiary hyperparathyroidism, you might have been expecting the calcium level to be elevated. However, we aren't suspecting this because in this question stem, we're specifically told that it's likely to be a serum calcium. And tertiary hyperparathyroidism is when they do not respond to calcium levels anymore. So again, going back to this image, if the kidney is not working, then these operations will be defective. So the serum levels will be the opposite of what they should be. And to compensate, the parathyroid gland will release more parathyroid, meaning there's secondary hyperparathyroidism. A is incorrect because renal osteodystrophy, as a result of chronic renal failure, will present with hypocalcemia, hyperphosphatemia, and low vitamin D. B is incorrect because chronic renal failure is complicated by metabolic acidosis, which is a low blood pH. D is incorrect because chronic renal failure is complicated by anemia due to low erythropoietin concentration, not high concentration. And that concludes our section on chronic renal failure.