 undertaking mucculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculculcul and the capillaries within the glomerulus. That causes enlarged pores between the podocytes. And remember that podocytes link together to form a barrier. And that barrier prevents large molecules and other essential substances from being filtered into the urine. And if the pores between the podocytes become large, then this will lead to the leakage of red blood cells, as well as proteins and electrolytes. And the kidney responds to this loss by constricting blood vessels, which actually ends up leading to a decrease in GFR. And this causes the retention of nitrogenous waste and retention of creatinine, as well as salt and water. Here's an image of a cross-section of a glomerulus. Notice the capillaries right here, lined by endothelial cells, with the afferent arteriole representing the blood that comes in and the efferent arteriole representing the blood that leaves. As I mentioned on the previous slide, in nephritic syndrome, there's inflammation. And this causes these capillaries to swell. You can imagine that this swelling would cause the attached podocytes, which you can see here, would end up pulling apart. So these pores you see would actually become larger, because the podocytes are pushed away from one another as the capillaries swell. So this allows large molecules to fit through. Now let's talk about the clinical findings in nephritic syndrome. Nephritic syndrome presents with limited proteinuria, which is less than 3.5 grams per day. This differentiates nephritic syndrome from nephrotic syndrome. In nephrotic syndrome, there's greater than 3.5 grams of protein found in the urine per day. Nephritic syndrome also presents with salt retention. This retention of salt leads to periorbital edema and hypertension. And since those pores are so large, red blood cells can actually fit through and enter the urine, causing hematuria. And you'd see dysmorphic red blood cells in the urine because they're squeezing through the podocytes and becoming dysmorphic. And once they enter the tubular lumen, they can form casts, which you can see on your analysis. Now, nephritic syndrome may also lead to acute kidney injury, which you would tell based on decreased urine output, or oliguria, decreased GFR, or increased serum BUN, or increased creatinine. But it doesn't always cause this. So I emphasize that it may lead to this. Let's move on to the causes. The four main causes of nephritic syndrome, which you see over here, are acute post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis, rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis, IgA nephropathy, which is also known as Berger disease, and Alport syndrome. And when you think of nephritic syndromes, remember inflamed capillaries, and proteinuria of less than 3.5 grams per day. Whereas nephrotic syndromes are characterized by proteinuria greater than 3.5 grams per day. Let's start with post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis. This condition arises after a group A beta-hemolytic streptococcal infection of the skin, also known as impetigo, or this streptococcal infection of the pharynx, often called strep throat. And when this condition, IgM, IgG, and complement protein 3 will deposit along the glomerular basement membrane. Now, this condition primarily presents in childhood and has a very good prognosis. And when it presents in adults, it may progress to acute kidney injury. And sometimes, in adults or children, it may progress rapidly to rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis. And we'll discuss that later in this lecture, as you can see with this bottom row, where we discuss rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis. Now, post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis normally presents with hematuria 2 to 3 weeks after an infection. And there's also decreased C3 protein, as well as decreased total complement protein levels. And that's because they're consumed during the inflammation, because inflammation causes the activation of the complement system. So C3 is used up in an attempt to fight whatever the body perceives to be an infection. So this leads to some interesting findings when you look at the biopsy. On electron microscopy, we see subepithelial humps. And on immunofluorescence, we can see this granular appearance. And again, this is all because of this deposition of these antibodies and complement protein 3 along the glomerular basement membrane. An H&E stain will reveal hypercellular and inflamed glomeruli. Let's take a look at this. Here's a micrograph showing an H&E stain of post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis. You can see the many nucleoli here and just the general crowding of the glomerulus, indicating that hypercellular state. Again, this is a nephritic syndrome, so there's inflammation. Okay, let's move on to IgA nephropathy. This is often called Berger disease. And this is the most common cause of nephropathy worldwide. And it's caused by IgA immune complex deposition in the mesangium of the glomeruli. So IgA in the mesangium. And this presents with episodic gross or microscopic hematuria, and typically in childhood. Another important feature is that it's usually seen days after a mucosal infection. Remember from immunology that IgA is the antibody responsible for fighting infections found in the mucosal areas, like the gut and respiratory tract. So it would make sense that infections in these areas may lead to IgA nephropathy. And the timing of this, days after an infection, can be really helpful in differentiating this from post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis, which usually occurs two to three weeks after an infection. And just so you're aware, when IgA nephropathy is accompanied by extra renal symptoms, like abdominal pain, arthralgias, or purpuric skin lesions, then the syndrome is called Hynock-Schollein-Purpura, or HSP. Now on biopsy findings, we're mainly thinking about immunofluorescence. And here you'll see IgA immune complex deposition in the mesangium. Here's an immunostain of IgA nephropathy. And notice the deposits of IgA in the mesangium. This is typical of IgA nephropathy. Okay, let's try a question. A 21-year-old woman with a history of type 1 diabetes mellitus develops gross hematuria. Her only medication is daily insulin injections. Four days ago, she experienced diarrhea, cramps, nausea, vomiting, and a one-day fever. What's the most likely diagnosis? Okay, well, the gross hematuria points to a nephritic syndrome, but not a specific type of nephritic syndrome. So you're not able to make a diagnosis just based on the presence of that hematuria. However, there are other clues. For example, four days ago, she had gastroenteritis, as evidenced by her diarrhea, cramps, nausea, vomiting, and fever. And gastroenteritis is a mucosal infection. The most likely diagnosis, given this information, is IgA nephropathy. Remember that IgA nephropathy presents with episodic, gross, or microscopic hematuria with red blood cell casts, usually days, in this case, four days, after a mucosal infection. And what type of antibody is abundant in the mucosa to defend against mucosal infections? IgA. Hence, this is IgA nephropathy. Let's move on to Alport syndrome. Alport syndrome is due to an X-linked inherited defect in type 4 collagen. Remember that type 4 collagen makes up the basement membrane. And Alport syndrome presents clinically with isolated hematuria, as well as sensory hearing loss and ocular disturbances. Now, on H&E stain, the collagen defect can be seen as thinning and splitting of the glomerular basement membrane. And on electron microscopy, this thinning and splitting will result in a basket weave appearance. Now let's move on to rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis. Rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis is a nephritic syndrome that progresses to renal failure in weeks to months. It has several causes, like Goodpasture syndrome, or it can be caused by some vasculitides, such as Wegener's granulomatosis, microscopic polyangitis, and Scherge-Strauss syndrome. And it can also be caused by diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis. In other words, the patient will get this type of nephritic syndrome, which then progresses to this worse, rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis. But what about biopsy findings? Well, on H&E stain, you can see this crescent moon shape. And on immunofluorescence, it varies. And the variation is a direct result of the exact cause, which can be any one of these things. And we'll dive into more detail in these in a moment. And for that same reason, the clinical findings are also variable. But since most of them do have this crescent moon shape on H&E, let me show you an image of that. Here's a micrograph of that crescent moon shape. These crescents are composed of fibrin, macrophages, and plasma proteins like C3B. Now let's discuss each type of rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis in a little more detail. And we'll start with Goodpasture syndrome. Goodpasture syndrome is due to antibodies against the alpha-3 chain of type 4 collagen. And again, this type 4 collagen is in the glomerular basement membrane. But it's also in the alveolar basement membranes. So naturally, it will present with hematuria, because of the glomerular aspect, and hemoptysis, because of the alveolar aspect. And on immunofluorescence, there will be a linear staining pattern. As a general rule, remember that a linear pattern is due to antibody-antigen formation, whereas a granular pattern is due to immune complex deposition, which is what you expect to find in post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis. Goodpasture syndrome can be treated with plasmapheresis. Plasmapheresis is the removal, treatment, and return of blood plasma. The plasma contains the antibodies that attack the basement membrane in the lungs and kidneys. So by filtering them out using plasmapheresis, you're removing the problem. And the other parts of the blood are actually recycled and re-infused intravenously. Now let's move on to the different vasculitities. On immunofluorescence, all of these are negative. You don't see anything. And Wegener's granulomatosis has C-Inca, whereas microscopic polyangitis and Scherge-Strauss syndrome both have P-Inca. For more information on these vasculitities, please see the cardiology pathology section. Okay, let's try another question. A 26-year-old previously healthy man comes to the office with a three-week history of dyspnea, cough, and hemoptysis, preceded by an upper respiratory tract infection. Your analysis shows proteinuria and hematuria with dysmorphic red blood cells. Bilateral pulmonary infiltrates are seen on chest x-ray. Antibodies directed against what structure is most likely to be associated with this patient's condition. Okay, so what do we know about this patient? He had an upper respiratory tract infection, and then he developed respiratory symptoms, most notably hemoptysis, as well as renal symptoms, hematuria, and proteinuria. So we know that he has a nephritic syndrome. And what type of nephritic syndrome is associated with hemoptysis and pulmonary infiltrates? Well, that would be good pasture syndrome. And this condition is caused by antibodies against the alpha-3 chain of type 4 collagen. And that collagen is in the lungs, so he gets hemoptysis and pulmonary infiltrates. And it's in the glomerular basement membrane, which is why he got hematuria and proteinuria. So this is the structure most likely attacked by the antibodies. Okay, the last thing we will cover are the nephritic syndromes that co-present with nephrotic syndromes, which are diffuse proliferative glomerular nephritis and membranoproliferative glomerular nephritis. In a nephritic syndrome, if the damage to the glomerular basement membrane is severe enough that it can actually damage the charge barrier, then the patients will get more significant proteinuria. So nephrotic syndrome. So again, if the nephritic syndrome is severe enough to cause a loss of the charge barrier, then they will experience more significant proteinuria in the nephrotic range. So greater than 3.5 grams per day in the urine. So let's talk about these two conditions in detail. Diffuse proliferative glomerular nephritis is the most common type of renal disease in lupus. And it may progress to rapidly progressive glomerular nephritis. And this condition results in certain findings on the biopsy. For example, an H&E stain will show wire looping of the capillaries. Electron microscopy will show subendothelial deposits. So just underneath the endothelium. And immunofluorescence will show a granular IgG and C3 deposition. And that makes sense because we know that on immunofluorescence, a granular appearance is due to immune complex deposition. Here's a micrograph of diffuse proliferative glomerular nephritis. You can see this classic wire looping. These capillaries are just forming this loop. Again, that's diffuse proliferative glomerular nephritis. Let's move on to membranoproliferative glomerular nephritis. On biopsy, specifically an H&E stain, this will reveal a thick glomerular basement membrane. And often there's a tram track appearance. This appearance occurs because of immune complex deposition, which splits the mesangial cells so that they look like a tram track. And on immunofluorescence, you'll see this granular appearance. And as always, a granular appearance is due to immune complex deposition. And there are two types of this condition. Type 1 is subendothelial. And type 2 is dense deposit disease. Now, the subendothelial form is associated with hepatitis B and hepatitis C infections. And the reason that type 2 is known as dense deposit disease, because it has these intramembranous deposits and associated with C3 nephritic factor. Now, C3 nephritic factor is an autoantibody that stabilizes C3 convertase, leading to overactivation of complement and inflammation, and low levels of circulating C3. For more information on the complement system, please see our immunology chapter. And here's a micrograph of membranoproliferative glomerular nephritis. Notice the characteristic tram tracking, or this splitting of the basement membrane. Okay, we've covered a lot, so let's just briefly recap. The four glomerular disorders that cause nephritic syndrome are acute post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis, rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis, IgF nephropathy, which is also called Berger disease, and then Alport syndrome. And rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis can be caused by Goodpasture syndrome, and vasculitides such as Schergg-Strauss syndrome, microscopic polyangitis, and Wegener's granulomatosis. And diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis and membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis are conditions that have a significant loss to the charge barrier, so they end up having nephrotic range proteinuria. So they're characterized as both a nephrotic syndrome and a nephritic syndrome. Let's wrap up with one final question. A 27-year-old woman comes to the office with a two-year history of skin problems worsened by exposure to sunlight. She also has fatigue and recurrent episodes of pain in her wrists and ankles over the past year. Physical examination reveals red patches with scaling on both cheeks. Urinalysis is positive for 4 grams of protein and red blood cell casts. A renal biopsy specimen is most likely to show which of the following. A. Thickened capillary loops. B. Tram-track appearance of basement membrane. C. IgA antibodies in the mesangium. Or D. Crescent formation. Okay, this young woman's history of skin problems that are worsened by exposure to sunlight, as well as her fatigue and recurrent episodes of pain in her wrists and ankles, and the red patches with scaling on both of her cheeks, strongly point to a diagnosis of lupus. Remember that lupus can cause both nephrotic syndrome, by causing membranous nephropathy, or a nephrotic nephritic syndrome in the form of diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis. So which of these two conditions are most likely? Well, we're told that she has proteinuria that is greater than 3.5 grams. So that doesn't tell us too much because either one of these would be a nephrotic syndrome. But she also has red blood cell casts. And those red blood cell casts point more towards a nephritic syndrome. So she's more likely to have a nephrotic nephritic syndrome, such as diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis. And a super important point about this diffuse issue is that it can lead to rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis. That's not something you'd expect with membranous nephropathy. So of these options, which fits this diffuse proliferative or even rapid progressive glomerulonephritis? That would be choice D, crescent formation. A is incorrect because thickened capillary loops are found in membranous nephropathy, which is a nephrotic syndrome and we wouldn't expect to see RBC casts. B is incorrect because a tram track appearance of the basement membrane is seen in membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis. Now that's a nephritic nephrotic syndrome, just like diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis, but it's not associated with lupus. So it's less likely in this patient. C is incorrect because IgA antibodies depositing in the mesangium characterizes IgA nephropathy, which is a nephritic syndrome most common in children and not associated with lupus. So again, the correct answer is D, crescent formation. And that concludes this section on nephritic syndrome.