! N-acetimi, There are three carcinomas of the lower urinary tract that you need to be familiar with, Urethilial carcinoma, and then two non-urothilial types of cancer, which include squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma. Recall that a carcinoma is a malignant proliferation that arises from epithelial cells, and each of these lower urinary tract carcinomas most commonly involve the bladder. In fact, I've just written bladder here, for example, with the non-urothilial type of carcinomas, but technically they can occur in the urethra as well. And that includes urothilial or transitional cell carcinomas, which we're going to start discussing now. Urothilial or transitional cell carcinoma is a malignant proliferation of the urothilium. You may recall that urothilium is the normal lining of the urinary tract, so it should make sense that this is the most common type of lower urinary tract cancer. Now, the risk factors for this type of carcinoma can be divided into three groups. The first and most significant risk factor is cigarette smoking. Cigarette smoke contains naphthalene, which is a type of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon. I'll write PAH for short. And this naphthalene is known to be highly carcinogenic. Next, long-term use of cyclophosphamide, or phenacetin, can also lead to urothilial carcinoma. Finally, occupational exposure to things such as azo dyes, rubber, plastic, and leather can also put someone at increased risk for urothilial carcinoma. A high-yield association to make here is that azo dyes are commonly found in hair dyes, which are used by hairdressers. So when you think azo dyes, think hair dyes. Next, let's discuss the clinical features. Urothilial carcinoma classically presents in an older adult complaining of a painless hematuria. In other words, they're seeing red urine. This cancer is characterized by multifocal and recurrent tumors. This means that there is a presence of more than one tumor in the same area that continuously reappears. This is due to what's known as a field defect. Field defect refers to an area of tissue which is susceptible to undergoing oncogenic changes. And in this case, the field is the entire urothilium. And if the entire field is defective or mutated, then tumors can appear anywhere in the bladder. So you can resect one tumor, and another one could develop elsewhere in the bladder. So that's why urothilial carcinomas are considered multifocal and recurring. Now tumors in urothilial carcinoma can arise by one of two pathways. They develop either as flat or papillary tumors. In flat tumors, carcinoma develops directly as a high-grade tumor, which then goes on to invade the basement membrane of the bladder epithelium. And this pathway is associated with P53 mutations. So if you're thinking of a urothilial carcinoma, and it's associated with a P53 mutation, think of a flat tumor. Papillary tumors first develop as low-grade tumors, and then they progress to a high-grade tumor. And it's at that point that they can invade the basement membrane or the epithelium. Besides having this low-grade tumor to start with, papillary tumors are also different in that they're not associated with P53 mutations. And I just want to pause really quick on this high-grade idea. As a quick review, tumor-grade refers to the tumor's resemblance to the normal parent tissue. So if tumor cells differ greatly from the original healthy epithelium, it's said to be a high-grade. So high-grade basically means it's very different from the original parent epithelium. And on the contrary, if tumor cells are not too different from the parent cell, which is the case with early papillary tumors, then it's said to be low-grade. This is an image of a flat tumor of a urothilial carcinoma. Here you can see the lamina propria. And here's the basement membrane. And this is the thickened urothilium. And these cells do not resemble the normal epithelium. So it's considered high-grade. And you can see that there's a flat, full-thickness growth of the atypical cells. So again, this is a flat tumor, and it's high-grade, as these flat urothilial carcinomas always are. Here's an image of a papillary tumor. Of course, the lumen is out here. And in this type, you can see the growth tends to be finger-like projections from the epithelium, which grow towards the lumen. And here, you can see a blood vessel sitting inside of one of these finger-like projections. This continuous blood supply allows the papillary tumor to grow and protrude further into the lumen, as opposed to the flat type, which does not protrude to this degree. And there's lots of these finger-like projections you can see, for example, right here. And remember that this type always begins as low-grade, and then progresses to high-grade, and then eventually invades. All right, let's try a quick question. A 58-year-old woman presents to the emergency department complaining about blood in her urine. She denies any pain while urinating. She has been working at a hair salon for the past 30 years. After a thorough workup, she is diagnosed with urothilial carcinoma. What was the most likely risk factor contributing to the development of urothilial carcinoma in this patient? So in the question, we're told that the patient has developed urothilial carcinoma. Her hematuria is consistent with this, especially since her hematuria is painless. That's super important. Painless hematuria. The question is asking us what risk factor could have potentially led to the development of her condition. Well, we know that she's worked at a salon for the past 30 years, so it's likely she came in contact with products containing azo dyes, which is the correct answer here. Recall from our discussion that certain occupational hazards, such as exposure to azo dyes, rubber, plastic, and leather, are common risk factors for developing urothilial carcinoma. Let's move on to the first non-urothilial bladder cancer, squamous cell carcinoma. From the name, we can infer that this is caused by a malignant proliferation of squamous cells. Recall from our discussion on urothilial carcinoma that the normal lining of the lower urinary tract is urothilium, or transitional epithilium. So, in order to develop squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder, squamous metaplasia must first occur. This means the normal urothilial lining changes to an abnormal squamous cell lining. And like urothilial carcinoma, patients with squamous cell carcinoma also present with painless hematuria. Now let's discuss the risk factors. Chronic cystitis, or inflammation of the bladder wall, often occurs in older females. So this chronic inflammation in the bladder wall can actually lead to squamous metaplasia. Now, schistosoma hematobium, which is a parasite that can cause infection, is also a risk factor. This describes an infection with a parasite that is most commonly found in the Middle East. On exam questions, this often shows up as a young Middle Eastern man with a parasitic infection. For more information and a great visual mnemonic, check out our sketch on the schistosoma species in our microbiology section. Finally, chronic nephrolithiasis is also a risk factor. This refers to recurring or chronic kidney stones. But what all of these risk factors have in common is inflammation. And if chronic enough, then that inflammation can lead to squamous metaplasia. Going back to this image, you can think of risk factors for squamous cell carcinoma, again referring to the lower urinary tract, as being those things that chronically inflame the bladder epithelium. So chronic cystitis, schistosoma parasitic infections, and chronic kidney stones. Now let's finish our discussion with adenocarcinoma of the bladder. Adeno in adenocarcinoma refers to the malignant proliferation of glands. So connect the idea of adeno and glands. And since there are no glandular cells normally in the bladder epithelium, we know that metaplasia must have occurred in order to develop adenocarcinoma of the bladder. There are a number of causes of adenocarcinoma of the bladder. For example, they may arise from a urachal remnant. You may recall from our embryology chapter that the urachus is a connection between the bladder and the umbilicus during fetal life. However, by birth, this connection should obliterate. Failure to obliterate can result in a urachal remnant that can give rise to adenocarcinoma, and the tumor is at the dome of the bladder. So when you're thinking of a urachal remnant, think of the dome. Now adenocarcinoma can also arise from cystitis glandularis, which results from chronic inflammation of the bladder wall. And the inflammation causes the urothelium to undergo glandular and columnar metaplasia. The important idea is the glandular metaplasia. And since there's glandular metaplasia, we're thinking adenocarcinoma. Plus the name cystitis glandularis is a dead giveaway for this. Adenocarcinoma can also arise from bladder extrophy. Extrophy is a birth defect in which the skin over the caudal portion of the anterior abdominal wall fails to form. This leaves the bladder exposed and greatly increases the chances of developing adenocarcinoma. Let me show you a picture of this. This is a drawing of bladder extrophy. In this image, we can see that the skin over the lower abdominal wall has failed to form, leaving the bladder exposed. The exposure of the bladder due to the extrophy greatly increases the chances of adenocarcinoma. Now that we've covered the material, let's wrap up with a question. A 63-year-old Egyptian male complains of painless blood in his urine over the past two weeks. He has a history of a parasitic infection after swimming in the Nile River, for which he was prescribed prazequantil, but has been non-compliant. A cystoscopy is performed and a biopsy is taken of the bladder tissue. What type of epithelium will likely be observed in the biopsy specimen? All right, from the question, we know that the patient has painless hematuria. And he's older, and combining these two ideas should make you think of bladder cancer. And next, we know that the patient has a medical history of a parasitic infection. And he acquired that in the Middle East. And he was prescribed prazequantil. So this should make you think of an infection with schistosoma hematobium. Earlier, we discussed that a schistosoma hematobium infection is a risk factor for squamous cell carcinoma. And the question is basically asking us, what does a biopsy of squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder look like? Well, it would be squamous epithelium. So let's pull up our slide on squamous cell carcinoma. Recall that the bladder normally has a urothilial lining. However, in an insult, such as with a schistosoma infection, this can lead to squamous metaplegia. When this occurs, we can see a growth of squamous epithelium replacing the normal urothilial epithelium, leading to squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder. A is incorrect because you wouldn't expect columnar metaplasia in this patient who most likely has a squamous cell carcinoma. What type of cancer would be associated with columnar metaplasia? Well, that would be adenocarcinoma. So remember, adenocarcinoma is associated with glandular metaplasia, which includes columnar metaplasia. And for that same reason, choice C is incorrect. We would not expect glandular epithelium because we're not expecting adenocarcinoma. Finally, D is incorrect because cuboidal epithelium is not associated with carcinoma of the bladder. So again, the correct answer is B, squamous epithelium. And that concludes this section. So let's wait a minute. Thank you.