 N-19-19- Nephrolithiasis, more commonly known as kidney stones, is the deposition of urinary solute, which then forms a calculus, or stone. Now what are the risk factors for developing a kidney stone? There are two main risk factors associated with developing nephrolithiasis. First, patients that have a high solute concentration in their urine are at an increased risk of developing nephrolithiasis. This is because when the concentration of solutes is increased, then the solute is more likely to precipitate and form crystals. For example, patients with increased urinary calcium concentration, also known as hypercalciuria, are at an increased risk for developing calcium oxalate stones because the calcium precipitates out of the urine. And we'll talk about the types of stones more in a minute. The second risk factor is low urinary volume. For example, in a patient with dehydration, this is also tied to the high solute concentration idea because a low urinary volume means the concentration of the solute is increased, and so that will increase the risk of stone precipitation. Now let's talk about the presentation of kidney stones. Patients with nephrolithiasis often present with nonspecific symptoms, for example, nausea and vomiting. Patients may also present with hematuria, or blood in the urine. This is because the stones can disrupt the epithelium in the ureter, and that results in bleeding. But the key here is that on urinalysis, there are free RBCs with normal morphology. Now the term free RBCs means that individual red blood cells can be seen on microscopic analysis. But what is meant by free? Well, free RBCs just means intact, round RBCs that are individual and not clumped together. If they are clumped together, that would make you think of destruction of the red blood cells and would point you towards another pathology, for example, nephritis. But free RBCs does not imply the red blood cell destruction shows that they're intact, and so this is what you would expect with a kidney stone. After all, the kidney stone, unlike nephritis, is not damaging the nephron or the glomerulus. Instead, free red blood cells are more indicative of damage to the urinary tract. Now patients with nephrolithiasis also experience unilateral waxing and waning pain. This is often referred to as colicky pain. Now the location of the pain differs depending on where the obstruction occurs. For example, if the obstruction is at the ureto-pelvic junction, the patient's pain will be in the flank or upper abdominal region. If the obstruction is at the uretero-vesicle junction, so where the ureter meets the bladder, then the patient's pain will be in the lower abdominal region. Looking at this diagram makes that idea pretty logical. If the stone obstructs flow at the junction between the kidney and the ureter, so right here, then the patient will get flank pain. If the stone obstructs flow at the urethra and the bladder junction, then the patient will have lower abdominal pain. But again, in either of these two places, the pain will still be waxing and waning. Lastly, let's focus on the types of stones. There are four types of stones you need to know about. Calcium stones, up in the top. Ammonium magnesium phosphate stones. Uric acid stones. And cysteine stones. We'll start with calcium stones. Calcium stones are due to the precipitation of calcium oxalate or calcium phosphate. And these calcium stones are the most common type. And they're often seen in adults. Now calcium oxalate stones are radio opaque, meaning they can be seen on x-ray and they often look like envelopes on histology. Now calcium phosphate stones are also radio opaque, but they're prism shaped on histology. What causes these calcium stones? Well, hypercalciuria, or increased urine calcium. Hypercalcemia, for example, hypercalcemia caused by hyperparathyroidism. Or hypocitrature, so low urine citrate levels. Now hypocitrature occurs as a complication of distal renal tubular acidosis. In this condition, tubular citrate reabsorption is increased, leading to decreased citrate in the urine. And that's a problem because citrate normally binds calcium. And by doing that, citrate would prevent calcium from precipitating and forming a stone. So low urinary citrate means calcium is more free to bind to oxalate or phosphate and form stones. And sometimes it's just idiopathic. We don't really know what is causing the calcium stones. You treat calcium stones with hydrochlorothiazide, which is a thiazide diuretic. And in our renal pharmacology chapter, we have a story on thiazides and how they're used in the treatment of calcium stones. The reason this drug is helpful is because it causes calcium reabsorption, effectively removing the calcium from the urine filtrate and returning it to the serum. So by increasing calcium reabsorption, it's effectively preventing the calcium from precipitating into stones. Here's an image of calcium oxalate crystals on microscopy. Notice the square envelope-shaped crystals throughout. If envelope-shaped crystals are mentioned in a vignette, be sure to think about calcium oxalate stones. Next, let's discuss ammonium-magnesium-phosphate stones. These are also known as struvite stones, and they're associated with recurrent UTIs. So if a patient presents with colicky pain and has a history of recurrent urinary tract infections, you should definitely consider ammonium-magnesium-phosphate stones as a potential cause. Now, these stones can have staghorn calculi. This is a large stone that fills the renal calyces and the renal pelvis. And by precipitating here and forming this staghorn calculi, the collecting system of the kidney is effectively obstructed. This can lead to atrophy of the renal parenchyma. We'll look at an image of a staghorn calculus in a bit. Now, these struvite stones are also radio-opaque, and they look like little coffins on histology. And these are caused by infections with urease-expressing bacteria. And the ones you really need to know about are protease and klebsiella. Let's discuss why the urease is so important here. Let's say this is the lumen of the nephron, and within it, we'll have the filtrate. Now, urea is a substance in the filtrate. And klebsiella and protease produce urease. And this urease will hydrolyze the urea into ammonia. And this is the important part. Ammonia will increase urine pH, making it easier for ammonium-magnesium-phosphate salts to precipitate and form stones. Now, ammonium-magnesium-phosphate stones are treated by surgical removal of the staghorn calculus. And treatment should also eliminate the infection that's causing the stones in order to prevent recurrence. Here's an x-ray from a patient with a staghorn calculus. This is a characteristic image, and images like this are often used on exam in order to point towards ammonium-magnesium-phosphate stones, or struvite stones. Again, these stones are caused by urease-positive organisms, such as protease or klebsiella. Here's an image of a struvite stone on microscopy. Notice the rectangular, coffin-lid-shaped crystals throughout. This is characteristic of struvite stones in the urine. So, if you see coffin-lid crystals, or if they are mentioned or described in a vignette, think about ammonium-magnesium-phosphate stones, or struvite stones. Let's try a question to solidify what we've discussed so far. A 55-year-old woman presents with right flank pain on and off for the past four days. She has a history of recurrent urinary tract infections. Her temperature is 39.3 degrees Celsius, or 102.8 degrees Fahrenheit. Blood pressure is 90 over 55 millimeters of mercury. Heart rate is 106 beats per minute. And respiratory rate is 24 breaths per minute. Physical exam confirms mild right flank tenderness. A radiograph is obtained and reveals the presence of a radio-opaque substance within the renal calyces and pelvis. What type of infectious organism is the likely cause of her current symptoms? This patient has waxing and waning right flank pain. She also has a history of recurrent UTIs. And the fact that she has a fever and low blood pressure indicates that she likely has an infection. And since an x-ray or radiograph reveals a radio-opaque obstruction, then this is consistent with ammonium-magnesium-phosphate, or struvite stones. And remember that these stones are caused by urease-positive organisms, such as proteus or clebsiella. So what type of infectious organism is likely responsible? That would be a urease-producing organism. Next, let's discuss uric acid stones. Unlike other stones that cause nephrolithiasis, uric acid stones are radiolucent. This means they won't appear on x-ray. And notice that this is the only stone I've listed as radiolucent. So an easy trick to help you remember that uric acid stones are radiolucent is by thinking of the U in uric acid and the U in radiolucent. Well, if uric acid stones are radiolucent, how do you visualize them? Well, you would use ultrasound. So if a patient seems to have symptoms consistent with nephrolithiasis, but you can't see the stones on x-ray, try an ultrasound and rule out uric acid stones. On microscopic analysis, these are rhomboid-shaped, and you'll see uric acid crystals. We'll look at an image of these crystals in a moment. Now, the main causes of uric acid stones include increased uric acid excretion, for example, gout or myeloproliferative disorders, or leukemia. Also, increased uric acid concentration, which is seen in hot, arid climates, or in patients with dehydration. So if someone has less water in their body, then less water will be filtered into the urine, which means in the urine, the solute concentration is much higher. So uric acid concentration will be higher. Another cause is low urine pH, or acidic urine. And here's why this is a problem. Acidic urine favors the formation of insoluble uric acid over soluble urate, leading to stone formation. And one reason for having a low pH is chronic diarrhea. This results in the loss of bicarb. Now let's move on to treatment. Treatment of these stones includes hydration. This is to decrease the uric acid concentration in the urine, which makes sense. If dehydration caused the uric acid to precipitate, then hydrating the patient should help. Also, treat the patient via alkalinization of the urine. That also makes sense, because acidic urine favors uric acid precipitation. So ensuring that the urine is more alkalotic, or a higher pH, for example, by administering potassium bicarbonate or potassium citrate, then you can prevent precipitation. Now, lastly, if the patient has gout, in addition to uric acid stones, allopurinol should be administered. For more details on allopurinol, see our musculoskeletal pharmacology image on gout treatment. Here's a microscopic image of uric acid crystals from a urine sample. Notice the large rhomboid-shaped crystals. This indicates uric acid. So if a vignette describes rhomboid-shaped crystals in the urine, you should immediately think about uric acid stones. Finally, let's discuss cysteine stones. These are rare and normally seen in children. Now, cysteine stones can also cause staghorn calculi, which is similar to the struvite stones we saw up here. And cysteine stones are caused by cystinuria, which is a genetic defect resulting in decreased tubular reabsorption of cysteine. Naturally, this would lead to high cysteine concentration in the urine. And this cysteine, like many solutes, can precipitate to form stones. And these stones are radio-opaque, and they appear as hexagons on microscopy. And we'll look at an image of this in a bit. Now, treatment includes hydration, which of course reduces the concentration of cysteine in the urine. And it also includes alkalinization of the urine. And just like before, you can do this with potassium bicarbonate or potassium citrate. I just want to point out an interesting similarity. Both cysteine stones and uric acid stones are both highly related to urine concentration and pH. So in either case, treat with hydration and urine alkalinization. Here's a microscopic image of cysteine crystals. Notice the hexagonal crystals throughout. This is characteristic of cysteine stones. Now let's try a question to apply what you've learned. A 27-year-old man presents to the emergency room with severe dehydration. He recently had a surgical resection due to ulcerative colitis and has been having complications with excess output from his ileostomy. Physical exam shows mild left flank pain. X-ray shows no evidence of nephrolithiasis. Ultrasound examination shows a 4mm stone lodged in the left ureter. Which of the following explains the mechanism of nephrolithiasis in this patient? A. Increased urine calcium due to undiagnosed hyperparathyroidism. B. Low urine pH due to bicarbonate loss. C. Proteus mirabilis infection. Or D. Increased uric acid excretion due to gout. So this patient is dehydrated. And this is due to excessive ileostomy output. And physical exam indicates left flank pain. An x-ray shows no evidence of stones. Ultrasound finds a stone in his left ureter. So this means that the stone is radiolucent. Which is consistent with a uric acid stone. Remember the U in radiolucent. And the U in uric acid. Uric acid stones can be caused by increased uric acid excretion. Or increased uric acid concentration. Or it can be caused by low urine pH. Now low urine pH often occurs following chronic diarrhea due to GI bicarbonate loss. Which occurred in this patient due to his increased ileostomy output. So the correct answer is B. Low urine pH due to bicarbonate loss. Going back to the table. Remember that uric acid stones can be caused by low urine pH. Again in the setting of chronic diarrhea. Or excessive GI output for another reason. Such as this patient's ileostomy. A is incorrect. Because this mechanism best describes calcium stones. While these stones are the most common type of stone that causes nephrolithiasis. This patient's presentation is more consistent with uric acid stones. Now C is incorrect. Because proteus infections are associated with ammonium magnesium phosphate stones. Patients with these types of stones will also have a history of recurrent UTIs. Which is not present in this patient. Plus ammonium magnesium stones would likely have been visualized on x-ray. But again in our patient. The x-ray and ultrasound findings. Indicated that this stone. The uric acid stone. Was radiolucent. D is incorrect. Because although this patient has uric acid stones. His symptoms are not consistent with gout. So again the correct answer is B. Low urine pH due to bicarbonate loss. And that concludes this section.