 Welcome to the rindiccid, bzw. TNF-alc-carnitine, bzw. TNF-alc-carnitc. Welcome to Section 7 of Renal Pathology. In this section, we'll be covering renal neoplasias. Let's get started. This lecture will cover angiomyolipomas, Wilms Tumor, which is also called nephroblastoma, and then we'll cover renal cell carcinoma. So let's start with angiomyolipomas. Angiomyolipomas are benign kidney masses. Breaking down the name helps us understand what they're comprised of. They're made of vessels, which is the angio part. They're also composed of smooth muscle, which is the myopart, and FET, which is where the lipoma part comes from. So angiomyolipomas. Now these are most often found incidentally on a CT scan when looking for something else. The majority of these are isolated, meaning there's just one single tumor. However, some angiomyolipomas are also associated with tuberous sclerosis. Patients with tuberous sclerosis who also have angiomyolipomas often have multiple of these and they're bilateral, so both kidneys. Regarding treatment, they're usually asymptomatic and small that they don't need intervention. This is an image from a patient with an isolated angiomyolipoma. You can see it right here. This was likely an incidental finding when a CT scan was done for another reason and they just ended up seeing this dark mass that was a angiomyolipoma. This is a sagittal CT scan of a patient with tuberous sclerosis. As you can see by these red arrows, there are numerous dark angiomyolipomas in both kidneys and it's important that you recognize this finding on CT. Next we'll talk about Wilms tumor, which is also called a nephroblastoma. A Wilms tumor is a malignant tumor seen in toddlers. It's caused by inactivation of the WT1 gene or the WT2 gene, both of which are located on chromosome 11. And what WT1 and WT2 stand for is simply Wilms tumor 1 and Wilms tumor 2. In any case, if one or both of these get activated, then patients can get Wilms tumor. And it presents with a classic triad of a large flank mass, hypertension, and hematuria. This tumor requires treatment with a nephrectomy or surgical removal of the affected kidney. Now it kind of makes sense that there's a flank mass because it's a tumor on the kidney. So it would be a mass in the flank. And hematuria makes sense because if the kidney has cancer, then it seems reasonable that there would be damage and blood would end up in the urine. But let's make sense of why hypertension occurs. This is a diagram that shows an overview of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. And we're talking about it now because a Wilms tumor can secrete excessive amounts of renin. At the same time, the liver releases angiotensinogen. And what normally happens is the renin that's released from the kidney will catalyze the conversion of angiotensinogen to angiotensin 1. Next, the angiotensin converting enzyme, or ACE, which is released from the lungs, converts angiotensin 1 to angiotensin 2. Angiotensin 2 then results in multiple downstream effects, including vasoconstriction, which in turn causes hypertension. So why do Wilms tumors cause hypertension? It's because they release lots of renin. This is a CT scan from a child with a large right-sided Wilms tumor. So this is the patient's right. This is the patient's left. And you can see the Wilms tumor right here. And compare that to the normal-sized left kidney. Most Wilms tumors are sporadic. However, they may be part of a syndrome. For example, WAGR syndrome. This stands for Wilms tumor, aniridia, or absence of the iris, genitourinary abnormalities, and mental retardation. Another syndrome is Beckwith-Witamin syndrome. This presents with hemihypertrophy, or overgrowth of one side of the body, macroglossia, or an enlarged tongue, organomegaly, and omphalocil. And omphalocil is a protrusion of the intestines through the umbilicus. And we talk more about that in our embryology chapter. But again, most Wilms tumors are sporadic. But if they're part of a syndrome, think of WAGR syndrome or Beckwith-Witamin. We'll finish this lecture by talking about renal cell carcinoma. Renal cell carcinoma is a malignant growth in one or both kidneys. It's most common in individuals age 60 or older. And there are a few known risk factors for this. The biggest modifiable risk factor is cigarette smoking. Other risk factors include hypertension and obesity. There are also genetic conditions such as von Hippel-Lindau, which can increase the risk as well. There are several variants of renal cell carcinoma, but by far the most common one is clear cell carcinoma. We'll look at an image of this shortly. And renal cell carcinoma is commonly an incidental finding when a CT scan is done for another reason. So let's talk about how it presents. You'll often hear of the classic triad for renal cell carcinoma as being hematuria, a mass, and flank pain. Now that's the classic triad, but it's not common in all patients. In fact, as I've written here, only 9% of patients present this way. Patients may also present with a scrotal varicocele, which can occur in 11% of patients. This is our image from the reproductive anatomy chapter that illustrates the vascular supply of the testicles and scrotum. Notice the left testicular vein here. This will drain into the left renal vein, which you see up here. And this, as opposed to the right testicular vein, which drains directly into the IVC. What this means is that in a patient with renal cell carcinoma on the left side, the cancer can invade the left renal vein. And that stops proper drainage of the testicular vein. So blood will build up and produce a varicocele. Now patients can also present with perineoplastic syndromes. Now the perineoplastic syndrome or syndromes that a renal cell carcinoma patient may present with can vary significantly because it depends on the hormone that it's producing. For example, if it's producing ectopic ACTH, the patient can get Cushing syndrome, which is very similar to small cell lung cancer, which produces ACTH and causes Cushing syndrome. If the renal cancer is producing erythropoietin, the patient can get polycythemia. If it's producing ectopic renin, the patient can have hypertension. If the cancer is producing parathyroid hormone related protein, then the patient can have hypercalcemia. But many more are possible. I want to stress this point so that you don't start thinking of renal cell carcinoma presenting in a standardized way. Presentation can vary significantly from patient to patient. So if you get a question where the patient has renal cell carcinoma, don't expect a certain set of symptoms. Instead, just be aware that perineoplastic syndromes are possible in many of these patients. So now let's talk morphology. On gross inspection, renal cell carcinoma looks gold or yellow, and this is due to the high lipid composition. Histologically, you'll see clear cells with abundant cytoplasm, and that too is due to the high lipid content. This is a gross image of a renal tumor caused by renal cell carcinoma. See the kidney here? This is the fat that normally surrounds the kidney, and then here's the tumor. You can see that it's slightly yellow and shiny, so this is characteristic of renal cancer. This microscopic image shows renal cell carcinoma as well, and it shows the most common variant called clear cell carcinoma. And as you can see, many of these cells have an abundance of clear space in them. This is that abundant cytoplasm as a result of the high lipid content. This is characteristic of clear cell renal cancer. Now the tumor is staged by the TNM staging system. The T stands for tumor, which includes the size and extent of the primary tumor. The N stands for lymph node involvement, so N for node, and the M stands for metastasis. The presence of distant metastases upstages the tumor. The mainstay for treatment for renal cell carcinoma is removal of the tumor. Depending on the patient, this involves either a partial nephrectomy or a total nephrectomy, so only the tumor or part of the kidney removed versus the entire kidney removed. It's also important to know that these are typically resistant to radiation or chemotherapy. Let's finish this section with a practice question. A 58-year-old male presents to the clinic after a mass on his right kidney was identified following a CT scan for abdominal pain. He is otherwise healthy. He does not smoke. Vital signs are stable. His BMI is 24. He denies fever, chills, weight loss, or bone pain. A biopsy of the kidney mass reveals blood vessels, smooth muscle, and fat. What is the most likely diagnosis? Okay, so this is an incidental finding of a mass on his right kidney, and in the biopsy, we see blood vessels, smooth muscle, and fat. This should make you think of angiomyelipoma, so the correct answer is C. Recall that angiomyelipomas are benign kidney masses made of vessels, smooth muscle, and fat. And just like in our patient, most angiomyelipomas are incidental findings. A is incorrect because clear cell carcinoma would show clear cells, not vessels, muscle, or fat. Now, B is incorrect because this is an adult male with an incidental finding. Remember, Wilms' tumor classically presents with flank pain, hypertension, and hematuria. D is incorrect because there are no signs of infection. Remember, he denies fever and chills. So again, the correct answer is C, angiomyelipoma. And that concludes this section.