 anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop anthrop by their anatomical name. In other words, all of these are UTIs, but we'll discuss each type individually. Let's get started. This is an image showing the main parts of the urinary tract. Before talking about where patients can get infections, it's important to understand the anatomy. These are the main parts, the urethra, the bladder, the ureters, and the kidneys. With that brief anatomy review, let's go over the risk factors for UTIs. There are a few major risk factors for getting a UTI. One is gender. Females get substantially more UTIs than men. This is because of their anatomy. The female urethra is much shorter than that of a man's, which makes it easier for bacteria to enter and cause infection. Interestingly, postmenopausal women also may be more prone to UTIs. This is because the lower estrogen level after menopause changes the vaginal and urethral tissue in a way that makes it easier for pathogens to persist and infect the area. Now, some women also notice UTIs that are associated with sexual intercourse. Now, catheter use is also a risk factor because catheters introduce a potential source of infection into the urethra, and certain congenital abnormalities are also risk factors. The main one to think about is vesicourital reflux, which we'll discuss in detail in a moment. Urinary stasis also increases risk. This can be caused by a lot of pathologies, including neurogenic bladder, pelvic organ prolapse, benign prostatic hyperplasia, or BPH, as well as prostate cancer. Let's take a look at this prostate idea first. This image above shows what happens when a prostate is very big. As you can see in the normal image on the left, part of the urethra runs through the middle of the prostate. Now take a look at the image on the right. The enlarged prostate over here has caused obstruction by blocking the urethra. This makes it difficult to pass urine and can result in urinary stasis. This basically means that urine can't get out and gets trapped in the bladder. And as we discussed earlier, urinary stasis is a risk factor for UTIs. So we made sense of benign prostatic hyperplasia and prostate cancer and why those can cause urinary stasis, but the idea behind neurogenic bladder and pelvic organ prolapse are very similar. It's simply that the bladder is not putting out the urine the way that it should. So you get urinary stasis. But now let's move on to this vesicourital reflux idea. We mentioned that certain congenital abnormalities can increase the risk of urinary tract infections. And one of these congenital abnormalities that you need to know about is vesicourital reflux. Sometimes you might see this abbreviated as VUR. Let's break this down. Vesico refers to the bladder and ureteral refers to the ureters. What this means is that urine is able to travel backwards or reflux from the bladder to the kidney. This is because of an abnormality in the way the ureter meets the bladder. The ureter doesn't close completely and allows urine to flow backwards even after it's already entered the bladder. So we call this retrograde flow. And this retrograde flow increases the risk of infection and can even cause kidney damage. This image is from our embryology chapter. On the left is normal flow of urine from the kidneys to the bladder. On the right, we see an example of urine refluxing back up from the bladder and into the ureter. This image shows an example of bilateral vesicourital reflux. And this type of image is called a voiding cystourethrogram or VCUG. And it's taken after the patient has urinated. And as you can see by the blue arrows, there is urine in the ureters and the kidneys, which we should not see post-voiding. So this is abnormal and is a sign of vesicourital reflux. Next, let's go over the pertinent lab findings. One important lab to order is a urinalysis, abbreviated as a UA. And a urinalysis is done by looking through a microscope. And this can give you different pieces of information. If the urine is positive for nitrites, this indicates gram-negative bacteria are present. This is because nitrites are a byproduct of certain gram-negative bacteria. And the most common cause is E. coli. Next, on a urinalysis, if you see leukocyte esterase or white blood cells present, again, you're looking under the microscope, this is abnormal and it's called pyuria. This indicates an infection. Finally, a urinalysis may show blood, which is called hematuria. Blood in the urine may be a sign of a more serious issue, but it's also very common to UTIs. But it's not always present. Okay, so that's a urinalysis. To figure out which specific bacteria is growing, you also need to order a urine culture. A culture is positive when it has more than 100,000 colony forming units, which you'll see as CFU. And these colony forming units that we're referring to are bacteria. And if you happen to get a positive culture on a patient who is not symptomatic for a UTI, this is called asymptomatic bacteria. And you do not treat these patients. They don't have symptoms. And that makes sense. Don't treat the lab finding, treat the patient. Again, asymptomatic bacteria do not treat. Now let's dive into the various types of infection. For example, urethritis, cystitis, and pyelonephritis. The first infection that we're going to talk about is urethritis or bacterial urethritis. Some symptoms include dysuria, which means pain or burning with urination. They may also feel like they have to urinate frequently and sometimes with very little volume. Now patients may also have urethral discharge, which is a discharge of inflammatory or infectious material, not urine. And sometimes patients with urethritis are asymptomatic. Now the characteristic lab finding is sterile pyuria. This means that you ordered a urinalysis and it comes back positive for leukocyte esterase or white blood cells. So that's where you get the pyuria part of sterile pyuria. But why is it called sterile? Well, sterile means that the culture you ordered did not grow any bacteria. Thus, it's a sterile culture. And the reason the culture doesn't grow any bacteria is because it takes special testing mediums and techniques to see bacteria like gonorrhea and chlamydia, which are the leading causes of urethritis. You would need a specific lab to look for these bugs. For example, gonorrhea requires a chocolate auger to grow. For more information on how to test for gonorrhea and chlamydia, please review our microbiology videos. The next infection we will talk about is in the bladder and it's called bacterial cystitis. The most common symptom is dysuria. Patients may also experience urinary frequency or urinary urgency, but they will not have fevers or chills. This is an important distinguishing feature between cystitis and the next disease we'll talk about, pyelonephritis. So keep that in the back of your mind. Now, the lab findings in cystitis depend on the offending organism, but they may include nitrites, pyuria, and the urinalysis may or may not show blood, but the urine culture will be positive because the most common bug is E. coli, which is unlike urethritis, which is usually caused by things that don't normally show up on a regular culture, such as gonorrhea or chlamydia. Now, besides E. coli, some women may also get cystitis from Staplococcus saprophyticus, which is also called coagulase negative staph. However, that's less common than E. coli. And there are a number of other bugs that can cause cystitis, but they're low yield. So when you think of cystitis, think E. coli, and sometimes in women, Staph saprophyticus. The next infection we'll talk about is in the kidneys called pyelonephritis. And we will start with acute pyelonephritis specifically. And then later we'll talk about the chronic form. Now, patients will have symptoms similar to cystitis, such as dysuria, urinary frequency, and urinary urgency. However, they also may have systemic symptoms like fever and chills. Remember this fact. It's hugely important to remember that these patients have fever and chills. And as I mentioned before, this is useful because it can help you distinguish pyelonephritis from cystitis. These patients may also have nausea and vomiting, as well as back and flank pain. Now, the back or flank pain is a natural consequence of an inflamed kidney, which irritates the area and causes pain. And you can see this on a physical exam by testing for costovertebral angle tenderness, or CVA tenderness. Lab findings are similar to those found in cystitis. However, patients may also have white blood cell casts. White blood cell casts form as a response to the inflammatory reaction to an infection within the kidney. As more cells respond to the infection, they slough off into the urine as white blood cell casts. And what lab do you find this on? The one in which you're using a microscope. So a urinalysis. Patients will also likely have an elevated white blood cell count on CBC, which is called leukocytosis. Now, pyelonephritis is a clinical diagnosis, but it's not uncommon for patients to have a CT scan in the emergency room. And if performed, this may show perinephric stranding, or inflammation around the kidney. And the most common cause of acute pyelonephritis is E. coli. So it's very much like cystitis. But in this case, the infectious E. coli went past the bladder and up into the kidneys. Let's try a practice question. A 23-year-old woman comes to the emergency room with complaints of dysuria and urinary frequency for the past three days. Overnight, she began having chills. Past medical history is unremarkable. She is not sexually active. Blood pressure is 110 over 70, heart rate is 90, and temperature is 101.3 degrees Fahrenheit and 38.5 degrees Celsius. Physical exam is positive for right-sided CVA tenderness. CBC reveals mild leukocytosis. What finding on urinalysis is most concerning for pyelonephritis as opposed to cystitis. So this young woman has symptoms of dysuria and urinary frequency. She also has chills, and her vital signs are stable, but she's febrile. Angie has right CVA tenderness. This should make you concerned for acute pyelonephritis. And the question wants to know what finding on urinalysis would make you most concerned about pyelonephritis as opposed to cystitis. Now, pyelonephritis and cystitis would have very similar findings on urinalysis. For example, nitrites and pyuria. However, white blood cell casts are more specific to pyelonephritis. So what finding on urinalysis would make you think most of pyelonephritis? White blood cell casts. Now let's move on to chronic pyelonephritis. This is caused by multiple episodes of acute pyelonephritis. This repeated inflammation leads to scarring and even kidney atrophy. This leads to irreversible damage to the kidney. And it can even progress to end-stage renal disease if enough damage has occurred. And there are some risk factors for developing chronic pyelonephritis. These are basically any underlying issue that would cause repeated bouts of acute pyelonephritis. For example, vesicouretal reflux or chronic obstruction. Let's finish with a question. A four-year-old girl comes to the pediatrician because of two episodes of bladder infections with fevers. She is currently asymptomatic. A CBC and metabolic panel are within normal limits. She has a radiographic study done that shows substantial retrograde flow of contrast from the bladder to the right ureter and kidney. She has started on prophylactic antibiotics. Which of the following might be seen on kidney biopsy if this patient does not get treated? A. Severe hydronephrosis. B. Hypertrophy of the right kidney. C. Carcinoma in situ. D. Tubular atrophy. E. No scarring of the parenchyma. Now this is a child with two episodes of pyelonephritis. But she's currently asymptomatic. And she has normal kidney function as evidenced by her normal metabolic panel. But she has a study that shows substantial retrograde flow of contrast from the bladder to the right ureter and kidney. This should help you figure out that this young girl has vesicouretal reflux. As we know, vesicouretal reflux puts this girl at risk for chronic pyelonephritis if the reflux causes her to continually get acute episodes of pyelonephritis. And the question is asking, what might we see on kidney biopsy if the patient developed chronic pyelonephritis? Well, we know that chronic pyelonephritis can cause irreversible kidney damage, including scarring, inflammation, and atrophy. So the best answer is D. Tubular atrophy. A is incorrect because hydronephrosis is not a microscopic diagnosis. Remember that we were specifically asked what would be seen on kidney biopsy. B is incorrect because the damaged kidney would not be hypertrophic. It would be scarred and atrophic. C is incorrect because the presentation of recurring infections leads us to chronic pyelonephritis. We aren't given any evidence that should make us suspicious of kidney cancer. E is incorrect because we would expect scarring. So again, the correct answer is D. Tubular atrophy. And that concludes this section.