 Yeah, it is a very challenging question just because each insight is showing kind of another layer of actually is seeing through another layer that was piled up in this kind of castle of projection and internal world, right? So each of those shifts and just for like a radical simplicity, there is this kind of realization of pure presence, of beingness or I am sense of that just consciousness that is free, right? It's not identified with thought. It's just it feels inherently beautiful and free, right? That pure presence and it just feels so complete. And it's absolutely wonderful, right? But then there is also like a natural outgrowth of that. There is this way in which we can clarify that actually in our perception, the sense of there being a subject to it, it's a construct. It's actually not the case when we look at it very carefully and time after time. And it's maybe not as easy to access that if we have not realized that pure presence, right? You know, some teachers talk about this, you know, up and out movement and then down and in movement of awakening, right? And then, of course, there's this kind of falling away of any sense of separation. Because we can say, you know, that's the whole point. Like sometimes we use those phrases like, oh, I don't exist, right? But, you know, those words has arisen, right? So in a certain way, it's, you know, it's almost funny to argue that. It's hilarious. I don't exist as a separate thing from the universe. That's very clear in my experience, right? But so I would say if I would have to boil it down, that's just how it's appearing here. And again, if we talk, you know, tomorrow, it might be totally different answer is seeing through separation, seeing through illusion that I am apart from life. Everything else is around me and I am at the center of it. But what is this I, right? When you ask someone to turn around and be like, okay, you know, I am here is a thought. Okay, so there are thoughts granted, right? There are sensations. And we say like, oh, because this is my body, right? But okay, this is my body is another thought, right? So all I have is actually sensations, right? And if I look really clearly into them, it's like, oh, they're cloud-like, fire-like, which means there's constant twirl of little points of experience, pixel of experience coming and going, coming and going, arising and dying, right? So this thing I called body, my body, is exactly of a nature of a waterfall. If I look at it from a distance, I'll be like, oh, it's a waterfall. It's a noun. It's a thing. It's out there. I see waterfall. But if you come close, just the rushing current, nothing solid, just this constant points of, when you see it, it's already gone, already gone, already gone, right? So this my body suddenly becomes nothing else but just this cloud-like, fire-like, open field of points of experience, right? That's it. And then there are thoughts arising. But it's not like between thoughts, whatever this truth is, is disappearing in a path of smoke. So it's not like the thoughts are defining anything. They're simply arising, right? Sounds are arising. You know, the colors are vivid, beautiful, right? So the sense of apartness from the universe, from everything, from life, from reality, is this fundamental way in which we kick ourselves out of the kingdom of heaven, you know, time after time. Because there are moments, you know, there are some moments when that is kind of, you know, where you're like really passionate about surfing and you are riding this wave. And in this moment, suddenly it's like, there's just this flow. There's just this magical life, you know, just this breeze. And you don't define any of it. It's like, oh, it's a nice wind today. It's like, no, it's just that one experience, continuous, right? Beautiful, vivid, luminous, right? And therefore, people are willing to risk their lives to revisit that. That's why people climb without ropes. Because it's like, I'm so forced to be present that there is nothing between me and this movement of climbing, right? They're willing to risk their life because they don't know this is possible in each and every moment because it's our birthright. It's here for us, for everyone, right? And we can, through a process of truly clearly looking at our experience, we can truly live in that way. Live in that way all the time. And of course, we will have some challenges. We are not like perfect transcendent beings, of course. But it's like the basis from which life happens is not that mini-me at the center of it all, being freaked out, being angry, wanting to manipulate for outcomes. It's life. It's life itself. It's right here. And it's, you know, and therefore, from that perspective, we see, when we see sadness, it's a sadness. It's not my sadness, your sadness. It's a sadness. And the compassionate heart comes online immediately because there's no separation. It's like, oh, he's sad today. It's like, oh, it's experienced vividly. It's, you know, and from this point, we can transcend those boundaries as a humanity, right? We can go beyond that me versus you, my views, your views. I'm better, you're worse. You know, all that whole thing. Like, to the, you know, not to the perfect degree because this is a mess, right? And in a certain way, we say, like, it's like a lotus growing from a muddy water. You know, on one hand, our experience can be beyond that and still our roots are in the mud. And we'll, you know, we'll crawl through it sometimes and we'll have struggles, of course. But there is a way in which we can go beyond that whole thing that sets us apart and makes us destroy each other in the end, right? And makes us fight. So, truly, that insight of non-separation, I would say this is the essence. This is birthright and our pathway if we want to continue on this planet, you know, as a thriving species. And not as, like, you know, cockroaches survivors of nuclear disaster, you know, kind of thing, you know. Ah, Kogan. Wow. I'm glad I asked that stupid question. To you, you, I have to say, like, you, I've never met Tangan Roshi, but, like, I could feel that compassion, that energy in that transmission. That was absolutely beautiful. I hope the audience can feel it, too. Oh, my gosh.