 què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què què experiencing the threads individually, but we sort of followed the threads individually down to the end of each one. But that's kind of an artificial way of separating things out. You know, this model does that. The model separates things out in that way in order to bring certain things to light. But it's a little bit like, you know, if you were used to listening to music, thinking in terms of, you know, there's the verse and then another verse and then the chorus and then a verse and then a chorus and then the bridge and then a chorus, right? You're used to listening to it like that. So the multi-drama model comes around and says, well, how about we just like separate out the bass line and listen to that all the way through? Then let's talk about the guitar line all the way through. Then let's talk about the, I don't know, whatever, the piano line all the way through, right? We separate out the tracks and we discuss the tracks separately as separate kind of trajectories or entities. But then I feel like we also need to put them back together. But the model doesn't do that in terms of steps and stages, right? It talks about braiding and integration. And so, yeah. So if we were to continue a conversation, I think it would be about really sort of focusing on how these threads intertwine and integrate with one another and how the integration sort of progresses. And then, you know, if you want to talk more about releasing the threads, we can do that too. Well, I mean, Dr. Pierce Salgaro, I feel like we've already started the conversation. That sounds like the perfect framing. We were just prepping and it's like, no, that's the show. Welcome back. Yeah. Yeah. I think that sounds great. And that analogy of, you know, you're pulling out a single line of music and that's how the map may work as a way to kind of point in certain ways. But then how do they integrate? How does it become a symphony? How does it become a final piece? And how is it experienced actually? Because the human experience of that unfolding of awakening isn't one of, oh, now I'm experiencing the energy thread. It isn't that conceptual. It's the territory, which the map will never properly describe a territory. So the question is, can we see kind of how this map ultimately these different lines of experiential aspects of awakening intertwine and use terms braiding. So they start to like fall on top of each other and alternate and then a kind of a bleeding into each other and then integrating and then ultimately a release. So, yeah, let's go. Yeah. Yeah. Man, the other two episodes, by the way, I get so many comments on them just in terms of people's experience being validated. Like, ah, yeah, I never thought it would be like that. People kept saying I was missing something or I was distracting myself or I was going down dead ends. But now I feel like, no, this was all exactly how it should be. And it's a kind of an allowing the surrender that seems to naturally occur to happen a little quicker maybe when you know it's okay that it's showing up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm glad to hear that. I mean, that really is the reason for me putting this map out there. The reason to kind of put it out in the world and talk about it and write about it in the first place is to help people that are lost, right? And give them an alternative, you know, you are here on sticker on a new map to sort of help them to find their way and maybe reduce some of the anxiety and the, like we talked about last time, we got into spiritual emergencies. Spiritual emergencies. Yeah. Yeah. You know, crises and panic. Panic, fear. Panic. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. That can come from being lost in the territory and not really understanding where you are. So, yeah. Yeah. So, so it's wonderful. If it's, if it's able to help some people to validate their experience and kind of, you know, recognize fellow travelers in that, in that same territory, then that's, that's wonderful. Um, again, if it's, you know, somebody doesn't think it's valuable or, you know, thinks it's too conceptual or thinks it's too, you know, what, I don't know, separating things out just doesn't work for them or they, they really would prefer to have this kind of stage one, two, three, more clarity about, you know, kind of sequence and great, you know, there's no problem. Um, they're, they're very welcome to ignore absolutely everything that I'm talking about. Exactly. Yeah. And they will. Yeah. I, I do get comments like that. This is too conceptual. The map isn't the territory and that totally makes sense. And some of that resonates with me with any map, you know, at some point. And, and it's funny cause I think that'll actually be, and by the way, I'm going to link to the previous two shows. The first one is an introduction to this multi-Dharma threads model. The second one is diving deep into the threads, each individual one, the, the emptiness, deconstruction thread, the unity, love, God thread, the energy, um, uh, dynamic thread and the psyche unconscious thread. Uh, and so today we're going to get into then braiding integration and release. And we'll talk about what that means, but, um, the, the, the release itself of the threads, which is kind of cutting to the chase, like when everything kind of just, Oh, it's life again. All these models are kind of like a little itchy and squirmy because it, it, you feel like you're kind of describing something that doesn't need to be described like the color green. Uh, it's just, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And all, all of the metaphors that people have used apply, right? Like, um, you're just designing a different menu. You're not actually tasting the food, right? You know, there's all kinds of, um, different critiques people, um, could very easily give to any map making exercise and they're all completely valid. Um, the map, the map is only a tool. Any map is only a tool. It's only, uh, um, you know, it's, it's only a kind of a pointer. It's never the actual territory itself. Any kind of map that you could hold in your hand, right, of a country or a territory or the globe or the world or whatever, that map is never going to be the territory. It's always going to be kind of an abstract representation of the territory that, that, that is very, very different than the actual walking of through the territory. The map is always going to distort something. It's always going to bring certain features to light, but it's also going to obscure others. It's going to have advantages and disadvantages and, you know, any, any map is has just has that baked into it as a sort of a feature, um, of maps in general. Uh, so yeah, on the website, I talk about kind of different maps of the globe and how you have, you know, different, um, Mercator projection and other projections that show a sphere, you know, rendering a sphere into a 3d flat map. And you're, you, you have to choose what part of the map is going to be represented accurately and what part is going to get really stretched and distorted. And there's, there's no way around it. You, no matter what decision you make, some part of the map is going to show up more accurately. And some part of the map is going to show up less accurately. And, you know, I think spiritual maps are the same. You just, you just, um, have to understand that they're, they're just tools. They're just representations. I mean, maps are built. These, these maps that we're talking about right now, spiritual maps, they're built out of words, right? So, so it's nonsense. Words cannot capture experience, right? I mean, you can't even explain to somebody what it's like to taste a strawberry if they've never had one, nevermind, you know, the depths of the energy thread. Yeah. And, and actually that came, that came up last time when you were talking about the energy thread, it, it, it's like, if we stared at the finger that was pointing at the moon, what the finger feels like is, oh, experience is popping like a bubble before it ever even formed. Okay. So that makes no sense. And yet, if you're actually looking where that's pointing in experience, you can actually find that experience. Um, it, you know, in that part of the energy thread that, that stuff is, is real and not real. It's, it's very difficult to talk about. So yeah, words, words are, are difficult for this. Impossible, but it's what we have. And someone else might be in that same experience and describe it totally differently. Totally different. How I try to convey the taste of a strawberry and you try to convey it, we might use totally different metaphors, totally different words. Absolutely. We're both wrong, right? Yeah. We're all wrong. Yeah. We're both, we're both pointing, but we're not, we're both not capturing the actual experience. And so, yeah. So maps are like that. They're just, you know, it's just something to lightly hold as a, um, as a helpful orienting device, as a, as a guiding device. If it's useful, um, if it's not useful, just no problem. Just, you know, set it down and keep on walking. Or better yet, leave an angry comment on this video because it will just juice the algorithm. So either way, hate, love, it's all the same, you know, it's non-dual. Um, I'm just going to fix my focus here for a second because the computer is trying to be a butthole. There we go. Um, okay. So let's, let's dive into this. You know, the, you have the four main threads and you talk about this process that you might call braiding. So as we go down the threads experientially, these different aspects of the awakening process become more apparent experientially, and they all kind of feel at the end of the threads as this kind of non-dual experience that we talked about. So, so what is braiding? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, let's not go back and review the threads again because we spent a lot of hours. Yeah. Yeah. Right. It's a marathon three hour session. So, so I think we covered it adequately and people can, can listen there first. Um, but what, what I, what I don't want people to get the idea, you know, of is that this, this map is not, what makes this map different is it's not a steps and stages map. It's a process map. It looks, it looks longitudinally across, uh, you know, the awakening process and separates out different kind of like layers or filaments or fibers or threads within that process that are, that are playing out over the longterm. Um, so when I was talking about the threads, um, you know, it's not the case that you work your way all the way down the threads and then you start braiding and then you start integrating and then you start releasing. Right. So that would be a more stage like kind of, um, kind of approach. And what I want to make clear is that everything we talked about last time, the, the deepening into the threads is taking place while you're braiding and integrating. So these processes can, can, can, can do overlap, um, quite, you know, of course, differently for different people. So some people may spend a longer time deepening into one thread and then, you know, braid a little bit more quickly, integrate more slowly. Somebody else might be the opposite, right? They move really quickly down the threads and they spend a long time braiding, you know, it, it, to my, um, in my experience, I think talking to a lot of people, these, these are extremely variable, uh, features, you know, how people move through the process. Um, but we can generally say there's, there's an opening, deepening, you know, these, these processes of opening, deepening, braiding, integrating, and releasing are sort of, you know, taking place, overlapping with one another. So yeah, one thread opens, you start maybe, you know, deepening into it. Another thread opens. Now you're braiding those two while you're continuing to deepen, right? Maybe they start integrating and maybe a third thread opens at that point, right? And now you've got an, two threads that are integrated and one that's kind of braiding around, you know, with those two. And then that those three integrate and haul, maybe a fourth thread opens up really quickly and plunks you all the way down. You know, I mean, it's, it's very, very different. It's, it's unique, I think, for different people. Maybe people within a practice community that are practicing in a very scripted kind of, um, prescribed methodology. I think a lot of times these practice communities are trying to have people experience things in a similar way. That's right. But, but, but I think even in that kind of environment, people tend to have their own kind of configurations of their own ways that they navigate these. Sorry. I didn't answer your question of what braiding is, but I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm I want people to relax. I want them not to, because it's very natural to see this in the format of a stages kind of model where it's like, oh, I didn't finish deepening through the emptiness thread. So how am I going to braid? Or how will I integrate if I haven't finished an energy or the energy thread never showed up or something like that? And the truth is my own experience and people that I've talked to, like I have friends that are incredibly deep on the emptiness, the energy, the psyche threads. And they've been integrating and braiding those for years. And then all of a sudden, out of nowhere, the unity thread shows up and their mind is blown. They're like, oh my God, it's all love. Where did this come from? So out of the blue, that can happen. And I can tell you one other personal experience. So early on when I was going through this process years ago, I started reading a book called The Mind Illuminated, which is the sort of Theravada Buddhism kind of stages, like they're stage four, they're stage five, they're stage six. And they say very clearly, you know, you really have to kind of master stage four and have exclusive attention on the breath before you can go to stage five. And so what I ended up finding in my own experience is all of a sudden there was stage eight. And I was having these jhanas just showing up. And then I would read the chapter for stage eight. And I was like, oh, I'm having that, but I can't even do stage four. Like stage four, I don't even have exclusive attention. So what the fuck? And by the end, I ended up getting frustrated and just throwing the book down and saying, forget it. Now I went back after we did our threads episode and I just started reading random chapters. And I was like, oh, wow. This stuff was braiding and showing up in these very unpredictable non-linear ways. But they do correlate to these stages in the book, just not linearly. And they do correlate to the threads. Just again, none of it describes the territory, which is completely unknown by language and description, but we're trying to point. So yeah, so that's my own personal experience with this. Totally. So you can relax. You don't have to get your sphincter all tight about, am I doing the spiritually right thing? Am I achieving enough? Because the same movement that's doing that is that energetic contraction that puts a veil over the whole thing in my experience. That's my own map. Yeah. Yeah. I had a similar kind of relationship with maps and models where what I was experiencing was not fitting with a certain kind of sequence that I could do the same thing, cherry pick, kind of recognizing different aspects in what I was experiencing, but it was out of order. And in my case, it was also cross tradition also, because I would pick up a model from Theravada and say, yeah, well, I experienced A and G and M from this ABC, but then I look at some other Hindu thing and it's like, yeah, and I've experienced C and E and Q out of this list and shamanism. Yeah, I've experienced these few things and out of order and in my own particular configuration. Um, yeah. And so, so this, this model is, um, just a little bit more, um, allowing a little more tolerant of, um, meandering around and, and, and not needing to sort of organize things into a linear stepwise, um, stage, stagewise fashion. And, and again, it's just, uh, it's just listening to the music in a different way, paying attention to something different. Um, yeah. You know, and if it works, if it doesn't work, that's up to you. And, and this, and this clarification is particularly relevant to the braiding integration and release process, because this is a very interesting part of the, the model experientially, and it can be a little bit confusing if you don't, if you're not, especially if you're not talking to other people who are going through it, that can validate your experience. Yeah. Oh yeah. Braiding. Yeah. Sorry. I think braiding is exactly where, uh, the, the most challenging where people can run into the most trouble if they don't have a map is with, is what, with, with what I call braiding. Um, and, and so, um, what I call braiding is this oscillation between different kinds of experiences that are, you know, in my model that are identified as being different threads and the experiences kind of move to the foreground and obscure the other, the other threads or the other kinds of experiences, they, they move to the foreground for a while, then they recede and something else moves to the foreground. And of, of course, in my idea about threads, the metaphor is, you know, when you're braiding, when you're braiding hair or making a braid, you're putting one, one, one thread on top of the other at a time. Right. So there's this kind of oscillation between the threads. Um, and, and this is where I also introduce, I don't remember if we talked about this or not, but I, I talk about just daily life, everyday stuff, you know, going to work and, um, you know, taking care of the dog and, you know, the, the paying the bills and just grow that gross reality. Yeah. Yeah. Just the roles you play in society and, and, you know, the material kind of world that you live in. Um, I, you know, it's not a spiritual thread, but for the purposes of this braiding metaphor, I think it, it, it's helpful for the metaphor to call that a thread that you're braiding into this mix as well. So even the real life thread. Yeah. Yeah. So even if you only have a one thread awakening, let's say like, I've met people who just go all the way down the emptiness thread and they don't braid it with anything else. Um, they will have some kind of braiding process happening with the daily life thread. So it's like, you know, I'm in the depths of emptiness and I really can't even make sense of, you know, my, my, my life, my job, you know, money, things like that just really seem completely unimportant constructs that are just invented. Right. And I'm totally steeped in this kind of emptiness experience for a while. And then something happens at work and it's like, Whoa, spirituality takes a backseat. I need to really focus on this. And, you know, or, or you might feel where did my awakening go? Like, like, you know, suddenly it's just, everything's all normal again. Um, so there's like a, you know, the daily life comes back on top and then six months later, you're boom, you're in some other kind of, you know, really deep, you know, experience. Maybe you went to a retreat, maybe it just happened, you know, that now you're kind of the emptiness threads back on top again. And you're sort of braiding those things, you know, oscillating. And even in, even in that sort of oscillation and during braiding, there can be a bleed through, let's say with the real life thread, thread five and emptiness. So it might be that you're at the dentist in the real life thread and they're drilling your tooth and you're feeling a lot of pain as a sense of a solid person and solid drill and solid tooth and solid pain. And it might pop that you're like, Oh, I can actually access this understanding that things are empty of substance and it's all just vibration. Well, okay. That's available. But then as soon as the appointment's over, you're back in the car in the solid world and the threat, the thread bleed over has stopped. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So it's more sort of like either it's a or it's B when you're braiding. Right. And, and that's going to give way into what we'll talk about in a bit is integration where the two, you know, A and B become more and more blended together. So, so, you know, for a while you're oscillating between, you know, daily life versus emptiness and they seem incompatible. They seem really different. Um, but then over time, it seems to me like the more you oscillate between them over time, the boundaries between them get thinner and thinner and more and more porous and you sort of wind up having bleed through on both sides and then eventually it winds up kind of blending together. So we, we can, we can talk about that in a minute. Um, yeah, yeah. Yeah. For form is emptiness and emptiness is no other than form. It ends up just, uh, integrating. Yeah. When you're saying that and it's actually part of your experience, then, then you are in integration. Yes. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. Otherwise you're just in spiritual ego or you're just reading a sutra. Yeah. Philosophy is, is helpful support sometimes, but yeah. Yeah. We're talking about, we're talking about lived experience here. Yeah. Yeah. Perfect. Yeah. Yeah. So, so, so the braiding process, you know, with just one thread and I have met people, I've, I've met several, it's, it's a small minority, but I've met several people that have this, um, you know, one threaded awakening with the emptiness thread. Um, you know, and even some, some extreme emptiness threaders, right. Are like, you know, oh, my life is over. I'm going to go live in a monastery and just like, you live in a cave somewhere and just like leave the world. Um, yeah. But even so you, you're going to like interact with other monastics. You're still going to have a body that needs to like eat and, you know, go to the bathroom and things like that. So that you, you can't escape braiding with daily life in some way. That's right. That's right. I mean, you can, you can spiritual bypass away from daily life, I guess for a while, but, but it's going to catch up with you. That, that bingo. So just, just to put another, uh, uh, point on that thing, cause we see this a lot, especially for some reason, Pierce, especially with emptiness thread savants that seem to really go through that. They, there is an expression sometimes from them that I have died fully and the world is totally, I'm liberated. You know, they'll use this kind of language and then you, they stub their toe and they're like, fuck, and it's everything. And, and so there is this tendency to try to use that to bypass that life thread. And it, it really, in my experience, it doesn't work that way. Those are intertwined. Um, you don't get out of being a human is how I've said it. Uh, yeah. Yeah. And, um, you know, I think some of that comes like you were suggesting from sort of, you know, wanting to escape like an escapist kind of fantasy of what my, what life could be without, without pain, without suffering. What would it be like to transcend the human condition altogether? Right. So some of it can come from there and some of it can just come from the, the really astounding, amazing, profound, um, realization that comes from the emptiness thread, which is like, this really is all just con concepts and, and illusory kind of constructions. Right. Um, from, from inside of the emptiness thread, this, that's really what's going on here. And it really is impossible to really see, um, the, the, um, reality of daily life and why you might need to sort of pay attention to it. Right. So it, it, it can be coming from a very, um, honest, um, just deeply profoundly realized, uh, position. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Because it is like that. Yeah. I can. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And so, and so multi-dharma isn't prescriptive in any way. I'm, I'm not saying, uh, you know, I, it's probably better not to have spiritual bypass. That's, that's probably maybe a prescription I can stand by, but, but just, you know, in terms of the depth of your, of your, you know, spiritual experiences and the depth of your realization, um, you know, multi-dharma doesn't, doesn't prefer one kind of experience over another. I think we talked about this last time or the time before it just, you know, in terms of, um, just having a more capacious, uh, description of the territory. Right. And, and all sorts of different traditions are trying to maximize for different things. And some people will definitely maximize for the emptiness thread. And that's just what they're configured for. It's what they fall into. It's what they practice. It's what really, you know, naturally they have a talent for and they wind up, you know, just deep, deep, deep in the emptiness thread. And that's what they do. And that's what they're good at. Um, and we should celebrate that just like we celebrate Olympic level javelin throwers. And we don't say that they should have been swimmers, right? We, we, we, we celebrate, you know, diversity of ecosystems, you know, elephants are being awesome at being elephants, right? We don't expect them. We don't say, why, why aren't you being more like a giraffe? Right. So we, we celebrate, you know, um, we celebrate the, the, the, the way that an ecosystem, you know, leads beings to flourish in different ways and different, in different parts of the ecosystem. And I think spirituality is the same. So somebody who's a real depth, you know, emptiness threader to the depths who is going to, you know, leave the world to go live in a monastery and really, um, embody and articulate and teach and experience the depths of the emptiness thread. Fantastic. If that's, if that's what you're built for, um, we, we need people like that out there doing that thing. Yeah. Yeah. It's amazing. Yeah. Beautiful. Yeah. Um, so most people aren't one single threaders, I think in terms of the, maybe it's, maybe it's artificial actually. Maybe it's just the people that I happen to, the people that happen to reach out to me that I happen to talk to the most, the people that, you know, kind of are most interested in multi-dharma perhaps are the multi-threaders. Um, but, uh, selection bias. Yeah. Yeah. Almost everybody that I've spoken to with a couple exceptions, um, you know, has more than one thread going on more than one spiritual thread going on. So in this case, you know, it wouldn't just be, uh, braiding together the emptiness with the daily life, but it's also, you know, you're, you have an emptiness experience. You're sinking into that six months later, boom, there's a oneness experience. We talked about this. You, you were emptiness first and then oneness and I was the other way around. Um, you know, for you, I, I, I don't remember if you said how long it was for me, it was actually 20 years of oneness experience before the next shift brought a big wallop of emptiness. Right. So the, so for me, that was a very long braid with one very long period of time with one thread on the top of the braid. Yeah. And it just kind of sat there for, for a long time and then suddenly boom. Right. Then the next braid comes in and it's like, whoa, um, everything has changed. Right. Yeah. Yeah. I think it was, it was roughly a decade for me with a, with a oneness, oneness on the top and then the other stuff opened up. Yeah. Okay. So we both have that similar kind of like long lead in. Yeah. People, you know, are taken by surprise, you know, they, they have no interest in spirituality, never practiced anything, or maybe they very first time they practice something and suddenly it's like, boom. And then boom. Right. Like, like, yeah. The two come up really quickly. Yeah. Yeah. Just different, different ways people experience it. Um, nothing's right or wrong or better or worse than the other. Um, but, but you could have now, you know, your oneness experience for a period of time now comes the, you know, the Kundalini experience maybe starts opening up. Right. And so now you've got three open threads and then maybe, maybe it's back, you know, to the emptiness thread for a while. And then something happens at work and it's like spirituality just goes out the window for six months because, you know, you're six weeks or whatever. Cause you're dealing with that. And then you go to a retreat and boom, it's, you know, back to oneness and here comes the psyche thread now, you know, boom. The psyche always sneaks up. It always sneaks up and just slaps you across the face. Yeah. So, I mean, all of these could be, all of these can be intense. All of them can be disorienting. All of them can be, uh, disappointing. They can be scary. It could, you know, how you react to this braiding process can be quite, um, you know, it's unique to you, you know, but also, and also it can be, it can be quite, um, strong reactions when these are all unfamiliar and you're not really, you're not really understanding what's going on. You're kind of whiplashed between these different experiences. Like what happened, you know, what is going on? Am I going crazy? Um, you know, or you're, or you're experiencing these, um, you know, these ontological kind of discombobulations. Like I, you know, I, first I thought everything was God, you know, and I read that was ultimate reality and now that's disappeared and now everything seems to be energy, but now that's disappeared. And, you know, so there's just, just a lot of, um, confusion I think can, can arise and disorientation can arise during this braiding process. And, and sometimes a sense of desperation, like I want this to stop. I wish this had never happened. I hear that a lot. Um, I wish I were back fully asleep just in the matrix because at least there wasn't this confusion. Um, and, and the other thing I just wanted to say is yes. So everybody's different. Everybody seems to, and we speculated before, like, well, it's just maybe how people are wired or how it's just not knowable. But like, for example, there may be a fundamental movement. Like for me, I was talking with my wife about this just, just the other day. For me, we were talking about death. For me, I have no problem with annihilation. Like that is not a problem. I have a problem with the manifest world being unsatisfying and full of suffering. And so that's my primary movement for her. This manifest world is like pure love. It's the prospect of annihilation that is terrifying as a fundamental fear. So the emptiness thread for her was very, you know, full of panic and destabilization. It came on like that. And when it's not, when the unity thread hasn't come up or, or balanced it with a fullness and a love, it can be very disorienting. So, so, so that as these things kind of go back and forth, there can be this almost like a, another form of spiritual emergency where you're just, you know, oh my God, like, is this ever going to stop? I'm it's, it's, it's terrifying or it's disorienting. Like you said. Yeah. Yeah. And I, I like the example you gave, how it points also to one's own deepest psychological unconscious, uh, layers that are down there. Right. Like the, you, you, you, you may not have known this at the time, but the, the deepest underlying fear in your system being a fear of, you know, annihilation versus, uh, dissatisfaction with the material world or, or, you know, it could be a fear of lock, loss of control. Um, it could be any number of different kind of core fears that are at the foundation of one individual person's, you know, psychological unconscious makeup, um, can, can be influencing the whole thing, right. All from, from behind the scenes. Um, and once you start realizing that and you're like, oh, how much of this spiritual process has been dictated and choreographed by my deepest unconscious fears. Ah, beautiful. Now you're landing in the psyche thread. Psyche thread. Yeah. See, I told you that shit sneaks up. Yeah. Um, and so now all of a sudden the psyche thread stuff comes to the foreground, right. And that's, that's the thread that's on top now. Yeah. Um, and, and you could be being told by your tradition, you know, oh, this is whatever's happening right now. That's just sort of like the side, the side show, the side effects, you know, you just need to, those are just khalishas. Those are just sankaras. They need to come up. They need to pass. They need to be seen through. They need to be essentially ignored. Um, you know, which is, which is one way of working is just kind of sticking to the emptiness thread and just allowing, you know, sort of seeing through all of these things. Um, but for a lot of us will be just, we will just be kind of like, you know, um, be with no choice of in the matter. We'll just be sucked into, you know, these, this braiding process and find ourselves, you know, deep into territory of the other threads and just not able to control this, this, um, this process. And one thing you said last time with regard to the psyche thread, which is, it's almost a process of surrender and surrender and surrender and surrender into these unconscious, um, parts of you that show up and allowing them in a way today, particularly I was feeling into this. It's true for every thread and true for the life thread and true for the whole thing that part of this process as braiding seems to come online is it's a surrender to what's showing up. It's like, okay, now this is cure. So, okay. Rather than saying it should be other, it could be other, it ought to be other. It's like, well, this is what's happening. So this is okay. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. And, and maybe just knowing that there's a thing called braiding and that it's an expected kind of part of the territory and that this is sort of like a known process and, and, and, you know, that there's a little bit of a map there might help people to, um, yeah, to, to accept, okay, I guess, I guess braiding is happening now and this, that's what, that's what's going on. And, um, you know, it's not pleasant. It doesn't make it, it doesn't make it pleasant, but at least I don't have to, you know, be terrified that I'm losing my mind or something is going on here. That's, that's, um, you know, really dangerous and scary. Yeah. Or if you're a hardcore seeker, the fear can be, I'm losing awakening or I'm losing the, the, the discipline or the, the path I'm off the, you know, the Dharma is escaping me. That seems to be a common neurosis. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. Where did my awakening go? Um, yeah. And, or, or, you know, uh, just kind of the, the, the crushing of the fantasy that an awakening process is going to mean that I'm going to be more and more happy and more and more, um, loving. And my whole life is going to get better and better right from the more I practice, the more, the better it's going to get like that, that kind of fantasy being crushed right in this process of braiding. Devastating. It's going to be devastating for seekers, for, for hardcore seekers. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They're looking for, yeah. And a lot of times the seeking is triggered by maybe a trauma or a difficulty. And so when the truth is you can't escape all of it, you have to surrender to all of it. All of it is this as part of that, you know, braiding integration, it's like, oh, that can be a big paradigm shift for people. Yeah. A letting go, a grieving, even a sorrow. Yeah. Yeah. And I think, I mean, the, I guess like the, it goes hand in hand with surrender. Maybe it's the flip side of surrender is to have a sort of open, open curiosity towards what's coming next. Right. Cause as long as, as long as you're clinging to what happened before and what, you know, where did my awakening go? Where did my oneness go? It was so, you know, delicious and I want it back. And that's all I'm sort of thinking about. And I'm desperately trying to do all these practices in order to like get back to the oneness that I had, you know, last week. As long as you're doing all that, you're not actually sort of paying attention to or being open to what's actually coming next or what's actually here, you know, that with this next week, with the next weave of the braid. Yeah. Yeah. So, so braiding, just the concept of braiding might help people to attune to what's here now. Like what's the next, what's this next thing? Right. And so hand in hand with that too, is another interesting phenomenon that showed up for me where, you know, meditation fell away for quite a while. It was like, no, it was something I was doing obsessively for quite a while. Having these experiences of emptiness, sometimes energy, not so much oneness in meditation. And then that just falling away, being replaced maybe with the life and the psyche threat. And, and, and then the sense that I've lost something like, oh, I used to be able to sit for five hours in meditation. And, and now that's not, it's just not even a possibility. I can't do it. Um, and the sense that something's gone on or gone wrong, something's gone off the trail. My awakening has been derailed, et cetera. And I think knowing this model, if I'd known it then I would have said, okay, what's next? What's next? What's next? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And you're pointing to something skillful, which is, um, adapting your practices also for the braid, for the thread that's on the top of the braid. So in your case, it sounds like you kind of went all in on certain practices during one phase and then all in on other kinds of practices during other parts of the braiding. For me, what I did, I tended to have a whole suite of practices that I was doing kind of throughout. I, I, as a new, as a new thread opened, I added more practices instead of swapping. Um, but, but I would sort of like cut down on, you know, say when, when, when emptiness thread is not on top, I would cut back on the time spent doing those kinds of practices and maximize the time spent doing other kinds of practices, you know, just sort of in a more fluid way. Um, but I, I was kept a sort of the suite of this diverse kind of range of practices going that were, um, sort of working on multiple threads simultaneously, um, just to kind of keep the doors open on the other things. Yeah. That sounds like a good way to, to approach it. Yeah. Yeah. It seems in a way, many, in, in many sense from here, it feels like all the practices that appear are epiphenomenon of the thread unfolding. They're actually not even causative. They, they just show up like meditation shows up when emptiness is happening. You know, yoga shows up when energy is happening. Yeah. I, I, I, I do think you're right about that. I, there, there, for me, the practices gave the space in my day and the opportunity for the experience of the thread to really come to the fore. Right. So, so like when the, when the emptiness thread was on top, um, you know, sure you can, you can perceive emptiness, you know, eventually you could perceive emptiness just all the time. But at first you really kind of are looking to carve out some space in your day where you're not, you know, watching Netflix or. On the live thread. Yeah. Work or at the gym where, where you're really kind of just, you know, steeping in. The emptiness perspective. And so meditation would be that, that sort of container for those experiences or yoga would be the container for the, for me, yoga was a container for the energy experiences. Yeah. Yeah. But then, you know, eventually, as we were talking about earlier, the, the, the braiding gives way to blending. And at that point it's the, the, the, the, the experiences no longer need these discrete containers to live in. And they just start spilling out into your life. And then you're having, you know, oneness experiences at work and emptiness experiences, you know, while cooking and so on and so forth. Yes. Yes. Yes. So the, yeah. And, and I don't know, I mean, I don't know if we're finished with braiding, but yeah, blending is fascinating because you're right. You're just driving and you burst into tears because of the beauty and connection of all things. And you're sitting at the gym and suddenly the, you know, the, the bench press is totally illusory, empty radiance. And, you know, and, and, and five seconds later, you're talking to someone having a normal conversation. It just seems to start to incorporate so that then even meditation or these practices feel a little silly. They feel unnecessary, but then when they show up, they feel fully, perfectly right. So there's not even the resistance to the, the practice that might show up when you feel it's fallen away, then suddenly meditation shows up again and you're like, oh, I like to sit in this space and go even deeper into this. It seems to just show up that way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I was a little more structured. Like I held onto the structure of the, of the practices, you know, in some, in some balance, right. You know, the percentages changed, you know, there wasn't always 25, 25, 25, 25, between the, between the threads, but, you know, you know, the percentages would change, but, but I held onto that sort of like couple hours a day dedicated time for spiritual practice. I held onto that, you know, for pretty much the whole time. The whole time. Yeah. Yeah. So it sounds like you were, you were more fluid with your kind of commitment to that, whereas I was more kind of, kind of regular with that, but it just goes to show that individual, individual, uh, temperament even is, yeah. Temperament. Yeah. It doesn't, it doesn't really matter that there's one right way or. That's right. That's right. And you're an academic and I'm a official, uh, professional clown. So it's like, of course there's going to be a difference. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So was there anything else in the braiding piece of this where threads are popping on top of each other? Maybe just to remind that, that, you know, this is, is happening, that deepening is taking place while braiding is happening and an opening can be taking place while braiding is happening. And there can be kind of relationships between them, right? Like I got to the depths of the emptiness thread and that somehow like triggers a oneness kind of thread to open. Or there's some kind of, there's some kind of resistance in the psyche thread that's kind of really, really eating up, eating at me. And then I break through that and suddenly everything's energetic, you know, there's something kind of like seem like they're causally related to one another in a variety of different ways. And, and, and, and as each time you're braiding, there's sort of like a, a feeling that you're moving deeper down into the thread down into more, more realization, more, um, more, more depth in the trajectory. Yeah. Yeah. And it, you know, my wife's experience was psyche thread. She had no spiritual background at all. No meditation, no practice, nothing, just living life, hanging around with me. Next thing you know, psyche thread hits this interesting crack and then emptiness just blew up. Like it was like full awakening into emptiness, destabilization, the whole thing. And all that happened very quickly, but it was psyche thread on top. Uh, and then emptiness popped over on top of that. Yeah. Yeah. So, so right there, I mean, with three people that we've mentioned so far with three different trajectories at different speeds, you know, different, different kind of braiding. Um, yeah. And so, yeah, the, the model, it just, it doesn't prescribe one way of doing it. It doesn't say one's better than the other. It's the model isn't useful for that kind of thing. The model is useful for sort of people being like, Oh my God, what's happening with me? And the model is like, okay, you know, there's a thing called braiding and it doesn't matter which order it happened in, you know, it's still sort of on the map. Um, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. So, so braiding is happening and, you know, those, those guiding questions that we talked about in the first, um, uh, episode that we did together, right. Guiding questions can help to sort of move down or to help to pay attention to the braid that's on top and can help to sort of like sink into or deepen into that particular thread that's on top. Um, those guiding questions, you know, are targeted towards sort of, you know, the, the, the, um, perspective of each thread and helping to kind of, you know, shift gears into that thread. So I re I really want to emphasize that because, and just very quickly to review very quickly in the emptiness said, the guiding question might be what is still solid or feels real here. And on upon investigation, is it, is it so in the, in the energy thread, it might be what still feels static, non-dynamic, non-effervescent in a way. And is it on inspection? Is it, and that goes for every phenomenon, including the awareness of the phenomena. So you can turn that into subtler and subtler things in the, in the unity thread, what feels separate or not, uh, or apart in some way. And is it on investigation? And in the psyche thread, what is unwelcomed, unresolved, unaccepted, unhealed in my own, uh, being? And, and is it, is that really the case? Yeah. Did I get any of that wrong? No, no, that's, that's perfect. And they don't need to be, um, I'm not, I'm not saying that that needs to be sort of like a formal structured inquiry. Right. Like formulate this question in your mind and repeat it seven times. Like, who am I? Who am I? Who am I? Right. Yeah, exactly. It's not that kind of style self inquiry. It's, it's, it's just like a, it's just like an orientation to feel towards, or, you know, if you're doing meditation, meditate kind of in that direction. Or if you're doing inquiry, inquire in that direction. If you're doing yoga, feel in that direction. It's just sort of like a, a suggestion for what, what general direction to take with your practice is towards those, um, you know, dissolving or, or sorry, um, deconstructing, unifying, dissolving, or welcoming. Oh, that's a good, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I like that, that, that, yeah. So even this morning, I'm, I meditation showed up. My wife and I are sitting, we're meditating and the energy thread seemed just to kind of dance for some reason. And probably because I was thinking about, we were going to do an interview today and energy popped up and the natural movement was, oh, so what's here that's still solid? What's here that's still, or still non-dynamic. And if there was just a natural movement, oh, there's awareness, that's dynamic. There's this, oh my God, everything is completely dynamic. There's nothing static. It was the nature of impermanence in every moment. And so in a sense that was a useful orientation, but I wasn't sitting there going, what's dynamic, you know, like asking an inquiry question. So inquiry can be very natural feeling in that way. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. So however, however that shows up, those, however, those guiding questions make the most sense and however they show up sort of in the moment for different people, you know, there will, will be, will, will be great and it'll be different for everybody. So everybody. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, just in a natural sort of easy way, incline towards those. And, and, and then the, that, that'll help the braid, the, whatever threads on top of the braid to sort of like deepen into it and kind of, you know, sink into it and allow it to show you what it's showing you, you know, and allow the next thing to happen, whatever the next thing will be. Beautiful. Yeah. And so, so the braiding process, you know, it, it, it is also a deepening process. It overlaps with the deepening, right? So, and, and it overlaps with the opening, like a new, new threads can open, everything's deepening, but let's say over time. Um, and, and, and, and how long it will take, we can't know, right? Everybody will, everybody will braid. However, however, whatever length of thread you've got, you'll braid it until the braiding is done, right? There's no, there's no kind of like predicting the length of the time or the number of knots in the braid. You know, there could be 25 different times that you had to braid the, the thing where it could just be three. Um, you know, it could have taken decades. It could have taken, you know, a couple of, a couple of weeks or months. Um, but at some point you, people will start to notice the, the blending of the threads is starting to happen. Um, so, uh, blending of the threads is kind of the movement from the oscillation between things that really seem incommensurable. It really can't, you know, emptiness and my daily life are totally different. I don't see that. I, you know, they're, they're, they're, I can only do one at a time. I can't do, I can't do both. I don't see how they can possibly relate to one another or emptiness and oneness or, you know, and then Kundalini comes and it's like, everything's out the window, right? So it's these, these, this oscillation between things that are just seen as being incommensurable. Not fitting together, impossible to square with one another. It gives way to a sense of kind of like paradox. I think it's, it's like, oh, they're kind of, somehow they're both true at the same time in some kind of mysterious way that I can't really put my fingers, I can't really conceptualize or put my finger on. Seems like they're two sides of the same coin in some way that I can't quite explain. Um, and, and, and that, and then that sort of paradoxicality, if that's a word kind of gives way to just sort of like, uh, oh, of course they're the same thing. Like, like, how could it be, how could it be otherwise? Yeah. Um, that, and that's like, like full integration of, of, of, of those. So, so, so my experience has been when these threads blend like that, it, this becomes the most difficult to articulate almost of anything because, because you, someone will add, if someone will be, you know, a friend will be, or a spouse will be deep in the emptiness thread, having a degree of a little bit of panic or despair about the complete annihilation of everything. And you might perceive it as, oh, but love and emptiness are not too. They're, they're, they're really the same. And I can't tell you why I can't say a word about it. You just have to trust me. And they're like, I can't trust anything because nothing is real. So it becomes this almost insurmountable, um, chasm to try to communicate across. But experientially, it's, it's very clear until, like you said, Pierce, it becomes so obvious. It's like, how could it not be? How could they not be the same? They're the same, even though they're totally paradoxical to logical mind or to words. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And, and, and, and you're right. Like this, this is the rationality, rational thinking kind of words is never the right tool for any of these steps. Yeah. Let's say that 30 times. Processes. Exactly. Never the right tool, but it's never the right tool. Clearly the wrong tool. It's like, it's like obviously the wrong tool here. Yeah. Um, because you, you can try to articulate, you know, the, the depths of the threads. You could try to articulate some of the realizations of the threads. I mean, people, people are, people can be quite skillful at that. I'm always super impressed when I hear somebody, you know, kind of speaking articulately about these things and it's like, oh, all those words are just like beautiful. Right on. Like, like, like exactly, um, on point as close as you could possibly get with words, but completely off base. Right. Totally wrong. Yeah. Yeah. Totally wrong. But, but yeah, when it comes to like articulating, um, articulating integration or the paradoxicality or even the full integration, it's just like, it's just like they, those words cannot make sense, um, in, in, in any, in any way of speaking because you're articulating opposite things and saying that they're the same. Right. And it just, you know, it just cannot make sense rationally at all. But yet we have, we, but yet we do have these great, you know, very, very powerful teachings from different traditions that are articulating this and have been saying this for centuries. So we have these kinds of models, like, you know, the heart sutra you mentioned earlier, emptiness is form, uh, form is emptiness. Emptiness is form. You have the Tao Te Ching, I think the first chapter of Tao Te Ching, which is like, you know, there's the, um, there's the, the, the, the nameless Tao and then the, and then the 10,000 things. Right. And, and, um, uh, the two are the, the, the, the line says, you know, the line starts by separating out. There's the nameless Tao and then there's, there's, there's the names and forms. And then it says the two are the same and that is the mystery. Right. And so we have, we have these, these, these great articulations from the traditions of this, this paradoxicality, this, this mystery. Um, and, and, and, and sometimes that can be a helpful sort of pointer when you're in the braiding process to be told or to, to, to be on the lookout for, are these really so separate? I mean, maybe that's, maybe that's like another guiding question that can come into play during the braiding is, you know, I appear to be oscillating between two, three, four, five different dimensions of reality or five different, um, ways of experiencing, are these actually so different? Are these incommensurable? That might, that might be a skillful. That's good. Yeah. During braiding. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Braiding and blending. Yeah. And, uh, what you said about mystery, um, becomes increasingly, uh, a loud element of this where it's felt that the paradox can only be resolved by understanding experientially the fundamental unknowability from a mind standpoint of what this is. So it's just unknowable, but it is reality in that sense. Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's, that's really well said. I, for me that, because, you know, just being like a hyper intellectual person and always, always dealing with words and concepts. It's what I do professionally. It's what I, I'm oriented in that direction. I'm very skillful in that direction. For sure. Um, and that, and that's sort of like the, the universe that I lived in and was just trying to constantly try to make sense and explain and, and sort of like put into words, you know, what was happening both to myself. I was writing things down. I was, you know, trying to like communicate with, I wasn't doing any kind of like, you know, teaching or presenting on this, but during the process, but I was trying to formulate words around this. And, and, um, yeah. And so for me, there was a, a steep learning curve about, you know, just, uh, that not being the right tool for the job. That just, it will not work no matter how much, and just seeing all of the, um, all of the, uh, I was going to say attachment, but it really was almost like desperation to explain things with words and explain it with words. How can I know it? How will I know it? Totally. How will I be able to control it? I'm the same. A whole thing around that. Um, I'm the same. That was pretty steep learning curve for me. Other people will navigate that. No problem. No problem. Yeah. Artists or they're like, uh, more living in their, you know, embodied kind of, uh, wordless concept list kind of, you know, existence than I am. So other people will navigate that. No problem. Um, we all have our differences in our configurations. It is fun when the two interact directly and there's maybe equivalent degrees of understanding or realization, but one is trying to articulate it hyper verbally. And the other is just like, why the hell are you opening your mouth about this? It's just obvious. Like you can't say a word. I feel like you might be describing you and your wife at the moment. I don't know. Exactly. Yeah. How did you know? Yeah. Cause I'll go on and on, you know, and it's like this fine grained effervescent and she's like, yeah. Or it's just what it is. Like, shut the hell up. Like, just be quiet. So I can experience it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And that's not exclusive in that gender divide. Although my experiences, a lot of men I know are in that kind of like, you know, analytic, but that's not exclusively true. I've met a lot of women who are hyper intellectual and men that are very, they just feel it and they don't want to talk about it at all. Yeah. I mean, I think, I think there's, you know, there's probably we could generalize not just on this issue, but just in general with sort of like how, how, you know, various things are experienced. I think we can, we can, we could maybe do some sociological studies and make some generalities and just see like, oh, okay. Yeah. Maybe women are a little more inclined towards this kind of thing. Men are more inclined towards that. Maybe, you know, people steeped in Western culture might be kind of like oriented more like this, whereas in, you know, certain parts of Asia, they may be oriented more like that. There may be some generalities that we could make. Correlates. Correlates. Yeah. And I think it's likely that our biology, our bodies, our culture, our societies have a lot of influence on how we navigate these things. And at the same time, I would also say, you know, and everybody's a unique individual that is going to have to figure out, you know, for themselves what, what, what this looks like. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Beautiful. Which is another reason why all kinds of different teachers talking about this out there. Good. I think is helpful. You know, the more, the more teachers speaking from their own experience and talking about these things in their own way, the better. I think the problem comes when spiritual teachers or their followers or the texts that get written around them start to argue with one another and say, ours is the only way and everything else is, you know, is, is, is wrong and diluted. I think that's where the problem comes in. But if we kind of like have this landscape and people navigating the landscape and just speaking their truths and their insights from whatever part of the landscape they happen to occupy and however they best have found to work through that area of the landscape, then, you know, as a new spiritual explorer comes into the landscape is trying to find their way. They can, they can have a ton of support from a ton of different directions. I think, I think that would be lovely if that's the way it worked. Yeah. And with the YouTube algorithm that may ultimately start to manifest is that people will often say the algorithm showed me exactly the video I needed to see, which was something out of the realm of my usual thing. And it's like, whoa, how'd that happen? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, so integration, you know, the bleeding or the blending of the threads together into one, you know, I think I already mentioned this. It can happen where two threads blend, but one is still standing out or two are still standing out or three blend and there's one or, you know, there's two blend over here and two blend over there. And, you know, people's realizations in this regard will come bit by bit. You know, it's a process. Integration is a process. Somebody might just suddenly everything snaps together all at once. But from what I've seen more often, it's just sort of like a piecemeal sort of integration happens piecemeal. But, but, but over time, the, the, the, the threads, whichever threads are open, whichever threads have been braiding. Over time, the integration will include all of them. Um, and it may be that there's a new thread opens up during, you know, during the integration process and starts braiding and, and, and so on and so forth. But, but, but the, the general kind of long-term trajectory in the, in the sort of braiding process is for, sorry, in the integration process is for every, every last, uh, realization, every last open thread, every last perspective to be sort of pulled into this multifaceted, um, blend or integrated, uh, viewpoint or perspective. Yeah. Yeah. And, and, you know, one side effect of that in my experience has been, and this is more recent for me, has been, um, recent meaning some couple, three years, four years is the acceptance and possibility that every single ontology, every single way the world might actually be is compatible with experiential reality. And so we'll never know. And we don't need to know. So yeah, this could all be inanimate dead matter, spinning up consciousness and doing this thing. And it would look exactly the same. It would feel exactly the same as if this were God or this were, um, all consciousness or this were all emptiness, just showing up as form for no reason, or this was all a dream. All the ontologies after sort of braiding integration, blending feel like they could be true. And so interest in ontology starts to fall, like it just drops. Yeah. Yeah. So you're kind of leading into the, the, the release of the threads when, when, when, when things become so integrated that the distinction that making distinctions between them is no longer even, uh, um, no longer necessary or desirable, even make sense. Right. Then the threads can start to drop. Um, but I, I think it would be useful to take your, what you were just saying, rewind it back to braiding or, you know, threat individual threads into braiding into, into integration because it's kind of three things that we were talking about. Um, ontology, identity, and perception. These are kind of like the things that I think about when I think about, you know, what is awakening? It's a, it's a, it's a dramatic shift in those three things. So, you know, when you're, when you're in the oneness thread and you're deep in the oneness thread, you know, uh, an ontology of, you know, everything is consciousness. The whole universe is only consciousness and everything arises in consciousness or, or God or awareness or, you know, whatever, whatever word you're using there. It's, if it's a unity, you know, um, idea, then it's, uh, monism. It's coming out of this oneness thread. It's, it's, it's, uh, it's an, it's a one, it's an ontology of monism or it's an ontology of, of oneness. Um, you know, but then you're braiding. And so then, then, then emptiness comes in and it's like, you know, ultimate truth is there's nothing. Um, these, these two are incompatible, incommensurable. I can't fit them together. But then you start having integration happening and you're like, oh, somehow, you know, somehow, uh, everything is empty, but everything is completely, completely empty, but somehow it's also God. Um, exactly. And, and, and, and you're, that's a, that's a ontology version or that's a tracking ontology, but we could, we could track, um, identity through that transition, which is, you know, if you're doing identities, if you're making identities in these threads, you know, when you're in the oneness thread, it's like, I am God, right. Or I am the, the universe or I, the, you know, the people say, or just, I am. Yeah. Yeah. Just I am, or, or I just, you know, um, am, amness. Amness. Yeah. This whole thing is just like M, amness. Um, uh, and, and I am that, right. Yeah. Um, and then in emptiness, it's like, oh, there's no self, right. There is no self or in, in, um, in, in, in energy, let's say just to add a different thread. It's like, it's like, and, you know, it's the, the pulsation of the universe coming, you know, in and out of existence every nanosecond, not, not ever actually arising, but it's all this dance of the goddess. Right. Um, and I am that goddess, or I am that, that energy. So if you're, if you're creating identities out of it, you know, in the braiding process, you're like, but, but what am I? And then in the integration process, it's like, oh, I am all, I, I am all of those. I am the emptiness. I am the oneness. I am the energy, right. I am, I am, I am the birth and death of the universe. I am God. I am also nothing. Right. Um, and you're, you're, you're interweaving that with, um, you know, the daily life thread that you're also, and I'm just little, little Pierce going to work and doing his thing. Right. Doing my shit. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's, that's beautifully said. So I ontologies and identities. So how the world is ontologies and then what am I identities along the threads as they start to braid. And then what was the third thing you said? It was, um, perception. Perception. So, so how you're seeing reality, right? Cause we're, we keep talking about this, not, this isn't just a intellectual thought based kind of awakening process is not just like a thought based exercise. It's actual perceptual changes. So when you're in the emptiness thread, it's like reality is empty. It's like mirage like, or it disappears altogether, but it, or it's like, has this kind of like, you know, not really present kind of deconstructed sort of way that it shows up. Um, you know, in, um, meanwhile in, in the energy thread, it's all this, you know, like we were talking about last time, champagne bubble sort of, you know, fizzy kind of, um, pixelated sort of, you know, um, uh, dance. Um, right. And, and, and, and so just to continue the transition from, you know, braiding to integrating, it's like braiding, it's like either I see it one way or the other in, in this experience and this meditation experience, I see it like that. And then I go do my, you know, Qigong practice and I see it like that. Um, but the, in, in integration, the perception gets combined together. So it's like, you're, you're perceiving things through the thread simultaneously. Um, so it's both, you know, I can see how, you know, everything is, is glistening with this kind of energetic quality to it, but it's also like never, it's, it's also just, just in my own mind, just kind of a, a, a concept, um, you know, and, and, and it's also, you know, um, each one of those little flickers that don't actually ever arise is like, so, uh, uh, it's so full of love. Love. It's just like glistening, glistening with, with this light of, of divinity, right? Divinity. Yeah. And just being able to see all of that simultaneously as arising simultaneously. Um, and, and, and different people will, will, will articulate this and kind of like frame it and make sense of it in completely different ways. So just cause I'm saying it in one way, it doesn't mean that that's the way, um, it should be seen or will be seen or, or should be. Yeah. Yeah. Very important to say that. Yeah. Yeah. But it is, it, but let's just say it will be seen that these things are not separate. They're not different. It is experienced simultaneously. And it's strange. So from, from here that was experienced as almost an ordinariness started to creep in where there was no, or no longer the sense of wow. When each thread was predominant, like, oh my gosh, everything's like a hologram or, oh my gosh, it's all this energetic dance or, oh my God, it feels like the stuff of just bliss, love, Ananda, whatever words we use. And then it's just like, oh yeah, oh yeah. Oh yeah. It's all like this. Huh? Wow. Yeah. That's, yeah, that's right. I think, I think, I think that's, that, that is also something that's notable about the, the braiding integration process is the, the, the more you hit these threads, you know, through the braiding process, the more they come on top, the less discombobulating they become, the more familiar they become, the more your, your, your whole sort of organism kind of acclimates to this way of seeing things, the more kind of, it becomes a new normal. So somewhere, somewhere in integration, right? These, these things are just becoming like, by that point, they're just so familiar and so, um, yeah, so, so normal that it's becoming, it's becoming less and less, um, significant in your, in your experience. It's there, you're seeing, you know, maybe the fascination is about the, oh, wow, this, they're so paradoxical. Like I know they're both really well, but I never noticed how they're actually the same thing. Like that might be interesting for a while. Right. But even that becomes more and more, um, familiar, less and less noticeable. Right. So we're moving towards the full integration when it's just like, this is all just the norm and it's no longer that interesting. Right. But, but, but, um, but it's a process and, you know, you have to give it time to sort of play out in that way. Right. Yeah. It's almost like to use this analogy with your, with your map, like you have the life thread thread five, and then you have like, you know, emptiness and energy. And unity and psyche kind of dancing on top of that thread. And they seem separate. They braid, they dance. Then they start to actually color the life thread so much so that now there isn't a place to stand apart from the truth of each of the threads. And the life thread is colored, is actually made of that, you know, emptiness or energy or unity or it's all conditioning, you know, however, whichever threads showing up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. If somebody wants to make like a, like a animated visualization of what you just described, it'd be badass. Right. Yeah. That's exactly right. Um, the way you said it, you had sort of like the life thread is like the, the maypole around which. Yeah. That's right. Is intertwining. Um, uh, that's also the way I kind of thought about it in my head. I don't think it's the way I wrote it in the book, but when I sort of envisioned it in my head, I also had that sort of idea. Um, it's somehow the life, the daily life thread is like the axis that everything else kind of like, kind of braids in braids with, and then, and then integrates into. Um, yeah, yeah. And I think just because it feels that way from here, but I'm, I could imagine it could be totally different for other people. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. People will have people have other people will have visualized other things in their head as we were talking. And that's perfect, perfectly fine. Um, but, and something interesting for me also in the, in the, in the integration phase, I also had a realization, um, that I could no longer decide which thread. Kicked off, which thread was first in the awakening process. I had sort of like a chronology in mind. Um, but during the braiding process, when, when, when, you know, particularly when the psyche thread came up, I was like, oh, this has been a way from the beginning life, maybe for you, for generations going back. Right. Um, so, so, you know, the whole sort of, um, idea of thinking about awakening and when did it start? And it's like, it, it's, it's a process that, you know, kind of had these or those kind of different features to them that starts to destabilize too during this integration. And it's just like, oh, is this whole thing even making sense anymore? It's almost like, uh, you know, I'll make an analogy, you know, in, in astronomy and, and, you know, quantum mechanics, they'll say, you know, you, when you, when you observe the light from a galaxy, that's 13 billion years ago, it can go two different ways around a particular obstructing galaxy. And it's bent by its gravity and it only decides which way it's going to go when a conscious observer here on earth actually observes it. Then back 13 billion years in time, you've told that photon, you went this way. Now that's a story, right? But it feels like that for awakening. So when, you know, when in 2012, when I had this shift, I have talked about that 13,000 different ways over the years as I revise. And you're right when things start to integrate and, and release, I go back and go all four shits were happening at once in that moment. Yeah. Yeah. It's really kind of odd. You can no longer see the thread separately. It can't see them separately. This is such an artificial distinction that I, I thought I was, I thought I was like really waking up to this whole emptiness thing, but I was just kind of, you know, um, collapsing the, the, the possibilities of that by having a particular interpretation of it. Yeah. And conceptual model, this other, other conceptual model, this other way of observing it, then it would have gone the other way around the planet. Right. Yeah. Crazy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But then obvious it's, it feels obvious. It's like, of course it would be that way because mind is constructing the story of awakening in real time too. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And, and, and so then I think, I mean, for me, for a lot of people, I talk to the, the, the integration, like being integrated in that sort of like the farther end of integration starts to look like you, you know, there's this multifaceted reality that we were just referring to that kind of can shift depending on how you look at it through which lens or through which thread you want to look at it. You can sort of like see it in different ways. Um, all of those ways are all true. They're all equally available. Um, I, all, all it takes is a little pivot, you know, just, it's all sort of, um, I don't know, you could just turn up a dial here or turn up a dial there. You go like, you know, I want to see this situation with more emptiness room. You just turn up the dial. There it is. You want to see it with a little more, you know, oneness. You can just kind of like see it that way. And you, you, you, you can see it, you know, in all ways simultaneously or however you want to see it in any moment, you can kind of like transform. Um, it's a, it's a very bewitching, um, you know, kind of, kind of state, right? And, and you definitely feel like you're enlightened. Like you've got, you know, master of the universe because you could just like, you know, pour, pour on the God or pour on the emptiness or, you know, you know, like really like dissolve this whole thing into energy, just like at will sort of see things, um, however you want to see it. Um, yeah. I don't know if that was your experience, but a lot of people talk about it like that. Yeah, it does. And, and for me, it would show up as just laughter. I just start giggling, you know, in the middle of something. Cause I'm realizing, oh, it's this, this, and this, and this, and just depending on how I'm looking or what you can't even say there's a tension anymore. You can't say any of that. You just, you just see from a poly perspectival vantage where all the perspectives and, and, um, and then you start talking in that way, even about your, your life thread. So you might say, you know, even politically, all the angles can be seen. You can see it all. Um, you might prefer this, but you can see the whole thing, which makes it harder to get really pissed off and stay pissed off. So it actually bleeds into the life thread too, in my experience. Um, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And, and, you know, you know, in this situation you were just saying, like, I don't necessarily want to get into politics here, but like, let's not do that. Yeah. You can not only see all of the, all of the different, you know, perspectives, kind of like how different beings take different perspectives on stuff, but, you know, but you're, you could all just hold the whole thing in a field of like compassion for total love suffering that's created here, you know, you can, you can, so, so you see how beings are constructing worlds, right? So that's like the emptiness thread. And then you just like can, can just see the whole realm of suffering that beings create for themselves with politics and arguments and so on and so forth. And, and, and you can empathize with every single, you know, person in that whole, in that whole, um, uh, sphere as, you know, some form of suffering or another, you can see the energetics of it, how this is like an energy flow. That's kind of like, you know, picking up aspects from other energy flows and how things are sort of just, you know, always dynamic and moving and so on and so forth. And then you can see how the whole thing is being produced by this sort of, um, like the unconscious traumas and, and, um, uh, unconscious, you know, spoken, unspoken, unacknowledged, unacceptable, you know, unconscious aspects of not only individuals, but society. And you can just kind of like, it just all becomes really clear and obvious, right? That that's what's going on. Um, I just, I just have to say, so like, you know, I'll do a live show on Facebook or Instagram and people knowing my platform from before will ask me questions about vaccines or medical politics or this or that. And I find it's, I, I, I almost have to recuse myself because I would have to inhabit almost a 360 degree view in every conversation that I have, or else it feels either incomplete or pointless. Um, and that probably will change and pass, but it has been a shift. Whereas before I could stake out a stand and feel it. And, and, and the, and the, well, I'll talk about suffering later, but I'm curious if you've had that experience at all. Well, so within, within that kind of, uh, multifaceted poly perspectival kind of viewpoint that I was just painting, you know, the fifth thread is, is just ordinary old Pierce. And, you know, the Pierce has preferences too, right? For real. Yeah. So like all of that stuff's happening with the other, with, with the other threads and everything, the whole can be seen from all these different perspectives and Pierce can be, can be seen too. Pierce's, Pierce's political views are no doubt just as much a product of his conditioning and his culture and his, you know, intellectual environment and his friends and his, you know, parents and his, you know, all, all the other stuff that's influencing everybody else. Um, you know, it's also some kind of energetic configuration within his own life. Right. So, so it's, you know, Pierce is just another, Pierce and his political opinions are, are another piece of this whole kind of puzzle that can be seen through all those different ways. So, yeah. It's not to say, it's not to say I, I don't vote or I don't care about things. I actually do. Me too. I follow the news and, um, uh. I get outraged. I get pissed. I get angry. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, but also, but that, you know, but also, you know, the, this whole thing can also be seen, you know, through all of these broader perspectives of the, of the, of the threads as well. And, and, and we just went into politics, but it's like that for everything. All things. All belief. For all human activity, all relationships, all social settings that, you know, you just, you could just see it through the different threads and you can, you know, see Pierce's role in there too. And, you know, it's just see the whole thing fitting together. Um, and then from this, from this, you know, really integrated place, you can also, um, choose to kind of like, I, I, you know, I would choose to just like, okay, I'm going to produce like a field of love for this because that's, you know, what feels right to me in this situation is just to hold it all in a field of, of, of, you know, oneness thread style love, or I'm just going to, this one, I'm just going to like, it's just all concepts. I'm just going to see it as empty. Yeah, that's right. I'm going to let it, I'm going to bypass it into emptiness. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Yeah. That's, that's beautiful. And, and so touching on that oneness piece, one thing that's come up for me that, that seems interesting is now when I see human suffering before, you know, along the way, I would feel it as my own suffering, or I would, it would be a very empathic resonance like, uh, uh, oh my God, you know, oh, I see why it's happening. I see the causes of it. I see the interdependency of it. And it's just this excruciating suffering and it feels optional and so on. Now what seems to happen is when suffering like that is perceived, it is made off and met with this complete unity love. Like it feels simultaneously like sorrow and love like combined. And, and, and it's experienced like that, which is in many ways, like a huge relief for me who used to feel it so personally. Now it's felt in this container that, that again, feels like, like love for lack of a better word. And yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, for, for me, like, like that's a good articulation of like a oneness thread kind of, um, kind of viewpoint for me. Um, for, I, I always think there's two sides to the heart, right? There's, there's the, the pouring out of love and there's the broken heart and there, and it's like a bittersweet, bittersweet quality there. It's, it's the same thing. It's just, it's just, you know, kind of, yeah, I guess two sides of the same coin, right? If the open heart is, is both. Um, yeah. And, and, and just, you know, from that open hearted oneness kind of perspective, um, yeah, I mean, it turns out like every last thing that's ever happened has always been love in disguise. It's always been some kind of love that was, that was happening there. Um, and, and, and, and from that perspective, that is an experiential reality, right? Um, absolutely. Of course, then you could just easily apply the emptiness perspective to what I just said and say, well, that's just, you know, concepts. And yeah, that would be true as well. Yeah. Um, you know, it's just an energy, right? It's, there's just an energetic kind of, um, you know, an energetic kind of movement behind that. There's, and you can, we can always, and you could say all the spiritual path has reconditioned my conditioning to see things in that way. So it's a psyche thread. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Doesn't matter though. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, so these, so the integrated person is like very, is, is becoming really fluent with these ways of seeing and really kind of, you know, integrating them into daily life and being able to, um, yeah, transform the life, the daily life into this field of engagement and field of, you know, compassion and a field of, um, you know, wisdom, right. In the ways that you choose to engage with the environment and the people around you. Um, yeah. And it just really feels, um, and, and, and still deepening. Right. I actually usually find usually, uh, not always, but, but that, that people's experience of the depths of the threads actually, actually are happening within, with, within the process of integration. Like say it another way, like you don't get to the end of the threads until they become quite integrated. Yeah. I think that may, I think that makes a lot of sense. Yeah. And I would say this too, like you were talking about wisdom and how we might live in this way that itself deepens and, and fucks up at times. So you're still gonna, yeah, you're still, there's no perfectionism here. Like there's no ideal spiritual realized being that's walking around going, okay, I nailed it. I'm integrated. These threads event, we'll talk about thread release. Like I'm perfect. I never screw up. It's like, no, no, there's still the psyche thread causing conditions. There's still all this stuff plays out and it deepens and it doesn't seem to stop. It just becomes increasingly ordinary. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And there's still little peers muddling along trying to, you know, trying to, you know, whatever situation and making mistakes and being, you know, being driven by, oh, this new unconscious thing that I hadn't been aware of. That's not. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And, and, and so, you know, in integration, things can get, can get really, maybe we should have talked about this at some point earlier than this, because it seems to me that the, the further into the integration process you get, especially with the life daily life thread, that that kicks up all kinds of new psyche. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All kinds of like, particularly, I mean, you know, particularly in families, particularly in workplaces and kind of interpersonal relations and stuff like that, like deep in the integration, it's, it's, it's not at all. Like you're just like, oh, like, oh yeah, no. Like, you know, um, you know, you know, stage at the top of the mountain or something. You're just, you're just like, if you're, if you're actually integrating the psyche thread, the daily life thread into this awakening process, you probably are dealing with a whole bunch of really difficult interpersonal, personal, you know, shit coming up through it. I'm, I'm so glad you said that because for me, it's been like that. It's like, it's almost like that stuff couldn't have arisen with old us. It, it, it, it, it could only arise during this integration because there's a welcoming, there's an opening, there's a deepening, and then there's new stuff and it shows up and then it has to interact with this welcoming, deepening realization. And it's totally unique. It's like never happened before. And so it can feel almost at times, like, like I've said this even recently, like, holy shit, like, I don't know what's going on. Like, this is total unknown. Like, uh, how is this even happening? Um, but there is a sense of like, okayness, like, yeah, this is how it goes. Partially, I think due to all the integration that occurs already. Um, but that's just my, that's been my experience even, even recently. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, yeah. Yeah. And, and, and why does that happen? I mean, a lot of the barriers and defenses that have been put up to not see those things or to not allow those things to, to, to, to come through, you know, those barriers are falling. They're either being emptied out, they're being blasted through with love, they're being, um, dissolved, you know, into the field of energy or they're being just seen as being, you know, um, construction of your own conditioning that, that, that have been holding you back. And so, um, you know, the, the, the separations and the barriers and the, the, um, you know, the, the, the, the un, the unconnectedness, the, the, the non plugged into what's happening around you, right? All of those things are, are kind of like, um, yeah, those barriers are falling and you're just kind of like left naked without these defenses in the mess of a human life and a human body. Um, and it's no wonder that traditionally they said, you know, head for the monastery. Oh, yeah. I think it's, I think Saravana Buddhism, I think has a, has a thing in there that says like, if you, if you become an Arhat, you have seven days to get yourself into the monastery, you'll die. Right. So like, um, you know, it's for everyone else's protection, the temptation, the temptation to bypass, you know, it's, I think it's still there. Yeah. Deep, deep, deep, deep into integration. It's like things I don't want to see. There's things I can't face. There's things I, that are, you know, um, playing, playing a role in, in, in, in tangling up my relationships in ways that, um, you know, that are really unskillful, really harmful. And, and, and that's where it seems to show up the most is in human relationships. Yeah. Yeah. In, in the life thread, the human relationships, and maybe even a relationship with your work or the relationship with your, what you thought was your purpose, all those kinds of things are drastically laid bare. And like, I love what you said. You're like, you're just naked. Like you can't, it's still stuff that's hiding, but it's like, it doesn't have very, very, very many places to hide and it's going to show up and then you have to process it. There there's no choice anymore. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It seems to, it seems to show up and show up in ways that are unavoidable, unignorable. Yeah. And then there'd be those, those things also become, I mean, within this like smooth kind of like perfection of the integrated awakened state, right. These kinds of things when they come up are like enormous stones in your shoe, right. That are like really noticeable and really, really annoying. Yeah. Really, really. It's like a kraken coming out of the ocean and just being like, where the hell did it? It was a calm sea a second ago. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And so, and so, yeah, the, so for, for, I think a big part of the integration process is, is, is this, what we're talking about right now, just integrating, you know, the awakening into this messy, messy human existence. And, and I, I think there's a, I, I do, I, I know we talked about this before. I can't remember which conversation, but I, I, there are these fantasies that the traditions hold out to us about what, you know, the superhero, perfection will look like the superheroes of the threads, what they'll look like. And this, these kinds of charmed lives and of, of bliss and, and no hardship that they will experience. Um, you know, and I, I, I think in my personal opinion, one of the things that needs to happen with the integration into the daily life thread is the realization that those are myths and the realization that, you know, human, human existence, just ordinary human life, ordinary humanity is something we're going to integrate into this, uh, tapestry that we're weaving, not delete out of the tapestry we're weaving, right? It will never be deleted out. It's about integrating it. And it's, it, it, it can't be like, oh, I'll integrate it as this perfect little thing because that's not what human life is about, right? It's going to, I'm going to integrate this with all, I'm going to integrate that little Pierce, like, you know, in his little life. Um, I'm going to integrate that in with all of the warts and all of the ugliness and all of the things that I wish weren't true and all of the suffering and all of the unpleasantness and, and all of it, it just can't, it can't be selective integration. It has to be the whole shebang. Perfectly said. I think I made a video recently saying you cannot escape your humanness. Like there's no way to bypass your humanness. Yeah. You, you, no matter how realized you are, no matter what you've done, it's like, that is in fact the trajectory into being fully human, fully, fully, fully warts and everything. Every piece shows up even when it's in, and even resistance will can show up again. Like even the not welcoming of parts. And then that it becomes the next sort of micro thread that unfolds. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The bolt of lightning. Yeah. So, so let's see. So braiding integration, do you think we're on, onto thread release or you think there's more to say there? I think what we were just talking about is a good segue into thread release, but I feel like, um, I feel like there's something worth saying about integration before, before moving to the next, which is, um, just how different an integrated experience will be depending on, depending on which threads have been open to work through. Remember, you don't need to have all four threads. Some people have one, some people have three, some people have two, some people have four, right? So whichever ones of the spiritual threads are open, whatever ones have been most, um, prominent throughout the process. I think in terms of threads, I think in terms of like some threads are thicker than others. And so like, you know, some people are really have a lot of emptiness throughout their process. You know, they have all four threads, but they have fat emptiness, you know, threads, maybe like a cable threads. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like ropes and then filaments. Yeah. Yeah. Filaments. Right. Right. Right. Right. So some people have these like very notable kind of, you know, areas of, of intensive work that they did. Um, and then there's, then there's the whole sort of like spiritual, um, tradition that they came through the framing, the kind of like ways of talking, ways of speaking, um, that, that are providing some kind of scaffolding for the experiences. Um, you know, those, there's, there's all kinds of different features, all kinds of different factors that are influencing how somebody's integration shows up. So, so, um, you know, I, I don't think it's super helpful to take somebody else's idea of what, or somebody else's description of what integration was like for them and to apply it to your own case. I don't, I don't think is necessarily that helpful. Yeah. True of everything in this. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, but so, I mean, maybe that being said, um, we, we can just dwell a moment on what your, my integrated sort of like full package look like. Um, so, so for, for me, um, I, I spent a lot of time doing, you know, it's kind of like, um, through different kinds of practices, um, sort of, I, I had all four of these threads were very kind of prominent, very kind of, I said, even sort of, I couldn't even tell which ones were primary or which ones came first or so forth. So I had kind of an even split between the four threads and had really worked with practices dedicated to developing all four threads. I had a, a pretty notable braiding process take place where it was a, uh, a 20 year, like I said, a 20 year span of oneness. And then, uh, sort of a big wallop of emptiness that was about, uh, um, six months. It was like a big, big, big kind of dose of emptiness. And then there was like a, another sort of six month dose, big kind of wallop of energy. And then there was kind of like a two year sort of, you know, psyche thread process. And they started, they started braiding, they started, you know, integrating. Um, so I had kind of like, even though the, the times were different, the timing were different, some were longer than others. They were kind of equal intensity and they got integrated in a kind of like an equal sort of way. Um, and, and in my case, um, they, they kind of became, um, in some way mapped into my body. And this is probably coming from my background in, um, in yoga. Um, but I, I felt like I had sort of the ability to kind of bring my energy up into my head and everything would dissolve or sorry, everything would like click into, um, like snap into emptiness. Um, and then I could sort of like bring the energy down into my heart and it would just like, everything would, everything would like get enveloped in this field of oneness and love. I could bring the energy down into my abdomen and it was like, everything would just dissolve into this kind of, um, you know, pixelated pulsating, um, you know, birth and death of the universe thing. And then I could take the energy and like go down through the perineum and it would go down into the underworld. And I would be, I'd be down there with my psyche, with my, my, my version of the psyche thread was very underworldly. I think we talked about maybe in the previous, in the last talk, um, the sort of shamanic underworld sort of, um, kind of environment. So I had this sort of, these sort of like four centers in my body, four locations I could kind of like move to in order to experience things. Um, and then there was like, you know, the light streaming down from the heavens and the, and sort of the, the, um, you know, the, the earth and the under the darkness of the undercurrents, like kind of coming up from below. So it was this whole sort of like integrated picture that I had experience I had of my own kind of embodied spiritual kind of integration, um, that was very visceral and very kind of like in the body for me. Um, other people have completely different experiences, right? With completely different kinds of, um, yeah, configurations or, or, or ways of conceptualizing so I don't know. What do you think about experience? Man, it's, it's funny because that's amazing by the way. There's something about me that, that seems to like this, this seems to resonate when people describe their own experiences the way you just did. So I could actually track and feel all the points that you were actually describing. And so for me, what seemed to show up, like, yeah, it seemed to start with a kind of a popping into the kind of, there isn't a me in this way that I thought that popping out of narrative self kind of emptiness thread for quite some years and reading a lot and kind of integrating a lot of conceptuality around emptiness. And, but then the practices started more in earnest in the last, I don't know, five, six years, meditation retreats, et cetera. But then energy really started showing up oneness popped through in a particular retreat where it was just like, you know, it was mixed actually a little with energy, Kundalini and love felt the same in some sense. So there was almost like a strange braiding that was happening even as energy was coming online. And then the last, yeah, that seems to happen. And, and then there's only been formal energy practice, like in terms of yoga and energy movement in the last two years. And so now it was very insidious. It was quite subtle. I just started to notice that it no longer took effort or thinking or attention to experience the different aspects, emptiness, energy, love, or psyche. Oh, and psyche showed up over the last two, two and a half years, like extremely hard. And it just, everything felt like it was just kind of unraveling. And so then what started to happen is I just noticed that there was a seamlessness. And when anyone would talk about any of this, I could go exactly where they were like almost instantly. And so very realized people that I knew thought I was extremely realized because I could, I could feel and inhabit that realization. And in my mind, of course, the doubting mind was like, you're not awake at all. You don't even know what the hell's going on. Because it felt like it was so, it was, it started to feel ordinary. So those magical experiences started to just ordinarify. And then I started noticing it's, it's integrating into life in these very subtle ways. And then the aspect of it that we were just talking about where now the things that I couldn't hide from are showing up and they're showing up in these like semi-catastrophic, like explosions of psyche stuff that intertwine with energy, emptiness, and love. So those are all aspects of the flavor of a traumatic psyche event happening. Like it may feel like energetic love and, but also entirely self, like there's no self doing it. And, and all of that kind of just seems to be a one kind of happening. So it's been, it's been actually so disorienting in some ways that when I discussed, when you and I started connecting and you started pointing at, you know, that maybe this is integration and some thread dropping and stuff. I was like, oh shit, I had actually, I'd actually kind of make sense. And, and so some of the disorientation started to settle down because like you, I'm a, I'm very conceptually oriented. So I like to have a container to say, yeah, this is okay. You know, even though it might feel, you know, a certain way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Thanks for sharing that. I might've put you on the spot, but you weren't expecting it. But no, it was good. I like that. Yeah. What you just said, what struck me, I mean, of course, like the messiness of it and stuff like that. Like I, I just explained the kind of like neat organized picture that I arrived at at the end. Cause it was, I, I, I used to say it was like, I felt like I was like trying to land a plane and, and I lost both engines and the whole thing's on fire. And I'm, that sounds right. Like, yeah, that sounds right. I was getting jealous. I was like, the whole plane is shaking. And I, you know, kind of, am I going to live through this? I'm not sure. It's kind of totally was at the time. Totally. But, but, but one thing that stood out to me, just having talked to a lot of people, you know, in, in the thing that you just said, one thing that maybe is, you know, it's definitely different than my experience is your receptivity or empathic kind of connection with other people's descriptions of experiences and how you would, you would be able to attune to that and just kind of like snap into it really readily. I, I have met a few other people who have that kind of, that that's what their integration looked like was, yeah, mine was more like I decided to bring my consciousness to here, here, here. And I, I, I got the multidimensionality sort of more on tap, right. I could just kind of like more willfully do it. But, but I have talked to a number of people who have this experience that you have, which is more, you know, in, in the presence of other people or like, you're just able to pick up on, on their, on their vibes and, and, and click into their, onto their frequency. It's something I haven't actually, you know, I don't have that particular skill or orientation. A lot of the people that I do talk to that have that kind of, that kind of, that kind of thing happen to be healers. They happen to be, and they use that or teacher or spiritual teachers that use that to like meet people where they are and then sort of like guide them from that place. So anyway, I just thought, I just thought I would mention the. Oh, that's cool. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It is strange because for, for a while it even felt like, you know, am I a total fraud? Am I able to experience this, you know, in the absence of other people? Because I would actually seek out people that I knew were very clear in emptiness or unity or energy. And just being with them was like, oh, this is obvious. This is obvious. And then what I realized is more, more lately in the last year or so is what you were pointing out, which is, oh, if I just, there's, and there's centers, you're right. Like if I put energy here, if I put attention here, everything is love. If I, if I am here, it's like, it's a much more empty connectedness, almost an energetic thing. And then down in the gut, it's just, yeah, indescribable nothing. Um, and the psyche stuff seems actually, it's more here for me where everything is just seen as interdependent causes and conditions that I'm not doing. Um, but that, that was more recently being, being able to notice that. Um, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. So like we were saying earlier, there's no right or wrong. It's no, like there's one template for everybody to follow. There are traditions that have templates. And I think the, the, the chakras is one particular template that a lot of traditions use in different, different numbers of chakras, different ways. You know, the, the, the, the, the, the Dantians and Taoism, these three, three centers, um, you know, I, so there are definitely templates out there for integration, like how to, how to in install different kind of, uh, multifaceted aspects of, of integration into your system in different ways. You know, there's, there's, there's all kinds of, um, you know, writing and practice about these things in, in traditions that emphasize and value integration. There, there's kind of like formalized ways of, of, of doing that. Um, but you can also just find your own spontaneous way of, you know, figuring it out. So, um, for, for me, I, in my process, I've never been kind of like a joiner. I've never really fit well within authority structures. I, that's something I know very well about my own psyche is that I'm kind of like, uh, anti, um, uh, I don't know, it, it, anti-authoritarian, but also anti kind of like, um, conformity to a group. And I want to always do things my own way. So I never really fit, fit with a group. So I haven't really adopted sort of like a formal, um, you know, subscribe to a formal lineage and learn these things from a formal lineage. For me, it was more just sort of like piecing together what I knew, what I was exposed to through, you know, being a scholar and being interested in this stuff, just having learned a lot of things and kind of combining it together to make my own framework, um, out built out of pieces of Buddhism, yoga. So I had like a, you know, 20, 25 year engagement with Buddhism, 30 year, almost yoga practice. Um, you know, a lot of background and shamanism that we talked about last time and just sort of like piece together my own thing, um, from those traditions kind of on the fly as necessary in order to kind of create and support this process of integration. Um, so for you, that's beautiful. Um, for, for you, cause this showed up for me as part of the process of integration for me seemed seemingly was the disillusionment with prior ontologies, approaches, traditions, teachers, like something had to almost let go in each of those for integration, whether that caused integration or whether that was a result of ongoing integration. I can't say, I think it was more the latter probably that integration was happening. And so I look at a certain way of expressing in the past that I very much could resonate with. And now it just seemed irrelevant or pointless. Um, why talk about it in that way? Why continue to, to do this thing that, that doesn't seem relevant. It's just obvious. So, so that sort of disillusionment started to happen and disillusionment with people that I maybe put on a pedestal and so on and so forth. As that started to collapse, I realized nobody knows what they're doing. We're all causes and conditions and it's all kind of just showing up. So that was a part of my process for sure. Yeah. So I'm, I might've had the disillusionment kind of pre preloaded. I had to have it beaten out of me. Yeah. And then, and then in this, in this phase, it was like, um, yeah, it was like, it was like, you know, taking modules out of these different traditions, you know, and just getting a lot of value from the practices, but maybe not taking, taking on the ontologies and sort of like assembling them into my own sort of, you know, my own system of spiritual practice. Um, and, and, and anyway, that, that kind of mentality, that's sort of like, you know, DIY kind of like put together your own, um, spiritual support system, you know, built out of the ingredients that you need in order to support your own trajectory is very much what, um, you know, I'm trying to advocate with multi-dharma. It's, it's also the, that's the whole point of this, um, book I recently published called The Lamp Unto Yourself, which is just out this year. And it's just sort of like a very, very beginning guide to, um, spirituality for people who are sort of like just new to this whole thing, or, or, or maybe they know about one area, one small area of practice and they want to kind of get a glimpse of the, of the whole picture. Um, you know, so I have like a suite of different basic practices and kind of some advice on how to piece it, piece together a multi-threaded kind of approach to spirituality. Yeah. It's a great resource for that. Yeah. You can, it's like a smorgasbord when the threads are happening, you can, you can go, okay, now maybe, ah, I didn't even think about this practice. Maybe this is something to explore. It gives you those possibilities. Um, yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, and, and, and because, because I should mention things, um, that I have available for people also, I keep forgetting to do that, but I, I have, um. The self-promotion is hard, Pierce. Well, the book, the book is for sale, but everything else is free. The, this is, uh, I have a series of, um, very short YouTubes, like five minute little, uh, mini kind of introductions to 20 different spiritual practices. I call it the essential spirituality toolkit. Um, and those, those 20 practices that, that is, that is all I ever did with my, like throughout this whole process, it was just those 20 practices. So, um, you know, they're very sort of super basic kind of entry level little, uh, sampler platter that you can then, you know, try and see what you think and then, you know, dive in deeper in if you're interested with, with a proper teacher, cause I am not a spiritual teacher. I'm just the map maker. Um, and, uh, just, you know, sort of leaving the samples there for people to then, then explore if they're interested with, with, with other, um, instructors. And those, those links are on your website under the video section or YouTube section? Uh, yeah, yeah. So there's, if you go, if you go to multidharma.net, there's basically two buttons. One says I'm getting started and one says I want to dive deeper. So the, the getting started button will lead to those, the, I want to dive deeper will lead to a written version of the multidharma kind of approach. And, and, um, there's some, uh, I'm doing, doing some live Q and a, um, meetups, uh, just to kind of just a little six week series of meetups to address any questions people have and talk about the model a little bit more. Um, so I'm, I'm not a spiritual teacher. I don't do any kind of individual guidance or anything like that. But if, if you have questions about the model or sort of like, where am I on the map? I can, I can, you know, hopefully address those. Um, yeah, so that's in the, that's in the, I want to dive deeper section. Awesome. And all these links are, yeah, those links. Perfect. Those links are, will be in the show description, uh, and in the previous shows descriptions as well as links to the previous shows. So thread dropping, are we there? Yeah. Yes. Let's move on from the self-promotion and get to the no self-promotion. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, yeah. So I, I mean, I, like I said a minute ago, I think we, I think we're, we've already started to kind of like, um, get into the thread dropping territory. So again, these aren't stages like it's, you know, you got to complete, you know, level, level 15 before you move to level 16. Um, so, um, they're just kind of, they're, they're just processes and what we were just talking about happening in the depths of integration. Um, so one, one, one thing is that these experiences that used to be so, um, notable, dramatic, overwhelming, even becoming more and more familiar, becoming more and more sort of normal, um, becoming less and less, um, differentiated. Uh, they're, they're, they're blending together. So it's even, you know, hard, hard to say, you know, what exactly is emptiness anymore? Because it's so blended together with my experience of oneness. So blended together with my experience of psyche. Right. So, so I, you know, um, they're, they're, they're less and less standing out as discrete kind of notable, uh, ways of seeing. Um, and, and I think, you know, that's already sort of kind of a process of letting go that's starting to take place there. Um, and so the kind of movement in, in, in, in release, in thread release in that process, the movement is towards these experiences being so integrated into the kind of way that one is and the, you know, that's so integrated into your, into your experience, into your way of experiencing that, that they really stop standing out as something being notable to talk about, that they, they've, they stop being, um, in any way extraordinary. It's just sort of like complete, did you use ordinarify as a word? Yeah. I guess. Yeah. I kind of like that. Ordinarified. They've become so ordinarified that, that it's, you know, they, they, um, they, they cease really to be of any kind of importance whatsoever. And I, I think we talked about this in, in detail, uh, in the first conversation that we had. Um, so, you know, maybe, maybe the, the metaphors that I used there would be helpful. People can go listen to, listen to that. Of course, it's just pointing. It's not, it's not a, an actual description of the territory. Um, you know, but, but, but in the same way that I don't go around thinking and reflecting and marveling and wondering about how integrated my thumbnail feels with the rest of my body. And wow, isn't it just like amazing that my thumbnail is like, you know, so, um, interesting and, you know, so notable and it stands out so much. Yeah. I don't think about my thumbnail in ever really. I mean, unless there's a problem with it, I, it's sort of just like there in the background, but it's not something that stands out as worthy of notice, um, or the hum on the refrigerator, you know, the, when the refrigerator is humming in the kitchen and I've been there for an hour, I'm not hearing it anymore. Um, in, in some similar way, I think the threads become so kind of integrated and so ordinary that they just kind of fade from experience and aren't really noticed anymore. Yeah. Maybe, you know, another analogy might be like driving a car. The first times you do it, you're just amazed by everything. You know, I got to make a left to cross traffic. I have to, you're paying attention. Everything is kind of remarkable. The way the steering wheel feels, the brake, all of it. And then by, by the end, it's just like, it's all just happening and you don't pay attention. In fact, if you do pay attention, things get a little weird sometimes. Um, yeah, yeah. And I, I, yeah. And, and, and I mean, and that leads into one of my favorite metaphors for this, which is the kind of the flow state that athletes or musicians get into, right? Because I, I, I was a professional musician, uh, back in my, my, in my twenties. Um, and, and the easiest way to completely screw up on stage is think about thinking about what you're doing, right? Like the only way to actually play with the band and actually, you know, jam and actually, you know, do well is to just, you know, you, you, you've done tons of training. You've got all your scales, you know, all your chords, you know, you've done that for years and years and it's time to just drop it and just go with the flow. So, um, I mean, I was in a jam band, you know, doing fish covers and grateful. Of course you were. Wait, wait, did you, did you play guitar then? Or bass? I play keyboards. Keyboard. Oh, amazing. Amazing. Yeah. And I was in a ska band and a Motown band and a funk band and a couple other bands too, but, but. Amazing. You, you, you don't think about what you're doing. You just feel it and you just like run with it and your body just takes over and you just go into this flow state and you do it. And I think, you know, I'm, I'm not an athlete, but I, I, I understand that there's, a very similar process. You practice layups, you practice dribbling, you practice passing, and then you go out to the game and you just like make it happen. You don't, you know, it just happens. You don't, you don't actually, you know, sit in your mind. You just let your body do your thing. And so, yeah. So, so there's this metaphor I use, you know, for, um, you know, thread release, uh, which is somewhat similar. It's like these, these perspectives that we've been talking about, those integrated perspectives that we've been talking about are just such ordinary parts of the, of the being. They've been so digested and internalized that, that, um, they just, you could, you just sort of go on autopilot. You just kind of go into a flow state and it just, you know, you just do things. You're not, you're not, you're not wandering around constantly reflecting on, wow, everything's so empty or everything's so full or, you know, you don't need to maintain the sort of monitoring of reality to see how it's showing up. You know, is this now energy? Is this, can I now find, you know, awareness, you know, um, you know, is there now emptiness? Is there now a blended experience of, you know, emptiness and form, right? All of these sorts of like, um, artificial kind of, uh, monitoring of, of experience that you've been doing, you know, throughout the awakening process, just kind of like become superfluous and unnecessary and, and, and just sort of fall away. Yeah. So that's the move. It's a trajectory. That's, it moves in that direction. That's where, that's where thread release kind of goes is towards. Yeah. That, that, that, that sounds very familiar. And, uh, and by the way, you know, like when I, uh, when I performed on stage for the last decade doing these like musical parodies and stuff for these big medical audiences, the minute it's exactly like that, it is, you have to turn off and just go into flow to remember these complex lyrics, especially when there are parodies of a, of a known song where the original lyrics are there, ready to compete. If the minute you start thinking. And so I've been on stage where right before the song, I'm like, well, now what the hell was this song about? And I start thinking, and then it's like, oh shit, oh shit. I've had to stop and be like, gang, I totally got in my head and forgot all the lyrics. Let's, let's, let's do this again. And I just, just go blank and there they are. Um, so it is, it is. And, but, but what is interesting is in my experience, you still have the capacity to, um, notice say, you know, the empty nature of things. If you really kind of force yourself to pay attention, it's just not, it doesn't feel very particularly desirable. And it's not, it's actually not as easy as when you were really going down whatever thread you were working at. It's more like, Ooh, why would I even, even the construct of it? Like, why would I call it emptiness? Why would I call it energy? Why would I call it psyche? It's just this, it's just this. So I've started, you know, you start saying things like, oh, it's all just this, or it's just life lifing. Or, you know, I, I'm just doing the next thing. Like there's nothing else to do. Yeah. Yeah. Like checking, like you were just saying, it becomes a little bit laborious. It's like, okay, all right, let me, let me split off a monitor that can go check reality to go see if it's empty. And I have to remember what, what emptiness, you know, like what's that construction? How did I look through that lens? Yeah. How did I create that construction to look through that lens to find it? Right. And it just becomes so laborious that it's just like your, the example, you know, you just gave, it's too laborious to sit there on stage in the moment and be like, hold on a second. Let me, let me go back into my memory banks and pull out, you know, reconstruct how I came up with this funny lyric and, and, and, and go through that whole process again in my mind to remind myself what the lyric is. That's much more laborious than just like snapping out of the sort of like thought space and just going on in flow. And it just happens. And the lyric comes out spontaneously. And, and yeah, so there's some, there's something about the, yeah, the, the, the laboriousness of actually looking and checking constantly that becomes clear when the, when the, when it's time for the threads to release, it's noticed how much energy was being spent in monitoring constantly, checking constantly, practicing constantly to create these specific states or these specific ways of looking. And this, the whole thing can just be let go of. It's not needed any longer. Yeah. And one of the pitfalls in that thread dropping space, at least in my experience personally, has been a tendency to denigrate the entire thing or to say, why the hell would anyone do this? Why would you talk about this? Why would you teach about this? It's all spirituality is nonsense. It's in, in a sense, it's the end of spirituality. It's the end of any sense that this is spiritual or somehow distinct from life. It is just life. It is just how it is. And there's a tendency here to, especially if there's some other psyche thread stuff coming up where I'm like agitated to be like, burn all this shit down. Stop watching these videos. Like it's all nonsense. And I've done that. And then later it's like, oh, you see how that wasn't very skillful. It's actually that this is all integrated. Like that was part of it. Like you can see it more clearly. Yeah. Yeah. I, I think, I think that's, I think we maybe talked about this in the first talk in the first conversation we had, but I, I do think that's kind of a normal kind of pendulum swinging in the opposite direction a little bit farther, you know, and then, yeah, then it comes back to equilibrium. So I, you know, the spirituality is bullshit thing is definitely something that I've, I've, you know, seen people kind of like swing into. And then, but there's also like a, um, I've also seen people swing into a little bit of like grief or like, like longing. Like, like, like, oh, you know, that integrated thing when I used to be able to bring my, bring my awareness up here and it was empty and down here and it was all love. And I, I was like master of the universe control experience all around me in such a way so that it was just always like saturated with love and always just everything was so amazing. And now it's like, I've realized that all of that is, um, too laborious to do anymore or it just kind of fell away. The ability to do it kind of fell away, but, but man, I kind of miss it, you know, there's a little bit of grief around that or what happened, you know, again, what happened to my fantasy of my superhuman, you know, awakening. Cause, cause I, you know, I did feel like I was the Buddha or Jesus or whatever. And now I'm just like, you know, all of that scene is a fantasy. Um, yeah, yeah, that can be, that could be a little bit of, yeah, it's a process. That's why it's not just like, oh, you snap a finger and it's like, now everything's, you know, disappears. It's like, there's a process. There's a, you know, there's a process that looks different for different people, um, with this thread releasing and what, what, you know, what it looks like for you might be unique to you based on your own stuff. Yeah. Seems to be. Yeah. And the temporality of it is very unique and the duration of things are very, you know, maybe for some people integration, it's just like pop, pop, pop, and it's done as fall and the threads drop and they're, they're done. And, and, you know, it's, and it seems like. Some people are in this integrated space for decades, right? Like some of them are famous spiritual teacher that people are super integrated and they just somehow might have to do with teaching. It might have to do with the community. Yeah. Generating. And, and how people are talking and, uh, or maybe they've released the threads, but they're just, and they're just like. They're faking it. Well, not faking it, but just like talking from the integrated. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, perspective. Right. Yeah. Cause you can do that. You can inhabit that. Yeah. Absolutely. Right. Absolutely. You can do that. That's right. And sometimes that's what people need to hear. I think. I haven't gotten into the spirituality's bullshit direction with you, but. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Cause I think sometimes like having, I, I, I think I just, I know I've said this before, but I just to repeat it, I think there are, there's a value for, um, people inhabiting different places in the territory and speaking from that territory and helping people, you know, being specialists in those areas of the territory and helping people to navigate that space and move through that. And so if somebody is in this deep integration, um, and that's the space they inhabit and that's what they, where they teach from and it's helping other people. I think that's great. I mean, if they're, if they're a fraud and they're like, you know, uh, sexually abusing their students, that's a totally different matter. Um, yeah. Somebody who's, who's actually genuinely kind of inhabiting any area of the model and they're teaching and helping people, you know, to, to wake up to that part of the model, to navigate that part of the model. Um, I think that's great. I think the only problem comes when they start arguing with each other about who's, who's, who's. Better. Right. Yeah. Who's getting results. Right. The hip, the hippos in this swamp or the lions over there in their den or the giraffes over there. Who's better. That makes no sense. Let's just. That being an animal in the zoo. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And, and, you know, in that vein, I would say actually the people who are out there, there's a handful who are like spirituality is bullshit. It's just, you know, it's just this, that's a useful message at a certain time to hear because it allows a certain kind of release of, it's so easy to get kind of stuck. Um, especially for someone with a personality like mine that loves to like, is skeptical of all beliefs until they find one they can really get behind. And then they just pound on it and defend it until that is painfully ripped away. They have to go to the next thing. So for me, it was like necessary for people to say, yeah, you know what? That's all bullshit. It's like this. Um, so it all seems to show up when it needs to show up. That's. And that same message for somebody who's like just starting out working with the, with spirituality. Poisonous. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And it's poisonous, right? Exactly. So yeah, there's a place I, in my mind, there's a place for, for everybody as long as, um, I, but I think a model like multi Dharma that sort of sees the bigger picture and doesn't get hung up any particular place on like a particular, you know, ontology or, or, or hierarchy of ways of being or something, you know, if you have that kind of, that kind of more capacious model, then there's nothing wrong with, with people. Oh, um, yeah. Teaching in whatever part of the territory they, they live in. Right. Right, right, right, right. Including the life territory. Like you're talking about standard therapists. You're talking about. Oh, absolutely. Whatever. Psychologists, psychiatry, medicine. Yeah. Totally. Life coaching. Life coaching. Yeah. You know, and just teaching intellectual, intellectual learning, things like that. Yeah. All of that is. Yeah. In my view, there's no, I, there's not, I'm not even making a hierarchy between like spiritual people and non-spiritual people. Like I think the, the, I think human beings and their achievements are fascinating and glorious in whatever arena they choose to be amazing in. And, and I think like what a, you know, like a professional ballerina is doing up on the stage or what, like, I don't know, um, you know, an artist like Picasso or like a musician, you know, like, uh, I don't know, whoever I, what they're, what they're doing is just as amazing of an exploration of the capacities and, and, and, um, you know, skills and, and, and possibilities of humanity, um, as you know, any spiritual teacher. So, uh, to me, it's like, it's like any part of the territory is, um, is, is, is equal. Um, if, I mean, you know, I think there's unskillful ways of doing, um, any life of the territory as well. Yeah. I'm not saying every single person is just, you know. Yeah, it's perfect. Yeah. Amazing and perfect. Right. But, but I think, I think any part of the territory can be lived in a way that is, um, you know, that, that's, that's skillful and amazing. And, and, and, and the, the, the heights of human achievement, I think are valuable in all these different realms and. Yeah. And create a hierarchy between any of these threads. Yeah. Yeah. And, and that, that's something that actually clarified for me as threads started to feel like they were dropping was, uh, you come back in a sense, it's like a hero's journey and there's the return home and you come back and you realize there was no hero and there was no journey, but there was only the home, but it's different. You're it's different. So now I can just sit and watch Netflix and be like, that is really awesome. Whatever they did with this show is just perfect. And it's a dumb show about nothing. It's like, yeah, that's just, I like what they did here. It's very simple. And before there was always like analytic mind trying to place into a hierarchy. Um, and now it just feels like, ah, and, and there's still preferences. They're still like, I don't like this. And those preferences change, but, but it, um, there's a lot more okayness with, especially human humanness. Like, ah, that's beautiful. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And, and, and it turns out, I think, you know, once the threads have started to release, you, you kind of see that those threads, you know, at the time it really felt like this was seeing underneath the hood, seeing reality as it is really, really like, you know, getting past these constructs that you had been blinded by and really kind of experiencing the ultimate truth. And, and I think dropping the threads or releasing the threads, I think, at least in my experience, one of the things it seems like took place there is the realization that, oh, the threads are perspectives to the threads are constructs to like looking at reality to find it to be empty and, and, and finding it to be empty or looking at reality and finding it to be one, um, is also a perspective. It's also, uh, a lens or a viewpoint that's being placed onto something that really can't be, um, you know, explained or conceptualized or talked about. And it's really just sort of, um, yeah, an artificial, even though it felt like it was seeing ultimate truth, it still was some kind of relationship overlay, some kind of orientation towards it was, it's still, there's still, um, something going on there that is in, in, in my experience was seen as a way of trying to control the situation, trying to control reality. And for, for me, the dropping of the threads came around by, maybe this is a really kind of psyche thread way of experiencing that thread drop. But for me, it was about seeing how my attempt to orient to reality in a particular way, any particular way was itself a sort of a, uh, a gesture of control, a gesture of attempting to control how reality was showing up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It, it, I actually, I think you've nailed this piece for me too. It's that, it's that realization that that attempt to control that fundamental movement, that, that is that last bit of separation of holding yourself apart from everything in some way and orienting to it instead of just going, this is it, this is all of it. And there's no, you don't even have to say there's no control because even that is like assuming a stance, you know? Yeah. You just let that go. You're like, nah, man, just life is happening. I'm going to go do it. I'm going to watch the show and I'm going to do this thing. I'm going to make this video with Pierce. I'm going to go pick up my kid. I'm going to do this. And it just becomes like life becomes more like a flow state with glitches. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's flow state. Like you're up on stage. For me, certainly every once in a while, I have the experience that you described, which is like, oh, wait, what? I'm here on stage. Yeah. What are the words again? Right. I'll jump, you know, I'll jump into that kind of, that kind of like, oh, wait, what, what, what framework, what perspective should I apply to this situation? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What lens should I place on this? Those, those kinds of experiences were, you know, soon after dropping the threads or releasing the threads. So that kind of experience, that kind of habit, that kind of impulse would happen more frequently. It seems to have gotten less over time. It seems that, it seems that that impulse takes place now only, usually only when there's a pretty negative or confrontational or sort of like uncomfortable situation. And, you know, I still see the, the, the tendency to reach for, oh, can't I just like, you know, melt this into oneness or, you know, wouldn't it be nice if I could just like, you know, you know, snap, snap this into emptiness or something like that. There's, there's a, you know, that, that impulse arising every once in a while with a, with a more extreme situation. Yeah. But for the most part, it seems like, yeah, just like you said, flow state, there's no need to monitor. There's no need to apply filters. There's no need to see reality in any which way. There's no need to, you know, perceive reality in any which way. There's no need to have the ontologies any which way. And then there's no need to build an identity any which way. Those three things that went from being so central to the awakening process just now are just like, I don't think about them. They'd never come up. It's never, it never passes my mind to check what reality is like or to check, you know, to have an ontology or to create an identity. It just, you know, if it happens in the moment, you know, on the fly, in the autopilot, on the, you know, in, in the flow state, if, if something like that happens and then it happens. But it's not, there's not a willful kind of controlling sort of intentionality behind it. Yeah. That's beautifully said. Yeah. For me, it's newer. And so I find those things happen more commonly, especially because I talk about this stuff still publicly in videos and, and I inhabit these different positions. So sometimes those positions get a little sticky, especially like you said, if something particularly stressful, but one thing that it's, so even the monitoring of experience is so much less. So this idea that like, am I monitoring for my own reactivity? Am I monitoring for whether I'm doing this right? Like whether I'm doing life right? Like that's something that happened a lot during the whole spiritual escapade was, you know, am I being a good soldier here? Like, you know, I'm flying off the handle, whatever it is. Now it's like, oh, the, the, the, the trigger happens. There's a flow state, there's a reaction, and there's a falling away. And you don't even notice it until after the fact when a loved one says, oh man, you didn't like start screaming and cursing and throwing shit like you used to do when someone cut you off in a car or whatever it was. And you're like, oh, I didn't even notice that. It's just, just everything just played out. Um, so the idea that there's a controller or something that, that could push and pull on reality to make it somehow different than it is starts to really just seem absurd. It just doesn't even arise as much, except like you said, in these very specific stressful triggers. Um, so it's not perfect and it's still unfolding and there's more psyche stuff coming up and more conditioning, more of this overall interdependent vibration. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's, let's, let's, um, double click on that. As you say, like, uh, the, the idea that, that unconscious material would stop coming up and that one would, would be like in this flow state would be this like perfected being that always does the right thing and everything's just easy and there's no hardship and there's no suffering. That is, I think the fantasy of the integrated state that is one of the things that is given up, um, with, with the release of the thread. So, so in my own experience in that, in that integrated space where I had the four centers and it was just like, everything was so fluid and, and, and some condition would come up or some kind of hardship in life would happen or something like that. And I would turn up the, the, the love dial and suddenly everything would just melt away into love. Um, I, I had it pretty good where experience was almost like 99.99% love because I could just turn any experience into love, like on, on, you know, on moments notice. Um, and like we were saying the, the, the, when the issues come up, they loom really large in that, in that kind of integrated space and you notice it and it's really like problematic. And I had this fantasy that I could just get really good at sort of, um, deconditioning this whole sphere so that everything was just always love and everything was always, you know, perfect. Um, that was my version of the fantasy. Yeah, that's good. I was going to say one thing, you can hack that fantasy so other people can experience this even short of full integration, just go on a seven day retreat. And in that eighth day, when you come back and you're chilling, you actually feel like you have the superpower to be able to do those things. You're seeing all your conditioning, you're in a samadhi state. There's all this like concentration, everything arises, you can turn into love or emptiness or whatever you want. And you think, okay, now I can just hold onto this. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Now, now, and, and I can stabilize this and, you know, and I've read so many things about stabilizing. Stabilization and the fetters and yeah. And, and, and so if I can, if I can control this situation, right, if I can, if I can only apply the techniques in the right way or get, or fix my consciousness in the right way or, or apply these, you know, these, these tools that I've got that I'm able to apply in the right way, I'll be able to like, you know, just be a Buddha a hundred, you know, 24 seven. Right. That was my version of the fantasy. Um, uh, yeah, and something similar and just seeing that, that, that seeing how, I mean, I'm expressing it in a way that makes it obvious, but you know, in, in the moment, it's hard to see how the whole thing is resting on the idea that you can control anything, anything, anything. And, and the, the fantasy of spirituality is that you're going to be able to like cultivate to the extent that you will, you will, you will never experience, you know, any, any hardship, any suffering or whatever. And, and just that, that fantasy kind of, that fantasy pops. Pops. Um, and for me, it popped by clearly seeing myself trying to control, you know, turn the dials and seeing that and just being like, Oh, this whole thing is about control. Yeah. What whole thing, what whole thing's about control. And then I saw, Oh, this whole thing, the whole awakening thing, the whole thing is about control. It's the whole thing is about trying to control reality. And at that, at that moment, just the bubble popped and it popped, like, like the whole spirituality thing just kind of popped. And it was like, Oh, the whole thing was a fantasy all along. Um, this is not about achieving some kind of perfected state. And it, this is just about like letting the mess be the mess and just, you know, allowing, it's hard to, it's hard to, it's hard to say what it's about. Yeah. Because allowing is taking a stance on it that says, that's right. Okay. I will allow this. So it's not that. Surrendering. All that is a doing. Yeah. Every word that you could use because it's English has to have a verb and a subject. Right. But it's, so it's not, it's not a, like a stance of like, Oh, I welcome everything, but it's just like a, take your hand off the steering wheel and, and just let it go on autopilot. Just be in the flow state. There's, there's no, um, yeah, there's there. And, and, and so conditioning. So in my view, like all you're left with is conditioning. Yeah. Yeah. At that point. Yep. It's so, it's the opposite of, uh, Oh, I'm going to overcome conditioning and never conditioning will never arise again. I mean, what happens in a flow state is all conditioning. It's all conditioning. Yeah. It's all the programming going. And, and, and what's, what's interesting is the awareness. There is no awareness of it. The, the, the, the, the felt sense of flow state is one off ease, selfless presence. I mean, these words are just dumb, but, but that's what it feels like when conditioning is just conditioning. It's just played out without the secondary layer of vibratory control thought or energy or whatever that is. I don't even know what it is. Do you have a sense of what that control is made of? I mean, it doesn't make sense to even talk about it. Yeah. People probably answer that differently depending on what their, their version of, uh, conceptualizing it is. But to me, what it seems like is conditioning was doing conditioning is running the show. Doing its thing. And there was this like extra thought loop that ran like a nanosecond behind experience. Right. So like, like there'd be a sound or a body sensation or whatever. And, and, and a nanosecond running, like, I don't know if this makes sense in terms of brain science, but this is, this is what it felt like. Uh, there's like a, a, a little thought loop that would run a nanosecond behind kind of like a little scribe that would like, or a monitor that would like register the fact of the experience and be like, you know, oh, there was like a, you know, so, so like a, a sound hits the ear and then there would be like a little sort of registering of the sound, you know, or there's a body sensation. There's a little like following right behind, like a, like a register of the reflections. Yeah. A mirror reflection, something kind of like, like noting what happened or something sort of like monitoring what's happening in experience. Um, and, uh, and then of course, like additional thought loops on top of that, then having opinions about how that should be here or not be here or how it could be changed or whatever. There's a whole sort of like, like, spin up. It spins up like from that reflection, that initial ping. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And maybe that initial, maybe that initial ping is like, don't like to like, it almost has a flavor of a valence of good, bad, want, don't want, uh, for me with experience. Yeah. There's like, there's a qualitative aspect, like a judgmental aspect to that thought reflection or that may be a later reflection. Honestly, it's, yeah, I feel for it, by case, and I, you know, we're just talking nonsense at this point, but yeah, yeah, exactly. It feels like there was maybe something even more like just the mirror itself. Yeah. Before, before the good, bad, you know, yeah, yeah, yeah. Don't want, don't want. And it's, there's like a mirror. Yeah. The, this happened. Reflecting this happened, but that, that mirror was always like a little bit late. Yeah. A little bit, um. Distorted in a way. A little bit distorted. Yeah. And, and, and in that, I mean, I don't, in that bottom of the threads when, when, when I was like sort of deep in the threads, um, trying to find that mirror was the, was, was the key. Like trying to actually like, so I'm talking about this mirror as if it existed, but actually, actually trying to find that mirror, like, like it seemed like it existed, but actually trying to find it and pin it down was kind of for me, like the, um, the, the, the, the final, like the straw that broke the camel's back or something. It was like that, that little act of like trying to find the mirror for me was, was a really powerful meditation that kind of broke the thing because, because of course it's the mirror trying to find the mirror and it never find itself. And so it will never, it will never be able to capture, you know, so, so. Bare reality. It can't actually, it can't actually, yeah. So, so the, the mirror cannot actually ever be seen. Um, reality cannot actually ever be seen. The mirror can't actually ever be found. Everything is happening like a nanosecond behind, you know, and the whole sort of apparatus just, just sort of like collapsed for me through that particular inquiry. Um, and I feel like that extra thought loop, that mirror thought loop is, is what kind of broke or disappeared or, or kind of got that app got deleted? Mm. Mm. So would you say that, that, that actually that mirror apparatus is a function that is the sort of origin? Cause the initial question I asked you is what do you think this, this is, do you think that's control? You think that's the origin of the sense that we can control? Yeah. So for me, that was, and, and this is a, I understand this is a, like a more psyche thread kind of version of that. So I think I said the same thing talking about, I think it's the same thing when I talked about the, the bottom of the energy thread that the universe, you know, being born and dying, but, but dying before it's born and never actually materializing. I think that's the same insight seen from an energy thread kind of perspective. Yeah. So in this case, this from the psyche thread perspective, so from the emptiness thread perspective that it's, that's just a thought loop and the thought loop is gone. Right. So that I, I spoke like that. Now I'm going to say it from a psyche thread perspective, which is that, that for me, that the, the mirror being there seemed to come from a deep, really deep, um, need to, to capture somehow or monitor somehow reality. Because if I didn't, it would be somehow unsafe that there was helpless, like a lack of control, a lack of like being there, um, and, and just, you know, just not to, to have that mirror would, would be, um, just terrifying. It would be, it would be unacceptable. So I feel like that was the bottom of the psyche thread, um, with that, with that. God, that's beautiful, man. So you talked about it from the emptiness thread. You talked about it from the energy thread. You talked about it from the psyche thread. Yeah. So from the, from the oneness thread. Yeah. Tell me about that. The, the idea, right. That you're separating off a monitor, a mirror in order to reflect, reflect back reality. That, that, that's the last separation, right? So, so all of reality is all unified, but you've got this, this like monitoring mirror kind of function standing outside the unity. Um, right. And so that's, uh, man, that is tidy that, you know, as untidy and conceptual as it is, that that's pretty fucking tidy. Yeah. That's, that's beautiful. That is kind of the bottom of all of it. That is the bottom, that little reflection. That's my experience too. And when, when, when that drops, it's kind of like, yeah, you can't say a word about what reality is. You can't say a word about what perception even is because everything you say is part of that mirror that's reflecting on the thing. Right. So, yeah. So what's reality like? Well, you, you, I mean, you could just use words to kind of say things. I, you know, I can, on autopilot, I could just talk about it. Right. Or, you know, I, I can, I can say all kinds of speculative, speculative, you know, ontologies and, and so on and so forth. But, but, but, you know, what is it actually is, is this just a meaningless, meaningless question, a meaningless and uninteresting question. Yeah, that's right. That's right. There's no, there's no desire anymore to know if or what the answer is. And I say, if the answer, because it doesn't even make sense that there would be an answer. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's like the question, it's not that the question, it, so it's not that, that I, I accept the question and answer no, or I answer, you know, both, or I answer like neither. Right. It's not, it's not a, it's, it's a question, it's the question itself doesn't compute. The question itself doesn't apply to anything, can't, can't be, can't be understood to refer to anything. Yeah. So the, so. Yeah. Could you say in a sense, the question itself would only be the result of that initial reflection? Like if that doesn't exist, there's no question even. Yeah. The, the question assumes the presence of that, that, that monitor. Monitor. Yeah. Be the only, the only way to answer it would be to have a, to have the monitor, um, answer. Running. Right. So. Yeah. Right. So, but, but, but, but, but, but yet, um, you know, ask me on autopilot, I can answer any question, you know, cause it. Oh yeah. Fluently. Right. Fluently. I could write a book on it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, yeah. So, so, you know, I, I could talk about, you know, the different threads version of this, that, or the other all day long. Right. Um, uh, because there, there, we're just dealing with like concepts and it's a world of concepts. Um, so within the world of concepts, words can be used to answer questions about concepts. No problem. Yeah. Yeah. That's what they reflect. And, and just for people who think we've lost the thread, no pun intended, this is a the dropping of the threads. This is what we're talking about when, what's it like when the threads drop and everything is let, let go in that sense that the question falls away. Um, it, this is what we're pointing at here, uh, for people who maybe are like, what the fuck are they, where are they, why are they doing this now? Yeah. Um, and it, and it also is total, you know, we're, we're kind of mentally masturbating a little too, but that's kind of fun. Um, yeah. What did we, what did we miss Pierce? This was, this is, I love these conversations. I, I, man, this is the third one we've had and it's always like, I'm always right about this point. I'm always just like, wow. Like I, I'm always, I always reflect on how much fun I have because it, it kind of just brings me joy to kind of go through this. That's how I'm wired a little bit. Uh, even though you can't say a word about any of this stuff really, but yeah. Yeah. Uh, and obviously that's how I'm wired to like, you know, obviously the, um, there's a lot of conditioning and also enjoyment around, you know, dealing with concepts and playing around with words and so forth. That's what, it's what I do for a living. And so, and I got into this because of my joy for that. So yeah, it's, um, um, yeah, it's, it, the feeling is definitely mutual. Um, yeah, but, but, but really, you know, yeah. I mean, just to restate the thing I've said probably a hundred times since we started is, is, is, you know, it's only insofar as this is helpful or useful that anybody should pay attention to any of this, um, because it's, it's, it is just concepts about concepts about concepts all the way down. And there's, there's, there's not actually any reality at the bottom, you know, of this, of this pile of concepts. Um, yeah, yeah, yeah. But you cannot find what they're pointing to by, by going deeper into these concepts. Concepts, right. Ultimately you, you, you, the territory shows what the territory is. That's it. Um, it is just the territory. Beautiful Pierce. Wow. Well, we did another thing, another marathon. And man, it's so much fun. Um, yeah. So I, I think, um, people should go check out the first episode, especially because it's the big overview. The second episode, the deep dives into the individual threads and the phenomenology. Well, in other words, what the experiential aspects of those threads are. And then this episode, of course, which ties it all together into braiding integration and thread release and hold it all incredibly lightly. Don't make another thing out of this. If you can avoid it, although we will, and that's what humans do, but it, it is, um, to me, it's very helpful. And many people have, again, spoken to reiterate something I've said a thousand times during our conversation, the validating aspects on their own experiential unfolding. Um, it is extremely valuable for people who feel stuck or crazy or whatever it is that arises and, um, check out your book, your websites. All the links are there. Um, for people who are listening, please leave a review and subscribe on the podcast. For people who are watching hit like, turn your notifications on subscribe. It helps the algorithm to determine what is good content and feed it out supernaturally to those who need to hear it in their own unfolding, which is a story. Um, anything else, Pierce? No, I just wanted to thank you, Zuma. This is, I mean, yeah, this has been a lot of fun to have this series of conversations with you and, uh, maybe, maybe we got more up our sleeve. I don't know. But, uh, I feel like, I feel like we've given the, the, the model, the fullest kind of deep dive, um, over these last three conversations. And, and it's, it's been a lot of fun and I appreciate you sharing your space here with me. And, uh, I just wish everybody well, you know, in their journey, wherever they're, wherever they are in the territory, wherever you think you're going in the territory. Um, yeah. And, uh, just, just, you know, may this model be a helpful tool along the way. Beautiful. I think. Yeah. Thanks, Zuma. Oh, thank you. And I know we'll come up with something else to talk about because you and I are talkers. So until we meet again, Pierce, and until we meet again, gang, we are out. Peace. All right. All right. All right.