查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查 So I saw this couple and one of them had this, the woman had a jersey on that had the name of my town and I was like, oh cool. And I just kind of mentally noted it. And then I went to Whole Foods and I saw the same couple there. And so of course I marched right up and was like, hey, I saw you in Costco and to their credit they did not just straight up run away or think I was just absolutely crazy. They actually talked to me, we ended up talking for quite a while about all kinds of things. It's so interesting when life just life's itself and you go with the flow instead of like, well, you're not supposed to talk to people and you're not supposed to, it was so much fun. And I got to talk to a lovely employee at Whole Foods about what did we talk about? Can muscles and beans, which is, I mean, this is my life now people. I love it. It can be better. Let's see here. Oh, all kinds of stuff. Varun MD says, holy shit, Zubin in the flesh. I have to run but love you man. Keep a life thing. Ah, Varun. Good to see you. Is that three music references in less than one minute in? Ryan Bates, Michelle. So you know that I don't think that's a record for me. Honestly, you know, I'm surprised I haven't made any other. Mark says it's defleppard-ish. There you go. Happy respiratory care week. Oh, what? It's respiratory care week? How was I the last to get the memo? You know I'm always down to clown with RT. You know, 16 on the peep and nothing to show. Z dog is about to make this body turn prone. Now they puff and then they wheeze and it's a tad bit late. Z dog and RT had to ventilate. Dude, I'm peeping to a whole new level. RT, step to this, I dare you. Man, that was a fun piece. I got to perform that live at the AART, like American Association of Respiratory Therapists or something in Vegas. That was hella fun, bro. Happy RT week. Y'all make it pop. Don't touch their vent. Ducks. Yeah, Vader can do anything, Louisiana. Bailey says, we did a pumpkin contest at work. We did the Brady Bunch theme and the dad is Brady and the mom ended up being the pacemaker. Just FYI, I finally got it. It took me a second. I'm a little out of practice. Brady, do you see what she did there? Pacemaker? The Brady Bunch, dude. The one day when this AV node was failing, and we knew that it was much more than a hunch that this code must somehow involve atropine. That's the way we all became the Brady Bunch. The Brady Bunch. Don't shock Brady Cardia. The Brady Bunch. I don't know what's going on, people. I don't know why I said atropine. That's not right. Maybe it's right. I don't remember. Epi. I gave Epi. Why not? Why not give Epi? Bratillium. That's how old I am. Just give Bratillium for Brady Cardia. Makes no sense. Oh, Bailey's got it. Here we go. Here's the story of a lovely pacer who was saving lives each and every day. Nice. You guys are strong. Let's talk to strangers every day, says Phil Hasser. I don't know that I'm a doc anymore. I don't know how I identify. I don't know what my pronouns are anymore. It's not doctor. That's not my pronoun anymore. Sometimes. Depends. I'm fluid. I'm doctor fluid. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Louisiana drummer says, but you aren't down to clown with medical records, LOL. Got to get those H&Ps done. Dude, that is down with the sickness. I did a talk for the association that represented physical transcriptionists back in the day. I don't even know if they exist anymore because now everything's like voice recognition. But yeah, I'm down with the medical records, man. I used to go down there and be like, give me that chart. They give you the physical chart. Old school bitch. That's how we do it. Sin Juarez says, life has definitely been a life thing for me these days. I'm trying to lean into it. My goal for the rest of the year is to do something that makes me uncomfortable or scares me several times a week. I call that getting out of bed. That is my act of defiance because that shit is real. The minute you get out of bed and enter consensus reality, actually the minute you wake up and reality starts to reform itself from whatever dream or empty consciousness that you had during sleep, that's when things start to get real and challenging because consensus reality is kind of a shit show. Here's the thing. You go through these phases in awakening where it's like you wake up and you realize you're not your story. You're not the body. You're not the mind. You're not your thoughts. Okay, great. Then you kind of re-identify with I'm the spiritual awakened one and then you have the spiritual ego. All the shadow stuff comes up and you start going through all your conditioning and all of that and get these energetic things and everything is unity and all the other different threads of awakening. Then something really magical seems to happen as the self and identity starts to fall away is you seem to come right. I'm just speaking from my own experience. You seem to come right back and sit your ass right down in consensus reality. You don't take any of it seriously, but you take it all very sincerely. You seem to just meet people where they are. Maybe it's at Whole Foods. Maybe it's at Costco and you fucking talk about whatever and you do whatever and life lives and sometimes you're scared and sometimes there's despair and sometimes there's love and sometimes there's joy and all the flavors and textures of life show up beautifully and perfectly from nowhere for no one, but it feels like a you doing it and then it doesn't matter because it's all exactly what it is. It is. It just couldn't be any different and that is perfect. Perfect. Fucking perfect. It's great. Really. As sucky as it can be. It's fucking great. Yeah, so I'm glad. I'm glad you're leaning into that shit. Down with the sickness. Get up. Get down with the sickness. Bailey says, are you even a real doctor? What is I don't even know what that means. Maybe. I don't know. I went to UCSF medical school that three years of Stanford residency practice that Stanford for like a decade, then went to Vegas, practiced, built a clinic, did all that nonsense. The answer is actually no. I have no idea what that means. What a real doctor is because a doctor is another story. It's another consensus reality. It's another bag of conditioning. So at some point I had that and now it doesn't feel like that. Now I don't even know how to fucking treat bradycardia on a live because we're the Brady bunch. Cute pie from NY. Cutie pie from NY. I like that. I love NY and I love cutie pies. Says welcome back. Remember welcome back, Carter. Most people don't. Remember the greatest American hero? Most people do because it was badass. So is welcome back, Carter. If we're being completely honest. Chris, how you doing? Got a Berkeley connection, Chris. I identify as the paper chart patient ID card ink stamper machine that could also amputate a digit. Dude, that is a serious identity. I know that I remember those things. Man, paper charts. Good stuff. What is Johnny cakes? Because when are you going to do a review of the documentary and inconvenient study? I don't know what that is because I just can't watch much TV these days because it's like documentaries in particular. They like take an angle. They take some stuff and they spin a story. So it's another review. So that's great. It's enjoyable if you enjoy that sort of thing. I don't really anymore. I enjoy kind of inhabiting whatever views in front of me at that moment. Like hang out and hold foods with two people that have a totally different life experience than you and have a conversation in their total strangers and feel as connected as anything. Like doesn't matter what they believe or what their views are. They're exactly what they are and it's glorious. So it's very hard to take a stand or a stance or hold a position for very long without it just crumbling into dust. Right now for me, that's me. Your mileage will vary. Let's see. Oh, hi Diana from Lisbon. Good to see you. I got to come visit you. Louisiana drummer says wish health info would get recognized like respiratory. Now we're like the Sith Lords of the hospital. That's right. You guys just sit there in the basement and you're like, oh, I'm afraid this chart will be quite operational when your patient arrives. You guys are the deer to the dark side. It's so dark, so dark, so dark, like gluteal cleft dark, like that dark. Hainastere says I can relate to the paper chart patient ID ink stamp or content. I comment. I remember that shit. So when I volunteered at a hospital in high school, so this was the deal. It wasn't high school. It was college. So in college, you're playing the game to get into medical school and I knew I had to do some volunteer work in a hospital. So I asked my dad, I was like pops, like hook me up. I'm here for the summer. Hook me up with like somebody at the hospital that I can shadow or do some volunteering. And so what does he do? He hooks me up in the radiology department, which I had no interest in. And what did they make me do? But file paper x-rays like the physical x-rays not paper, but whatever their films were the physical films. And so all I did was file films and then occasionally the radiologist would like let me look over his shoulder. And that was my summer. It was terrible. But I remember going, yeah, I'm not doing radiology. And then I married a radiologist. So that was that was a smart move. I diversified. What's up Nazia Naziah? Um, let's scroll down here. Helen, Helen Lowell says been thinking about you the last few days wondering where you at, where you at. And here you are always high frequency vibes. Ah, Helene. I have a good friend here named Helene as well. So that is a good name for high frequency vibes, whatever that is. I'm glad to be it for you. For us, I should say, let's see, scrolling down. Alan, or no, Alassano Lora more says the machine is called an address a graph. What? That sounds crazy. Bring me the address a graph or better yet, you may fire the address a graph when ready. Lord Vader. I like that address a graph. So that's the thing that stamps the patient's name on the chart and then can amputate your fingers. Krista says, I miss Vinay. Dude, I don't. I talk to him all the time. He is hilarious. Yeah, that the man FDA. Oh, boy. I'm not going to say nothing. Um, the Janssen 59 says, I'm vibing and burning some Palo Santo. I don't know what Palo Santo is, but I'm down to clown with that. Long as it smells good. What else? What else gang? I've caught up with the comments. I need some comments to keep the engine of distraction going or else I'm just going to disappear into the void in front of your eyes, which will look just like me sitting here staring at the camera. Oh, man. Mm-hmm. This stuff is weird. Let's keep going. Bourbonopolis is lighting is on point today looking good brother. That is a comment that fucking lights me up. No pun intended because if you saw the shit involved in this lighting, there's like, there's like a table where I've Jimmy rigged this freaking LED light with this weird diffuser on it. It's on a slider. So I have to dim it just right. And then over here, I've got my standard studio setup, but I've Jimmy rigged it. So it does some weird shit. And then I got the guest camera over here and I'm like, I'm going for that moody Monday kind of vibe and I'm glad you enjoy it. Uh, hang on. Someone's texting me. I got to make sure it's not an emergency. Oh, the power went out at my house. It's not good. Luckily we have solar with a battery backup because we're those people. So luckily, and also my wife is not working from home today. So she's at Stanford. So she doesn't need the power anyways. Um, all these things just, the mind just, you don't need to think about stuff. It just gets done. It just gets thought about. You're not doing that. You don't have to solve a problem. The problem just gets solved. You just think you're doing it, but thoughts go back, back, back, back, back, back, and they make you feel like you've done something. It's crazy. Like I just solved this problem with the power going out because I had to make sure this and that and I don't need to do this and I don't need to do that. No, that just happens. It feels like we have agency that we're doing it. That's the miracle of like the illusion. It's great. Um, Lindsay Lou says, fellow rush fan here, what do you think about their upcoming tour and drummer? So someone just told me they were touring with a different drummer. I know nothing about it. Um, to me, rush is Getty Lee, Alex Lifeson and Neil Pirratt. And that's it. And when Neil died, that was the end of rush, uh, as an ongoing concern. But you know, they're going to try to, maybe they'll try to pull a journey, you know, where journey got that one, um, karaoke singer from the audience that like sings better than Steve Perry, Filipino guy. And now they were touring with him like, I'm forever yours. Big bully. Down, down, down. That was how we used to jet with my Filipino nurse friends when that happened. I was like, dude, how would that, there's got to be a touch of the accent still there. There's just got to be. Um, and that's what makes it beautiful. Medical records on micro fish was wild. Cutie pie from NY. Oh man. Every, anything on micro fish was wild. You'd go to the library, you have to dig up some old archives, go through the micro fish, some crazy shit, man. Um, these kids these days, they so spoiled. Let's see, let's see. Tammy Horvath says, hi from Michigan rural hospital medicine. And I charted on paper. I remember at a conference, they showed what your chart looks like when it's blown up to be eight foot tall in front of a jury. Oh dear God. My penmanship. That's all the jury's thinking is shit. These doctors really do write like shit. Uh, Kristen says my daughter is an undergrad and is interested in continuing to medical school. Any advice? Ooh. Welcome to the unknown. We have no, every moment is the unknown, but it's especially unknown with AI and all the changes going on. I would just say embrace chaos, embrace the unknown. This is no longer a path that used to imagine was some certain path to certain stability and certain, um, happiness. It's not like that. It's the unknown in every second. So if she embraces that chaos, um, and it has a true passion for this and has explored anything else she might want to do more. So that's the main advice is like, if there's something in your life you want to do more than medicine, you better explore that first before you go, go to medicine. I did it backwards. Um, I went into medicine because I was like, well, I guess I can do this, but I kind of want to be a professional clown. And, uh, and then I back, back asked into it. So I'd say, you know, see if you can explore your passion. If your passion is medicine, a full steam ahead, just be aware that you have no idea what's happening and no one else does either. Just have that healthy humility and kind of curiosity and wonder that the thing just is unfolding. It's just crazy. It's a crazy path. It is nuts. It is nuts. Okay. Dude, being a doctor, learning to be a doctor, holy fucking shit. It is crazy. If I really reflect on what I've been through, just my own experience and it's all thought and it's all memory now. So it's not imminent, but even as it was imminent, just getting the flavor, the reflection and consciousness of that, man, it was nuts. The sleep deprivation, the stress, the joy, the wonder, the curiosity, the awe, the beauty, the tears, the laughter, all of it. My God. Wow. I mean, to get to actually experience that range of humanity. That is a chat as a gift. So my advice is, fuck, if that's what she wants to do, fucking. Oh, beautiful. And when it sucks, if it sucks, so what? That's part of it too. Then you go to the next thing, you go, you turn it into something that's yours, whatever it is. I'm just speaking from my own experience. It took a while. There was a lot of fear. There was a lot of trepidation. And when it's time to let that identity go, let that go and do the next thing, whatever that is for you. Only you will know and you won't even know because it'll do itself. You just got to get out of the way. The sense of you has to get out of the way. Maybe even that's saying too much. Helene says high frequency vibes, meaning uplifting energy, soul soothing, nonsense words, insightful words, nice energy. Helene, you want to do a little nice, little nice energy? Let's do that. Not all these words I was going to say. In the minute there was settling into this, the words make no sense. And there's just this. Perfectly what it is. And any descriptions of nice energy, not nice energy. Perfect. I just do that the whole time and you guys will all tune out. But really it's a kind of tuning into this mental noise calms down. Mental noise calms down and it's just the dancing sensations in the body, what we call the body. What is a body? It's a story. It's a dance. That doesn't mean that you can't inhabit a view, a conceptual overlay where the body is a series of organs and anatomy, physiology, pharmacology, all the things that you need to do to make your way in the world. Because as you know, making your way in the world today takes everything you've got. Taking a break from all your worries sure would help a lot. Isn't it nice to get away? Once you want to go where everybody knows your name. Almanista says she's a female drummer who played with Jeff Beck, I believe. Wait, Rush got a female drummer who played with Jeff Beck, sold. Done. Perfect. You don't need to say anymore. That sounds amazing. That sounds like enough of a twist that I'm like, yeah, okay, I need to google that after we're done. Invisible airwaves crackle with life, bright antenna bristle with the energy, emotional feedback on a timeless wavelength, bearing a gift beyond price, almost free. All this machinery making modern music can still be open-hearted. Dude, Rush. I don't do any music justice, but just Rush. Just say Rush and you're good. Hzomb says exploring any other passions first is such good advice. That's the thing. Otherwise, there's always regret. There's always a pull. Maybe it's not what you like. Maybe you're drifting into it because your parents pushed you or whatever. TS Roby says, fuck, I just wanted to join in. There you go. Colleen says I was a hospice nurse. Brother passed at 13, sister at 33, both from cystic fibrosis. Oh my god. And now with all our treatments and everything, huh? And this was back then. Lots of suffering, lots of awareness. What a thing, huh? And now you're taking that and you're gifting that to other people through what you do. That suffering. Beautiful. My favorite patients were the cystic fibrosis patients at Stanford. When we would do pulmonary, they were challenging. There was so much going on. They knew themselves better than any doctor could know. They were young. They were feisty as fuck. Just great, great, great humans. And they just through adversity became so resilient, you know? Sam Bam 29 says in 2011, I requested my dad's medical records from his PCP. He'd been seeing since the 70s. All his records were on two by five by seven note cards. Damn homie. That's awesome. And high school, you were the man, homie. What the fuck happened to you? I got the sickest vendetta. When it comes to machetta, dude, 50 cents, I consider him half dollar because I'm an optimist, actually a pessimist. Becky's band says, hey Z-Dog, how are you? Becky's band. T.S. Roby, oh, even better presence. You don't have to wait for Christmas for presents. Presents is not so corny. I can't believe that came out of my mouth. I don't know where that came from. I'm not doing it. That's where I truly deny a self. I truly deny free will. I think Zubin did not do that. Did not make that joke. That was the universe. Jenny says, not clinical clerical, ER registration. Love it. Oh nice. ER registration. That is fun stuff. You'll see the world there. Sentimental junkie says all the things, thinking that's right. That's what this is, right? Everything, everything, all at once. Because where else would it be? Where is everyone you've lost? Here, because where else could they be? There's no elsewhere. Everyone you've lost is a thought. Everything is here. That's a cliche until it's not, until it's felt. Dr. Kavei Abammanpour, OMG. That's all you need to say, doc. It's OMG. Oh my god. Sketch Monster says, nice camera. Thanks. It's a red cinema commodo. No, not commodo. What is it? It's called a, it is a commodo. Yeah. Red cinema commodo. Yeah. When I bought it, back when I was during COVID, it mattered. Someway. It was expensive. We set it all up with the nice lighting and everything. Now I've got all this stuff and nothing to say. Just this. Kind of beautiful, actually. I can just talk about whatever is arising, not worry about views or losing supporters or subscribers or followers or whatever. It doesn't matter. The people who are here are here with me and it's us. It's in us. That's a story and that's a thought, but it's also energetically a reality in this moment because everything is right here. That's why I love live. I love live video. I just really prefer it to prerecord because it's us. Now. Crazy. You could never have done this years ago. You didn't have the ability to just live stream to a bunch of strangers. You couldn't do this. It's crazy. Awesome. Clovis West, 91 in the house. Hell yeah. Chad. I love it. It's my high school graduating class. Sketch Monster. The rock looks like you now. People used to say the funniest thing I ever heard, someone left a comment on one of my videos on YouTube. YouTube is. They can be a little saucy. They said this guy looks like end state. What was it? The rock with end stage aids. I was like, I always wanted to be the end stage rock. Now apparently the rock looks like end stage Z-Dog. Oh yeah. In tune with Melinda says, yeah, you had been waiting on the rush. You know what I heard the other day was really brought me back was passage to Bangkok, which is like from like one of their albums in the 70s. I forget which album was it? 2112. It might have been from 2112. It's about smoking weed in all these different countries. We're on the train to Bangkok aboard the Thailand Express. We'll hit the stops along the way. We only stop for the best. Well, it was like whips of smoking Bogota. We burn the midnight oil. Dude. The fragrance of Afghanistan rewards a long day's toil. Then what? Pulling into Kathmandu, smoke rings fill the air. Perfume by a nap all night. The express gets you there. We're on the train to Bangkok aboard the Thailand Express. I'm going to stop now. I'm sorry, non-rush fans and rush fans, you're welcome. You're extremely welcome. Oh, thank you, Helene. You're very sweet. QT5 for from NY says a passion and a purpose. That's right. But there's no purpose. That's the thing. We invent purpose and that's fine. That's beautiful. But man, from here there's no purpose. This is the purpose. This is fucking crazy. It is crazy, people. It doesn't need a purpose the minute the need for purpose drops. Oh, shit. That's another degree of freedom. My God. Wow. It's crazy.  yeah, they were your greatest teachers, Helene, your Sibs with CF. Great song, Diana, yeah. RT Strong says, ha-ha, is RT, I love your videos, man, Zee, dog and RT, you gotta ventilate, da-da-da-da-da-da-da, chords, tubes, and what was it, chords, lube, we-tube, everything. What was it, RT? Where rhythm is life and life is breathing, something like that. If you smoke like I smoke, then it's out there every day, and if your gas is acidic, RT will ventilate. Da-da-da-da-da-da-da, Jenny Crown says, my daughter was an ICU charge nurse in San Diego during COVID, now went to management to get away from patient care, what can I do or say to help? How about this? I love that you're doing you, that's it. That's how you help fully accept, fully witness what she is and is going through and is doing. Don't judge, don't resist, don't push back, don't advise if you can avoid it, unless she asks. That's what you can do, really witness her. That's what I'm most grateful for about my dad at the end of his life, is he really witnessed what I was. He used to say, why aren't you practicing anymore, why don't you go do more talks, don't you understand, you still need to keep making money and doing all this because you're never really safe, because that's how he was raised. He was raised in India in a poor family, they used to have to fish in the river to get food. It was crazy, of course he sees the world that way, even though he worked so hard to provide that stability and give us a launching pad to be able to work hard and provide stability for our families. When that stability is there, we have more freedom to go and explore the complete uncertainty of every moment. Towards the end, that's what he would ask me, what am I up to? I would say, I'm doing this and this and this. He would ask me, so you don't want to do talks anymore? I'm like, no. What do you feel like each day? Don't you feel like you don't have a purpose? No, it feels perfect. I feel connected to everything and everyone and every moment and I've never been more at peace. He said, wow, that's great, beautiful. It's great to be accepted by the guy you're trying to impress all your life because that's the conditioning. I'd given up trying to impress him, but it was still beautiful to see the acceptance. In a way, the only way he could accept me is that I could accept him exactly as he is. Meet him exactly where he was. Don't try to push and pull on him because he didn't ask for that. If he asks, hey, what can I do different? That's one thing. That's not what he was asking. He wants to be seen too like everybody as they are. The older you get, the more you're like as you are. Harder to admit wear a mask. If you're doing it, let's see. She's getting you to your comments here. Oh, thank you, Diana. Yeah, he did and I loved him. Okay, so wait for some more comments to catch up. Meanwhile, we'll just sit in this presence that isn't a presence. The mind wants to turn everything into a thing, a thought, an object. So we talk about presence. And it's a good halfway house because it gives concessions to the thinking brain. It's like, yeah, presence. Okay, this is kind of field of nowness in which everything seems to happen. And that can be very much a relief when you're up in your head, up in thought, up in future and past, which are appearances when it reduces to presence. It's just a breath out and a breath in and just the dance. And then the thought, the concept, the image of presence is let go somehow, miraculously. And there's just this unknowable, unspeakable, this-ness. Not even here because where else? Not even now because when else? Beyond thought, beyond conceptual, beyond any duality of me and that. And it's always, always been the case. We just conveniently ignore it by looking into thought. Telling stories about presence. Having images in our mind about what the unconditioned reality is, what spirit is versus matter versus God versus this. It's like, or just... Sometimes it puts a big shit eating grin on my face. Bublin says truth. Hi, Olivia. Long time no see. Scroll down. Kay Purdy says, over the last few months I've learned it's so good to just sit, be, and breathe. That is so peaceful. If that's all you ever learn, like that is such a powerful lesson. It's just... Just being. It seems like that anchor to the life stream, the stream of this-ness is the breath. It can seem like that. So why not just let that be all there is? Just that dance of sensation, sound, texture. Then all the lights and the colors and the shapes, they come in. But they don't really come in because they're always there, even with your eyes closed. And then sights, sounds, sensations, thoughts, they can all blur into just the textures of this. No distinctions between thought and sensation and seeing and sound. They're all the dance. Totally ephemeral. Not solid, but also not not solid. Impermanent, but also not so. Beyond any description. Helene says, maybe you're smiling from the bliss of the now. When there isn't even a now... All the masks drop and all the consensus reality crumbles into story. It's like the face just does this thing. It's good stuff. But also it's totally neutral. It's not really good or bad. It's just what it is. Hmm. Yeah. So what else, gang? Gang, gang, gang, gang, gang. Everything's gnarly. Dude, what's up with cat's eye? You guys know what I'm talking about? Yeah, hypnosis? I don't know. I don't know. That sounds... My grandfather was a hypnotist, actually. Maybe there's just some hypnosis genes that transmit sometimes. But it's more this. Yeah, bedtime meditation would be lively, says Diana. Maybe we should just do some together meditation. There's no meditation now. It's weird for me. Meditation is just whatever's arising. Sometimes this morning I went and sat in my favorite cafe. Which, by the way, if you want to stalk me, show up at Sama Coffee House in San Mateo on some morning. There's a non-zero probability that I'll be there. Having a masala coffee or something they call a heat wave, which is one of my favorite drinks they make. I make it super spicy with cayenne pepper. It's coffee. It's like a latte with honey and cayenne pepper. And I have it with almond milk because I like almond milk. And I'll sit there and just be with the coffee and the energy and the dance of that. And I call that meditation. The ladies who work behind the baristas, they're hilarious, man. They all know me. They're like, oh, here comes... Did you find your favorite seat to meditate? And they figured out that I was meditating, even though I wasn't doing anything like meditation in the classic sense. I'm just sitting there with my coffee, just like this. And they could just tell because I would sit there for like an hour, not look at my phone, occasionally take a sip of the coffee. Not talking to anybody. So meditation just becomes synonymous with life-lifing. So if we want to share a meditation, we just see what arises. That's how it is now. It didn't used to be that way. It used to be very intentional. And I think at that time, that's what my mind was needing or seemingly could do. It couldn't just let go into this. There's too much distraction, too much thought, belief, self, all of it. In tune with Melinda says, genuine curiosity, what are your family dinners like? Do you ever get caught up in the to-dos of family stuff? Oh, absolutely, because that's the beauty of this thing. There's no longer. This is actually, I think, kind of central. We have this conditioning that I think happens, especially people on some spiritual path or who are doing spiritual things, meditating, seeking, that sort of thing. There's some feeling that you somehow transcend and bypass normal life, and the normal aspects of life just become irrelevant or somehow unbother some that you don't involve yourself in them. And to an extent, that's not easy to talk about. This is true. There is a true letting go of ownership. There's a true equanimity at the base of everything, knowing that you are not doing it, knowing that you never were doing it, this relinquishment of control. But what isn't spoken about is that, as often, some people talk about this, is that the only... It's so funny, actually. If people knew this, they would scratch their heads like, what? There's a dumping right back into the human existence with eyes wide open, and you live it fully as a human. So that means kids applying to college, there's transmitted stress, there's advice, there's listening, but it's all kind of held in like a... It's all kind of held by nothing. It's no longer believed beyond the dance. There can be transient stickiness, and there's still stuff here that arises that's sticky. I know there's still a lot of shadow stuff, there's a lot of conditioning here. There's that very subtle sense of eye, that sticky, that I feel it loosening, very subtle, and it's a little scary, because it's the last container before this like fundamental like, oh god, nothing is certain, nothing is permanent, nothing is substantial, nothing is predictable. Like a truly knowing that. There's still a subtle sense of eye that's like, yeah, but you know, maybe, maybe it's predictable. So dinners are just like normal dinners. There just isn't a whole but ton of reactivity that seems to happen. That's true for me and my wife. Yeah, the kids, kids are kids, man. They're what they are. It's a hoot. It's a lot of fun. And it can be really stressful. Because you feel everything, you feel all their shit, you feel when they're having a bad day, when they're anxious, you're totally porous to it. Because there's one field of this, it's like one happening, there's not a distinction, and there's no ownership of this child. That's another thing. So people ask me, oh, are you glad you had children? And I just, I don't even know what that question means. Because what do you mean I had children? I don't understand that at all. Of course, I didn't squeeze one out of my vagina. So that's what my wife would say if I talked like this. She would say, well, you didn't fucking, of course you can say what do you mean? I know what it meant. It was fucking excruciating the first time. But she still understands what I'm pointing at. We talk about this actually. Vagina. I just like to say vagina. Kathy says, ooh, masala coffee, that's a new one. Love a chai latte. I'll have to look into that. Yeah, I mean, this place has these proprietary drinks. It's coffee with this masala spice in it. It's spicy. They use half and half and some maybe condensed milk. And it's on ice. It's really good. The heat wave is hot. It is fucking great. Sama cafe in San Mateo. Go there and tell them ZDoggMD Zubin sent you. And they will know, they should know who you're talking about. At least if you get the right baristas and the owner. Although I don't know, she knows my name. She may not know my name, but some of the baristas do. No laptop in a coffee shop, a dead giveaway, sitting in silence and dealing with what comes up is meditation. Yeah, there you go. That's it. D Janssen. Chopwood carry water. Exactly. Exactly. I mean, that's the end of the Zen. Ox herding pictures is the guys just in the market with helping hands. In fact, today I started this conversation talking about my experience in whole foods, just running into two total strangers and striking up a conversation with them. This couple, young couple in their late 20s. And it felt like that. It felt like I'm in literally in the marketplace holding my shopping bag, talking and being open about all the things with total strangers. And they were very open to it is really remarkable. It's a real solid glimpse of what that's like. Now, of course, you know, I don't have to be back at an office. I set my own hours. So it feels a lot easier for me to do that. But I know people who have those things, those responsibilities and they still feel like this. They have that clarity of chopwood carry water before enlightenment, chopwood carry water after enlightenment, chopwood carry water. It's the same thing. It's just totally different. So simple though that we miss it. We overlook it. We think, oh, I did all that just to come back here. And yet, you know, that's the only way it could have been. Lisa Rose says, do you find this sense of being is off putting to most people? Here's what I find. The people that I end up talking to or that talk to me resonate with this way of being, even if they're not experiencing it. The ones that don't, the ones that are put off and I can tell when they are. I know what that is because I've been there. It's like, there's something in the body that's like, no, it either takes it personally or it says, I don't have that or I want that or I don't want that. Or it's the story of I takes over and resists. And when you threaten ego directly, even through just some degree of embodying what that is, ego can act up. I know because I've done that. And I still experience it from time to time. It's funny. The flash of it, like a echo of it. And so most people, it's fine. But then again, there's a self selection bias because the people I tend to interact with are already, I can feel just energetically like even the people I talked to today and Whole Foods. I was like, something about these two go up and talk to them. And the employee I talked to, too, another young person. Yeah, really nice, really sweet, actually. So that's a great question. Chitty Crown, trust me, understand no control. Extremely bipolar husband, mom and dad only sibling. My brother died very young. Ah, you know what? There's no, you know about no control from life showing you. See, for most people, they don't necessarily have that grace. They still think there's control. They still think it could be other than it is. They still think they can do something about it. And the truth is they were never there. They were never doing any of it. No one is. This whole thing is playing out. It's like a dream, but it has consequences that are felt as apparent reality and that matters. That's called suffering. It matters. You can't just blow it off and say it's a dream and bypass into some emptiness and some platitudes about control. In the end, it's like you lean into the suffering, you open your heart and it happens spontaneously. Let's see. For health and food, are you talking about spiritual awakening? For lack of a better term, yes. Because I don't know what else to call it, but it's not spiritual and it's not really an awakening. All the words are wrong. It's just life showing you what this is, what you are and aren't. Really what you aren't. And then how is that lived? How's that lived by the apparent you? That's really what we're talking about. So we can call it awakening. That's fine. Because what else are we going to call it? That's what they've called it throughout the millennia. It makes it a thing. It makes it an attainment. It makes it something that you have. None of those things are true. That's what's quite remarkable. Just checking this text to make sure it's nothing I need to respond to. Oh, it's a delete and report spam type of deal. Yep, that's right. For health and food, yep is the correct descriptor. Man, we've been going a while, huh? I mean, I'm happy to chill out and talk. What time is it? Oh my God, it's four. I actually have to go home and bring food for the kids. I've got to order some Mexican food. Pick it up on the way home. Chop some avocados, put them in there too. Because why pay for extra avocados when you got some at home, dog? We're on the train to Bangkok. Up on the Thailand Express. Dude, never give me even a window to sing Rush badly because I will do it. Do you share this with your kids? Palace 123456. 123456789101112. Remember that? Electric company? Yes, I have told my kids about this back when I had a bigger spiritual ego and thought I had the answers to the universe and I explained to them everything is empty of substance, impermanent and unsatisfying. And here's how you can explore it. This thing is kind of like being in the matrix. You're sort of like an avatar. That's how I talked about it with them. And the youngest one was profoundly destabilized and terrified for like a month. And I couldn't have regretted talking that way more, but I couldn't help it at the time. And the oldest was like, yeah, I know. But what's that got to do with me? I still need to get a job, put a house over my head, get married, have kids, all the things I think I want to do. And I was just like, fuck yeah, that's right. It doesn't matter. It's chop wood, carry water. She was the best teacher for me because I was like both of them because the youngest was like, I always knew it was totally, this is like a dream. I always knew that and I was like, oh shit. No, no, no. Before you form an ego. Don't point to its dissolution. Form the healthy ego. So we turned that around real quick, especially with my wife slapping me around and me sitting with her going, yeah, everything I said is true, but it's not true. It's true and not true. And this is the truth. There is no way things are. It's not a dream and it's not not a dream. It's not a matrix and it's not not a matrix. There's no way that things are. You can't talk about things. So all you have is your experience. So little girl, what's your experience now? I like this food. There you go. That's as real as anything. What's your experience? I'm worried about a test tomorrow. That's as real as anything. Let's go with that and then that solved that. So now they're just like, yeah, yeah. Parents are crazy. That's cool. And they just, they see how it's embodied. They don't hear it talked about because we don't talk about it. We don't talk about Bruno. No, no, no, no. We don't talk about Bruno. Such an idiot. I suck so much. Baka Rubin. That means stupid Rubin in Japanese. Quantification of residual plasma DNA and SV40 promoter enhanced sequences in Pfizer, Biotech, I don't know what that means. Now you lost me in concepts. True 12 North says, opening lines to a lovely Naomi Sharon poem. Before you know what kindness really is, you must lose things. Feel the future dissolve in a moment like salt in a weakened broth. Let's do that again. Before you know what kindness really is, you must lose things. Feel the future dissolve in a moment like salt in a weakened broth. Let's replace the word kindness with compassion. Let's replace it with love. It doesn't matter before you know love, what love really is before you know what compassion really is before you know what acceptance really is before you know what forgiveness really is. You must lose everything. Everything. Every single fucking thing that you think is yours is you. Is this goes? It goes. It was never there. It was never yours. It's like the bottom dropped out and you're falling. You're falling and falling and falling for so long that it doesn't even feel like you're falling anymore because falling relative to what? And when all that goes, when it dissolves into a pool of weakened broth, what is left? This, exactly as it is. Exactly as it is, which means unconditional acceptance and love because it couldn't be other than it is and your heart opens. It opens in the face of suffering. It opens in the face of joy. It opens in the face of boredom. It opens in the face of frustration. It is never able to close fully again. Because it never was in that way. It's always been open. Whatever this thing is, we're calling a heart. We're just speaking, right? It's everything you are. It's just this loveless love, love, love, love, love, unconditional perfection, even when it's miserable, even when it's a steaming piece of shit. Even it's when it's an address a graph stamping a patient's name on a paper chart and amputating your finger. See how I brought that full circle? People, I am, I have no formal training and it shows. Yeah, true 12 North says like on your D knees in the dirt losing everything. It will humble you as Adyashanti says, this is one of his great things. He says, you don't storm the gates of heaven. You go naked and on your knees on your face. That's how you're admitted into the kingdom of heaven and the kingdom of heaven is here on the earth, but men do not see it. Everything. The Z-Dog MD had to lose who he was, had to lose being Z-Dog MD. And now he does these stupid videos for like 40 people and it couldn't be better. And even that, like what comes back is just what's happening. What Z-Dog MD is that? That's a story. It's a fun one. I'm glad, Kristen. I'm glad the life resonated with you. We got a Zen dentist over here joining. That's hilarious. I love that. I wanted to be Z-Dog, start a new YouTube channel, but it sounds so pretentious. All right, gang. Gang, gang, gang, gang, gang. Cat's Eye fans, anyone? Let's do this again soon. Whenever life knocks on the door, we'll answer it together. How about that? Make a little agreement between us, which is between I and I, between no between, because there's no space between us. Isn't that crazy? You guys are right here. I'm right there and there's no here and there. So meet me where there's no me. It's fun. All right, gang, I love you. Peace out. Until next time.