 mmh. Evelyn says, would you speak to sitting in unknown and uncertainty and adjusting to just being with what is? Oh, that's beautiful. Okay. Okay. If you actually watch your experience, watch your mind, watch what's happening in most of your daily experience for most people, we are living in a constant churn of thought that creates a supposed reality. So it creates expectation in every moment, like, okay, in the next moment, it's going to be like this, or later today, it's going to be like that, or it's Christmas Eve, we're going to have a roasted chicken for dinner, and it's going to show up like this. And the older we are, the more experience we have, the more conditioning we have, the more that engine of fabrication of our reality, the more efficient it is, the more habitual it is, the more ingrained it is. And so we live in this constant fabrication where we have expectations and labels and filters on reality all the time. So we're also thinking about the past. We're thinking about our problems. We're thinking about solutions to problems that we're creating in thought. These problems don't exist in the absolute reality. There's nothing but appearance here, but they exist in thought. So the issue of how do you live in the unknown without that, without expectation, what that's like. So it's the wordless. It's when you allow attention in some way is just allowed to drop out of that bubble. It's seen through instantly in any moment it can be. And then there's just the complete absolute mystery that this is not known at all, that this is just exactly like Cory said earlier, exactly what it is as an appearance. It's exactly what it is, which means you can't say anything about it. You can't pin it down. You can't put a spin or a word on it because words don't capture reality. So then in this now, which isn't even a now because that's another label, there's just absolute thisness. And then thought comes back and it's like, okay, but in five minutes, you're going to lose the thisness. In five minutes, you're going to need to wake your kids up so they can have breakfast and work on college applications or they're going to, you know, all that stuff will come back. And that's fine. But for that timeless instant, and these instance become more frequent and more regular, there's just the unknown, which is reality itself outside of thought, inclusive of thought as an appearance. So thought doesn't go anywhere. It's just no longer believed. It's no longer, you're no longer lost in the sauce of that. Instead, there's just the waterfall of experience just happening to no one because there isn't even a center because the center is a thought. The self is a series of thoughts, beliefs, structures. So then without that, there's no need to even think about, oh, there's no self here, or I'm in the unknown, or this is so spontaneous. And those thoughts may arise. It's more just freedom for freedom's sake, for nobody. And it is, it's radically unknown.