

=== FILE: Before you know love, you must lose everything [GvZzkjDq0ms].txt ===

查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查 So I saw this couple and one of them had this, the woman had a jersey on that had the name of my town and I was like, oh cool. And I just kind of mentally noted it. And then I went to Whole Foods and I saw the same couple there. And so of course I marched right up and was like, hey, I saw you in Costco and to their credit they did not just straight up run away or think I was just absolutely crazy. They actually talked to me, we ended up talking for quite a while about all kinds of things. It's so interesting when life just life's itself and you go with the flow instead of like, well, you're not supposed to talk to people and you're not supposed to, it was so much fun. And I got to talk to a lovely employee at Whole Foods about what did we talk about? Can muscles and beans, which is, I mean, this is my life now people. I love it. It can be better. Let's see here. Oh, all kinds of stuff. Varun MD says, holy shit, Zubin in the flesh. I have to run but love you man. Keep a life thing. Ah, Varun. Good to see you. Is that three music references in less than one minute in? Ryan Bates, Michelle. So you know that I don't think that's a record for me. Honestly, you know, I'm surprised I haven't made any other. Mark says it's defleppard-ish. There you go. Happy respiratory care week. Oh, what? It's respiratory care week? How was I the last to get the memo? You know I'm always down to clown with RT. You know, 16 on the peep and nothing to show. Z dog is about to make this body turn prone. Now they puff and then they wheeze and it's a tad bit late. Z dog and RT had to ventilate. Dude, I'm peeping to a whole new level. RT, step to this, I dare you. Man, that was a fun piece. I got to perform that live at the AART, like American Association of Respiratory Therapists or something in Vegas. That was hella fun, bro. Happy RT week. Y'all make it pop. Don't touch their vent. Ducks. Yeah, Vader can do anything, Louisiana. Bailey says, we did a pumpkin contest at work. We did the Brady Bunch theme and the dad is Brady and the mom ended up being the pacemaker. Just FYI, I finally got it. It took me a second. I'm a little out of practice. Brady, do you see what she did there? Pacemaker? The Brady Bunch, dude. The one day when this AV node was failing, and we knew that it was much more than a hunch that this code must somehow involve atropine. That's the way we all became the Brady Bunch. The Brady Bunch. Don't shock Brady Cardia. The Brady Bunch. I don't know what's going on, people. I don't know why I said atropine. That's not right. Maybe it's right. I don't remember. Epi. I gave Epi. Why not? Why not give Epi? Bratillium. That's how old I am. Just give Bratillium for Brady Cardia. Makes no sense. Oh, Bailey's got it. Here we go. Here's the story of a lovely pacer who was saving lives each and every day. Nice. You guys are strong. Let's talk to strangers every day, says Phil Hasser. I don't know that I'm a doc anymore. I don't know how I identify. I don't know what my pronouns are anymore. It's not doctor. That's not my pronoun anymore. Sometimes. Depends. I'm fluid. I'm doctor fluid. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Louisiana drummer says, but you aren't down to clown with medical records, LOL. Got to get those H&Ps done. Dude, that is down with the sickness. I did a talk for the association that represented physical transcriptionists back in the day. I don't even know if they exist anymore because now everything's like voice recognition. But yeah, I'm down with the medical records, man. I used to go down there and be like, give me that chart. They give you the physical chart. Old school bitch. That's how we do it. Sin Juarez says, life has definitely been a life thing for me these days. I'm trying to lean into it. My goal for the rest of the year is to do something that makes me uncomfortable or scares me several times a week. I call that getting out of bed. That is my act of defiance because that shit is real. The minute you get out of bed and enter consensus reality, actually the minute you wake up and reality starts to reform itself from whatever dream or empty consciousness that you had during sleep, that's when things start to get real and challenging because consensus reality is kind of a shit show. Here's the thing. You go through these phases in awakening where it's like you wake up and you realize you're not your story. You're not the body. You're not the mind. You're not your thoughts. Okay, great. Then you kind of re-identify with I'm the spiritual awakened one and then you have the spiritual ego. All the shadow stuff comes up and you start going through all your conditioning and all of that and get these energetic things and everything is unity and all the other different threads of awakening. Then something really magical seems to happen as the self and identity starts to fall away is you seem to come right. I'm just speaking from my own experience. You seem to come right back and sit your ass right down in consensus reality. You don't take any of it seriously, but you take it all very sincerely. You seem to just meet people where they are. Maybe it's at Whole Foods. Maybe it's at Costco and you fucking talk about whatever and you do whatever and life lives and sometimes you're scared and sometimes there's despair and sometimes there's love and sometimes there's joy and all the flavors and textures of life show up beautifully and perfectly from nowhere for no one, but it feels like a you doing it and then it doesn't matter because it's all exactly what it is. It is. It just couldn't be any different and that is perfect. Perfect. Fucking perfect. It's great. Really. As sucky as it can be. It's fucking great. Yeah, so I'm glad. I'm glad you're leaning into that shit. Down with the sickness. Get up. Get down with the sickness. Bailey says, are you even a real doctor? What is I don't even know what that means. Maybe. I don't know. I went to UCSF medical school that three years of Stanford residency practice that Stanford for like a decade, then went to Vegas, practiced, built a clinic, did all that nonsense. The answer is actually no. I have no idea what that means. What a real doctor is because a doctor is another story. It's another consensus reality. It's another bag of conditioning. So at some point I had that and now it doesn't feel like that. Now I don't even know how to fucking treat bradycardia on a live because we're the Brady bunch. Cute pie from NY. Cutie pie from NY. I like that. I love NY and I love cutie pies. Says welcome back. Remember welcome back, Carter. Most people don't. Remember the greatest American hero? Most people do because it was badass. So is welcome back, Carter. If we're being completely honest. Chris, how you doing? Got a Berkeley connection, Chris. I identify as the paper chart patient ID card ink stamper machine that could also amputate a digit. Dude, that is a serious identity. I know that I remember those things. Man, paper charts. Good stuff. What is Johnny cakes? Because when are you going to do a review of the documentary and inconvenient study? I don't know what that is because I just can't watch much TV these days because it's like documentaries in particular. They like take an angle. They take some stuff and they spin a story. So it's another review. So that's great. It's enjoyable if you enjoy that sort of thing. I don't really anymore. I enjoy kind of inhabiting whatever views in front of me at that moment. Like hang out and hold foods with two people that have a totally different life experience than you and have a conversation in their total strangers and feel as connected as anything. Like doesn't matter what they believe or what their views are. They're exactly what they are and it's glorious. So it's very hard to take a stand or a stance or hold a position for very long without it just crumbling into dust. Right now for me, that's me. Your mileage will vary. Let's see. Oh, hi Diana from Lisbon. Good to see you. I got to come visit you. Louisiana drummer says wish health info would get recognized like respiratory. Now we're like the Sith Lords of the hospital. That's right. You guys just sit there in the basement and you're like, oh, I'm afraid this chart will be quite operational when your patient arrives. You guys are the deer to the dark side. It's so dark, so dark, so dark, like gluteal cleft dark, like that dark. Hainastere says I can relate to the paper chart patient ID ink stamp or content. I comment. I remember that shit. So when I volunteered at a hospital in high school, so this was the deal. It wasn't high school. It was college. So in college, you're playing the game to get into medical school and I knew I had to do some volunteer work in a hospital. So I asked my dad, I was like pops, like hook me up. I'm here for the summer. Hook me up with like somebody at the hospital that I can shadow or do some volunteering. And so what does he do? He hooks me up in the radiology department, which I had no interest in. And what did they make me do? But file paper x-rays like the physical x-rays not paper, but whatever their films were the physical films. And so all I did was file films and then occasionally the radiologist would like let me look over his shoulder. And that was my summer. It was terrible. But I remember going, yeah, I'm not doing radiology. And then I married a radiologist. So that was that was a smart move. I diversified. What's up Nazia Naziah? Um, let's scroll down here. Helen, Helen Lowell says been thinking about you the last few days wondering where you at, where you at. And here you are always high frequency vibes. Ah, Helene. I have a good friend here named Helene as well. So that is a good name for high frequency vibes, whatever that is. I'm glad to be it for you. For us, I should say, let's see, scrolling down. Alan, or no, Alassano Lora more says the machine is called an address a graph. What? That sounds crazy. Bring me the address a graph or better yet, you may fire the address a graph when ready. Lord Vader. I like that address a graph. So that's the thing that stamps the patient's name on the chart and then can amputate your fingers. Krista says, I miss Vinay. Dude, I don't. I talk to him all the time. He is hilarious. Yeah, that the man FDA. Oh, boy. I'm not going to say nothing. Um, the Janssen 59 says, I'm vibing and burning some Palo Santo. I don't know what Palo Santo is, but I'm down to clown with that. Long as it smells good. What else? What else gang? I've caught up with the comments. I need some comments to keep the engine of distraction going or else I'm just going to disappear into the void in front of your eyes, which will look just like me sitting here staring at the camera. Oh, man. Mm-hmm. This stuff is weird. Let's keep going. Bourbonopolis is lighting is on point today looking good brother. That is a comment that fucking lights me up. No pun intended because if you saw the shit involved in this lighting, there's like, there's like a table where I've Jimmy rigged this freaking LED light with this weird diffuser on it. It's on a slider. So I have to dim it just right. And then over here, I've got my standard studio setup, but I've Jimmy rigged it. So it does some weird shit. And then I got the guest camera over here and I'm like, I'm going for that moody Monday kind of vibe and I'm glad you enjoy it. Uh, hang on. Someone's texting me. I got to make sure it's not an emergency. Oh, the power went out at my house. It's not good. Luckily we have solar with a battery backup because we're those people. So luckily, and also my wife is not working from home today. So she's at Stanford. So she doesn't need the power anyways. Um, all these things just, the mind just, you don't need to think about stuff. It just gets done. It just gets thought about. You're not doing that. You don't have to solve a problem. The problem just gets solved. You just think you're doing it, but thoughts go back, back, back, back, back, back, and they make you feel like you've done something. It's crazy. Like I just solved this problem with the power going out because I had to make sure this and that and I don't need to do this and I don't need to do that. No, that just happens. It feels like we have agency that we're doing it. That's the miracle of like the illusion. It's great. Um, Lindsay Lou says, fellow rush fan here, what do you think about their upcoming tour and drummer? So someone just told me they were touring with a different drummer. I know nothing about it. Um, to me, rush is Getty Lee, Alex Lifeson and Neil Pirratt. And that's it. And when Neil died, that was the end of rush, uh, as an ongoing concern. But you know, they're going to try to, maybe they'll try to pull a journey, you know, where journey got that one, um, karaoke singer from the audience that like sings better than Steve Perry, Filipino guy. And now they were touring with him like, I'm forever yours. Big bully. Down, down, down. That was how we used to jet with my Filipino nurse friends when that happened. I was like, dude, how would that, there's got to be a touch of the accent still there. There's just got to be. Um, and that's what makes it beautiful. Medical records on micro fish was wild. Cutie pie from NY. Oh man. Every, anything on micro fish was wild. You'd go to the library, you have to dig up some old archives, go through the micro fish, some crazy shit, man. Um, these kids these days, they so spoiled. Let's see, let's see. Tammy Horvath says, hi from Michigan rural hospital medicine. And I charted on paper. I remember at a conference, they showed what your chart looks like when it's blown up to be eight foot tall in front of a jury. Oh dear God. My penmanship. That's all the jury's thinking is shit. These doctors really do write like shit. Uh, Kristen says my daughter is an undergrad and is interested in continuing to medical school. Any advice? Ooh. Welcome to the unknown. We have no, every moment is the unknown, but it's especially unknown with AI and all the changes going on. I would just say embrace chaos, embrace the unknown. This is no longer a path that used to imagine was some certain path to certain stability and certain, um, happiness. It's not like that. It's the unknown in every second. So if she embraces that chaos, um, and it has a true passion for this and has explored anything else she might want to do more. So that's the main advice is like, if there's something in your life you want to do more than medicine, you better explore that first before you go, go to medicine. I did it backwards. Um, I went into medicine because I was like, well, I guess I can do this, but I kind of want to be a professional clown. And, uh, and then I back, back asked into it. So I'd say, you know, see if you can explore your passion. If your passion is medicine, a full steam ahead, just be aware that you have no idea what's happening and no one else does either. Just have that healthy humility and kind of curiosity and wonder that the thing just is unfolding. It's just crazy. It's a crazy path. It is nuts. It is nuts. Okay. Dude, being a doctor, learning to be a doctor, holy fucking shit. It is crazy. If I really reflect on what I've been through, just my own experience and it's all thought and it's all memory now. So it's not imminent, but even as it was imminent, just getting the flavor, the reflection and consciousness of that, man, it was nuts. The sleep deprivation, the stress, the joy, the wonder, the curiosity, the awe, the beauty, the tears, the laughter, all of it. My God. Wow. I mean, to get to actually experience that range of humanity. That is a chat as a gift. So my advice is, fuck, if that's what she wants to do, fucking. Oh, beautiful. And when it sucks, if it sucks, so what? That's part of it too. Then you go to the next thing, you go, you turn it into something that's yours, whatever it is. I'm just speaking from my own experience. It took a while. There was a lot of fear. There was a lot of trepidation. And when it's time to let that identity go, let that go and do the next thing, whatever that is for you. Only you will know and you won't even know because it'll do itself. You just got to get out of the way. The sense of you has to get out of the way. Maybe even that's saying too much. Helene says high frequency vibes, meaning uplifting energy, soul soothing, nonsense words, insightful words, nice energy. Helene, you want to do a little nice, little nice energy? Let's do that. Not all these words I was going to say. In the minute there was settling into this, the words make no sense. And there's just this. Perfectly what it is. And any descriptions of nice energy, not nice energy. Perfect. I just do that the whole time and you guys will all tune out. But really it's a kind of tuning into this mental noise calms down. Mental noise calms down and it's just the dancing sensations in the body, what we call the body. What is a body? It's a story. It's a dance. That doesn't mean that you can't inhabit a view, a conceptual overlay where the body is a series of organs and anatomy, physiology, pharmacology, all the things that you need to do to make your way in the world. Because as you know, making your way in the world today takes everything you've got. Taking a break from all your worries sure would help a lot. Isn't it nice to get away? Once you want to go where everybody knows your name. Almanista says she's a female drummer who played with Jeff Beck, I believe. Wait, Rush got a female drummer who played with Jeff Beck, sold. Done. Perfect. You don't need to say anymore. That sounds amazing. That sounds like enough of a twist that I'm like, yeah, okay, I need to google that after we're done. Invisible airwaves crackle with life, bright antenna bristle with the energy, emotional feedback on a timeless wavelength, bearing a gift beyond price, almost free. All this machinery making modern music can still be open-hearted. Dude, Rush. I don't do any music justice, but just Rush. Just say Rush and you're good. Hzomb says exploring any other passions first is such good advice. That's the thing. Otherwise, there's always regret. There's always a pull. Maybe it's not what you like. Maybe you're drifting into it because your parents pushed you or whatever. TS Roby says, fuck, I just wanted to join in. There you go. Colleen says I was a hospice nurse. Brother passed at 13, sister at 33, both from cystic fibrosis. Oh my god. And now with all our treatments and everything, huh? And this was back then. Lots of suffering, lots of awareness. What a thing, huh? And now you're taking that and you're gifting that to other people through what you do. That suffering. Beautiful. My favorite patients were the cystic fibrosis patients at Stanford. When we would do pulmonary, they were challenging. There was so much going on. They knew themselves better than any doctor could know. They were young. They were feisty as fuck. Just great, great, great humans. And they just through adversity became so resilient, you know? Sam Bam 29 says in 2011, I requested my dad's medical records from his PCP. He'd been seeing since the 70s. All his records were on two by five by seven note cards. Damn homie. That's awesome. And high school, you were the man, homie. What the fuck happened to you? I got the sickest vendetta. When it comes to machetta, dude, 50 cents, I consider him half dollar because I'm an optimist, actually a pessimist. Becky's band says, hey Z-Dog, how are you? Becky's band. T.S. Roby, oh, even better presence. You don't have to wait for Christmas for presents. Presents is not so corny. I can't believe that came out of my mouth. I don't know where that came from. I'm not doing it. That's where I truly deny a self. I truly deny free will. I think Zubin did not do that. Did not make that joke. That was the universe. Jenny says, not clinical clerical, ER registration. Love it. Oh nice. ER registration. That is fun stuff. You'll see the world there. Sentimental junkie says all the things, thinking that's right. That's what this is, right? Everything, everything, all at once. Because where else would it be? Where is everyone you've lost? Here, because where else could they be? There's no elsewhere. Everyone you've lost is a thought. Everything is here. That's a cliche until it's not, until it's felt. Dr. Kavei Abammanpour, OMG. That's all you need to say, doc. It's OMG. Oh my god. Sketch Monster says, nice camera. Thanks. It's a red cinema commodo. No, not commodo. What is it? It's called a, it is a commodo. Yeah. Red cinema commodo. Yeah. When I bought it, back when I was during COVID, it mattered. Someway. It was expensive. We set it all up with the nice lighting and everything. Now I've got all this stuff and nothing to say. Just this. Kind of beautiful, actually. I can just talk about whatever is arising, not worry about views or losing supporters or subscribers or followers or whatever. It doesn't matter. The people who are here are here with me and it's us. It's in us. That's a story and that's a thought, but it's also energetically a reality in this moment because everything is right here. That's why I love live. I love live video. I just really prefer it to prerecord because it's us. Now. Crazy. You could never have done this years ago. You didn't have the ability to just live stream to a bunch of strangers. You couldn't do this. It's crazy. Awesome. Clovis West, 91 in the house. Hell yeah. Chad. I love it. It's my high school graduating class. Sketch Monster. The rock looks like you now. People used to say the funniest thing I ever heard, someone left a comment on one of my videos on YouTube. YouTube is. They can be a little saucy. They said this guy looks like end state. What was it? The rock with end stage aids. I was like, I always wanted to be the end stage rock. Now apparently the rock looks like end stage Z-Dog. Oh yeah. In tune with Melinda says, yeah, you had been waiting on the rush. You know what I heard the other day was really brought me back was passage to Bangkok, which is like from like one of their albums in the 70s. I forget which album was it? 2112. It might have been from 2112. It's about smoking weed in all these different countries. We're on the train to Bangkok aboard the Thailand Express. We'll hit the stops along the way. We only stop for the best. Well, it was like whips of smoking Bogota. We burn the midnight oil. Dude. The fragrance of Afghanistan rewards a long day's toil. Then what? Pulling into Kathmandu, smoke rings fill the air. Perfume by a nap all night. The express gets you there. We're on the train to Bangkok aboard the Thailand Express. I'm going to stop now. I'm sorry, non-rush fans and rush fans, you're welcome. You're extremely welcome. Oh, thank you, Helene. You're very sweet. QT5 for from NY says a passion and a purpose. That's right. But there's no purpose. That's the thing. We invent purpose and that's fine. That's beautiful. But man, from here there's no purpose. This is the purpose. This is fucking crazy. It is crazy, people. It doesn't need a purpose the minute the need for purpose drops. Oh, shit. That's another degree of freedom. My God. Wow. It's crazy.  yeah, they were your greatest teachers, Helene, your Sibs with CF. Great song, Diana, yeah. RT Strong says, ha-ha, is RT, I love your videos, man, Zee, dog and RT, you gotta ventilate, da-da-da-da-da-da-da, chords, tubes, and what was it, chords, lube, we-tube, everything. What was it, RT? Where rhythm is life and life is breathing, something like that. If you smoke like I smoke, then it's out there every day, and if your gas is acidic, RT will ventilate. Da-da-da-da-da-da-da, Jenny Crown says, my daughter was an ICU charge nurse in San Diego during COVID, now went to management to get away from patient care, what can I do or say to help? How about this? I love that you're doing you, that's it. That's how you help fully accept, fully witness what she is and is going through and is doing. Don't judge, don't resist, don't push back, don't advise if you can avoid it, unless she asks. That's what you can do, really witness her. That's what I'm most grateful for about my dad at the end of his life, is he really witnessed what I was. He used to say, why aren't you practicing anymore, why don't you go do more talks, don't you understand, you still need to keep making money and doing all this because you're never really safe, because that's how he was raised. He was raised in India in a poor family, they used to have to fish in the river to get food. It was crazy, of course he sees the world that way, even though he worked so hard to provide that stability and give us a launching pad to be able to work hard and provide stability for our families. When that stability is there, we have more freedom to go and explore the complete uncertainty of every moment. Towards the end, that's what he would ask me, what am I up to? I would say, I'm doing this and this and this. He would ask me, so you don't want to do talks anymore? I'm like, no. What do you feel like each day? Don't you feel like you don't have a purpose? No, it feels perfect. I feel connected to everything and everyone and every moment and I've never been more at peace. He said, wow, that's great, beautiful. It's great to be accepted by the guy you're trying to impress all your life because that's the conditioning. I'd given up trying to impress him, but it was still beautiful to see the acceptance. In a way, the only way he could accept me is that I could accept him exactly as he is. Meet him exactly where he was. Don't try to push and pull on him because he didn't ask for that. If he asks, hey, what can I do different? That's one thing. That's not what he was asking. He wants to be seen too like everybody as they are. The older you get, the more you're like as you are. Harder to admit wear a mask. If you're doing it, let's see. She's getting you to your comments here. Oh, thank you, Diana. Yeah, he did and I loved him. Okay, so wait for some more comments to catch up. Meanwhile, we'll just sit in this presence that isn't a presence. The mind wants to turn everything into a thing, a thought, an object. So we talk about presence. And it's a good halfway house because it gives concessions to the thinking brain. It's like, yeah, presence. Okay, this is kind of field of nowness in which everything seems to happen. And that can be very much a relief when you're up in your head, up in thought, up in future and past, which are appearances when it reduces to presence. It's just a breath out and a breath in and just the dance. And then the thought, the concept, the image of presence is let go somehow, miraculously. And there's just this unknowable, unspeakable, this-ness. Not even here because where else? Not even now because when else? Beyond thought, beyond conceptual, beyond any duality of me and that. And it's always, always been the case. We just conveniently ignore it by looking into thought. Telling stories about presence. Having images in our mind about what the unconditioned reality is, what spirit is versus matter versus God versus this. It's like, or just... Sometimes it puts a big shit eating grin on my face. Bublin says truth. Hi, Olivia. Long time no see. Scroll down. Kay Purdy says, over the last few months I've learned it's so good to just sit, be, and breathe. That is so peaceful. If that's all you ever learn, like that is such a powerful lesson. It's just... Just being. It seems like that anchor to the life stream, the stream of this-ness is the breath. It can seem like that. So why not just let that be all there is? Just that dance of sensation, sound, texture. Then all the lights and the colors and the shapes, they come in. But they don't really come in because they're always there, even with your eyes closed. And then sights, sounds, sensations, thoughts, they can all blur into just the textures of this. No distinctions between thought and sensation and seeing and sound. They're all the dance. Totally ephemeral. Not solid, but also not not solid. Impermanent, but also not so. Beyond any description. Helene says, maybe you're smiling from the bliss of the now. When there isn't even a now... All the masks drop and all the consensus reality crumbles into story. It's like the face just does this thing. It's good stuff. But also it's totally neutral. It's not really good or bad. It's just what it is. Hmm. Yeah. So what else, gang? Gang, gang, gang, gang, gang. Everything's gnarly. Dude, what's up with cat's eye? You guys know what I'm talking about? Yeah, hypnosis? I don't know. I don't know. That sounds... My grandfather was a hypnotist, actually. Maybe there's just some hypnosis genes that transmit sometimes. But it's more this. Yeah, bedtime meditation would be lively, says Diana. Maybe we should just do some together meditation. There's no meditation now. It's weird for me. Meditation is just whatever's arising. Sometimes this morning I went and sat in my favorite cafe. Which, by the way, if you want to stalk me, show up at Sama Coffee House in San Mateo on some morning. There's a non-zero probability that I'll be there. Having a masala coffee or something they call a heat wave, which is one of my favorite drinks they make. I make it super spicy with cayenne pepper. It's coffee. It's like a latte with honey and cayenne pepper. And I have it with almond milk because I like almond milk. And I'll sit there and just be with the coffee and the energy and the dance of that. And I call that meditation. The ladies who work behind the baristas, they're hilarious, man. They all know me. They're like, oh, here comes... Did you find your favorite seat to meditate? And they figured out that I was meditating, even though I wasn't doing anything like meditation in the classic sense. I'm just sitting there with my coffee, just like this. And they could just tell because I would sit there for like an hour, not look at my phone, occasionally take a sip of the coffee. Not talking to anybody. So meditation just becomes synonymous with life-lifing. So if we want to share a meditation, we just see what arises. That's how it is now. It didn't used to be that way. It used to be very intentional. And I think at that time, that's what my mind was needing or seemingly could do. It couldn't just let go into this. There's too much distraction, too much thought, belief, self, all of it. In tune with Melinda says, genuine curiosity, what are your family dinners like? Do you ever get caught up in the to-dos of family stuff? Oh, absolutely, because that's the beauty of this thing. There's no longer. This is actually, I think, kind of central. We have this conditioning that I think happens, especially people on some spiritual path or who are doing spiritual things, meditating, seeking, that sort of thing. There's some feeling that you somehow transcend and bypass normal life, and the normal aspects of life just become irrelevant or somehow unbother some that you don't involve yourself in them. And to an extent, that's not easy to talk about. This is true. There is a true letting go of ownership. There's a true equanimity at the base of everything, knowing that you are not doing it, knowing that you never were doing it, this relinquishment of control. But what isn't spoken about is that, as often, some people talk about this, is that the only... It's so funny, actually. If people knew this, they would scratch their heads like, what? There's a dumping right back into the human existence with eyes wide open, and you live it fully as a human. So that means kids applying to college, there's transmitted stress, there's advice, there's listening, but it's all kind of held in like a... It's all kind of held by nothing. It's no longer believed beyond the dance. There can be transient stickiness, and there's still stuff here that arises that's sticky. I know there's still a lot of shadow stuff, there's a lot of conditioning here. There's that very subtle sense of eye, that sticky, that I feel it loosening, very subtle, and it's a little scary, because it's the last container before this like fundamental like, oh god, nothing is certain, nothing is permanent, nothing is substantial, nothing is predictable. Like a truly knowing that. There's still a subtle sense of eye that's like, yeah, but you know, maybe, maybe it's predictable. So dinners are just like normal dinners. There just isn't a whole but ton of reactivity that seems to happen. That's true for me and my wife. Yeah, the kids, kids are kids, man. They're what they are. It's a hoot. It's a lot of fun. And it can be really stressful. Because you feel everything, you feel all their shit, you feel when they're having a bad day, when they're anxious, you're totally porous to it. Because there's one field of this, it's like one happening, there's not a distinction, and there's no ownership of this child. That's another thing. So people ask me, oh, are you glad you had children? And I just, I don't even know what that question means. Because what do you mean I had children? I don't understand that at all. Of course, I didn't squeeze one out of my vagina. So that's what my wife would say if I talked like this. She would say, well, you didn't fucking, of course you can say what do you mean? I know what it meant. It was fucking excruciating the first time. But she still understands what I'm pointing at. We talk about this actually. Vagina. I just like to say vagina. Kathy says, ooh, masala coffee, that's a new one. Love a chai latte. I'll have to look into that. Yeah, I mean, this place has these proprietary drinks. It's coffee with this masala spice in it. It's spicy. They use half and half and some maybe condensed milk. And it's on ice. It's really good. The heat wave is hot. It is fucking great. Sama cafe in San Mateo. Go there and tell them ZDoggMD Zubin sent you. And they will know, they should know who you're talking about. At least if you get the right baristas and the owner. Although I don't know, she knows my name. She may not know my name, but some of the baristas do. No laptop in a coffee shop, a dead giveaway, sitting in silence and dealing with what comes up is meditation. Yeah, there you go. That's it. D Janssen. Chopwood carry water. Exactly. Exactly. I mean, that's the end of the Zen. Ox herding pictures is the guys just in the market with helping hands. In fact, today I started this conversation talking about my experience in whole foods, just running into two total strangers and striking up a conversation with them. This couple, young couple in their late 20s. And it felt like that. It felt like I'm in literally in the marketplace holding my shopping bag, talking and being open about all the things with total strangers. And they were very open to it is really remarkable. It's a real solid glimpse of what that's like. Now, of course, you know, I don't have to be back at an office. I set my own hours. So it feels a lot easier for me to do that. But I know people who have those things, those responsibilities and they still feel like this. They have that clarity of chopwood carry water before enlightenment, chopwood carry water after enlightenment, chopwood carry water. It's the same thing. It's just totally different. So simple though that we miss it. We overlook it. We think, oh, I did all that just to come back here. And yet, you know, that's the only way it could have been. Lisa Rose says, do you find this sense of being is off putting to most people? Here's what I find. The people that I end up talking to or that talk to me resonate with this way of being, even if they're not experiencing it. The ones that don't, the ones that are put off and I can tell when they are. I know what that is because I've been there. It's like, there's something in the body that's like, no, it either takes it personally or it says, I don't have that or I want that or I don't want that. Or it's the story of I takes over and resists. And when you threaten ego directly, even through just some degree of embodying what that is, ego can act up. I know because I've done that. And I still experience it from time to time. It's funny. The flash of it, like a echo of it. And so most people, it's fine. But then again, there's a self selection bias because the people I tend to interact with are already, I can feel just energetically like even the people I talked to today and Whole Foods. I was like, something about these two go up and talk to them. And the employee I talked to, too, another young person. Yeah, really nice, really sweet, actually. So that's a great question. Chitty Crown, trust me, understand no control. Extremely bipolar husband, mom and dad only sibling. My brother died very young. Ah, you know what? There's no, you know about no control from life showing you. See, for most people, they don't necessarily have that grace. They still think there's control. They still think it could be other than it is. They still think they can do something about it. And the truth is they were never there. They were never doing any of it. No one is. This whole thing is playing out. It's like a dream, but it has consequences that are felt as apparent reality and that matters. That's called suffering. It matters. You can't just blow it off and say it's a dream and bypass into some emptiness and some platitudes about control. In the end, it's like you lean into the suffering, you open your heart and it happens spontaneously. Let's see. For health and food, are you talking about spiritual awakening? For lack of a better term, yes. Because I don't know what else to call it, but it's not spiritual and it's not really an awakening. All the words are wrong. It's just life showing you what this is, what you are and aren't. Really what you aren't. And then how is that lived? How's that lived by the apparent you? That's really what we're talking about. So we can call it awakening. That's fine. Because what else are we going to call it? That's what they've called it throughout the millennia. It makes it a thing. It makes it an attainment. It makes it something that you have. None of those things are true. That's what's quite remarkable. Just checking this text to make sure it's nothing I need to respond to. Oh, it's a delete and report spam type of deal. Yep, that's right. For health and food, yep is the correct descriptor. Man, we've been going a while, huh? I mean, I'm happy to chill out and talk. What time is it? Oh my God, it's four. I actually have to go home and bring food for the kids. I've got to order some Mexican food. Pick it up on the way home. Chop some avocados, put them in there too. Because why pay for extra avocados when you got some at home, dog? We're on the train to Bangkok. Up on the Thailand Express. Dude, never give me even a window to sing Rush badly because I will do it. Do you share this with your kids? Palace 123456. 123456789101112. Remember that? Electric company? Yes, I have told my kids about this back when I had a bigger spiritual ego and thought I had the answers to the universe and I explained to them everything is empty of substance, impermanent and unsatisfying. And here's how you can explore it. This thing is kind of like being in the matrix. You're sort of like an avatar. That's how I talked about it with them. And the youngest one was profoundly destabilized and terrified for like a month. And I couldn't have regretted talking that way more, but I couldn't help it at the time. And the oldest was like, yeah, I know. But what's that got to do with me? I still need to get a job, put a house over my head, get married, have kids, all the things I think I want to do. And I was just like, fuck yeah, that's right. It doesn't matter. It's chop wood, carry water. She was the best teacher for me because I was like both of them because the youngest was like, I always knew it was totally, this is like a dream. I always knew that and I was like, oh shit. No, no, no. Before you form an ego. Don't point to its dissolution. Form the healthy ego. So we turned that around real quick, especially with my wife slapping me around and me sitting with her going, yeah, everything I said is true, but it's not true. It's true and not true. And this is the truth. There is no way things are. It's not a dream and it's not not a dream. It's not a matrix and it's not not a matrix. There's no way that things are. You can't talk about things. So all you have is your experience. So little girl, what's your experience now? I like this food. There you go. That's as real as anything. What's your experience? I'm worried about a test tomorrow. That's as real as anything. Let's go with that and then that solved that. So now they're just like, yeah, yeah. Parents are crazy. That's cool. And they just, they see how it's embodied. They don't hear it talked about because we don't talk about it. We don't talk about Bruno. No, no, no, no. We don't talk about Bruno. Such an idiot. I suck so much. Baka Rubin. That means stupid Rubin in Japanese. Quantification of residual plasma DNA and SV40 promoter enhanced sequences in Pfizer, Biotech, I don't know what that means. Now you lost me in concepts. True 12 North says, opening lines to a lovely Naomi Sharon poem. Before you know what kindness really is, you must lose things. Feel the future dissolve in a moment like salt in a weakened broth. Let's do that again. Before you know what kindness really is, you must lose things. Feel the future dissolve in a moment like salt in a weakened broth. Let's replace the word kindness with compassion. Let's replace it with love. It doesn't matter before you know love, what love really is before you know what compassion really is before you know what acceptance really is before you know what forgiveness really is. You must lose everything. Everything. Every single fucking thing that you think is yours is you. Is this goes? It goes. It was never there. It was never yours. It's like the bottom dropped out and you're falling. You're falling and falling and falling for so long that it doesn't even feel like you're falling anymore because falling relative to what? And when all that goes, when it dissolves into a pool of weakened broth, what is left? This, exactly as it is. Exactly as it is, which means unconditional acceptance and love because it couldn't be other than it is and your heart opens. It opens in the face of suffering. It opens in the face of joy. It opens in the face of boredom. It opens in the face of frustration. It is never able to close fully again. Because it never was in that way. It's always been open. Whatever this thing is, we're calling a heart. We're just speaking, right? It's everything you are. It's just this loveless love, love, love, love, love, unconditional perfection, even when it's miserable, even when it's a steaming piece of shit. Even it's when it's an address a graph stamping a patient's name on a paper chart and amputating your finger. See how I brought that full circle? People, I am, I have no formal training and it shows. Yeah, true 12 North says like on your D knees in the dirt losing everything. It will humble you as Adyashanti says, this is one of his great things. He says, you don't storm the gates of heaven. You go naked and on your knees on your face. That's how you're admitted into the kingdom of heaven and the kingdom of heaven is here on the earth, but men do not see it. Everything. The Z-Dog MD had to lose who he was, had to lose being Z-Dog MD. And now he does these stupid videos for like 40 people and it couldn't be better. And even that, like what comes back is just what's happening. What Z-Dog MD is that? That's a story. It's a fun one. I'm glad, Kristen. I'm glad the life resonated with you. We got a Zen dentist over here joining. That's hilarious. I love that. I wanted to be Z-Dog, start a new YouTube channel, but it sounds so pretentious. All right, gang. Gang, gang, gang, gang, gang. Cat's Eye fans, anyone? Let's do this again soon. Whenever life knocks on the door, we'll answer it together. How about that? Make a little agreement between us, which is between I and I, between no between, because there's no space between us. Isn't that crazy? You guys are right here. I'm right there and there's no here and there. So meet me where there's no me. It's fun. All right, gang, I love you. Peace out. Until next time.

=== FILE: Freedom from fabricated reality means living in the UNKNOWN [Dhd8aYAJYvw].txt ===

 mmh. Evelyn says, would you speak to sitting in unknown and uncertainty and adjusting to just being with what is? Oh, that's beautiful. Okay. Okay. If you actually watch your experience, watch your mind, watch what's happening in most of your daily experience for most people, we are living in a constant churn of thought that creates a supposed reality. So it creates expectation in every moment, like, okay, in the next moment, it's going to be like this, or later today, it's going to be like that, or it's Christmas Eve, we're going to have a roasted chicken for dinner, and it's going to show up like this. And the older we are, the more experience we have, the more conditioning we have, the more that engine of fabrication of our reality, the more efficient it is, the more habitual it is, the more ingrained it is. And so we live in this constant fabrication where we have expectations and labels and filters on reality all the time. So we're also thinking about the past. We're thinking about our problems. We're thinking about solutions to problems that we're creating in thought. These problems don't exist in the absolute reality. There's nothing but appearance here, but they exist in thought. So the issue of how do you live in the unknown without that, without expectation, what that's like. So it's the wordless. It's when you allow attention in some way is just allowed to drop out of that bubble. It's seen through instantly in any moment it can be. And then there's just the complete absolute mystery that this is not known at all, that this is just exactly like Cory said earlier, exactly what it is as an appearance. It's exactly what it is, which means you can't say anything about it. You can't pin it down. You can't put a spin or a word on it because words don't capture reality. So then in this now, which isn't even a now because that's another label, there's just absolute thisness. And then thought comes back and it's like, okay, but in five minutes, you're going to lose the thisness. In five minutes, you're going to need to wake your kids up so they can have breakfast and work on college applications or they're going to, you know, all that stuff will come back. And that's fine. But for that timeless instant, and these instance become more frequent and more regular, there's just the unknown, which is reality itself outside of thought, inclusive of thought as an appearance. So thought doesn't go anywhere. It's just no longer believed. It's no longer, you're no longer lost in the sauce of that. Instead, there's just the waterfall of experience just happening to no one because there isn't even a center because the center is a thought. The self is a series of thoughts, beliefs, structures. So then without that, there's no need to even think about, oh, there's no self here, or I'm in the unknown, or this is so spontaneous. And those thoughts may arise. It's more just freedom for freedom's sake, for nobody. And it is, it's radically unknown.

=== FILE: On belief, loss, and love. [MsEbg9HHchg].txt ===

 it says live video is starting, so I'm going to assume it's true. What's up, everyone? Yes! It's Tuesday, like, noon 22, Pacific time, the year of our Lord, 2025, September 16th. It is my late father's birthday, the second birthday since his passing, so I'll call my mom a little later today. It is interesting, you know, I've talked about his passing, which was in 2024 in April, and it was such a... just so surprising, the whole experience for how it felt here, you know? I think I was very lucky that we were able to, you know, connect on some level deeply before he passed and do all that work, especially the code status stuff, so it wasn't as traumatic as it might have been. But yeah, I just... as I read the data, I realized that. So, come on down, Albin Martinez, how are you? Let's talk about all the deep stuff and the shallow stuff, this political violence thing. You know, my main comment on that, my mother and I were talking about this the other day, you know, and she was getting very like, you know, I can't believe this and that sort of thing, and... Hi, Bridget, my feeling was, of course, this is exactly what humans do when they hold beliefs and actually think they are true of any kind. Because ultimately, you can examine every single belief and deconstruct it into dust, perspective, view. It's fine to have beliefs, it's fine to hold them, it's fine to even argue for them, advocate for them, fight for them in a way, but to truly believe them means you're willing to go out with a gun and kill someone who believes other, because his beliefs triggered your beliefs and vice versa and it's a whole shit show. And this is what social media actually makes money doing, it's what its algorithm is actually designed to do, and we're all just total puppets to algorithms we don't even understand. And that's why, that's one of the reasons why polarization in the country has gotten so bad. So if you bring it to kind of an awakening perspective, it's like, well, when you see through all beliefs, you also see that all beliefs are a temporary provisional view. Even the belief that there is such a thing called spiritual awakening or liberation, even that gets deconstructed. And then you're just left right back here, sitting with your legs crossed next to a poo emoji, talking to mostly strangers in the middle of a work week. Kim says yesterday was the anniversary of the Birmingham bombing that killed four young black girls, hate kills. It's not even hate, Kim. I really think it just comes down to belief. Holding belief says something that's absolutely true. This is our fundamental human delusion. Like for example, let's examine this belief. I'm a separate person in a world of other separate people and I have to fight to survive. So can you examine that you're actually separate from everything that's occurring? The more you actually relax into current experience, the more it can be seen that that belief is just another thought, another thought form. It's got an energetic component because there's a feeling of body. We're calling body, all this other stuff. There's a chance where I get to rub my own pecs. Whenever I talk about body, I've lost my mind a little bit, King. And it's a good thing. And so this belief that we're separate means we're willing to hate others. We're willing to fight others. We're willing to do those things. So to me, you know, I would say, oh, hate or belief is a poison, hates a poison, all that. It's another view. It's another appearance. And if our goal is to relieve suffering, then holding those beliefs in that way does the opposite. And I'll go so far as to say across the board, there you could say actually on examination, there's no such thing as a true belief, none. Like in this moment, none of that can be found to be anything more than a thought form. And that itself is liberation from a kind of bondage to this mental matrix, this social matrix, the hate matrix. Like the matrix that says that I have these beliefs and they have those beliefs and I'm going to fight them or they've wronged me in some way and so on and so forth. Now, it's normal for the human body, mind organism to go out and try to survive. It's going to do that. It's going to kill things to eat them. It's going to harvest things. It's going to argue with its neighbors. It's going to push for territorial stuff. This is all conditioning. That's all we are is conditioning. Try to find either free will or an absence of free will in that organism and you can't. It's just all thought. It's all more belief. So ultimately, humans are going to human. Life is going to life. But there's this added layer in humans of belief. I'm not sure a cat or a dog has a belief. They're just living life. They're just like yellow, man. Let's see. I understand completely how you feel about your dad's passing, says Bridget. Hi, back. I've always loved your voice and views. I've worked with a few doctors like you in my 38 years of nursing. I appreciate you so much. That's really kind. So this kind of parasocial relationship that we have through Facebook and YouTube and Instagram and TikTok and all of that, I used to really struggle with it. Because Bridget knows me in some sense. She knows what I put out there and it resonates with her. But I don't know Bridget. I can't know her unless we meet or have some sort of other parasocial relationship. It used to feel very broken, kind of one-sided. But that's even modulated because I realized that was another view that I was holding. It's another belief. Like, how is this any different than anything? It's like, here it is. It's an interaction. It's beautiful. It's two humans, apparently interacting. And it's lovely. And if it brings someone happiness and joy, like that comment brought me joy, it's beautiful. And it reminded me of my father, too. And our last few conversations, which were just these, like, exquisite sort of letting goes. Do you know the very last conversation I had with my father was when my mother was trying to call 911 because he wasn't doing well at home and he wouldn't go. And he did not have the kind of DNR order that said, I want to pass at home. That was not something he wanted because he knew it would traumatize my mother and she wouldn't be able to live in the house that they've lived in for so long and so on. And that wasn't something he was okay with, like, going to the hospital. But being a stubborn, you know, old pulmonology trained doctor himself, he didn't really know that he wanted to go. He was like, I don't think I really need to go. I'm not sure. You know, maybe it's this, maybe it's that. And of course, my mother knew he needed to go. She'd been taking care of him for a while. And so I got a call, you know, late in the evening. And it was my mother saying, you know, he's really not doing well. He needs to go to the ER, but he won't go until he talks to you. And, you know, it's like, oh, my dad's birthday. All your life, you're trying to get your dad's approval. You know, that's how it was for me. It's like, there's always a sense of unworthiness. Like, am I even supposed to be alive? You know, we all of us have that to some extent. I think doctors, healthcare professionals have it more. There's some sense of like inner imperfection or unworthiness. And so we, we externalize it and project through all this belief in action that we're like helping others and we're going to make ourselves worthwhile. We're going to make enough money. We're going to save enough lives. We're going to be the best doctor or nurse or respiratory therapist or nutritionist or dietitian or lab technician or rad tech or whatever, fill in the blank administrator, CEO, whatever it is. And that goes on forever and ever. And so for much of my life, I was like, how do I get dad's approval? This wasn't conscious. Consciously, I would say, yeah, whatever that old guy doesn't know what he's talking about. But inside it was like, I want him to think I'm good enough, right? And the few conversations that we had leading up to few, meaning these last few leading up to that day when I got called, just adding in backstory, this is me processing because it's his birthday. They were about my life. They were about, he was asking, so what are you doing now? Like you're not practicing medicine. You don't have your clinic anymore. I was telling him, I'm not going out and doing talks anymore because it feels inauthentic now. Like I've already said everything I want to say about that and taking money from people to go fly somewhere and stand in front of them and do a kind of arc and a song and dance that I've done in some version for so long. It feels like that's been done. Like it doesn't feel like me anymore. In fact, me in this process of ego dissolution is ego meaning all the beliefs about who I am, my identity, my worth, like reality, everything kind of falling apart intentionally. That's actually never intentional because we're not doing any of it. Led me to the point where I told him, I just, I don't want to do that. And he's like, well, then why don't you go practice medicine again? And I said, but that's been done too. That's not me anymore. That. And I said, why do you, why didn't you retire until just a couple of years ago? Like why did you keep working? And he said there was, he said, every day I get up, I put on a shirt and a tie and a coat and I go in and I help people. And that made me feel like I was living something with purpose. And I said, that's beautiful. Like that is so beautiful. I've never heard you talk about it that way. You know, for him, it had always been this kind of fear based thing. Like, well, how are you going to make a living? How are you going to support your family? Even if he had enough money, it was never enough because he came from poverty in India, like abject poverty. Like he used to have to fish in the local stream to eat. Otherwise they wouldn't eat. Right. It was that bad. And to hear him say, no, it had this other meaning. That's why I never retired. You know, it wasn't fear. It was love. You know, love for what I felt was this is what this body is supposed to do. And he didn't say it in those words, but he said it exactly like that. And I told him that's so beautiful. I said, that is exactly, exactly how I feel when I'm doing whatever it is I'm doing right now, whatever it is, even if it's making a video. If it's going to meditation retreats at that time, it was more about, you know, this awakening stuff. Like I just want to sit in a room and examine this present moment or I want to sit with others who are doing the same thing or I want to talk about this with guests on a show, whatever it was at that time. Now even that's kind of fallen away. But I said, that's how I feel when I do that. Like it feels like I was born to do this. Like there's no choice. And he said, oh, okay then. That's it. No hassling me. No, but what about money? All the usual dad things that he would do, the Indian dad things, you know, it's all about safety and taking care of your family and all that. He was like, okay, I am so grateful that we could see each other clearly in that moment because I don't know. It was funny. So it's set up for that last day when, now remember, I haven't practiced medicine in a little while. I told him I'm not doing this anymore. I'd always been trying to get his approval as a professional, as a doctor, you know, go to Stanford, get the degree, like do better than your dad, all the stuff that you try to do. And he would never say anything overtly about that. Right? It was always like, well, what are you doing next? You know, are you sure you have, you know, are you taking care of that? You know, you should really consider that. He would even send me jokes to put in my talks. He's like, I have a joke book and I pulled five different jokes and I was always super kind about it because I saw it as just such a like, such an act of love, like, you know, the jokes were super corny, but every now and again, there'd be one that was like hilarious. And I was like, that's actually really good. And he would say things like, well, you ought to chip off the old block. But so that that day, so my mom gives him the phone and he's like speaking in these short sentences, like I knew he needed to go to the hospital. And he said, okay, so here's what's going on, you know, breathing. There's some shortness of breath, you know, a little bit of difficulty speaking. Mother says I'm a bit confused. He's telling me all this. So I asked him, what are your vitals? Did you take vitals? Yeah, you know, the ball says this, it's AFib, it's stable. Blood pressure was this. Okay, what's the O2 sat? 73. 73. So then he starts talking about the differential diagnosis. Could it be a PE? Could it be my COPD acting up? He's never smoked, but lived in the Central Valley of California. So it's all kind of pollution. Plus he had a paralyzed hemidiaphragm from a esophageal hernia operation. Plus he had restrictive lung disease from severe scoliosis that he was born with. So his lung capacity is not great. He'd had pneumonia, had been admitted two years ago, got very sick. We thought he was going to die. So we'd been through a dress rehearsal of this, including the COD status where he told me directly to my face in the nursing home where he was recovering. Yeah, I do not resuscitate, do not intubate. I don't want any of that. Just do everything up to that point. So we were lucky to have that. Part of the reason is I'd made that video ain't the way to die and he'd seen it and it opened the conversation. Even with my own dad. So, because doctors are the worst. So I said, Dad, I think the differential diagnosis doesn't matter so much as the acute hypoxemia that we're seeing on the thing. And I think it's a good idea to go to the emergency department because something could happen. You could have a cardiac arrest right there in front of mom and that won't be good. So maybe they can at least do a work up and see what's reversible. And I asked him again, but if something's there that's severe, what would you want me to tell them? Is anything changed? And he said, no, tell them that I don't want breathing tube. I don't want all of that electric shock. I just don't want that. So I said, okay, I understand. So, you know, he's 83. So he went to the ER. I spoke with the staff there. My mother did too. We told them the wishes and the rest of the story I've told elsewhere, but that was the last time he and I spoke. And the way that I felt when he was asking that, of course, I was scared for him and worried and I knew it was serious and I was very concerned he was going to die. But it felt very, there was a lot of equanimity because we had this practice run and also years of meditation and sitting and being present with what's arising without being so reactive. It's more like a response. But it was this gift that he gave me, which was, I'm asking you for your professional opinion as to what I should do with my last hours. He didn't know there were his last hours, but he knew something was serious. And until you tell me it's your opinion that I go, I'm not going to go. I mean, what a gift that he gave me. He made me feel like a doctor. He made me feel like a colleague and he made me feel like his son all at the same time. Yeah, they don't make them like that anymore, I think, like my dad. So happy birthday, dad. I know you're watching this because you would watch all my videos and anytime I did a talk, he's like, is there any video of the talk? Did you get any applause? Did they laugh or did you joke? Yeah, people were asking my dad. My dad passed away April 15th of 2024. Marcy says, I'm glad you had that time with your dad. It's so precious. Yeah, it really was. And now my mom, you know, a year and a half later has really risen to the occasion. She's living in the house. She's managing everything with our help. She's an absolute monster. Of course, she misses them and of course there's grief and it all kind of unfolds. But it's nice to see how she's not fallen apart. She's actually kind of fallen together, which has always been her thing. She's a really strong lady. Hi, Scarlett. Yeah, Jeannie, that generation was the best. So my dad's generation was the so-called silent generation. You know, they remind me so much because they were the small generation prior to the boomers. They remind me a lot of Gen X, which was also the small generation and we've been pretty invisible too. Yeah, Lisa, that right there is the approval from him you were seeking. And you know, it's funny. I didn't think I needed it anymore. And yet when it was given freely and unasked for in that way, it was so deeply felt. There was so much gratitude, you know. That's life-lifing. That's what I'm saying is you can't bypass this. You can't. You can go live in a cave. You're still a human. And then if you're fully in the human and you don't understand or feel the insubstantiality of this, the fact that this is kind of like a dream, that can be its own kind of suffering. And something may crack you open, right? Even if it's just a flow state transiently where you're in some activity and the sense of self drops away and there's just the activity. Mish says, my dad from the same generation passed away May 18, 2025. Sorry for your loss. Pancreatic cancer. Let me pull that back up. He lived three years with it. Wow, that's a long time. Wow. Yeah, hey, I feel you. And he worked while getting chemo. Wow. Pamela says that your eyes were open to understand this is also another gift. Yes, Pamela. Yes. Okay, there's so many other ways that whole sequence of events could have been interpreted by the Zubin character. Why aren't you there right now? You should have anticipated this and gone there. All the different things you should have done to prevent this from happening. You know, why did I agree to DNR, DNI? They should have at least intubated and maybe he would have survived. Like all those things that people do, none of that, not a bit of that. Like the wisp would show up and I'd be like another provisional view. It doesn't make any sense. This is what happened. So this is the only thing that could have happened. And it's beautiful as it is because it is the perfection playing out perfectly. If you were religious, you would say it's God's will. If you're like me, you would say there's only this. It couldn't be other. All of this is God. And these are just ways we talk. It's felt. This is a felt thing. An experienced tone felt thing. Yeah, some beautiful comments here. Let's see. Today is Pythagorean theorem day 9, 16, 25, 3 squared plus 4 squared equals 5 squared. Debbie, you are my kind of nerd. Unfortunately, that's a math nerd. I don't do math. That's why I went into medicine. Math was hard. Sherry says my husband died a year ago next month and I've been a nurse for over 30 years and he asked if he was going to be okay. And I said common procedure quadruple bypass. I feel like crap. Sherry Dugan. Dugan. I'm so sorry that this happened in a way that now that feeling is arising for you. The feeling has validity only in as far as it's arising for you. So it's there. So you can't say you shouldn't feel bad. You shouldn't feel bad. You'd say, yeah, it feels like crap. But here's the story. Why? Because I told him this and he asked me this. And so that story is a story that I'm believing it's belief. We're back to belief. Sometimes you can look inside and realize nothing could have been different because it happened the way it did. And so nothing you would have said or done would have changed anything. Right? And it couldn't have been otherwise anyway. So these are more games the mind plays to torture us. Because the mind is it's it's not a thing. It's this illusory set of apparitions that seems to have a function and that function is to keep us alive, safe and reproducing. And so as part of its function, it's always looking for mistakes, threats, problems to solve. It's creating problems to solve. So it creates this problem. Why did I say that to him? And then it adds this second arrow onto the original arrow of I've lost my husband. The second arrow is entirely constructed. And it causes it is suffering. It is suffering in itself. That's why the great the great religions do preach forgiveness. Forgiveness is another way of saying it couldn't have been other. I'm letting this go, especially forgiveness towards self. It couldn't have been other. But moving forward, maybe if there was something I did to hurt someone, I'll try my best not to do that again. There's a learning. Hmm. Jenny, that's good. Oh, and mischievous dad's birthday was September 5, 1940. Yeah, mine was my dad's was September 16, 1938. Boy, we're like dad brothers or sisters. I don't know your gender because I can't see the avatar. Joseph, thank you for the gift of sharing your dad with all of us. I always enjoyed seeing both your parents on the show. Tremendous wisdom. That's right. I always forget that you guys know who they are. That's that parasocial relationship again. I feel like I'm speaking to people who don't know anything about me. It's so strange, right? Hmm. Beautiful. Beautiful, my dad. Scarlett says you've been in health care. You've seen those that do that. And when dad is ready, that's his wishes. Yeah, exactly. Right? Exactly. You don't change the code status because you want it. Charlotte says, you've been in healthcare, you've seen those that do that, and when dad is ready, that's his wishes. Yeah, exactly, right? Exactly. You don't change the code status because you want it. AJ says, just adding to that, I have a daughter with cystic fibrosis and found you during the pandemic, which was very concerning time for us as a family, I bet. You were amazing for us to keep the hope and battle away. She's now on trifecta or trikafta, right? So that her life has changed remarkably. It's amazing, right? Thanks for helping. It did and does. My stepfather died first week of the lockdowns. It was his time. It was okay. Lovely to hear about your dad. Love the awakening conversations. It's soothing too. So see, AJ, you're the type of person that makes, when I was telling my dad what I do now and how it feels, it's because of that. It's because of this. It's that. So thank you. That's beautiful. Yeah, it's really beautiful. I'm so happy for your daughter. Christy says, sorry for your loss, your father, so he'll be surrounded by peace. His memory will always be a blessing. Yeah, his ashes are up on the fireplace at our family home in Clovis, California. It's on the mantle that he used to love right under this fucking obnoxious Burlwood clock that he bought in Yosemite when we were kids. That clock weighs like 100 pounds. Every time I would go visit them, he'd be like, the battery in the clock needs to be changed. Can you go ahead and do that? Here's a couple of AA batteries. It would only last like a year. I would have to go up there. I would complain the whole time. I'd be like, just get rid of this fucking clock dad. It sucks. I would lift it up, nearly tweak my back, and then I would take out the batteries, put it, and then getting it. It had this little hole in it. Getting it back in this nail that was in the brick above the mantle was like an ordeal because the thing weighs like 50 pounds. And I'm holding it up with my shoulders, my AC joints. So I experimented with me. I'm trying to get this thing. You're doing it by feel and it's scraping. It's like nails across the chalkboard. And finally we get in and I'd be like, fuck. Next time I come, I want that clock gone. And of course next time I come, the clock will be there. He's like, hey, you know the clock's batteries have stopped. You need to change them. So he's sitting right under that clock, which is perfect. Perfect. And I still go and change the batteries. So there you go. Oh, nice day. D, dissertation on forgiveness. That's beautiful. How do you guys feel about this particular camera angle? I stumbled on it the other day when I was making this little reel, the Let It Flow music video. The real camera that I usually use is there, but I just took the guest camera and put it on the side and I realized the light kind of works. So let me know if you like this. It felt a little intimate to my supporters when I did a show last night, those paying subscribers. And I thought, well, let's try it for a live show. Mish says, was your dad religious? My dad was very Catholic and always told me that God said hello.  and alfalfa, when he got home from church. My dad was a Zoroastrian, and he was quite religious. He would do his prayers every twice a day and all of that. And he used to ask me why I was such a kind of agnostic meditator and so into spirituality without the overt organized religion, God component, and why I would spend so much time sitting in silence and going on retreats and reading all these books and all that. And I told him the same reason you pray. It's an act of surrender to something that we don't understand. It's letting that thing dissolve and relax and seeing what's here. And it feels divine. It's divinity itself. Claire says, it's been many years since my daughter died at two and a half. And I find now that I'm grateful for birth and death and what they taught me about being human. Also true now about my parents' death, similar for you in what came from his death. Oh, beautiful. I mean, it's all two and a half years old. Wow. The human experience is like, wow, what a story and a drama and emotion and pain and tragedy and loss and love and all of it. And then underneath it, in every single moment, every particle of energy vibrating in this feels like pure unconditional loveless, no separation from anything, just one radiant love. So beyond the human love, idea, thought, sensation, it's like, and it's right here. It's right here for everyone. It is what we are in that sense, in that way of speaking. This is a bit of a conceptual story, but it is what we are. Don't believe me on that. Feel it. You might feel it in church. You might feel it when you pray. You might feel it when you see your daughter get married. You might feel it at the death of a loved one. You might feel it at the birth of a child. You might feel it at a soccer game. And now I feel it anytime I look, anytime I look. It's like the whole body lights up with love. And it's not a conditional love. It's not a love that says, you did good. I love you. You're close to me. I love you. It's love that says this. Oh my God. All of it. You guys got me all serious today. Loveness. Yes, loveness. Autocorrect, loveless, clear. They're two sides. Oh, actually, hold on. Okay. Let me get even more serious for a second. When humans talk about love, we're often talking about conditional love. The love for a family. What's the condition there? They were born our family. So in a sense, it's unconditional. Like whatever they do, we still love them. But no, but there was a condition. They're ours. They belong to us. They're related to us in some way. With any kind of conditional love in this duality, this relative world, comes its opposite hate. They co-generate, like matter and antimatter. They come into existence as a pair. So when you first fall in love with someone, it might be this amazing thing. You feel like the entire universe is opened. It's this cosmic thing. Then the things start to pile up and there's an argument or two and then another argument and then a breakup and then there's hate. That's like the opposite. What I'm pointing at, this unconditional loveless that is the fabric of this, that can be felt as the fabric of this. I can't say anything is anything because that's belief. That's story. That's another view. It's another position. I can say it feels like everything is loveless. This interpenetrated, interconnected, co-happening everything. It feels, it's felt as pure unconditional loveless perfection. And it has no opposite because it includes both love and hate. It includes war and peace. It includes good and bad. It is everything made of that bliss loveless because there's nothing else. There's only this one, not two, not one, just this loveless beyond love and hate, accepting of love and hate perfectly, inclusive of it. Go live your life. Feel love. Feel hate. But no at the core. Oh, it's all this. It's all okay. It's beyond okay. It's beyond okay and not okay and inclusive of okay and not okay. Agape love, that's right, Margie. That's another term for it. Oh, I think you'd make a great death doula, Margie. There's some people in my supporter tribe who work in End of Life and they're amazing, amazing. Oh, let me see here. How do we have so many viewers in the middle of a Tuesday weekday? So let's scroll back a bit and see what I missed in terms of comments. Okay, Misha's a female. Okay, good. Identifies as female. Just going back here. Ramana Annamaraju says, do you think AI is conscious? Okay, I'm going to start this by saying I don't know anything about anything because I can't. An illusion can't know about the dream that it's a character in. However, this is my felt sense about AI. It's no different from how our minds work in this way. Stuff is just arising. Associations, causes and conditions, spitting out something. So a better question is not, is AI conscious? A better question is, are we conscious? Let me repeat that. It's not so much a question of is AI conscious. It's a question of are we conscious? Examine your own experience. It feels like at this moment, I am having an experience. Mysteriously, I don't understand how consciousness works. I'm calling it and using the word consciousness to say the witnessing knowingness that sees objects, sensations, sight sounds, tastes, smells, thoughts. So we're saying humans have this consciousness. We think animals have it too. That witnesses a world. And then the question is, does AI have the same ability to have this awareness? So look back. Can you find consciousness? Can you find anything we're calling consciousness that isn't itself another appearance, another object, another thought? And then just entertain the possibility. This is kind of a little, if you're on a spiritual path, this is at the end of it. So you'll have experiences if you're a meditator and stuff where you feel like you are a just consciousness or you're experiencing pure awakeness without an object. That's all fine. It's another thought form, another appearance. What are these phenomena? Are we aware of them? Is there consciousness that's got the lights on that's aware of all this? Or are there just the phenomena made of knowingness, lovingness, energy, self-knowing? And the great illusion is the series of phenomena that make up what we think is our body and our mind and our sensorium are just more of those phenomenal appearances, self-aware, self-radiant. And the grand illusion is that that takes the form of the appearance of one who is apart from everything that knows it, that is conscious unlike that AI, which is unconscious. What if all of that was wrong? How would that change your entire worldview, experience, position? There's no you, there's no consciousness, there's only what is, which is the phenomena dancing ephemeraly. Now, how are you different from AI? AI is another process, another phenomenal appearance, so am I. Just so happens this phenomenal appearance can take the form off the experience of a separate self that feels love, hate, anger, jealousy, boredom in a world that's apart from it. All that can collapse into just this. And that's what I mean by lovingness or knowingness. People use the word consciousness there to, it's just a word. But it's not a witness, it's not something separate, it's not an attribute of me, it is the fabric of this inexperience, experientially. I don't know what the truth is, I can't say anything about that because this illusion can't know anything about reality. So believe what you want about the ontology, about the actual truth, but experientially there's only the phenomena, self-radient and the self sense can drop. And then it's just, whoa, can't say a word about it because words imply a self, a subject and an object. Paul's 3 AM in Bangkok, goodnight. One night in Bangkok makes a hard man humble. The girls ain't free. I can feel the devil walking next to me. Murray Head man from the musical chess. Good night Paul. Pamela says, I want to hear something weird. Whenever I go out and enter a grocery store shop, in my head I send out a love frequency to all those in the store I'm in. That's beautiful, I mean that's the practice, meta meditation, compassion. It doesn't matter what it does for them, although you'd be surprised what it does for them, it's what it does for you. You're tuning into that lovingness, that non-separation, unconditional love. Even for that jackass block in the quinoa. Quinoa. All right. I think we did a thing, gang. Any other thoughts, questions? Get me up now, it's your last chance. Last chance with Mary Jane, one more time to kill the pain. It's actually last dance, but who's counting? Anybody? Anybody? There's a little delay, so I'll give you a second. There's a little latency in the feed. 80 people still here, so someone might have a comment or a question as we leave. I enjoy your inner rock star performances, Margie. It's just how Zubin is wired. He's always wanted to be a famous rock star and he didn't have the talent, so now he's inflicting himself on all y'all. Mish, that's very sweet of you. I don't know about that. Nothing about my voice feels very lovely. I just do my best with the terrible hand I've been given. I love you too, Tom. Nice to see you. Laura, be well, take care. All right. I think we did a thing. Until next time.

=== FILE: Taking the Exquisite Risk (with Simon Brown) [4g1eDDEJq8k].txt ===

 and alfalfa. Hi, Simon. Hi, Zubin. So, hi, everyone. I just thought I would introduce my guest for today on his channel. Oh, I see what time it is. I see what's going on. Zubin Demania. Formally ZDog MD, but the subtle PsyOps change to Zubin Demania has happened online. I don't know if you noticed. That's a deep cut. So, yeah, I wanted to kind of introduce Zubin. He's a very dear friend of mine. So, over the last, it's been about three years, isn't it? It's been about, yeah, about three years we have got to know each other, walked to know and walked alongside each other on this path through thick and thin, actually. Even though there's an Atlantic Ocean separating the two of us, we've seen a fair bit of each other's, well, of each other, you know, the depths of each other through the joyous and the most sorrowful, you know, we've been alongside each other for the passing of dear loved ones. And, yeah, and the reason I mention this is because this is a joy, really, to have you in my life as a friend. And it's a joy to have you on your own show with me. Is that something? So, Simon, I think, like, I was going to introduce you. And I think you just did. You just introduced Simon by how you reflected on our relationship. Like, you are one of the dearest people that I turn to when things are getting dark, which is pretty much the entire route. So, we've spoken before on the show. We've had lovely conversations. And I just, the conditions arose that we're to talk again publicly about whatever arises. So, you're just a joy. I was telling people on my show, on a live show recently, that there are people that I talk to that just I have a smile on my face the entire time I'm talking because my heart is just open. And you are that person that I'm really talking about. It's like, oh, my God, every time. So, let's share this big smile in the fabric of reality with all the things. Beautiful. So beautiful. What a gift, eh? And, yeah, I mean, one more thing is that I feel lucky to have you as a friend on the path. And I think it points to something that we all need, actually, is this deep uncompromising spiritual friendship. Not uncompromising is in we don't compromise with each other. But uncompromising in that we show up for each other unconditionally. You know, and you've done that so many times, so many times for me, that I cannot in words express the gratitude that I have. But actually, I can see how important it is not just for me as a human being and a friend, but also as a spiritual practitioner. You know, we need people alongside us as kind of like this loving reflective mirror, don't we? Because I think without that, no matter how awake it seems, delusion is kind of like hiding in the awakeness, you know, we need that relationship in order to show us, oh, and this and this and this, you know, keep seeing, keep seeing, keep relating, let it unfold. And you've been that for me. So yeah, nice. Beautiful. That's exactly what you are here. Like every time I'm spinning off the rails into the void or I'm flirting with nihilism or I'm going in the neo-advite and death spiral of there's nothing happening, nothing to do, morality, compassion. What is that? You know, I'm not going to be like, hey, you fancy a chat and I'll get on the phone and I'm smiling ear to ear and my heart is blown open and I realize it's all just radiant love. Like without that, none of this makes sense. Like I recently was quoting Nisargadatta on a live show and he says, the mind creates the abyss and the heart crosses it. And I think that's a beautiful way to talk about this whole journey is like ultimately it comes back to this, the centerless center that just and when you and I talk, it's like that just kind of manifests naturally. It's like an emergent property of these two apparent beings, you know, and you're all the way in the UK and I'm here in the US and yet it's like there's this absolute spaceless timeless thing that happens when we talk. Yeah. Yeah, this intimacy isn't it? There's this kind of like known felt sense of intimacy that is, I mean, we've discussed this before, there's an usness to it as well, which is more than the sum of its parts. So there's the intimacy in my experience, if there is a my experience, but you know, there's an intimacy felt here. And I know there is there for you, but then there is a relational intimacy that feels what it's particular. It arises in, yeah, like in collaboration with each other. And I think that actually that intimacy is always the case for all beings. However, the degree to which we're able to feel that arise and allow it to blossom is well, it's stymied by different things, normally delusion or fear or like anxiety. But actually, for some reason, we've been able to just really take some risks with our relationship, you know, with our friendship. Just say, well, let's just try stepping into this unknown together. And I think very quickly, that blossoming aspect, it rewards a risk. You know, if we are willing and curious and open, when we take that step, the open, willing, curious heart, it kind of blossoms further and further. There's this beautiful positive feedback that goes on and it's reciprocal between, I think between all beings, but actually like, well, I mean, in our instance, that that seems to be what's happening. So, yeah, but I think that's possible for everybody. And this is why I said it's, it seems really crucial that this deep spiritual friendship, not this deep spiritual friendship, I mean, spiritual friendship across the board is an aspect of people's lives because I don't think there's any way to be free without it. Actually, I think, because what is it? If you're free alone, is that freedom? When are we ever alone? Is there a human experience that isn't in relation? I like, I've never had one. Even when I think I'm having one, there's the infinite swath of conditions of the universe unfolding around me. It's like the, it's like the least alone you could possibly be. Yet we sit in front of our YouTube screens and we tighten on duality and we, we go in, in, in, in, in, and we say, who am I and what is this? And I'm not saying that's wrong, but there can be this insular movement of separation that pulls us away from the world. And it's as much about, I think it's as much about moving into the world as well as kind of letting go of the things of the world. It's, yeah, I mean, it's difficult to talk about actually, isn't it? That, but, but it does, there's a flow and movement of dancing with conditions. Whilst knowing we are not those conditions. Also, that's it. That's it. That's it. Yeah. So, so, man. Okay. This dance of relativity where we are not in a vacuum, we can't be, it's all interdependent happening. And then the, the deep knowing that there's really nothing happening. There's not time and space and relation and all of that simultaneously is inhabited. And so then what happens is you go from hell as other people, which I mean, that is a real, when you're suffering through, find a feeling through the delusive sense of separation that manifests, those relationships can manifest as hell as other people. What does this person think of me? What did I say to this person that now I'm suffering in regret, guilt, shame, unworthiness, all the things in relation to this apparent other being that now is creating a kind of torture chamber, but what's creating it? The delusion, my view that this person is other than myself or other than what they actually are. And so what you're pointing at is when there is this relaxation and insight and seeing delusion when delusions there, the relationship naturally becomes one of this indescribable, not toness where, yeah, no, we're not separate, but also we're totally particular. We're totally different. And that is a joyous thing. And there's no validation seeking. There's no, and yet validation can arise. Like I feel so validated talking to Simon. And yet I'm not, if that wasn't the case, it'd be totally fine. It's just what's showing up. And it's absolutely beautiful. And recently I did a video talking about people were talking about existential loneliness on this path, like how the opposite can be felt where like you're on the only thing in existence or there's nothing in existence. And that collapses ultimately into the, into the interdependent manifestation. Like what you're pointing at where loneliness becomes, I said loneliness becomes loveliness, like it is just made of this thing. Like love. It's such a hippie. I know, you know, I'm like, they call me Baba Z dog. I mean, I guess you've got the look a little bit, haven't you? You just need to kind of grow a very wispy, long beard. I can't do it. I don't have enough testosterone, you know, to listen, listen to the new, you know, RFK junior recommendation to just shoot myself full of testosterone. Well, I'm not going to go down that road. But please. Yeah. I mean, I've really been vibing a little bit about, I've been feeling a little bit about what you've been sharing recently. Because it's just so nice that you're, you're heeding this invitation towards love. There's a lot of like, you're putting things in the world, which seem to be about this heart opening, loving recognition of experience. And that's just nice. It's nice to see, you know, because like you said, with that, there's a relaxation. There's less of a trying to be a certain way and more of allowing the way to to be us, to show, like to manifest, to interact, to engage. And it quite naturally creates connection, I think. And I think that's probably what you're seeing, maybe in the responses to the videos that you're making is that actually when that movement of heart is open and generous, it's less restricted and constrained, then the world kind of vibes and resonates with it just very, very naturally. It's almost like, well, it feels like the default state, actually. It's like, it feels like this is what we are, you know, this loving movement of generous connection. That's actually fundamental. Not like there's this solid foundation. Like, well, it becomes impossible to talk about, doesn't it? But like this, this ground of loving being from which everything can manifest that can be experienced. And I just find it so beautiful that no matter how deluded we are along the path, it doesn't take much for us to resonate with that loving, generous intent, you know, just look at the fact that nearly everybody has a friend, nearly, nearly everybody has one person, at least one person that they naturally would call a friend. There is no reason for that. There's no, like, I mean, you could talk about evolution and connecting, but that's still a movement quite naturally in a world that we see as divided, a world that we're told is at loggerheads or war is a threatening place. This is what the media tells us all of the time. Just walk through a park and you will see families and friends everywhere naturally, just happening, just connection all of the time, all of the time, all of the time. And yet the the mindset of the deluded ego, which is normally rooted in greed, especially if you think about the messages we receive through media, it's like, no, that's not actually what's going on. They're your enemy, hate each other. And even with that, we can't stop connecting. And it's just so beautiful. I think like it was a big change in my life once I was able to actively look for that, you know, I, when I stopped believing that the world was a dangerous place and that everybody was out to get each other and that everybody was a threat, when I started to actively look, well, is there any evidence for connection? Can I see love in the world? And as soon as you start looking, you don't have to look very far. It's like it's really, really apparent. And it's not just human, which is quite interesting as well. You start seeing it saturated. I mean, you could easily say in animals, but I would also say I start seeing it in just the natural interaction of forces. You know, like if you see the way that the wind licks the tree, you get this. I sometimes get the same flavor of love as when a friend waves goodbye, you know, it's, it's so, it's kind of indescribable, that feeling. But yeah, like if we in tune ourselves towards recognizing love and connection, we can be surprised. I think we'll be surprised how much we see in the world. So it's really funny, Simon, like as you were saying that, um, the words were coming out of your mouth and I was feeling what you were pointing at. And I was, it was so strange, like here was predicting what the next word was because it was my word. It was very oddly connected. Like I'm like, now we're going to talk about how it shows up in things. Now we're going to talk about this. And it, that synchronicity, that connection, I really think it is the default natural state that again, the matrix of social stuff conditions us otherwise. No, even altruism is selfish. Even, um, everybody's out, you know, to get you, you need to get yours because the world is a separate and dangerous place. And believe me, I spent good bit of my life, uh, in that mindset. It's almost a paranoia, uh, and, and a kind of safety seeking. And when you've had trauma and things like that too, it's more obvious that there's a feeling of unsafety of not unresource and that sort of thing. And then though, when I feel back to very young, um, there was this like just like I would, I would open, like lift or go into the forest, lift a rock, the teaming life underneath, you couldn't hurt any of it. You were just picking up centipedes and they were singing you and you were loving them and going, Oh, that's okay. I'm putting it back. And like it was my fault. Don't worry about it. And, uh, that starts to come, it starts to come back. And the thing is, like you said, everybody, almost everybody has at least a friend somewhere, like these people, these bodhisattvas, these compassionate beings, they don't see themselves as that, but they show up in your life at just the right time to point you back. So you showed up. Ishwar has been pointing at this unconditional love through, um, who he has connected to through Ram Dass's guru Maharajee. And he feels this presence of this as unconditional love. And so it's so funny, man. I read this. I've really never read a lot of Ram Dass because I thought, I know that cheesy hippie. Us is the shit. He's every, every fucking thing he says in be here now, people act like they've said it for the first time. Ram Dass said it and he was just bringing it from the east and from these traditions, but he talks about Christ in a way that will make you cry like instantly. It is so beautiful. And he radiates love, but he also talks off the void. He talks off no self. He, I mean, and he's like, that's all fine. Like that's all this. It's all love. So, so everything you think you've encountered in this thing as a pitfall. Yeah. It's like, you know, there was an old South Park episode where they were lamenting the fact that the Simpsons already did everything. Like they couldn't, they couldn't do anything. And like Simpsons did it, Simpsons did it. You might as well just say, you know, Ram Dass did it. Anytime you hear Eckhart Tolle, if you hear like any non-dual person on YouTube, you go, no, Ram Dass did it. So yeah, it's a beautiful for people who haven't looked at that stuff, be here now miracles of love, be love now. His later book is just so many talks as well. He's got so many talks that have been recorded. He's that period in like, I think in the fifties and sixties specifically where they started doing tape recordings of like these influential speakers in California. So that's why Alan Watts has got so many of them. So beware of the AI bullshit. Yeah, it's all over. There's a lot of weird AI kind of Alan Watts alike. I mean, it might be all right, but yeah, there's so many beautiful talks that I've listened to to them. And yeah, I think because they're popular, as in like they were very popular and they're easy to get hold of, they get given a bit of a short shrift, maybe by your proper spiritual people. So they're not really spiritual. Like they are, they see clearly. They see really, really clearly. And they put their money where the mouth is, especially Ram Dass, you know, like he spent so many years offering palliative spiritual connection and care for people on their deathbed, guiding them over the threshold. Like he held the hands of countless strangers in a heart of love as they died. He just did it. He wasn't a paid position. He wasn't, you know, that was just it was his service, part of his service to the world. And yeah, sharing is a wake up in heart. And he is a beautiful being, beautiful being and so many wonderful teachings. He and he, what was beautiful about him, and this is me projecting my own life experience a bit, that here's this Harvard professor loses his tenure first embracing psychedelics, opens his mind with the psychedelics, goes to India, surrenders at the feet, is surrendered at the feet of this guru. Neem Gauri Baba. Kareem Narelli Baba, yeah. Yeah, my God. And his stories about Kareem are hilarious. Like Kareem Narelli Baba is just kind of this laughing, impenetrable, joyous presence. That's kind of it. Like he doesn't, he doesn't give like these deep, insightful, slicing tea. I mean, he does, but they're not like these clever things. They're just like these embodied, energetic, like continual guidance towards truth. Yeah, it's beautiful. Yeah, what what Ram Dass says about Neem Karelli, they call him Maharajee, like the affectionate term for like the wise king and honorific. He, he would come back and tell the stories of the miracles that he witnessed because that's all he could put into words, but he knew the miracles didn't mean anything. What was there was this energetic, non-conceptual, this person saw you with unconditional love, love as you and you fell into it. And the, the, the story he tells us when he first met him, like he was dragged there against his will and there's like, oh, I got to go see my guru by this other hippy American guy, this guy, Bhagwan Das. He goes, climbs up this hill because the Indians are like, you have to see this guru. And he's like, I don't want to see any stinking guru. Like I want to go back to America. This India thing's been a bust. Like I was trying to figure out why LSD does what it does and no one's been able to tell me and he goes to the feet of this guru. And, and, and the night before Ram Dass had had this vision of his mom who had passed away six months ago of like a splenic disease. And the guru just looks at him and says, you know, you, you were thinking of your mother last night, you know, she died of what, uh, spleen and he had never told anyone, no one there knew that. And what happened was his mind went on tilt. It was like, how can this be? He, and the way he described it, it was like those old CIA classics, like, who has the files? What do you know? What are you involved in? Like the, all the paranoia, just like, how do you know this? And then his mind realized there's no possible way. Like there's nothing and his heart just exploded. He melted into a puddle of tears and he knew then he's like, this is where I surrender. I was surrendered not because this guy could read my mind, but what he realized is if he can see that, he can see all of me, all my shame, all my brokenness, all my, you know, horrible things that I think. And he still loves me. He's looking at me with this unconditional love. And that was it. So beautiful. Oh, it's even, yeah. It's so, so beautiful. Really moving. And yeah, I mean, that is beautiful. And I think there's a couple of things there, isn't it? When we, like the Westerner hears a story like that, the cynical mind immediately says, that didn't happen. Yes. Just, just immediately goes, no, that didn't happen. Ram Dass has got no reason to lie about that. Doesn't give him anything. Doesn't get him anything. Like he says it affectionately because well, yeah, it was part of his journey, part of his life. But it's so interesting. Like you say, you see that immediate cynicism in the mind to say, it's like this materialist reductionist mindset that says, well, that's outside of the realms of what I think is possible or what I've been told possible. Therefore it's impossible. And the other thing I think that's important to recognize about Ram Dass is that so he can give the impression from stories like that, that he was just surrendered. He sat at the feet of Karim LeRolli Baba and his heart opened and blotted. And though he practiced consistently for decades in a hut, like he, you know, and that isn't to say that it was striving. Actually, it wasn't. The practice was to end the striving ultimately. But he didn't pray for the sudden release by getting the right pointer. What he did was devote himself to the practice and to his guru and to like guru yoga. And he did it. He did the work like he, you know, meditating nine hours a day. Like he was, I'm not saying that everybody needs to do that, but I think it's important to realize that I think it's the case for most nearly all people that have had the reside in this deep open hearted presence. There is a depth of practice, intuition, work, exploration that has gone on. There isn't seen. And I think sometimes it can come across when the likes of you and I might be seen, oh, yeah, just open the heart to love. There's love right here. This is always loving you. And that's true to, let's say to a degree. That's absolutely true. I feel it in my being. And yet that is not true to 99.9% of people. That's not where they're at. That's just not the way it is. So actually it's not that effective for just to say things like that again and again and again, to just go into the world and go, just everything's already awake, you're already awake. It's already love. It's like, whether that's true or not, why are we doing that? If I'm going to say that in the world, what is it that I'm doing that for? And I'm not, I can't answer that's different for each person. But what it, it's a little tone death, I would say. It's a little tone death to the way that suffering is in the world. Cause you know, and I know that there are times when that message would have made me sick, physically sick. I would have been like, no, fuck you. Fuck everybody else saying that. Like this is not, you don't know what it is to feel like this. So yeah, I think it's an interesting thing is it? Cause I often feel that movement of play, joy, surrender, love, openness, kindness, generosity, connection, effulgence, all of these words, radiance, luminance. You know, the words don't touch it. Yeah, that is absolutely the case in my experience. And also it's not that useful most of the time. Maybe, maybe a couple, a couple of times out of a hundred. But most of the time what people are looking for is this is hurting help. That they come into us and saying, this is hurting like help. What practical thing have you got for me? And that's the challenge, isn't it? I think that's the real challenge of being a teacher in the world. And I know you might say that you're not a teacher, but you're not a teacher. And I know you might say that you're not a teacher, yet you are teaching. So like, regardless of whether you want to put a label on yourself or not. And it's the same for me. I might say, oh, no, I'm not a teacher yet. We're we're in the world online. We're talking about this stuff. So yeah, actually, we've got a responsibility to recognize, OK, well, what do people actually need most of the time? And I think, well, that grows and develops and we need to listen. We have to have a keen ear for that, don't we? We can't assume that we know we have to listen in order to let the heart respond to the needs of others. So this is why at the beginning I talked about residing in the heart. It always knows the way. Like that open, loving, connected, awake heart. That's the path that wisdom is impregnable wisdom, the wisdom that's not personal. You know, that which is the universe of wisdom that ripens through the awake heart. Like that is available when we rest here in open, loving, awake presence, you know. But it requires listening. It doesn't manifest through us if we go, oh, I know the way. I know what's wrong. I know what to do for you. It's like, oh, OK. Yeah, we immediately take this world of collaboration and reciprocity and play and dance with others in relation. We just shrink it down to Q&A, basically. It just becomes Q&A, doesn't it? And that's all right, I guess, if you want answers. But no answer I can give will ever actually help you, really, because you don't need answers. What you're looking for is truth. Hmm. It's. I have, you know, on my own unfolding, it's been a public unfolding. So you can. Yeah, you mean you can watch on video me do all these things that you're talking about. It's like, yeah, OK, when you fully realize the, like you said, the effulgence, just this obvious radiance that's right here, you can say things like, guys, just shut the fuck up, stop fucking around, stop doing anything. It's just this, like, what the fuck are you doing? And then you get an email or a message from someone and they're like, but I this thing, I just I'm up in my head and I don't understand what you're talking about. And there's tears coming out and then you sit with them and the heart knows exactly what to do. Yeah, OK, this is take some breaths. Let's sit together like, yeah, it's really hard suffering is the worst. And I think Ram Dass called it unbearable compassion. Like that's what arises. It's unbearable. Like you cannot stay idle when faced with that. Your heart opens into it and the perfect configuration from that prajna wisdom, like you said, that you're not doing it shows up. But here's the trap on like a YouTube. And this is why we we can sit here and argue about different forms of expression, because on YouTube, you're talking at one size fits all to a whole audience of people at every different level of expression. And it may be there's three people in that audience that need to hear that. And that collapses the seeking cycle that needed to collapse in that moment because they've put the work they've done that already. And they're stuck and it just needed to collapse. But then for the person who's still like, man, my mind is just crazy all the time. And I have to have all this trauma and there's nothing like you said, they're thinking, fuck you. And they'll say that in the comments. And I'm like, yeah, I would say that too. I have had that. So yeah, yeah, yeah. So it becomes that's where I say, well, Ram Dass kind of seems to inhabit the entire spectrum. And I know that when he was sitting with people in palliative care, he was right where that person was. He wasn't anywhere other than where that person was. Beautiful. It's magical. It's magical. Yeah, I've got a very dear friend who I won't mention her name here, but she plays music to people as they die. So she is a musical therapist for palliative care for people that are in the dying process. It's just like she's like an actual angel, basically. Like, look, like what? So just this mess in.  ginger of presence, because she's deeply heart-open, awake, present, generous, kind, and she brings all of that to these people that, you know, they are as deluded as the next person, you know, they're not spiritual folk, and yet the experiences that she describes in those moments of recognition of this universal presence seeing itself in each other as life slips away, it's, I mean, it is magical, like what she describes, and heart-breaking, so heart-breaking, you know, it's not for the faint of heart, it takes a lot of courage to do that, but what she describes is so beautiful, it's like there's this, often this recognition of truth, and not just truth is in, I'm not a fixed self, not that, it's like this deeper, experiential truth, or, well, I can't say any more than that, but it's shared in experience, it's brought into life through the shared experience of death, which is, well, yeah, I mean, it's a mystery, and it's so beautiful, so yeah, I mean, I don't know, I mean, I say that, you don't get any answers out of this, I don't offer any answers, I guess it's just pointing to that this is, this experience of life and death is beyond a pale, we cannot, we will never understand it, we will never ever understand it, but we can know it in experience, as in, we can't know what it is, we can infinitely contextualize and have conversations like this, and if we try to rely upon that, we kind of get deluded and we grab and, yeah, we suffer a lot, but in experience, and especially in relationship, with that heart-opening acceptance comes a ripening of knowing, like knowingness almost, like it's a knowing without object, really, there's no subject or object of knowing, there's just the knowing, what's known, and that's where language fails, you can't, but it's, I mean, it's absolutely clear, isn't it, and it's so interesting that's not, it's not just the, yeah, the area of speciality of awakened beings, it's like this is just happening, everyday folk, we all have access to this, hopefully before our deathbed, you know, but yeah, I think it's just, it's available to us, isn't it? Yeah, it's right here, right now, this is it, yeah, yeah, yeah, even when it feels like it really isn't it. Yeah, especially maybe, you know, and it's funny because when we use the terms delusion, we're not using them as some pejorative about people who just don't get it, it is a very specific term, right, delusion, we're seeing incorrectly what's actually here, there's a perception of things as they are not, and that's the normal human operating system, it's not something special, you're not especially deluded in any way, it's just, yeah, that's the delusion, and it's so sticky, it's so subtle, and it goes so deep into our causes and conditions, what the Hindus might call the karma, that sort of karmic conditions that this is where that quote unquote work of purification of development, and you could say, look, I get it, there are people that sort of neo-advice and say, there's no work, there's no development, there's no you, shut up, like it, all that is just seeking and it's keeping the engine of suffering going, and okay, yeah, that, okay, you can see that perspective, and a lot of times that perspective is held by people who were traumatized by spiritual teachers or had some very bad thing happen, and I totally have love and compassion for that view, and I, at times I've inhabited that view, I'm like, oh man, when I just let go of all that, it's obvious right here, okay, great, and yet, and yet it's like, but what is it that prevents us, what is this delusion, what is this that is preventing us from seeing moment to moment, this kingdom of heaven is spread upon the earth, yet men do not see it, it's this, so what is that, ah, that's where the attunement, the discernment, the looking, the work, the struggle, the dark night, all of it, that's where that shows up. Absolutely, and this is why friendship's really important for that, you know, like community, because actually that's a lot to go through on your own, isn't it, you know, like our willingness to face that again and again and again and again and again and again, add in for an item, it diminishes, it's hard, it is, you know, we can lose faith, so to speak, so actually when we have these supportive, caring, connected, open-hearted people, that even just cheerleaders a bit, like why not, there's somebody just says, you have got this, or let's screw all that, let's watch Godzilla on TV, and like, yeah, whatever it is, but you know, like that feeling of community, it shares the load, doesn't it, and we're much more able to face, like you said, the nuance and the challenge of unbinding, and I think, I mean, there's a lot to say about this, maybe we can touch on a little bit, but one of the most prevailing messages, which I think is unhelpful in the world of spirituality at the moment, is this idea that everything is already awake, you're already awake, everything's already fine just as it is, there's nothing to do, I'm not saying that's wrong, what I'm saying is that it's so unhelpful for most people, because if you have just started, you've just stepped, you know, dipped your finger into the pool of awakening, and just gone, oh, I wonder what this is, and you hear that, it's like, oh, well, I'll just continue smoking weed, like, raping people for profit, you know, like, being a jerk to people, mistreating people sexually, but I'm already awake, so it's already fine, it is like, it gives totally the wrong idea of what this path is, this path is a path that's meant to be walked, it's step by step, we take the journey, don't we, but yeah, and like I said, it's not that it's wrong, there's a time and a place for it, but it's almost, it's so universal, I think it's just like lazy, basically, for most spiritual teachers or most spiritual speakers, it's just kind of like, they maybe don't have the flexibility and capacity to listen and adapt and to respond and to meet the needs of others, or maybe they've not done the work themselves, I think that that's probably the case a lot of the time, they've not walked the path sufficiently, so they've maybe had some experiences, they've learned a lot of doctrine, and they've created a spiritual worldview, and they just go, it's fine, everything's fine, it's like, well, yeah, I mean, as both you and I know, these are the hard miles, it is tough, sometimes it is very, very tough, and it isn't one and done, and I think anybody is projecting that you're going to get a one and done situation, well why, why are you doing that other than for clicks, because if you're doing it for clicks and likes, fine, that works, but if it was the case, you only ever need to make one video, just make that one video, because that's it, that's the one and done, no more videos required, but actually it's not one and done, obviously, because people come back the next time, they go, oh that kind of didn't work, have you got something else for me, it's like, yeah, I've kind of got the same message, but with slightly different words, just like propelling this perpetual seeking online, and this craving for this instant eradication of the human experience, you know, it's like, people don't want to awaken to the full spectrum of life when they're going in this mode, they want to eradicate the difficulties of being human, that's not possible, you're going to die, like you go, you're going to die, you cannot eradicate that, you are going to get ill and die, and everyone you know is going to get ill and die, and if you are lucky, you will watch that happen, and if you're, as in like, you will get to be alongside them, and that will happen before you lose your life, you know, that is an important message to realize and sit with as part of the spiritual, you know, the spiritual life, so yeah, there's no get, you don't get out of this alive, essentially, so how do we integrate and incorporate those actual truths of being human into what it is to be free and to live with an open, awake, liberated spirit, what is that, what is being liberated, being free in a body that is definitely going to fail you, what is that, and I don't have, and that's the thing is, I don't have an answer, I don't have a quick answer, it can be found out by exploring this path, you know, step by step, looking at the ways in which we struggle and try to negotiate with life and try to project our images onto the way it should be, you know, we get to explore that, but yeah, it's not like, oh watch my next video and I'll sort it out for you, like watch my next video, I'll give you the answer and all of that goes away, you know, and smash that like button and hit subscribe and make sure to share this video, okay, man, this is something that seems to be... I don't know what cable that got a little bit intense, did it? Well, it's funny, as you were doing that, I was, this righteous, compassionate anger was arising and the anger is at the bypass itself that tends to arise, like the delusive aspect of us that thinks that we can find the hack, the cheat code for this, and I believe me, I've been guilty of this and I've talked to many people who have promoted this to me and I've copromoted it. I think everybody's been guilty of this to some degree, everyone. Absolutely, absolutely, and when it arises, it's like, yeah, okay, first of all, there's no morality in the absolute truth, like you can actually, you can say things like that and then you go out and when you do something to hurt someone, you're up all night. Well, what the fuck is that? Is that the absolute showing up? No, there's something here that I'm not understanding about how reality is. And it's that, and it's like the coming back into the marketplace with open hands, helping hands, like what Ram Dass is sitting with people as they're dying, he doesn't need to do that. Like why would he do that? The guys, as he's done so much fucking work, he's sat in ashrams in India in the winter with no heat, but a charcoal brazier and the windows open. He's bathed in frozen rivers because that's all he could do. He's lost 60 pounds eating vegetarian food and this was a Harvard professor with two rich parents. The whole thing has, they summer in Connecticut and they, you know, he has all that. Just like the Buddha gave up his princely life. He's put himself through the suffering like where he can sit eye to eye and go, okay, yeah, Christ being nailed to the cross, watching the person nail him into the cross and seeing unconditional love and going, yeah, I love you for everything that you've gone through that would make you do this. Like that is never fucking actualized and yeah, nothing's happening. Nothing's ever happened. You're not even there. Like and yet, and so then what shows up Simon, and I know you've seen this, is people come to you and I have been this person and I occasionally still at the flickers of the show where you see these easy answers and you're like, oh, shit, I guess I haven't found it. I haven't gotten it yet. Like this person's figured it out. They had some big explosive mystical experience. Maybe that's a or b. Oh, they just died. Oh, they just died. And so now everything is just, there's nobody here that it's happening to. So of course everything's just fine. It's liberation. Like just realize it's a dream that you never were and everything's fine. And it's like, that sounds great until somebody cuts you off in traffic or your kid gets sick or you know, and some of these people, they don't have kids. They've never had relationships. They've been traumatized. It's like, well, yeah, I could see why that would show up for you. It's almost like a dissociative pattern. And but then people fall into this thing online, you know, because we're social creatures. And then they come to me and they're like, I'm so unhappy. This is not a, why don't I have this yet? I'll never be awake. I'll never be free. And then this unbearable compassion arises because you see in them, you and you and them and there's no difference there. Yeah. Oh yeah, I love it. And I really like what you said about that. That the only, we've had this discussion before about certain aspects of the, you know, the spiritual sphere, the only sensible response is compassion to it. So if I'm seeing or you're seeing this, I mean, you said there's like this right righteous angst, anger, sorry, that there's like, oh, you know, why, why are they doing this? But when we drop a little deeper, it's like, it's kind of sweet, actually. There's a, there's a sweet, yeah, well, there's a sweetness to like, well, of course, we want it all to go away instantly. Of course we do. Of course, like, that's, yeah. And not just, not just because, yeah, that's like a movement of the heart, but also we've been indoctrinated like that. That's what consumerism does. That's the very nature of consumerism. Isn't it? It's like instant satisfaction to your craving. So actually, you could say that the majority of a path really, and the Buddha said this very clearly, is recognizing that craving fuel that propels us into continual becoming and grasping, recognizing that and again and again, meeting that with love, again and again, meeting that with compassion until those clinging grasping hands relax and soften, to be recognized the things that we're grasping at will never, ever, ever satisfy because like I've pointed to before, because these conditions are falling apart. It doesn't matter what you grab onto, call that a Mercedes Benz, a house in California, or awakening. Call it whatever you want. It is falling apart right now. Right now, it is falling apart right now. Yet the delusion is, oh no, no, I can rely upon these things and we all get to see that that is not true. We all get to see that. So then what do you do? That's the question then, isn't it? So it's like, well, knowing that and seeing that, even just a glimpse, what do you do? And this is where the invitation of exploration of that which is not conditioned arises. It's like, I can see the arising and passing of conditioned phenomena, whatever it is, like I said, could call it Mercedes, could call it physical sense desire, you know, like orgasms and smoking and whatever it is, you know, beauty in in sight, you know, but I can see the arising and ceasing of those phenomena. And I know that is not satisfactory. Ultimately, it's not going to satisfy me. So what happens if I let go? What happens if I just one step at a time, one phenomena at a time, where possible, just hold a little more lightly, just let go a little bit, a little bit. And then what becomes apparent is that which cannot be spoken about in conditional terms, which is the unconditioned, unformed, uncompounded nirvana, which is exactly what the Buddha's talking about. This is liberate. You know, that's the liberation is pointed to often. But we're so deeply conditioned to believe that the conditions will satisfy us that it cannot be a one and done. We are conditioned from the moment we have our first sensory input, you know, we inherit this millennia of self centered delusion. It takes a long time for that to unbind, really. So realistically, the work becomes very simple, just this moment to whatever degree possible, hold a little less tightly. That's it. Just do that forever. And then you may find that there's no holding. Wouldn't that be amazing? You may find that after maybe 15, 20 years. I know you found this and I found this is that a situation that was familiar five years ago arises five years later. And there's just no grasping at all. You don't do anything. You just realize, oh, there's freedom now. And I remember when it felt like hell. But now there's just no stickiness, no triggering, no reactivity. And you just put it down to the to the training, the practice doing the work, just a slight letting go, letting go, letting go unbinding. Yeah, the appropriate response to that is total silence. That's the appropriate. I mean, because that's what that is. I mean, that was beautiful. For me, for me that has shown up as a, it can feel like a continual sense of loss. So, you know, you said it perfectly, Memento Mori, remember, you will die. Everyone around you will die. All of it is impermanence. So how can this be satisfactory when it doesn't ever last? So impermanence, lack of satisfactoriness, lack of certainty, predictability, and lack of just any permanent sense of realness to this means that those are the fundamental delusions is we think there are those things moment to moment. We think this will continue. I can have this. This will make me happy. I can make this permanent. I can have a legacy. I will have eternal life. I will be eternally awake and blissful all and then I'll be happy. Then I'll be okay. And it's like that is the fundamental, like the 10th fetter, which is really the primary fetter, which is I think this is permanent, substantial and satisfactory. And it's not. And so when, like you said, so what's the practice then? Well, it's exactly what you said in a million different faces, like all the different Hindu deities looking at you with different practices, different aspects of this truth. And when it shows up, like for me, it's been like, oh, I lost the identity of being Z-dog the performer who is going to make myself feel worthy by making people like him. Or I lost the sense that I'm going to be like fabulously so wealthy that I'm always secure and safe. And I always feel safe because there's certainty that I won't be on the street. Like, you know, or I'm going to find the perfect, you know, romance with my partner and it's just going to be flawless and we'll work out all this stuff. And each of those things starts to die. And then what happens exactly what you said, something arises that would have triggered this feeling in the body and then this cascade of emotions and thoughts like grasping or pushing away. And it just doesn't. It's just seen. And if anything, maybe there's a subtle movement, like you feel this twins that you recognize and you go, there's that twins that would start a cascade. And it just goes into nothing. And that's the work that you're that you're pointing at that we cannot bypass. Which is interesting. That's the very work that you like espouse the very first time I contacted you. I don't know if you remember, I reached out to you because you were like you said, you've kind of gone through this process online. But you were talking exactly about that tendency towards reactivity within the body mind to try and fight with experience and deal with anger and to try and become the one who fixes everything. And you were doing the work, you know, like so it might sound at this point, you know, people might tune in and go, Oh, Zubin saying everything is love and, you know, open radiant presence. But and actually, yeah, like we said, okay, that is a facet to what's going on. But actually, both you and I know that it, you know, this work was not that at that time, it was real kind of intimate, very close, very sinewy, just straightforward. There is this experience, it feels this way. Everything about me wants to react like this, wants to push against, or pull towards it wants to eat this. This is the movement of craving, isn't it? That is the fuel of suffering, the craving for more of something or the craving for less of something. So Tanha or Vibhava Tanha, which is like, give me more thirst or like, get rid, get rid, you know, and it's that constant play of craving that keeps us bound to suffering because we're just wrestling with these conditions that really have no solidity to them. They don't have any permanence. They come and go with their own accord. When we let them, they just arise and cease, arise and cease and rise and cease. But that they're so well, they're not actually sticky, but they can feel so sticky because of our conditioning. But before we know it, we do go, we're dragged down. We kind of like we grab on to whatever it is. Could be the insult. Could be some of the words we've said in this conversation. Might be, oh no, Simon said that thing about neo-adviter and oh my god, I can't believe he said that and blah, blah, blah, you know, and then there we go. That's the grabbing of the mind that wants to wrestle with the thing in a dualistic way is in subject to the object or this over that, right versus wrong. And it gives the illusion that there's safety in that. There's safety in being on the right side of the argument. Like no, the argument, the very aspect that there's an argument at all or any kind of conflict at all, you could say, that's what's unsafe because it's not true in the most, in the truest sense, it's not in line with nature. So nature doesn't have these opposing permanent, conflictual sides. That's just not, I mean, we can see that look around you. I don't see that really anywhere. But when I hear stories about it seems so real, doesn't it? Like if somebody tells me Republicans versus Democrats, you know, like Mexicans versus Americans or, you know, North versus South, whatever it is, like when somebody says that, it feels like there's a real opposition. But it's just the mind playing with mind stuff. Really, it's like the conditioned mind playing with the imagined conditions. It's like, okay, well, what, and again, that's the invitation is that, well, what is there that is not conditioned? Is there an aspect to this experience that does not depend upon conditions? And that's it. It's just a simple invitation, isn't it? Each time, it's like, okay, whatever's here right now, can I sense that which does not depend? Just the slightest sense, just a little, little flavor. And this is where the Buddha, like said in one of his, is a beautiful sutta. I might have been subdued, he actually, but he said, turn towards the deathless, turn towards the unconditioned. If you sense it in experience, yeah, let it let that take you the unconditioned aspect of this, let that become the most interesting part of, you say part of experience, well, actually, we start to realize it's not just part of experience, it is. Well, this is where the words ground come up quite a lot, don't they? But yeah, sorry, this is a bit of a ramble, but it's kind of, it's kind of fun to explore, isn't it? Dude, this is the only thing I care about. So, so, so, okay. Man, all right, so this, this duality, so society, this sort of consensus reality of human conditioning, millennia, like you said, millennia of division and delusion, will, for those that are going through this, will assert itself like Mara, the sort of, you know, pseudo demonic force that hit the Buddha under the Bodhi tree and was like, yeah, it will assert itself. It will say things to me like, why aren't you talking about RFK and the vaccine things that they're doing and Trump and this, you have a platform, you have a voice, you used to talk about this stuff, you're a healthcare professional, we signed up to watch you talk about this. And now you're telling me everything is love and radiance and you should sit and meditate or whatever it is you're telling me in that moment. And for a long time when I met you, that was what was arising, it's like, like, what do I do about this? Like there's a, the pull of this thing, because it, it rewards you with a burst of feeling transient satisfactoriness. Like I did a thing. I helped people. Did you have you when you realize what you pointed out, which is what I was calling the ALT middle, like this, this realization that they're, they're really both sides of the same side of the same no thing, the unconditioned, you, you, you can't increasingly, you just can't. So what you pointed out where you'll go back and you'll say, it's not even like, oh, Simon said this about knee-advidence, it's more like, what did I say about that? Like was that right? Like there's an internal self-correction mechanism that starts to arise where you're like, I took a side transiently, didn't I? Oh, and you see it, maybe it's after the fact. And you're like, ooh, and it creates a little, oh, that's not quite, hmm, yeah. And it just kind of relaxes. And instead of shooting into guilt, into shame and underworthiness, although those can come and they're also welcome. And then you see them, it's more like, oh, okay. Yeah, no, that wasn't really, I guess I, there was a little bit of delusion shown up there that where that wasn't seen. And that's okay. And then it's like, ah, and so it's a continual kind of flux of this. Now, if you want to talk about the real bypass, the bypass that I like that is not bypass, it is looking at 10 bypasses. Okay. Top 10 non-portographic magazines to bypass to okay. Three, two, one. High times. The, the, the, what you pointed at that, which is an experience now that does not depend on conditions, the deathless. So for me, that is not bypass. That is going, okay, I'm caught. There's a cat, a caught in conditions, believing conditions to be permanent, satisfactory, you know, real substantial. Okay. What's here that's not that, that's beyond and not that. And that's what becomes louder and louder and louder and more and more right on the edge of waking awareness because it cannot be thought of. It can't be remembered except in the heart. And, and when it's touched, it's like, oh, and for me, it's a big smile and it's laughter and it's a sense of energy coming through the body seems to happen. Sometimes these are just epiphenomena of that touching and sometimes it's nothing. It's just stillness. It's just silence and that is the pure freedom beyond that is the pervades everything. And these words are stupid. And yet I have to talk because Zubin's body mind loves to do that. Yeah, I mean, that's the tools that we have on the, you know, like this is the beauty. This is where we start to really recognize the beauty of the infinite creativity of the ground as phenomena or the mind as projection or whatever you can say, you know, the emptiness as form, like we get this, once says this opening up and this letting go and this realization of the non fixed nature of that's where words fail from that infinite words can arise, can't they? And they're always playful. If we recognize that the words are never it, the words are never it, they're just never it. But there can be play and dancing experience as experienced that kind of can loop back round and point back towards it. Can't they? They can, they can keep us in the loop. It's like a collaborative experience. It can be really beautiful.  but that takes a long time to learn, actually, or remember. I think a long time to remember. Remember. Because we're born with this inherent capacity for play, like actual play. Not this contrived play but this just like everything is spontaneously, curiously exploring itself, for no end. There's no endpoint or result or gratification. gratification in itself, you know, and we did that all the time when we were young, you know, it was just super easy to do. And we, the condition just kind of like says, no, that's silly, that's pointless, that doesn't get things done, because actually, conditioned existence says that A plus B equals C, you know, like there is, we're putting this thing, which is imagined, together with this thing, which is imagined, and we're getting this new imagined thing, and that's valuable. So it's like, oh, yeah, well, if I'm going to buy into that, I need to let go of play that has no end, no purpose, you know, it's all going to be purposeful. So then learning how to play again, it's really hard, you know, and what comes up, and I'm sure it does for you, is shame. When we start playing again, we start feeling the shameful messages of you're no good, you're worthless, what use are you, you're not doing the thing that you should do, like you said, you're not talking about healthcare, you're not, are you even a doctor anymore, you know, like, and that's just like specific to you, I've got my own shit going on in that regard, you know, like, but you'll feel those messages like, yes, it's so interesting, it's such a beautiful practice to then feel that, and meet that with the same curiosity and playful spirit as well, it's like, okay, well, so this, this deep shameful messaging has aroused in me, as I take my foot off the doing and step more into the being, how can I treat that with curiosity and play also? Sometimes that's possible. Sometimes it's absolutely not, it's just too disgusting to even be near, you have to just kind of like, move away. Sometimes that the play might be, I'm going to call Zubin, I'm just going to say, listen, this is hard, can you help me? And that in itself, that's playful and spontaneous, because that's like, the last thing that the shameful controlling, go get a achiever mindset once is weakness and vulnerability and companionship and collaboration. So just that simple step into, let's call a friend and just say, I'm struggling with this thing, can you help me? That is found to be playful as well. It's like, oh, wow, isn't that amazing? And then we can play together. How exciting is that? That is absolutely gorgeous. And you touched on, you touched on, I mean, this is the dance you and I do, it is play every time. And it could be like, I'm going through living hell, you're going through living hell. Like when you did, it's so funny, sometimes you'll call and we'll both like, start with like, so how are you? It's like, well, you know what, tell me how you are first. And whoever says that is usually the one that's probably suffering more in that moment. And then what'll happen is this very dark, painful stuff will come up and it will, it will turn into this collaborative sort of dance and just the expression of it, just the witnessing of it, just the communion of it is enough to turn it into that. And you know, as you were talking about this idea of play, it brought back this memory of when I was young. And it's interesting because we were talking about how the conditioning tells us this isn't okay. And how much love and forgiveness we have to have for ourselves for forgetting, because sometimes we hold ourselves accountable. Like how could I forget this? Like, well, here's how. So, you know, I'm a kid. I forget how old I was very young, I was still living in New Jersey and I had this goldfish bowl, this glass goldfish bowl. And I remember, I asked my mom, could I take it in the shower? Because I want to play with it in the shower. And she's like, why? You know, it's just a goldfish bowl. I'm like, God, I just want to. So, I took this bowl in the shower and I'm in the shower. I'm taking a shower. I don't know how I want to, I was six years old or something. And I'm filling it with water and I'm just watching the, water sloshing around and pouring it out and the colors and the sights and the play for the sake of play, just this beautiful thing. And at some point, it slips out of my hand because it's slippery and it's heavy and it's glass and it's full of water and it shatters at my feet. And there's blood because I've cut my toe or something, right? And so, I start crying. And so, my dad comes in and he sees this thing, this shattered glass and I'm crying and he gets absolutely furious. Like, and he just, he takes me out of the thing and he just like whoops me and he's like, don't ever do that again. Like, you know, this, this, this and I'm crying and my mom screaming and all this stuff. And the message that they were innocent, like, of course, like you see your kid covered in blood, your first reaction is like this defensive rage and all your conditioning. Nothing wrong with that. But the message to the child is that wasn't okay. It didn't have a purpose. It's unsafe. You know, all this stuff. And I get like the safety of holding glass in the shower. Yes. But the play is what was conditioned out. And so, then later there's all this wall around you that I can't feel that I can't do that. Just sitting and being and just looking at the desk for an hour is not okay. You know, like you're no longer a doctor. You're no longer a husband. You're no longer a provider of the family, all these things that arise. And it's really quite heartbreaking. Yeah. Oh man, you're breaking my heart just to say in these words. I feel it really deeply because actually everything you described was a movement of innocence, wasn't it? Like just this innocent exploration. And an accident happened. So not only is the play kind of conditioned out of you, you're being taught with violence that you need to be perfect. You cannot make mistakes. Like, so at the same time, yes, okay, the parents are innocent and they're conditioned as well. And also it is absolutely okay to be like, no, fuck that, that was not okay. Like, so, and I have that in my own experience is like, yes, there's so much love and respect and care for my parents and everything that they did. And at the same time is those things that you did, they really hurt. There's no, no kind of they hurt, but they hurt, but it was, it was your own conditioning or you're just responding because you were traumatized. And that might be true. But it's important to have that acknowledgement of, yeah, this did really hurt. No buts, no ifs, no maybes, this really hurt. And I love you. You know, we can have those two things. So this is like, when the heart is open and not bound up in dualism. Well, actually, we don't need to find sides, do we? We don't need to have it be a certain way. We notice that the boundless heart is boundless. It has an infinite capacity to feel so you can hold contradict, apparently contradictory truths at the same time. But yeah, so like if you think about that, that's one instance, one instance in your experience as a child. There will probably be thousands more. I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about the universal childhood experience, thousands more of those drip, drip, drip, where we are, we kind of hammered into shape, into the shape of a scared often isolated self like a fixed individual that is not good enough and needs to needs to do better. And it's a view and a belief that we carry with us. Nearly all our lives, most of us, for all our lives, I see people that I love very dearly, you know, friends and family. I can feel it pervading nearly every experience is this deep unworthiness that they inherited that we all inherited. You know, like Tara Brack calls it, the trance of unworthiness is really kind of beautiful. Yeah, it's just because we inherit this lostness that we don't know we've got. Yeah, so I mean, it's, and this is goes back to that aspect about this unbinding awakening, letting go liberation of the heart. It's, it takes time, it takes patience, it takes kindness, it takes consistency. How could this possibly be one and done? How could it possibly, if we think about what we've just talked about, that is foundational, conditional, compounded, often traumatic material for people, we can't just have an insight and it disappears. So insights for the clearly seeing mind, this is the living bio organism that has been conditioned. So we're having to work with that all the time, aren't we? So yeah, I mean, yeah, bit of a ramble, but I feel you so fully with what you're saying because, yeah, I think so many people will resonate with what you've just said. This is where I want to link back to our previous conversation in the, in the description here, because we talked about tools, actual tools for going back, looking at these traumatic conditionings and, and everybody has them, like everybody. And there is, you know, it's like the first noble truth, like life is unsatisfactory, life is suffering, however you want to translate it. There are many, many, many, many, many people who deny that that's true. They don't see the suffering because the trans of unworthiness is so pervasive. It's so, in every cell in the body, that they, it's all you deserve. It's all you deserve. So it's not even suffering. It's just life. It's just that's, no, I'm not suffering. It's like, oh, oh, and that is again, unbearable compassion arises when you, when you see that, because like you said, you feel it now in people. Sometimes you think it's yours because in a sense, it is. Yes. But you're like, why am I, oh, oh, and here's the thing, like having teenage girls. Oh man, Simon, like because they transmit, they, they cannot hide their emotions when they're going through this like high school conditioning and they're having a difficult day or something's happening or they're going through something. Oh my God. It's like, it's shot right into you and you just feel it entirely. And you're, and the, and the first movement of the unexamined mind is to get the fuck out or to do something to distract or to make it stop. Right. And unfortunately, or fortunately, that's no longer possible. So now it's like, okay, I'm going to fill all of this. Yeah. And it leads against it. It's like parent husband 3.0 or something. Isn't it? Like, how do you, how do you actually show up as a living, loving, present parent, you know, without relying upon those kind of, yeah, avoidance, defense mechanisms, because that's really what most of them are, aren't they? Is that like these, yeah, I mean, it's, it's a big conversation, probably not good for a nonparent to talk about parenting because it's a lot for me to learn. But I know in my own experiences that the lack of capacity of the primary caregiver to feel or resonate with the actual feeling of the child just means that they move into their own defensive structures and patterns. So then they impose those defensive structures and patterns onto the child, which then grow into this kind of like maladapted person, which then perpetuates generation after generation after generation. And often it involves like really, really difficult stuff, you know, so like co-dependence or violence, you know, and like you said, when you talked about, you know, you got hit by your dad, you know, I was hit quite a lot when I was a child as well. And what's beautiful in a way is that nowadays that's clearly seen as not okay. I don't know if it is in the States, but in the UK, like this child endangerment, you will get arrested for hitting your child, you know, I mean, if it gets reported, whereas, you know, when we were growing up, that was just like, that was just parenting. Yeah, it's just standard. And it's like the effect that that has on you as a kid. So just like, and often it would be because I felt too much. It's like, oh, I'm having these feelings and they want to be expressed. It's like, shut those feelings down, or else, or else what, or else I'll hit you. It's like, what the fuck, I can't shut them down. What are you going to get hit? It's like, what is that? That is wild. And like, it's not anybody's fault, like you said, but that is painful stuff, you know, painful, like the way in which that shapes and conditions people over time. So I kind of want to give a weird shout out now, because have you seen Kpop Demon Hunters? So it's funny, everyone's been telling me to watch it. My kids watch it, and they're like, it's garbage, dad, don't watch it. But I heard it's something to watch. Okay, I'll check it out. I've watched it three times this week. Oh, that's awesome. So, and the reason I said that is because it gives a message that you never hear, you never hear this message. It's all about unresolved patterns of shame and damage that are hidden through fear, stopping us from being free. And the entire, and they had the demons ultimately, I'm not going to go into it too much. And it's all about like letting these patterns of shame and damage see the light be accepted in community in the world to be liberated. It is sick. Like it's so good. The songs are amazing. They're so beautiful. And like, you can tell it's taken years and years to write because they've been able to code in so many different facets of societal norms that are not spoken about. So like, autistic traits are really beautifully coded into some of the characters. Queer traits have been really like very heavily coded into it. But it's not overtly, like neurodivergent friendly or overtly queer friendly or overtly or preachy. Yeah, no, it's not any, they've got into this universal human experience of shame. They're able to like tap into it in all these different ways. And that's why I think something like three billion people have watched it. Like it's ludicrous how successful it is that it's like this cypher. It's gone right under the radar of content consuming mind. And it's resonating on this level of shared humanity. I don't think people actually know that it's happening consciously, but they're feeling it. They're feeling it. And I felt it so deeply. I watched it the first time. It's like, what was that? Just all of this emotion coming up. I couldn't believe how good it is. So yeah, I mean, some people may think it's trash. I strongly disagree. I think it's incredibly thoughtful, beautifully made piece of art with it's very considered, very, very considered, and it's effortless to watch. Incredible songs, gets you singing, gets you dancing, incredible animation. You've got like cool, very cool, female, empowered, not girlboss, but real people kicking a shit out of demons as well. So like there's that aspect to it, which is just fun. I honestly, I've been blown away by K-pop demon hunters. I because I had a similar view to you. This isn't for me. You know, this is kind of like, just like frozen or whatever, you know, it's just kind of Disney trash. It is not that. It is quite something. Yeah, it's really beautiful. I'm absolutely going to watch it tonight because the way you described it, that is right up my alley. Like I'll absolutely, you know, it's funny. I had that experience with the Barbie movie of all things. You know, I, when I saw that, I was like, this is all about repressed emotion. It's about being able to actually allow safely your feelings and to really grow into your power that way instead of, you know, and all this dichotomy of male, female, patriarchy, all that. That's a side note. It's about that. You know, I want to feel everything. And that's why the song by Billy Eilish, that's the kind of hit from that movie is so perfect. You know, what am I made for? What am I made for? It's beautiful. It points back to kind of where we started about that deep human longing to be seen and connection. You know, it's in all of us. It is the default. And when you get a piece of art or popular culture that strikes that note, and I think like you said, Barbie does it really well. K-pop Demon Hunters does it beautifully. I think everything everywhere all at once does that. Yep. Perfectly. Because he doesn't specifically say this is what it's about. It's just like, no, this is the human experience. It is broad. It is messy. It is tricky. And because of that, we can relate. We can see our own lives in it. And when it does that, this ripple happens. And we just like popular culture would say, well, that's a film being successful. But actually, what I feel is no, that is human nature, that inclination to wake up the open awake loving heart. It's like a bell being struck. It's just this ringing, resonating human facet of compassionate love. It's like, oh, yeah, it's alive in all of us. I just think it's, I don't know, I find it very beautiful that in times like this, when we're told just accept AI slop and just like be given short form content and be given quick answers for everything, when you get like a piece of popular culture that says no, it doesn't have to be like that look. And you get billions of people going, oh, oh, yeah, okay. I mean, that, yeah, I find it very uplifting, as you can probably tell. That's beautiful. I have a similar response to beautiful pop culture like that. And it often is, sometimes it's pop culture like that where billions of people are watching it. Sometimes it's something so subtle like perfect days. I don't know if you've seen this film. It's by a German director starring a Japanese, it's in set in Japan, and it's all in Japanese with subtitles. And it's about a guy who cleans toilets in Tokyo, those fancy toilets, and that's his job. And the guy pretty much, there's hardly any words in the whole movie. There's like five sentences probably in the entire film. And you just watch his life, his perfect days. Like he goes through, he wakes up, he does this, he goes to sleep, he dreams, he wakes up, he does this, he goes to sleep, he dreams. And the way it's set up, it's like, this is liberation, the way this guy lives. He's looking at the trees, then he's doing his work for the sake of doing the work. Like there's no outcome that he's looking for. He's like, but he's so perfect about it. And then the way he interacts with others, and then you get a little glimpse of his past and you realize he's had a difficult time. And yet here he is cleaning toilets and he's as content as anybody. And yeah, so there's these sort of art pieces like this. Perfect days, perfect days. It's on, I don't know if you have Hulu out there in the UK. Yeah, it's like part of Disney. Perfect. Yeah. So you can watch it and tell me what you think. Yeah, I'd like to. I watched in the cinema this Christmas, it's a wonderful life. Oh, the original life. It's been years. Oh man, it's good. It's really good. Oh, it's the original. Just find it's so, I don't know. I mean, we could go into a whole different area, but yeah, it kind of points to the universality of this compassionate human heart. You know, it cannot help but burst into the like everyday life, you know, in spite of all the negative corporate messaging that we receive and receive, you know, like this, they're the human inclination towards liberation. Let's call it that, you know, you could call it a bodhicitta, if you want, whatever it is. It's an active facet of being alive. And the more that we're able to tune into it, the more you start noticing it kind of everywhere, really start noticing it more and more and more. It's wonderful. How much of this, Simon, do you think because our own mind projection apparatus seemingly is reconditioned by the insight and experience of this all this work and unfolding that we are projecting into the world now this and when we share it, it conditions others or do you think it's absolutely exist? I mean, these are dumb questions. They're almost such as intellectual questions that don't make sense. But it is interesting. Yes. Yes and yes. Maybe not. Who knows? I mean, yeah, we could kind of, we could kind of get into that. But yeah, it's so beautiful that you're able to catch that mechanism of mine there. Because actually, it is kind of interesting, isn't it? It's kind of interesting. But does it actually, what does it do? You know, does it help me to reside more in this known experience of open-hearted love? Or does it take me away from that? And I think your response was sort of clear indicator of what that would do for you. So yeah, let's just come back. It's so nice to hang out because we've not actually hung out for a few weeks, I feel maybe a month or so. So it's just been, I do wonder what people might make of this because it's like this only because this is kind of how we jam, isn't it? Like it's how we vibe. And I really like, I don't think there's a lot of that in the online awakening world of just people that are figuring this out together. You know, like walking, like actually, yeah, it's complicated and it's weird and it's joyful and it's sorrowful and it's all of these things. It's like, it's no particular way. So what is it like when two curious friends come together and say, well, let's just take the risk and explore together. We, you know, we get to a stage like now in the conversation, we just go, we don't get anything out of it. There's no thing that I get out of it. And yeah, what has emerged feels so nourishing, like it's, it's not specific, but yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm just grateful. Just grateful. That's beautifully articulated. It's funny. So I've done this for a living in the past, this is what we're doing. And normally when I'm having a conversation, there's a secondary voice layer that's a control aspect that's like, okay, guide it this way because the audience needs to see this or this needs to happen here so that it becomes a piece of content that is useful. Or I wonder what people will think of this, like those things would normally be a secondary audio track in my headphone playing like mentally. And when you and I talk like this, and I think some of it is because a lot of this has fallen away, which this is a gift to me, Simon, because it allows me to self reflect how much has changed. Because sometimes you don't notice on this journey what is gone because it's gone. It's an absence. You don't notice it. You're expecting things to show up, like, oh, love and bliss and presence. And, you know, those are like the mind wants those things. But like what it doesn't recognize sometimes is what isn't there. And you're pointing this out just now is like, Oh, that wasn't there. It was just like this lovely conversation where my heart is opening and we're sharing these intimate things. It's like, Oh, that's gorgeous. And if people like it great, if they don't, that's okay too. But like just that we got to do it. And like you said, because we haven't talked in a few weeks, it actually makes it like our conversation. Totally. You know, it's like this is what we do. Yeah. Yeah, really fantastic. I think we did a thing, man, because I have to pee soon. Yeah, let's go off camera for that. I think. Yeah. Yeah. Well, yeah, it's really, really nice to hang out. And yeah, we can do this again. I think, yeah, please, it'd be really nice to do that. But yeah, sending you and anyone who hears this, lots of love. And yeah, like wherever you are on the path, that includes you, Zubin and anyone out there, I am alongside you. I might sound a little bit preachy or a bit kind of woo, but like, yeah, I know, I know how hard this can be. And you're not alone. You're not alone. And he's not kidding. Yeah, he is with you. Simon, every time I know, because it's almost like Simon is like the voice of the Dharma. Whenever I get a little too much off into some sidetrack, he's like, Hey, you know, not intentionally, but it's just like, Oh, I'm reminded that and it's not, and that it's not easy, you know, that there's no way to bypass it. That's what's beautiful. I think that's what you've really taught me is like, you cannot, you have to go to the places where you really don't want to go. Like the mind doesn't want to go. You want to feel the things that you were shown that you shouldn't be allowed to feel for all the reasons we talked about. Maybe it's conditioning violence, all the things. And that's, but that's where the, you know, as David White says, right, the well of grief, like that's where you go to find the gold coins at the bottom. You have to go there and to have a companion that can go there with you unconditionally. Oh, that's a gift. And, and look in your life. I'm talking to the audience now, look in your life and see if that person or persons don't already exist. And you just haven't seen it. Yeah, it's like, maybe we can kind of end it there. But what like, there's a beautiful term that again, Tara Brock uses is taking the exquisite risk. And that's it, isn't it? That's the risk, because the risk is if I show this vulnerability to the people in my life, I will be rejected. They won't go there with me. So I have to hide it. But what would it be like if we just took the risk once? Yeah, we may get burned. But you might find out that, okay, you get burned, but you're okay. Is another wonderful thing to find out. I didn't need their validation anyway. Or we take the risk and we realize, oh, they are there for me. They love me way more than I thought. And actually, their love isn't dependent on me being this character being a certain way. It's much deeper than that. And I found that out again and again and again, as I've taken that risk. It's like, oh, I thought people would vomit all over me and disgust if they actually saw what it was. Or just like, you know, like, get out, just screaming my face. But I was just hugged often. Oh, that's amazing. Thank you. So yeah, yeah, see if that's possible, maybe. Oh, beautiful. What did you say? The exquisite? The exquisite risk. The exquisite risk. The exquisite risk of unbearable compassion. That's our book, Simon. That's what we're going to do. I love it. Yeah. We'll go safe. P. Well, you know, I was joking with my wife that I wanted to create, or no, with my friend, that I wanted to create a non-dual amusement park. And like, you know, the cave of no self. But the restrooms, we're going to have signs that say P here now. And that's the most. It's a series of dad jokes. Just it's a bit of a rollercoaster. This conversation. It really is. Yeah. I apologize to everyone who has to put up with what just happened. I love you, Simon. Thank you so much. I'll see you soon. This was gorgeous. Thanks. See you guys next time. Bye.

=== FILE: Thanksgiving Zen LIVE： Liberation is for turkeys, bruh [0MmIjiI7ttM].txt ===

 EAAs, that was that, EAAs, that was special. Yeah, I can't tell you how many times my kids have referred to me as zesty, and I had to have them explain what that meant, because that's new terminology to a Gen X or like me. I was like, maybe I am zesty, okay? Nothing wrong with that. Zesty Z-dog. Happy pre-thanksgiving everyone in the US who knows what that is, and everyone else in the world who is like, fuck thanksgiving. Thought I'd go live. I'm in my little sunroom here, and it just was nice. We got this new chair and it like, it reclines, yo. Oh, man. You know you work hard all your life just so you can buy a Dan Kleiner, like Archie Bunker. Just sit around. Let me be racist and homophobic. That's what the chair is for. Come on down, everyone. Let me just set this up so I can see yo comments. Sue is here in the hospital delivering turkeys. That's pretty much what every human baby is at that point. It's a turkey. So my wife is reading The Bell Jar by Sylvia Plath for no reason, and there's a part in it she was telling me about where some beautiful blonde dude during college or something is trying to get in her pants or whatever and says, would you like to see me naked? And she goes, yeah, whatever. And she takes off his clothes and her internal dialogue is, at that point, all I could see was a turkey neck and turkey gizzards, and I became rather depressed. So happy turkey day. Now that image will stick with you and destroy what vestige of nostalgia you had for this God-awful holiday. Erica Black getting ready for Thanksgiving tomorrow as, I mean, it's not that God-awful because you have baby Ashley. You'll have fun. We have fun too. We're not going to eat. This year we're not cooking at home. We're going to a like hot pot place in the mall. Someone said it was really good. We've been to this other hot pot place and we love it. The kids, we went for Christmas last year and the kids loved it. We're like, this is a tradition. I'm like, all right, I don't like to spend the whole day cooking. Let's do that. And then this year we're going to try this slightly more fancier one that has wagyu beef, which we're not going to order because my LDL doesn't like that. And also, it turns out the regular beef is a better value. Anyways, where are we? Happy pre-day from the rest of the world says, am I in the UK? We understand your meaning. Yes. We give thanks for the, you know, coming to the continental US, destroying the Indians with smallpox guns and steel Indians. And I'm an Indian. Okay, they're not Indians. Oh, by Jennifer, Melanie says, I like to think of it as gratitude day. Well, you know, it'd be nice, Melanie, if like every day were gratitude day. But you know, this is the beautiful thing. Practicing gratitude, all these kind of things that the spiritual people talk about and the self-help people talk about, like the Jay Sheddy's and the Melanie, whatever the hell her name is and the Tony Robbins and all these guys, you know, gratitude. It's like, that's great. Then there's like the gratitude that is beyond any practice of it because it's naturally baked into the realization that everything is perfectly as it is and could easily be nothing. And that it's thing is made of gratitude itself. So then you don't need a turkey day for it. Although it's nice to have the reminder. You just need to stop believing in the story of you for a second. That's it. Just a second. When the story of you no longer holds weight, then there's just what is and that is infinite gratitude by nothing for nothing as everything. As you try to talk about it, it just sounds like word salad. But I think some of you are catching what my turkey gizzards are throwing your way. Turkey neck and gizzards, man. Steve Jobs is God. That's a great handle. Zubin, what do you think about cholesterol, LDL and keto carnivore diet going against AHA guidelines yet people reporting great healthy results? This is now a foray into just storytelling because I have no fucking clue about anything. I'll tell you my story. I used to believe the AHA and for years had a very low saturated fat, high carb, all the things they said to do. It was pudgy. I didn't feel great. But when I did that, my cholesterol was pretty good. LDL was fine. Then when I moved to Vegas, I started doing intermittent fasting, trying keto, high saturated fat, high animal products, like all that. I found I felt better. I lost weight. But my LDL cholesterol went through the roof. Now, I measured a whole panel of things with Peter Atia back in the day when Peter was just a buddy and not the famous motherfucker he is now. He's charging however many hundreds of thousands of dollars to celebrities to do this shit. I got it for free. We ran this battery of the usual inflammatory markers, CRP, LP, little A, all the different LDL parameters including NMR, particle size, all that. What we found is on a high saturated fat diet, my response was to produce a shower of tiny, atherogenic LDL particles, which is not good. Because it's those small particles that tend to lodge in the vessel walls. There was no inflammation. There were no other risk factors, no hypertension, no smoking, no diabetes. Although a tendency to diabetes, like a risk for it, which is why I liked keto. The punchline of that was I went back to a regular Mediterranean diet. LDL went down, HDL went up. The weight kind of still fluctuated because I think the carbs, but most of it was because I would eat to emotionally self sooth. So it was more a root cause that was beyond nutrition. It was more about emotion, repressed emotion, drama, those kind of things. So the punchline there is now I'm on a Mediterranean type diet and I find if I go to high saturated fat, I have all this shower of lipids. Now here's the thing. You could say, well, you can have all those lipids, the high LDL, and some people say this, and they're big, buoyant particles and they're not atherogenic, but mine aren't. They are small. And I did a coronary calcium scan back when I was 44 years old, about eight years ago, and I actually live streamed it from Las Vegas. At that time, my coronary calcium score was zero, but eight years later, I repeated it because I wanted to see. I've been very lax with the diet. I've been eating a lot of saturated fat. My LDL was anywhere between 120 and 160. HDL was in the 50s somewhere. Triglycerides were very, very low. So otherwise fine, no inflammation, same thing, no hypertension. And now I have a calcium score of 12, which is still trivial, but it's in all of it. It's a little tiny bit of calcium, and it just shows that there was some atherosclerosis with healing that shows up as calcium, because all you see are the calcified plaques. You don't see the soft, unstable plaque that might be there. So at that point, I realized saturated fat and me don't get along. I had no other risk factors, except for possibly stress, emotional repression, those kind of things, which had been kind of flaring up over the last eight years as I travel around the world doing talks, raising my blood pressure at the time of the talk, raising my cortisol, all those things. So it's multifactorial, but the ultimate punchline to answer your question is, it's so specific to the person. So my genetics don't get along with high animal saturated fat. They do really well now. I got my APOB, which is the actual, a better measure of the entire amount of atherogenic particles. It's like a fudge of that. The APOB levels got them down from 100 something down to 77, which is really good. And my LDL is now like, what was it, 95 or something? And all I did was eat more sardines, salmon, fish, avocados, pecans, oatmeal, less saturated fat, less cheese, but still fudging here and there, and it seems to work fine. And then of course I exercised mostly by walking and doing weights in the gym. That's it. Nothing really hypererobic, although it does the gym weights tend to get the heart rate up. So it's so tailored for everybody. Somebody else's genetics is totally different. They may do really well with high saturated fat and a keto type carnivore diet without having increased risk of atherogenesis. My big concern more is stroke and dementia. If I'm going to go out with a heart attack, that's fine, but I don't want to be a total gomer in the process, right? As we used to say back in the day, when we turned a patient into a problem because we were stressed out and feeling unworthy. So that's kind of my take on that. So now I'm in that place. Now it may change tomorrow. I may find that my body changes, the metabolism changes. And in the setting of all that, no signs of diabetes or pre-diabetes, everything seems to be good and I've lost a bunch of weight, but that was because the emotional repression, the trauma and stuff started getting processed through the body and the weight just disappeared without me trying, because I stopped randomly using food as comfort. As I've talked about, that started in January. It's kind of crazy. So, yeah, that's kind of how it is. Kathy says she felt great on a keto diet, lost a bunch of weight, except kept getting auras and passing out due to low blood pressure. Now I'm fat and lazy and no longer pass out. I'll take fat and lazy and awake. Let's see. Yeah, if you don't feel good on a diet, what's the point? I agree, JD. You can't sustain it and you only have one life and do it. Let's scroll down. Sylvia says, I had my genes tested and I pretty much knew I shouldn't eat fats and carbs, but genetic testing proved that. I'm curious what genetic testing actually proves that. There may be some suggestive things, different things like if you're ApoE44, it's like, ooh, you probably want to watch the lipids for sure because you're at high risk for Parkinson's, dementia, those kind of things based on that. That's just one example. Sousa's Zen for weight loss. There's your money grab. Yeah, I mean, I could literally, if I wanted to be a self-help guru, I would talk about managing emotional repression, all the stuff around awakening. By the way, listen to the punchline of this one I'm done because I'm telling you this as a story. I would talk about going into trauma. I would talk about energy work. I would talk about all these things in my own case that then led to this natural equilibrium with the body, the body being where it wanted to be ultimately. It could have been it wanted to be heavy. That's fine too. But whatever it was, it was fine and that's where it settled. So I could tell all those stories. It would be a total grifter money grab bullshit because everybody's different. I have no idea what's going on. This is all an epiphenomenon of whatever's happening here. I can't say it's causative. You may hear me and then naturally something may arise with you where you change something you do or look inward or whatever and something is that's great. But I can't say that anything I said was causative or anything I did was causative. So it doesn't make for a very successful YouTube channel pitching shit. You know, like one of these punk ass bitches online of which there are many. Ashley says, what sucks is when you have to avoid something because you get really sick even with small amounts. Oh yeah, because the gluten thing. Yeah, that's that's painful. Melanie says, it's the strangest thing if you want to lose weight, eat less instead of doing something. It's ceasing of something. It's weird and I don't even know that because I certainly don't eat less. I think I eat differently. Maybe it feels like I eat the same. But what's probably subtly happening is I'm not eating less at a meal and I don't even notice it because I'm not self soothing. I'm not using food as a comfort mechanism anymore. Or at least if I do it's very rare and I catch it. I see it. I'm like, oh man, what am I mindlessly eating this stuff? And yeah, it's been pretty magical over here. Mysterious. But the strange thing is when it happens you don't celebrate because part of the aspects of it is the one who would celebrate that final accomplishment and you're working all your life to stay in a weight range that you think is comfortable and I had to buy all new clothes and stuff. It's like, I actually ruled myself out for cancer because I was so perplexed while it was happening. And this has been a year now. And you just don't care. I think part of it is the not caring. Like the whole thing making it some achievement or some ambition or some concern. And then when that concern drops and there's just the natural balance of the body doing the body, again with no center in it, it just seems to just go where it goes. And it could go to that you gain weight. It doesn't matter. You won't care. Dan says, I don't eat much at all to the point. It's almost a problem. Weirdly, I almost always eat more and get hungry right before sleep, which is less healthy, but it is what it is. That's totally what it is. I know people who've gone through a lot of this kind of awakening stuff, whatever that is. And they're like skeletal. It just seems to happen that way. And I know other people who still struggle with kind of weight, meaning they see it as a subtle issue, meaning they're heavier than maybe the BMI would be healthy by doctor standards. But they're perfectly happy with it. It's just exactly fine. That's what it is. It's the end of resistance to whatever is happening. Now, I still have plenty of resistance, but it falls a lot faster than it used to. And the things I used to really fixate on have kind of relaxed a lot. I mean, I don't think I'd recognize myself internally from five years ago, but from here it's hard to say anything because it's all just like, yep, it's just ordinary. This kind of falling away of those things. But there's still so much there. And there are days like yesterday where I was just like, man, I'm such a self right now, like such a contracted. And it feels really bad. It feels intolerable. But it's also kind of accepted as, okay, this is what's happening now. But there's a subtle movement in mind that's like, this has got to stop. Like I'm not looking at something because this contraction feels really uncomfortable because it's impossible to be just like a normal kind of contracted mind identified human for very long. It feels like something's wrong, which to be honest, it felt like that all my life. I just didn't put my finger on what it was. It was like, nothing really makes me happy for long. And I'm always worried about the future and worried about the past. And I'm always up in my head and it's like, yep, yep, that's the mind identification state where you believe you're your thoughts, you believe you're your story, you believe you're you. And that can go. Initially, initially intermittently and then later more permanently it seems. Hi, Jane. Jane Wains. Not good. Jane Waxes and Jane Wains wax on. Wax off. I miss Mr. Miyagi. Aka Arnold from Happy Days. Many people forget that. Emma, my dad always said he planned to enjoy food life and not hang around. Didn't work. Maybe we have less control than we'll ever know. Yeah, I'd say we have no control. So that is less control than we'll ever know because we always think there's some control. Even now I could convince myself that I'm doing a live show and I plan to do it and I'm doing it for this or that reason. And that's all nonsense. Like none of that's true. It's just happening. My wife was upstairs taking a shower and I was like, I'm going to do a live show just because she's like, yep. There's no like why. What are you going to talk about? It's like, nope. I got a new chair. I'm going to do a live show. That's all. I'll lay back in my chair. Whoa, it goes really, whoa, really flat. Wow. This is a live gang. Whoa. I think it actually disconnected from my, hold on. There you go. My little auto gimbal that follows me. Not that I need to be followed. It's not like I'm moving around. Dummy Zoobin. What are your thoughts on ozembic for weight loss? I mean, hey, great. If that works, wonderful. It seems to work for a lot of people. I think it's helped people I know a lot. I would have used it if I was grossly overweight. I think I would have tried it. If I were to try it, I would have tried it. So nothing wrong with that. Just, I don't know. We tend to rely on these pills, but we don't even know what any of this is. So if that seems to work, then go for it, man. Ashley says this control topic is so funny. When I'm right before writing a big exam, I just giggle uncontrollably. I think the universe is doing it again with dark humor. Yeah. There's a lot of giggling that seems to happen when I'm the most stressed. So, yeah, like yesterday I was just so contracted. I had no explanation for it. I was just like, this sucks. Sucks to be alive right now. And then I was like, okay, you know it because you're suffering. So you look inside. You're like, where is this one that's having this drama? And then just laughter because there's nothing there. It's just total emptiness. So radiance. Just dancing itself. And at that moment, the dance thinks that it is a person that's suffering. It's a really hilarious, you know. It's a comedy and a tragedy rolled into one. It's such a great little dance. Kathy says, did you ever do a live show and think, what the fuck was that and regret it? Oh, yeah, all the time. Any time, any time I do a live show and then afterwards I go into thought and try to remember or think about what I said and analyze it from a standpoint of a person, it's miserable. I'm like, I'm going to just delete my whole channel because it's all mine stuff. It's all that unworthiness showing up as like story and that's all conditioning. But if I go back and watch it, I'm usually like, oh, that guy's kind of interesting. Who's that? I can't even recognize what it is and it's fine. It's all fine. And then you just let it go. So it's kind of like that now. Marathon Monk. I like that. A supporter of the channel. Thank you for that. Hey Z-Dog, first time catching the live stream. Welcome. Thoughts on ketamine infusions. I had a glimpse into this emptiness. There was no need to even say anything to the nurse. So this is in the broader conversation of like drugs, psychedelics, et cetera, medications. I've done ketamine infusions. I did two, I did journeys with a clinician at my studio and under medical supervision. And yeah, the first time I did it, it was very much like that. It was like I'd forgotten. I couldn't even realize that I'd taken a drug because there was no body. There was no mind. There was just pure awareness in a sea of no thing. That was the first experience. And then all this unconscious conditioning started coming up in that space where I could hold it. And I had these things from my adolescence came up that I'd totally forgotten. That seemed trivial at the time, but were felt fully like, oh my God, like that was unworthiness showing up. Like an adult had made fun of me or something and it just felt terrible to that child. And I felt it as the child. But the adult kind of vaguely remembers the story. I was like, that wasn't a big deal. The person was a dumbass. But the child didn't think that. The 14-year-old didn't think that. It was like the end of the world for them. And so I was allowing that inner movement to actually fully express as like hurt, sadness, betrayal, all these things. And then as this awareness just hold it in this very loving, compassionate way. Allow it to express tears and all this with the blindfold on and everything. So for me, that first run with the ketamine was really powerful. And then the second one was more, it just showed me like all the tethered connections and beautiful interconnection of life. Like, you know, that my family, the loved ones, they showed up as like a tree that shared a common root. And they were branches on this tree. It was really beautiful. Now, here's the question. Did any of that matter at all? I don't know. I can't say it did anything. I can't say it didn't. All I know is here I am doing this. So I can't say go do ketamine, don't go do ketamine. I just say there's a lot of traps and pitfalls with medicine because we want it. We have a lot of expectation. And often people are disappointed or they're surprised. So if you're going to do those things, do them with a guide and do them with an open heart and mind knowing that you don't know what's going to happen. But going in, leaning into potential darkness, meaning shadow stuff coming up, stuff that's uncomfortable. What's not going to be unicorns and rainbows all the time. It can be really challenging. So yeah, that's my take on that. Iron Twist says, so pleased to join a live session while in hospital. I mean, ketamine effusions for chronic pain. I feel like it's gotten, it's got great neuromodulatory potential. Hope you and the family are well. Oh man, that's beautiful. So this is the thing. I have a mixed love hate for ketamine. I had a great experience, but I only did it twice and I have no desire to ever do it again. I don't have chronic pain in that way that you might. So I have chronic neck pain, but it's not something that I would treat beyond just sitting with it. So everybody's different. But I've had friends who've died of ketamine abuse because it has a euphoric component, has an addictive component. It has a escape component, dissociation component. It can give you these delusions that you've been shown the secrets of the universe. And then when you're back in waking consciousness, they're impossible to grasp, but you know they were real, which is just another experience. That's the knowing that something's real. That's a whole hallmark of the psychedelic mystical experiences. There's an ineffable truth that's shown to you. I don't know. I'm going to say something here. It's going to be controversial, maybe. That's bullshit. Ineffable truth. What the fuck is that? It's another experience. There is no such thing as ineffable truth. Okay, I don't know where the words are coming from. This is just how Zubin wants to express right now. You can do all the drugs in the world. You can have insights, apparent insights, apparent glimpses into the nature of reality, into your own consciousness, into what consciousness is, into everything is love, all these different, everything is energy, everything is empty, all these different things. They don't mean a fucking hill of beans. It's another experience, another radiant appearance. And that appearance can have a valence of realness. It feels totally real, or it feels unreal. You can come out of that doing some stupid shit like, oh man, well, I just saw everything was won, so I'm just going to fucking stop saving for retirement, or whatever the fuck it is. And it doesn't, it's just not like that. So the more of those things I did, the more I realized, it's all just pointing me back to this. It's just this. Just the phenomena. Just life-lifing itself. There's no truth. There's no ineffable truth. That's all fun experience. Beautiful fun. Fantastic. One of the highest experiences humans can have are those mystical states. They don't amount to a fucking hill of beans. It's just vapor. What is, is, and that's what's, that's always psychedelic as fuck. Because you're just looking at it like this. This. This is absolute radiant mystery to the mind. You know, and maybe it shows up as a crazy mystical experience where you download the secrets of the universe and past lives and future lives and what is consciousness and all the interconnections and yay. Fun story. Great times. High fives. Equivalently, you can have an evil, horrible, wretched, paranoid experience that feels as real as that. And be scarred because you think it was real. It's not. Nothing is. Everything is provisional. Everything is impermanent. Everything is just what it is. Dance, dance, dance. Judy says, just curious, have you done any TM recently? I feel like I'm drowning in thought sometime and it does address that, but I just don't go, I just don't do it. Can't seem to get into the habit. So here's a thing with transcendental meditation or any meditation, any practice. They're a practice, which means there's a doer that does them. So typically you can do them different ways. They can just be done. They can just arise. You learn transcendental meditation when you're younger and then suddenly you're just doing a mantra and thought is quieting and there's just a mantra and then there's just what is happening. You can have these profound expansive consciousness states, but do me a favor. Go and watch these TM guys talk. So like there's a guy, he's a doctor and he actually, I think his PR people tried to get him on my show and I just watched how he expresses. And it's all innocent by the way. People don't know that any, it's, and I don't know what I'm talking about, but I like to take a shit on people. So I'm going to take a shit on this guy because I think this is misleading at some point in my experience. I'm just talking for me. You know, he's talking about like, there's a transcendent and they all talk like this. Like there's a transcendent radiant bliss of consciousness. It's all just consciousness and you just, you know, TM is the only way to get there because you transcend transcendental meditation. You transcend thought. You transcend this body. You transcend the manifestation. And then it's all consciousness and it's all happening in that. And that's all lovely and great and totally fucking transient. And another story. I can't find consciousness. I can't find transcendence. There's only this. So those meditation practices can put you in those wonderful states that can be extremely open, empty, magical, relaxing, stress-relieving, blood pressure reducing, all wonderful things. They may even set you up for a kind of deeper insight that can arise in those states where the impermanence and substantiality, the emptiness of everything shows up and the you drops. So that can happen. So in that sense, they make you a little accident prone for that accident to happen. Maybe. I don't even know if that's true. And I've done all these things. And so at some point you realize, well, why am I not doing it? Am I resisting? Am I just not good at it? Is there unworthiness here? I'll never get this awakening thing that I don't meditate because I'm lazy or I'm not good at it. It's like, no.  subjected to subjected to with thought. Like yesterday it seemed there was a problem with thought for me because I was up in my head feeling like a full-on person but I saw I mean it was obvious it was like yeah that's happening and I didn't really make it a big problem. There was a subtle seeking like a subtle like maybe I should do something about this and then there was a realization that that's not how this works that's never how this has worked. This is what's arising right now allow it fully. It's a complete surrender to what's happening. So the surrender for you might be that you don't want to do that shit right now. Then what you might find is something paradoxical when that surrender kind of happens in the acceptance then something arises. It's a different type of meditation or it's that meditation. So yeah so TM McGee doctor whatever the hell's name is just like yeah. But then if you really push them and I've seen him in interviews getting pushed by people you know when when you really get down to no self there's like a defense there's like a no no no no no you are this radiant consciousness. It's like okay buddy good luck with that. See see if that's something that's stable that's permanent that you find it's not it's a state that feeling that you're radiant conscious is a state it arises and falls away so what doesn't arise and fall away this this this this this is well it's all arising and falling away and it's not arising and not falling away it's exactly what it is. Why do we need to come up with these different images of consciousness and big mind and capital S self and all that. I mean it's all fine it's what's arising but it I don't know about truth I don't know what truth is because it's staring at us nothing more true than what this is because it can't be said because it's just what it is. Not very satisfying. Dr. Dan says for me disconnecting from electronic devices and distractions can help with meditation no phones no iPad no laptops unplug that's been my experience because we're distracted into this matrix of societal thought and conditioning and anything you do to stop that to unplug is helpful that's why I like to sit in this wheelchair doing nothing that's why I go to cafes and do nothing I just sip my drink and I look I'm just present I take that back people who say I'm just present I want a fucking throat punch them and a lot of great people a lot of good friends say that shit nice to say that shit there's no fucking present there's no you being present that's a story that we tell what I'm describing is sitting and doing nothing trying to do nothing no movement to do something just sitting so whatever is arising is arising what does that have to do with presence presence is a story presence implies there's not presence when can there not be presence there's only this man there's a lot of great comments here I'm behind okay marathon monk says have you heard of Jodo shinsu Buddhism shinsu Buddhism popular in Japan if you can get past the cultural religious stuff it ends up boiling down to I'm a fool and I can't do anything to make this happen I like the story of that that's a good one I've been to Japan been to Zen temples and been to a esoteric Buddhist monastery where we stayed the night and there was chanting and all that and a nighttime walk through a cemetery I made a video about this it was magical it had a mystical feel I felt like they were past life showing themselves to me that I was formerly a Japanese person like crazy shit all experience all wonderful but pointing at something beautiful I think which is yeah we don't do this so you go be a monk and you do all these things but in the end it's just to realize you never did anything you never could and everything was fine it's a cosmic joke duck duck duck duck duck duck says it's more enjoying the journey than longing for the destination wow beautiful thanks for being a supporter by the way the longing for the destination is part of the seeking energy of the human mind by the way there's no human mind they're just the appearance of thought going to thought going to impulse going to urge going to emotion going to sensation going to story going to believe but that that that pattern of appearance is constantly apparently looking to an apparent future for an apparent solution to apparent problems that it creates that's it that's a whole mind so when we start trying to transcendental meditation in a sense we're taking that seeking energy and we're subverting it to a doing of something and hope is that that doing of something will relax the very seeking mechanism that instigated it and then you'll be fully fucking awake maybe but I don't know my feeling what's even wants to say is good luck with that so what do you do who fucking knows it happens or it doesn't and it but but my suspicion is it tends to happen to people who are drawn to those things who seeking mind wants to seek the end of its own suffering there almost to be a wanting for it to happen not always but often and so sometimes it seems a seeking mind burns itself out and then there you are here where you could never ever have left let's see check this out man I don't work hold on there we go let me turn off the the follow so I got this little thing on a gimbal and there's my light and there's my yard there's my reflection of my light there's the view out the over the bay San Francisco Bay and here is my laptop where I'm looking at your comments and my tootsies as my mother would say the light and this cool fun chair that I love that's brand new alright what that have to do with anything nothing and everything let me center myself here there we go now should follow me by itself cool um alright let's go back oh marathon yeah the egg chair yeah I love that it's a two-person egg chair kind of a kind of fancy pants um oh thanks Jojo yeah we we spent a year remodeling the backyard because what else is there to do at that point you when you've reached my mazlowe's hierarchy and you're you've got food you've got love you've got community then it's like well let's have a backyard that's what I call self-actualization duck duck duck says I hope to try second to expand consciousness or extinguish ego to see if I gain insight alright duck duck oh duck let's talk I've done every second out practically I've made videos about it they don't do shit nothing does anything you'll have experiences they may show you different things traumas etc it may be exactly what's supposed to happen beautiful go do it then if you're called to it go do it do it with a guide or don't just do it if you're called to it but don't expect anything if you you can you're going to anyways but I'm just going to tell you this from my own experience insight forget about it awakening not a chance it's going to be exactly what it is and that's going to be the next thing that happens in your own folding and where you're going you're going anyways you're going there because you have a choice because you're not doing it and you never were this whole thing is a clockwork playing itself out if the clockwork includes psychedelics great but if it includes you saying I'm gonna gain insight or maybe a ego dissolution or whatever that's a story it's a beautiful story and I had the same I tell you this is someone who did that shit who said that those things exactly I'm doing this to have you go dissolution of the gain insight and it's like those things may have arisen but they didn't mean shit it's all an epiphenomenon of this mystery really and I again I'm telling you my experience so I may be totally wrong I have no idea in fact I know I don't know shit that's the one thing I can be sure of so take everything I say with a 20 grains of salt whole bag of salt Carol Dean I tried ketamine a couple times and it was fun but it didn't do much for me probably because I already know I'm one with everything yeah well one of the interesting things like you know five me ODMT which I've done a couple times in a different in different ways that's a most power one of the most powerful psychedelics known to man like it makes ketamine look moronic in terms of experience in terms of just pure like energetic experience it makes ketamine look like you've been hit on the head with a brick and all it showed me is what I already knew it's just like this this just laughter like it's all empty radiance that's it everything else is part of the dance and the story and there's nothing wrong with the story because the story in the dance are the empty radiance is the same thing they're not separate at all there's no separation at all so even the I'm one with everything that's a beautiful way of saying something that you can't say which is there's no separation I mean even that stupid doesn't make sense like of course there's separation look that's that's a thought that's that's an appearance but really there's what's happening so there's no I that's separate from anything because there's no I so you can't even like for me I can't even say I'm one with everything because that makes no sense because there's no I that I can find when I look there's only everything so it's semantics to extent you say why I'm one with everything because there's no I and I'm in me I'm everything that's fine I don't think that's there I think it's just there's everything there's life-living that's how it shows up here your mileage will vary David Jackson says action is the answer to your insight regarding psychedelics I don't quite know what that means maybe you can elaborate let's see all DMT showed me his clowns so many clowns says iron twist it showed me some interesting like deep childhood experience it showed me like a lot of shame around some stuff it showed me energetics that moved through the body it showed me death what death was it's nothing it never was no birth and death they don't that's not a thing that's a story that the mind creates birth and death you know I've seen people die I've lost loved ones this that the other thing okay I'm telling you it's not real I'm not saying it's not real that you live forever I'm saying there's no it's not even the question doesn't even arise anymore as to what death is because I know it's just the mind asking you know bullshit that's how weird it is for the mind it's like what do you mean there's no death there's no death people like well I've heard about near-death experiences where you go to this light and all that yeah that's an experience it's another phenomena what the MEO showed was bro that's all phenomena and they're the same as the no thing from which all this is happening God I the minute I start to try to talk about it it's nonsense it let's just say this it was like this just laughing like come on every time every time I've done it yeah Dan says see now you're saying so I can change your perspective so I'm saying psychedelics were done and they showed me what I already knew for me it was the same display now again because I don't know what causation is I can't say anything did anything that's what I'm kind of speaking to psychedelics don't do anything they show up when they show up and then they're done and the experiences had and then we tell stories about insights and clarity and clarity and bad trips and good trips and my god did this and that and that's all one it's all fine I did it all so I can't say I'm not telling you don't do it I'm saying hey from here I'm gonna stress how it's seen which is it's a fucking clown show statistics help you realize nothing is true that's great dose boy that's a good use of statistics Dan Riddick but they changed your perspective nonetheless whether for better or for worse they did I guess Dan what I'm saying is I I don't think they did because all of that I had had going into the journeys they just reinforced I can't even say they reinforce it because afterwards it was felt like I didn't need to do that it's strange now what was kind of helpful was seeing this sort of static stuff come up it was almost like what you might call shadow work on steroids but I don't know what shadow work is even it's just seeing everything that's there without too much resistance and they did facilitate that but I can do that without that so it's hard to know and I'm not saying don't do them like Zubin did them did all the things so that may be in the cards for you or may not but certainly I don't think it's a must and I certainly can't ascribe causation to anything anymore which is weird you see why not a very good YouTube personality these days because can't advice not trying to get anything from you if you want to like support the channel that's wonderful it allows me to do what I do but if you don't then I'll just stop doing what I do and it will make a difference but it is it's also nice that there's a group of people who like minds they get together and share because it helps me it seems to help me and I can't really scar causation but I do this it just arises and I'm like yeah I was good and it's because I'm selfish selfish meaning like if it wasn't good for Zubin it probably wouldn't happen the character wouldn't do it something something's up PIP I'm just sitting here watching the wheels go round and round John Lennon those motherfuckers knew what was up Ashley says I think what you're trying to point to is psychedelics won't give you the freedom you think they will that's my feeling there are a few people who've had it's claimed they've had these really big shifts permanent shifts from psychedelics and I'm sure that's the case for them I'm sure it is if they say so I'm sure it is because they're describing their experience wasn't the case here but they were I mean I did LSD in college and I think it kind of changed my at that time I there was nothing else that had arisen no meditation I thought everything was concrete and then to see that the mind could do that was kind of a gate it was like oh this is a vast mystery this isn't really explicable with just gates and I on channels there's something else going on so that was kind of interesting Dan Riddick we love it Z I think you're full of shit most of the time but hell you make me think I love it I do I love that that's my favorite comment I love that you think I'm full of shit is not beautiful because that's exactly right for you I am is that great because only Dan knows what's happening with Dan and I love your the way you express it's beautiful and you always have great comments marathon monk something I read is that the more the therapist and the client believe something will work the more effective it will be I find that I don't have the hoots but I really believe in something though yeah so you're actually lucky in a way so let me speak to this this is a great marathon this is a great um a great point I think let me sit up a little because I think this is important we all know in medicine the placebo effect I've seen it work it's worked on me humans are incredibly suggestible because we're all intertwined that's I just want it there's no distinction really this is human consciousness that's it as an appearance so we're influenced by everything everybody every guru every non guru everybody who talks me talking to you you talking to me we're tweaking each other it's true in a therapeutic relationship in psychedelics very much so I've definitely seen that and experienced that suggestibility and when it comes to spiritual awakening and this sort of path my experience now is consistent with the following and again this is a zubin story all of this shit is what other people have said until it stops being so you're still conditioned that every guru you hear every teacher every non-duality speaker on YouTube is saying shit that they've heard in some way tweaking it slightly believing it feeling it experiencing it regurgitating it such that it's all a self-fulfilling fucking cluster circle jerk at some point and at some point you see that you're like oh shit all the teachers are saying this shit that they've been handed down from the Zen masters of old and this and this oh well that's the tradition and that's why it's true because it's ancient wisdom and a shut the fuck up you don't need ancient wisdom you don't need anyone else's story you don't need any suggestion you don't need any other words of what this is this is just a zubin talking so take it with a grain of salt the fuck is that someone ringing the bell I don't know if I'm supposed to go out there or not I better better text my wife and tell her to check that hold on oh just a delivery okay thanks because there was someone spoke I think oh those guys never came okay logistic okay so all these teachers gurus books idea shanti rupert's Byra Muji Ocho any number of the non-duality speakers on YouTube they're all gonna talk because you gotta use words and everywhere they use is borrowed from somewhere else and if you pay close enough attention you will see that is true they're making it from this tradition from this teacher from this book from this lineage from their teacher from this that and that's how humans are because we're all just conditioned machines that way have you ever thought have you ever thought that anything a human says about this is bullshit but can't be what it is because it's not it and it's not an is and it's not a what it's this and you can just trust your experience fully some teachers will say trust your experience they're aping what other people say but the truth is trust your experience meaning this but be careful because every trust your experience every single one of those words is is right with miss on rife with misunderstanding trust means belief to some people and belief is not what this is your means you're having an experience it can you find the you that's having the experience you just say this experience trust this okay but then be careful because this may be an appearance of experience that has a quality of a belief that there is magic in the world and everything is consciousness or something like that well now you trust that and you're like okay I believe there's everything is conscious which is fine that's a beautiful story for your body mind to have what if even that just and you just see it as experience as another experience with a valence so what is it then it's just a radiant appearance exactly what it is it's the appearance that's all you can really say you can't say there's any truth here all I can say is I see these appearances are arising sensations thoughts smells tastes sounds that's it that's all I can say and all the teachers and everybody are giving you a framework for this and it's TM and it's non-duality and it's just sitting and it's shikantaza and it's you know koans and it's Vedic scriptures and it's the Bible and it's this and that's all great all wonderful story it's all suggestible all you're doing is conditioning yourself with new shit and then you're believing it it's all in my feeling now here how it seems that all has to die all of it has to die people will disagree with me and that's beautiful they'll say I'm full of shit and that's great too I probably am doesn't feel like that and that means I can't I'm not sure I can trust that truth because maybe that's not true so that that's my take keep your shrink says love you're not knowing and humility to be careful though I know there's not knowing but I'm not sure there's humility because sometimes the ego can arise and own this thing even the even the realizing you don't know the ego suddenly will own it you like I'm the one who doesn't know I'm the one who's you know the not-know-er and everybody else's condition it's like good luck with that if you can open your mouth about it it's coming from somewhere in a conditioned story the it's nice to somehow that can be seen too as just part of the appearance the radiance duck duck Oduck says I'm still tripping about seeing you like this after seeing you in person in Austin speaking to a bunch of stuff EMDs and telling jokes with crazy slides that were hilarious wanted to join you in Las Vegas that's awesome you were there Austin was fun that was a different life wasn't it that Zubin was somewhere on this journey but he was a character trying to prove that he was worth being amongst us and he believed that he could change medicine and all it took was about doing a bunch of talks but at a deeper level he's like oh I got to do something because otherwise they're gonna all figure out that I don't know what the hell's going on and it turns out no one does so yeah there were there were I don't know that they were stuffy in Austin they were less stuffy than in other places but anytime we talk to physicians it's a clutter fuck because they're these refined now see now I'm aping someone that might someone else Angela Delulo talks about this with he's talked about this with me that physicians have what and he's a physician called refined egos so they they are really good at you know managing intellectually having societal accolades their ego has been reinforced in a million different ways and it's very good it's very good at adapting and being kind of slick but if you really head on attack it if you go straight for the heart they will defend fall apart get aggressive and I've seen it happen again and again and again because they are like they're really opera they're white knuckling their way through it and they don't even know it sometimes Dan Riddick says you are worth it that's really sweet of you Dan but I would actually even discount that and say there is no worth it and not worth it because there's just what's happening so like even the idea of worthiness has to go in that sense it just has to go I don't know where it goes I don't know how to do that but when it relaxes it's like whoa there's only this there's nobody even here marathon says in that ketamine setting I had uncontrollable laughter about how all of the stories teachings were although the Buddha said even the Dharma is empty which made me think ah that it right there that's it right there okay even the Dharma is empty so again the Buddha is full of shit too because he just we don't know what he said but it's all passed down oral tradition it's all been molested by the hierarchy of organized Buddhism and religion but one of the funniest things is like the Diamond Sutra where the Buddha just like you know those things I said this that the other thing five-fold noble path is that that's just a way of speaking right you guys know that there's really nothing going on there's no one to wake up there's no awakening none of this is happening and you're just like damn honey you're the founder of real religion how the hell did that never stick the truth is they didn't that's the part that stuck the part that stuck is I can meditate to more peace and equanimity I can be less selfish and more selfless I can you know just identify for my thoughts a little bit I can feel compassion and practice compassion for others that's what people took from the religion but the true message was bro ah ah nothing happening and then just a huge smile it's like it's a cosmic joke and it's beautiful so then there's all this radiant appearance totally empty it says this shit is good in doses for me I can't dissolve right now but it's good to melt some rough edges yeah you just find that shit's gonna go as it goes yeah little here a little something here a little something there arises start start repeating some of the phrases because that's what happens we get incepted then you let that go then something happens some traumatic memory comes up and emotion and shadow and all that bullshit it just plays itself out the best we can do is get out of the way and I don't even know how to do that so it's a mystery hey Mike the human condition is do do do that's what it does do do do it's do do let's see no thanks we're nihilists Lebowski we believe in nothing nothing Lebowski our girlfriend gave up her toll yeah the nihilists and the big Lebowski is great hard to be an actual nihilist though because you just it's just your conditioning is gonna do what it does I'm not conditioned to actually behave like a nihilist even though this is all empty it's like no I'm conditioned to fucking do shit so that's what's gonna happen with no resistance it's nihilism and it's not it's like there's no ism just exactly what it is Sue says the Bahia the Bahia Sutra was super cool until I realized bro went on to be killed by a cow 30 minutes after realization exactly Bahia Bahia Sutra which I've mentioned on the show before in the scene merely the scene in the herd merely the herd in the felt merely the felt in the cognized merely the cognized notice that there's no you in that you're neither here nor there and just this is the end of suffering so basically it's saying there's  there's only the appearance, there's only what's apparently happening with no consciousness aware of it, no person aware of it, no self, no no self, just what it is. And Bahia of the bark cloth, the monk who Buddha told us to, because he asked three times, you gotta ask three times, otherwise he's not giving you shit. You ask one time, Buddha's like, I'm busy, I'm taking a shit. He asked two times, Buddha's like, hey, I'm begging for food out here, don't ask me right now, you beg, you ask three times, he's like, third time's the charm, here's the secret of the universe, and the scene, merely the scene, and the herd, merely the herd, and the sensed, merely the sensed, and the cognized, merely the cognized. When you see in that way, there's no you here or there or in between, and this just this is the end of suffering. And Bahia's like, whoa, full enlightenment, 30 minutes later, gets killed by a cow protecting her calf. And they go to Buddha and go, hey, Bahia ate a bowl of dick. And Buddha's like, well, that motherfucker was fully liberated off the wheel of samsara, totally bury him as a fully enlightened being. And they were like, but I've been, I've been monkeying for like my whole life, and you didn't say that about me. So funny. Do you have faith that it'll all be okay in the end, regardless of what has happened during your life, or what you have done? Oh, dude, it's already okay. It's totally okay. Even when it's not okay, it's like, that's okay. It's not even faith. It's like, no, that's just a fact. Like, you just, it's known. It is known, Khaleesi. So yeah, I guess, I guess I do. I've been having an issue finding my voice and speaking with confidence, and it's gotten worse since my glimpsing this, because I honestly feel like I don't know shit anymore. It's all garbage, garbage coming out or garbo. Yeah, garbled. Yeah, it's like that. Yay. So what? So what? What voice? That is your voice, the voice that feels like it's all garbled. There it is. That's you right now. Five seconds later, it'll be something different. It's beautiful. It doesn't have to be any way other than that. That's gorgeous. Kathy says, a seven-year-old with oppositional defiance disorder punched me today while I was protecting some six-year-old girls from getting hit. Such a small kid with big feelings, so much adrenaline, my neck still hurts. Wow, man. The human manifestation is crazy. Have you guys seen this horrible show on Hulu called All's Fair, the Kardashian vehicle? It's got like Glyn Close and Naomi Watts and Al Bundy and all these famous actors, and it is so bad that we've watched every single episode. It's just terrible garbage. Like most superficial horrible, these characters don't even seem to have internal lives. It's god-awful. And yet there's something so compelling about it because it's pure human bullshit. Like you're like, yeah, that's how humans are. Yeah, they're bullshit like that. Yep. It's great. It's so entertaining. So this little kid with the oppositional defiance disorder is no different than Kim Kardashian wearing a shit ton of stuff, getting Botox and a vaginal lasering to smooth out her vagina. It's the same shit. It's all fucking crazy. I said vagina. David Jackson jumped on the Wahoo trainer, searched for a vid and then you popped up. I've seen you before, but it's been a while. You bring a smile on my face. How did the algorithm know I needed a bump of Z? Dude, the algorithm's like ready to mainline me right into your brain. I love it. Or not man. I don't. Gender is hard on YouTube. Doc Vick, maybe that is speaking in tongues. It's just garbled. Ah, maybe. Okay. I think I got to go because I think I'm going to help my wife make din din. Let me see. My grab this thing. Oh look, we can get a little halo effect. Kind of cool. All right. There we go. This is a lot of fun. Thanks. Yeah, thanks for hanging out like 80 people. Tomorrow's Thanksgiving in the US, so we'll pretend to show gratitude. We'll deal with our crazy relatives. We'll repress a bunch of emotion and we'll express other emotion inappropriately. It's going to be great. So enjoy, stay safe, murder a turkey or three. Murder some cranberries. Murder some stuffing. Because you know, all stuffing lives matter. That's it. Thanks again, you guys. I'll see you later. Peace out.

=== FILE: The absolute free fall of THIS [DCEcbIvIGT4].txt ===

 so, free fall is what I kind of titled this. Free fall is, others have used this term to kind of describe this, and I think it's a decent term, although words don't describe this, this, what this is, what's happening, apparently. The mind has all kinds of stories about it, and by the mind I just mean a series of thoughts that appear as this, in this, this, these apparitions, this appearance of what we're calling reality. The mind makes a story of it, it creates time, it creates space, it creates a history, it creates an identity called me that owns the experience. But what can seemingly happen is that appearance of identity of the me that's owning experience, that's aware of this, interacting with this, that me can simply stop. Just like when you leave a room, the room's no longer there, when the me relaxes or temporarily disappears or permanently disappears, you have no idea, because you don't know anything, there can be just this, without the center of a me experiencing it. So then what's experiencing it? Nothing. In a sense you could say it's self-experiencing, but even that's just making a story, it's making something, because that's what mind does, it makes things out of things, out of no things. And so what that can feel like, if there's anything that it feels like, is a kind of free fall. Imagine an infant that's born into the world, no sense of self, it's just pure experience, just pure this-ness, and every moment is refreshed, brand new, brand new, brand new. Some of us can remember that sense of being a child, a young child, before the sense of self really became reified, became such a real illusion that it sticks with us, and we see everything through it, right? The human condition supposedly. Before the human condition really kicks in, everything is just a kind of centerless wonder, and there's no one having it, there's no separation from it, the whole thing is just thinking. It's a kind of free fall, and I say free fall because there's no center to it, so it's always falling away before it even happens. And for the me sense, that sense of I'm a person behind my eyes experiencing this, that is really disconcerting. But when the me sense relaxes, and sometimes that happens just in a flow state, it happens when you're so engrossed in something that the sense of I'm doing this drops, and there's just the doing this, that's a kind of free fall, in a way that's why it's called flow, because it just... And we spend... the sense of me spends so much time, and pull your comments up, the sense of me spends so much of its energetic time, and it's creating time actually, me can only exist in time, because me happens in time, and time is another construction of this sense of self, like I have a future and a past, I was born, I will die, all that, but when me kind of comes back and tries to explain or experience this, it fumbles around with the only tool it has, which is to make something of nothing, so it starts using words like flow or free fall or whatever, and some people will say I was very disorienting or I had a sense of fear, panic, and others will say it was the first time I felt free, there was a sense of bliss and perfection, there was just what was happening, and it felt like a flow state, so people who talk about flow states in sports or in activities or in nature, they speak in this way. But often they're not speaking from the place, the placeless place, the no place, because it's very hard, when that's occurring there isn't a speaker anymore, they're just speaking, but often they're speaking from the sense of me that's back, apparently, this appearance of me, and it's trying to make sense, and so a lot of what you'll hear in spirituality and these people that are talking online, books and all that is this like, oh, there's this freedom and awakening and bliss that happens where you wake up into reality and see it what it is, and it's liberation, it's freedom, and that's all wonderful, it's all a total crock of shit, because there is no awakening in that sense, because who is it that would awaken? This is all a story, spirituality is, this type of spirituality is all a story told from the perspective of an illusion, the sense of me. So if that just drops, there's no awakening, what is there to wake up? They're just this, free fall, that's another way to say it, that's another word, it's totally wrong, it's colors, sounds, sensations, thoughts, in fact, let's go a step further, it's every single fucking thing that could be everything, nothing is excluded, including the confusion you're having at what I'm saying, that also is it, is this appearance showing up, mysteriously, magically you could say, from nowhere you can find, that doesn't mean it's not something, maybe it's nothing, but we're making nothing something because we're using words, but can't say a word about it, so what's the obvious response? Silence. And speaking from silence, the free fall just continues to free fall, falling and falling and falling and falling and falling, no meaning to it, no direction to it, it's not coming and going, it's not coming from where and going somewhere, those are thoughts, thoughts show up, thoughts are there, thoughts are this, no meaning, no solidity, no reference point, just falling and falling and falling and falling eternally, out of time, time stops when you stop, the sense of you, me, stops. This has been called freedom, the freedom for who, for no one, freedom from an illusory belief in an illusory apparition called self, called me, so when you're talking from me, me is always trying to defend and to argue and to persuade and to justify and to find sense and meaning to make things out of no things, but when you're, you can't even say you're, when speaking happens from nowhere, it sounds fucking strange like this. Evan says, speaking right at it from the get go, love it, and what is it? Isn't that a Faith No More song? What is it? You say, what is it? It's one big question mark, but nobody's questioning, nobody's home. There isn't a real thing called you, just appearances, beliefs, energetic sense, energetic sense of a view. It's an appearance, that's all wonderful. You can believe it fully and live an entirely human life. People say that in spiritual circles they'll say, you're asleep. The fuck does that mean? It's appearing perfectly for no one. It just, there's an illusion that there's you there. So what? Now if there's a bunch of suffering, sometimes that you can crack. The illusion can crack. It's almost too much for the energetic sense to apparently bear and it cracks, and then it's seen. And those cracks can be temporary fleeting or they can be apparently permanent or long lasting. It doesn't matter. And there's nothing you can do to make that happen because the very act of doing is the illusion of me. It is the seeker. It is the doer that continues to perpetuate the illusion of separation from all that is done. And when that relaxes, it's just doing, just doing, just the doing, just sound sounding, seeing, seeing, that's it. Freefall, no meaning, no direction, no purpose. Beautiful. Beautiful for no one, freedom for no one, freedom for freedom. Does it make sense? No, of course not. Can't. The me cannot make sense of it. In fact, the me as it starts, so this, what's been happening here is as the me starts to crack more and more and more and go and then come back and then go for longer and come back. It starts to, I'm personifying this thing because it is the person, the sense of person. It starts to despair because it knows that jig is up. It truly feels awful, like, like you're dying. The me is so horrified. It's so terrifying. It's so terrifying. The me is so horrified. Seeing its own end, that the seeking that it's done since it was very young doesn't have to be for it to, for this to be. It does not like that because its whole movement of patterning is to keep doing, to keep finding solutions to problems it invents. And the reason I'm laughing while saying this is because from here it's like seen as total nonsense. So what if the me is upset? It's an illusion. It's like saying a mirage is upset. A mirage feels like it's dying. It's absolute silliness. It's the cosmic joke that is spoken of by no one. Let's see. That's right Joel. You want it all but you can't have it. You say what is it? Faith no more. Margie is sitting on a beach in Port Arkansas, Texas, submerged in mindfulness. Does it get any better than just watching waves and birds on the shore? I believe I'm here. Awesome Margie. So that is exactly what's appearing. That's exactly what's appearing. I'm going to take some liberties with what you just said. Margie is appearing as a sense of a separate one. Energetically there are thoughts that Margie, the separate self, creates belief that I'm here sitting on a beach being mindful watching these outside creatures called birds and waves. And how does that feel for the Margie? Beautiful, peaceful, serene, whatever the words are that you would use. What's wrong with that? That's exactly what's happening. Beautiful. Now we'll play a game. Let's say Zubin is sitting there right now. Next to you. What would come out of Zubin's mouth? I have to imagine here which makes it a little tricky because I'm using thought. But this is what will come out of my mouth. I couldn't say a word about it. There wouldn't be a center. There would just be waves waving, birds birding, sound sounding, Margie Margieing. All as one vibration, one appearance. There would be no one there to be mindful, but there might just be mindfulness. Very hard to talk about because to use words you make something out of things and this is not a thing. It's not an it. It's not even a this. It's not an it. It's not even a this. It's not an it. It's not even a this. I don't know why I make these videos or go live like this, but there's something here that just does it. I don't know that it has a purpose or a point and I know that most people will be confused or misinterpreted and that's totally okay. But sometimes just hearing something in a certain way just apparently drops even if it's for a macro moment in a parent time. that most people will be confused or misinterpreted, and that's totally okay. But sometimes just hearing something in a certain way, something just apparently drops, even if it's for a macro moment in apparent time. Just something to feel about. Gabrielle says, isn't it marvelous thing that God has created everything that we can see with our eyes? Everything here created is beautiful. Oh, it's all beautiful. All right. I don't know what creation means. I don't know what God means. I don't know that they're seeing with my eyes. I know all of that is a thought that I can appear here and that can feel very beautiful. It can be felt in the body as another appearance. I know the me that believes those things is another appearance that I can actually experience that can be experienced, not by an eye, and the eye itself can drop, and then there's just. There isn't even a sense of I am. What did it say in the Bible? I am that I am. Even that sense of I am can stop. No one knows why or how. There's no why or how. And it's just beauty. Just this. Gordon says, I had a teacher in high school who used to say, the birds were birding and the trees were treeing. That's beautiful. They're just exactly what they are. And you cannot say what they are. The minute you try, you've turned it into a concept of belief, a thought, something that's not knowable in that way. What do I mean by not knowable? What do I mean when I say not knowable? What do I mean by that? Not knowable. Typically when we say I know something or that can be known in some way, we're referring to a center self that is sending out some kind of consciousness, some kind of awareness of an object. I'm aware of the birds. Say. And that's what we're conditioned through the human social structure to actually believe that we're separate. Our parents teach it to us when we're young. We look in the mirror and they go, that's not you. That's a reflection of a you that's here looking at it. And that makes sense from a getting around town standpoint. But when your teacher said the birds are birding and the tree is treeing, that means the knower, the one here who's aware of that drops away and there's just bird birding. And that even saying too much because since there's no one knowing it, it's self obvious. It's just what it is. Buy it. Gosh, how do you say this? Everything in this room, everything you're seeing, everything that you're hearing, all of it is just that. There's nothing aware of it. It is exactly what it is. There's no need for an observer. There's no need for consciousness to be aware of it. There's no need for a self. You don't need a me for all of this to be exactly as it is. Radiantly self present, self knowing in a way. But even that's saying too much. It's just exactly what it is. And yet we live in this illusion that there's I'm aware of this. I'm seeing this with my eyes. And of course, the illusion is quite compelling because you can see eyes in a mirror. Our science tells us that light hits the retina and this happens and all that's beautiful story. It's all great. But in direct experience, there's no I. There's just this. There's just this. This thing. Birds birding, tree is treading. Now why does that matter? Well, nothing matters. But if you're constantly afraid, you're constantly suffering, you're afraid you're going to die, you're worried about the past and the future and all that. Well, if you really look, if there's looking right here and now, there's none of that. There's just this radiant eternal this-ness and it's always been that. And you see past the veils of mind. You don't see. I'm just speaking in this way. I'm seeing. And then it's just this perfect radiant mystery. And then the next thing that arises is a self that wants to own it. And the next thing that arises is annoyance at a person that's pissing you off and it's all fine. It's all this. It's all the same radiant appearance. Buy no one for no one. Wow. So simple and obvious, but not to the mind, not to the sense of self that wants it complex, wants it to make some logical sense beyond that. It's just this. That's it. John Chadwick, how can you use words when it's just this? And is that the same as idea is aware space? Let's talk for a second. So yeah, words, it's a losing game. You can't use words, but that's the problem is we can't talk otherwise. So we use words that don't really correlate very well to what this is or isn't. You can't know what this is because there isn't a you there when it drops. So when I do, I do shanti has talked about this in different ways. And this is my honest take on this in the early days, I do was in his pointing was very close to clear. It seems to be very ruthless. He even said, I'm not here to give you candy. I'm here to give you a sword. I'm here to cut your legs off to show you that you aren't. And there's only this. And then because he's a teacher and he has to use words and he has to connect with the people that that are operating from the me. He uses, whoa, hello. He uses words like aware space or on, you know, ground of being or this kind of fucking total bullshit. I say fucking total bullshit because it's another story. It's another thought. There's no ground of being. There's no aware space. The fuck is that? You can see this is what happens when the Zubin thing starts talking from the experience of this. There's no aware space. There's no ground of being that is a story that keeps us in mind seeking. Then we seek for the ground of being. We seek for the aware space. We seek, seek, seek. That's the we, the me that seeks. That's the apparent problem that you're trying to solve with the same instrument that constantly fucking creates it. So if I saw a Yashanti right here, I tell him to shut the fuck up about aware space. This revered fucking guru, you're nothing. You're an apparition. No more real than this. There's only this and you fucking know it. I know you know it because the way you used to express, it was pretty clear that that was self-radiantly obvious, but that doesn't sell fucking retreat tickets. It doesn't sell books. It doesn't fucking get video clicks. So we humans human. I do it. It's just how things are. It's just what's happening. But now I have no compunction saying aware space is bullshit. Consciousness is bullshit. Ground of being is nonsense. Inexperience, where is that? Free fall. Free fall. That means that I just pointing won't point in some way that can cause. There's no cause. Forget what I just said. I don't give a shit about Yashanti. He was my hero. I will say I have complete disillusionment in anybody else's expression of what this is that isn't sitting with me here experiencing it or even this together. Then we create this kind of space. I don't even know what that is. Something experiential is happening. Otherwise forget it has nothing to do with you. Whatever you are has nothing to do with this. Yeah, it's like Yashanti said, it's a sword. I'm not here to give you candy for the mind. I'm here to give you a sword to cut your head off. The head that thinks it knows anything about anything. Free fall. Eternally. That can show up as everything. Nothing is excluded, including delusion, including story, including aware space, including God realization, including every mystical experience and insight you've ever had as another appearance. Perfectly manifest. Perfect as it is. No need to change it because you can't change it because it showed up as it was and that itself is its entire meaning. That's it. And then see, then people ask things like Marlene asks, are you okay? Do I look? Do I look like I'm in distress, Marlene? When the one that would be okay or not okay relaxes, leaves the room, that illusion, then there's just this. What's to be okay or not okay? It's all perfect because it's all exactly what it is. I wonder if the people who've pointed to this directly over time, which is very hard to do because you can't use words, you just sit in silence really, if they were just harangued by people asking innocently and kindly if they're okay. Because for the me, for the me, this is absolute horror. For the me, the sense of self, it's its own end. Wait, you're saying I can't push and pull in reality? You're saying I can't make a better world? You're saying there's no meaning or purpose or direction to this life? Wait, you're saying it's empty of substance and all of this is an apparition? Yeah, that's what's being said. And when that's actually realized, when that illusory self stops, like you walk out of the room that that was or that just disappears for however long, it's just perfect. There's no problem at all. It feels like freedom for no one. And it's obvious. It's just like, whoa. So in that sense, you can't be more okay than this because there's no more okay that can be had than the perfection of everything exactly as it is. See, I guess I'm okay. I'm not okay. The sense of me, the Zubin, sometimes still wakes up, panicked at night going, I'm dying because I haven't had the blessing of having that me leave permanently and all at once. For me, it's like it steps out for a bit, has a smoke. And then during that time, it's just like and then it comes back and it's like, man, that was pretty epic. I felt pretty free, man. I should make a video on that. I should tell the stuff. There's a lot of reasons why that might be. Yeah, you know, I bet we're really all supposed to just wake up and see it that way. And you know, the me is such a doofus. Oh, it cannot will itself out of existence. That's why you can't do this. That's why there's no hope for the me. There's none. Abandoned hope. Let it go. No hope at all. Dave Dean, does existence actually exist? Even the question makes no sense, right, Dave? Does existence exist? This is all stories, all thought. Forget even the question drops. It makes it. It's like, what do you mean existence? I don't know what that means. There's just this. This is a total blackout mystery freefall. What? It's all just. So even the questions, when the questions go, you know, you're sniffing up. I mean, you're not doing it, but you're in the right. No place. Kathleen says, once you hit 60, you don't worry anymore. You won't worry anymore. I know I'm 52. I already don't worry much. So there's actually, I do worry. I would have whom I fucking lying to. I don't worry as much as I used to, but I still worry about all kinds of things. Worry about retirement. I worry about my kids. I worry about. And when I say that, I mean, I, the sense of me that thinks it's in control forms itself. It's in have, and it creates the entire view. And it's also perfectly this. So there isn't even resistance to that. Although I'll be honest. When it starts feeling fucking onerous, when it starts like, oh, I know it. It's like, there's a knowing like, ah, this is a mind identification. This is suffering. And sometimes the body just sits down and is quiet for a bit and just, and I don't think I could have done that when I was younger because I was too wound up. There's too much me energy. I think life beats the me energy out of you after a while. That's why older people.  and the other two are just fucking cool. Because they just chill out. They're like, I tried all the things. It doesn't make me happy. I know what does sitting right here and chilling the fuck out. Simple as that sometimes. Yeah, Evan Fox, retirement is amazing. Freedom and ease and authenticity. In a way, I tell people I'm retired because it's like I set my own hours. I do what I want. But it doesn't feel like what the image of retirement is because retirement is you're not working, you're not doing things. And I'm still like making videos and doing a lot of things, but it's like it feels like ease and authenticity and freedom except when it doesn't except when it arises that there's contraction and there's struggle. And sometimes that's because something in my own experience or past has conditioned this to get contracted when triggered in a certain way or patterns of behavior that just are like weather patterns that just arise and they persist for a period of time and then they dissolve. In a sense you could say the me is a weather pattern that is rather persistent like Jupiter's great red spot. If you've ever read about Jupiter's big red spot, that big red thing at the bottom of Jupiter, it's a massive storm. It's a cyclone that spins at hundreds of miles an hour, thousands of miles an hour in a particular rotation and it's existed, we think, for several hundred years, but it's not permanent. That is a sense of self. That is the me. And the me is made up of all kinds of components of weather patterns, barometric pressure, conditioning, previous exposure to different jet streams that make it spin in a certain way in response to certain types of turbulence. And what can apparently happen is you can live your whole life apparently as that storm and never have the storm relax to see just what the blue sky is and what the other things are that are going on. But sometimes it can just relax before it forms again or maybe it stays relaxed. Maybe it peters out and then there's just the obvious expression that you were never separate. You were never a you. There was always just life, lifeing, birds birding and trees treeing as we heard earlier. And that's even more of a kind of jaw dropping like than anything in the relative world of the storm seems to be in my experience. This experience Emma, I got to go to my my UPS store gave me a notification that your package has arrived. So I can't wait to get the mints and whatever else evil stuff you've hidden in there from the UK. Emma says research says that over 60s report the highest happiness, whether that means they got their shit sorted or they just gave up. I don't know, but it's something to look forward to that and mints exactly. I would say happiness has only increased with one caveat. So for me, for the me self sense that's getting tattered. My Jupiter storm is starting to tatter severely, severely. The storm doesn't like that. It's like, it feels really turbulent. So in that sense, it's more uncomfortable than anything I've encountered in my life previously. And yet look at the shit eating grin on my face. So Donald says I gave up. Yeah, that's a 60 man. I tell you, I've given up now. Kathleen says a huge, huge shift at that time 60. For me, it's been letting go so much. Wait, wait, wait, hold on. What? For me, it's been amazing. That's what you, that's right, Kathleen. Yeah, right? So all this awakening stuff is bullshit. It's a natural petering out of the storm of me. So what are you left with? Carol says, no, Karen says, did something defeat you to the point of letting go so much? Hmm. So for here, for this sense of self, there was a defeat. Yes, this was the defeat. No matter what I did, no matter how successful I was, no matter how many music videos I made, no matter how many followers I got, no matter how much validation I got from people who would recognize me on the street, no matter how much I looked at my family and said, this is a perfect thing here. Like I'm so lucky. No matter how much I looked at my life situation was like I'm so blessed. No matter how much I strived and worked to get even a little bit more stability, safety, validation, social standing, money, respect, sense of meaning. I am going to change healthcare. I'm going to change the world and I'm going to have a tribe of people that are going to do it with me. We're going to be a community that fucking gets it done. No matter how much that seemingly worked, we built a clinic. Our partner Zaiora sold it to Amazon. Like it's now in Amazon's hands. Like that model has been validated. Like all this shit I could say was done and there was plenty of failure. No matter how much all that shit got done, there was a deep sense of dissatisfaction. It's not enough. It's not enough. What's the next thing? How can I do this better? How can I finally feel whole and at peace and happy permanently? How can I do that? And guess what? Every single word I just said is coming from the seeking me energy. The mind that constantly wants to become. That's what it does. It's innocent. It evolved to do this. It's constantly trying to get the next thing. It's making problems so it can solve them constantly. And that was the great defeat when it finally became clear to me through sitting still, through sitting and meditating and watching the mind, watching the emotions arise, feeling the trauma of the past, seeing how it conditions everything I do, realizing in a sense I'm a pure robot acting out conditioning and the mind is part of that robotic mechanism algorithm trying to do the things. When that was seen, the great defeat was realizing it will never get what it wants. So then it stopped. Even for a glimpse and it was seen what this is and you can't unsee it. There can't be an unseeing of this as it is without mind, without me, without self. Perfect one expression, eternal, timeless, empty, full, freefall, perfection, beauty, unconditional love for itself. The great defeat was the greatest victory for the falling away of that illusion that was always creating the problem it was trying to solve, chasing its own tail constantly, constantly, constantly like a dog, a not very smart dog, but a dog that was too smart for its own good, using the intellect to constantly try to get the next thing to make sense and meaning and purpose when there needn't be any. This is the meaning and the purpose. So that was the great defeat for Zubin and thank God if there is such a thing for that. You're welcome, Chrissy. Simon says, I'm sorry I'm repeating my question. I feel it really relevant to your explanation of the Jupiter storm. What is your view on the thought of determinism wherein every small molecular happening is the result of the previous? So I've talked a lot about free will and stuff in the past and I've intellectualized about it and I've tried to make sense of it. You can't find free will, determinism, hard determinism that everything is acting out of causing conditions beyond you. The neuroscientists agree there's no free will center, like all this stuff. Even the question of free will and determinism falls away because causality itself, time and space are seen as constructions. So in the relative world, yeah, there may be causality, maybe there's determinism, maybe there's free will, who knows. But in this, even the question of that just goes bye-bye. There's nobody making decisions because there's nobody. There's just life. And it's a total mystery. You can't even say it's happening because it's fallen away before it can be grasped. It can't be grasped by anything. There's nothing there to grasp it. So determinism doesn't even make sense. What is determined? Nothing is happening. So the question itself just goes poof because what was the questioner? The me self, the sense of self, the illusion, it's all fine. Nothing wrong with it. It's what's showing up too. It is also this. But for me, that's just gone. I don't give two shits about those questions. They've just fallen. I could talk about, I could talk for hours about determinism, but it's a total story. Yeah. So the storm itself, yeah, it's causing conditions, chaos, causality, all of it. And that's how it appears. So that's how the appearance seems to work. But when you really look under the hood, you realize, I don't know anything. There's nothing here. Nothing happening. Nothing has ever happened. It's this indescribability. Quite beautiful. Thanks, Simon. That was a great question. Dave Dean, the defeat of trying to deny the purity of just being unearned existence. Yeah. Yeah, that's a good way to say it. It's like this defeat for the self because the defeat, the self is like, it can't just be this. It can't just be this. There must be something else here. And then when it's fully defeated, when it's exhausted, and that's why, look, I used to say, don't fucking bother doing all this spiritual bullshit. Don't go meditate. Don't go on retreat. It's a waste of your time. I've done all these things. I don't know that that's true. I think there's something there that exhausts the seeking energy. And when it shows up, go with it. Even now, something will show up. I'll be having some kind of feeling of contraction. There'll be a true belief that nothing is okay. Everything is a mess, a sense of despair. And that's when I know that's that self energy acting up because it doesn't want to be out of this game. It wants to create a problem. And when that happens, sometimes there's just a movement of the body where it's like, I go sit in my in my backyard room, in my meditation chair, and I'm just silent with what is. And sometimes what arises is surprising. Sometimes rage will come out, and there'll be growling and screaming. And it's nice because it's a separate room from the house. So I can do all that, let it express. And you realize there's conditioning. There's part of the storm that just needs to play out. It needs to express. You can't push and pull on it. There's nothing to do that. So it's like, now it just has to be allowed. And so sometimes just sitting, what we would call meditation, it's not a doing, it's not me trying to do something. It's just an allowing. It's like, here we go. What's next? And the seeking energy exhausts, it plays itself out. It exhausts itself. Something leaves. You could speak in that way alone. Nothing's leaving. Nothing's coming. That's a story. Nothing's happening in that way. But the net result, if there is such a thing, is like, oh, okay, that's the next thing's happening now. So yeah, it's a necessary defeat. Exhaustion will be your best friend, Evelyn. That's right. Most of the big sort of clarity seems to happen after we're at rock bottom. Yeah, we hit the bottom. We're scraping. We're like, I can't do this. I can't do this. I can't do this. I can't do this. I, I, I, I, I, help me, help me. Sometimes that will come out of my mouth. Help me. I'm just alone. I'm just like, help me, help me, help me. Listen to the words. This is me, the me energy crying, crying out like, no, no, what about me? And here's the beauty. Life without me is pure life, lifeing. It is absolutely okay, better than okay. And if me's back, that's cool. And if me's gone, that's cool. There's no way this has to be. There's no way that this is. So what happens when me leaves? Does this body mind change how it is? No, it's still conditioned. Maybe the some things change. Like somehow I lost some weight. Somehow I started doing yoga. Somehow I'm less mean to people. I'm less mean to myself. I'm less invested in future and past. Well, that's some practical shit. But in this moment, there isn't an I, there isn't any continuity. It's just, wow. Ethan says, one of the best moments in Dr. Who was when the line was said, in the end, we are all just stories. So let's make a good one. A boom. Dr. Who one of my favorite shows. Especially I love this last season. That doctor was amazing. Of course, he went away at the end. I can't, I don't want to give spoilers. But it's, it's, it's really good. It's entertaining. You have to suspend your disbelief because Dr. Who is pure story. It doesn't even make sense. Most of the time, you're going, wait, why did that happen? Oh, okay, I'll just go with it. You start questioning this shit. There's no why that makes sense. It's the same as a Dr. Who story. Kind of perfect. Josie says, and all I needed to see the light quote unquote was a divorce. LOL. I was happy and fulfilled until that. And 15 years later, I'm still growing, learning and being, but I find stillness and peace. There's no separation moments of bliss. I do meditate, have done many retreats, India, it all helps to let go of this. Love you, Zubin. That's beautiful. Yeah. So it's arising here, Josie, to play devil's advocate for a second, not with you specifically, because I don't think this applies to you. Let's say you've been doing the yoga and the meditation and the retreats and the reading of Adyashanti and the reading of the Bible and the reading of mystical Judaism and the reading of Sufi and the reading, all of it. You're reading roomy poems and you're trying to get it. You're still trying to get it. You're still trying to find the truth. And you look and you look and maybe you have this on one retreat. You have this incredible insight and it feels like it. Oh my God, that's enlightenment. I did it. It's so clear. It's so obvious. Everything is just this. It's falling away. And then that goes and you're back to this apparently. And so you go to another retreat and you read some more and you maybe find a different teacher and you go, and do you see what's happening here? The Meseeker, it's the same thing. Mr. Meseeks from Rick and Morty. I'm Mr. Meseeks. Look at me. I'm Mr. Meseeks. Yes, indeed. Just constantly wishing for the next thing. Seeking the next thing. It's going to create the problem, which is I'm not awake. I lost, I had it and I lost it. And then it's going to try to find it again by doing all these things. And then it becomes this spiritual trap where you just forever. So what do religions do with this? They take all your money. They build big churches. They create big hierarchies and dogmas to keep you stuck in this morass. I don't think it's intentional. I think it's just how these things play out because organized religion is an expression of the me. It's like, I'm here and God is here. Let's keep it that way. It's just my two cents. So at some point, let it go. Then when meditation shows up, it shows up. When a retreat shows up because reality wants to be experienced that way, so be it. Nothing wrong with that. But I'll tell you, sometimes I look at these spiritual seekers and I'm like, man, these guys are more fucked up than anybody, anybody who's fully asleep. They've just, you know, they're more fucked up because they're telling themselves a story that they're doing the right thing, that they're off the treadmill and they're actually just on a more compelling treadmill, a treadmill with tighter bars on the cage around it. Simon didn't expect a Me Seeks reference here. 10 out of 10. Listen, Morty, this whole thing about awakening is bullshit, Morty. It's bullshit, Morty. It's just this. It's just this. It's just sex, drugs and rock and roll, Morty. Oh geez, Rick. Oh geez, I've been meditating for 20 years, Rick. Oh geez, I went to all the retreats. Oh geez, I had to suck the Guru's dick because he told me I'd get enlightened if I took a load to the face, Rick. Oh geez, Rick. Yeah, Morty, you're an idiot. Morty, you're an idiot. It's just this. That's right, existence is pain, Simon. Me seeks the full... Oh my God. I never even made this connection, Simon. The Me Seeks says this. It doesn't want to exist. It's there to seek and go away. In a sense, it's the perfect analogy for the mind. This little mystical thing that shows up helps you get something and then goes by by. But what happens in this episode is it can't actually fulfill the wants because Jerry's golf game is so shitty that no matter what they do, they can't fix the golf game. So they keep... They're just constantly there spinning their wheels and then they start to say existence is pain and they go, hey, wire, that is the mind. That is the seeking mind. It's a devil in an angel's disguise. It's a great tool and a terrible master. Once again, Rick and Morty for the win. Yeah, Risa, what did I just walk in on? Well, a pornographic description of freaking Morty and spiritual seeking. So you're welcome, bitch. How the hell are you, Risa? Oh, Margaret has a great recipe for those cucumbers, by the way, but they have to be mini cucumbers for it to work. It's an avocado cucumber salad. Really good. And we spread it on this Taiwanese thick toast, this white bread. It's delicious. Simon, so it keeps multiplying and drags more and more down. Yep, that's me seeks. I'm Mr. Me Seeks. Look at me. I'm Mr. Me Seeks. Yes, indeed. You make a request. The me seeks fulfills the request, and then it stops existing, except it doesn't when the requests never end, when the seeking never stops. And that's the human mind. Too much fun, gang. Heather McConnell says, when did you find enlightenment? It is good, but I was I was medical stuff bad day at the hospital family. What I liked you medical stand. I think I know what you're saying. I don't know what enlightenment is. I haven't found that the me cannot find enlightenment. There's no such thing. The medical stuff totally get it. Zubin loved doing medical stuff when he did. Now it doesn't make sense to him to do that anymore for now, but that could change. You never know. You never know. I don't know this shit. Anything could happen. Yeah, we so remind me because I'll forget. Margaret has the recipe. Okay. I think we did a thing, gang. Probably time to go. Gone like an hour or something. Thanks for hanging out. The rest of your day, just free fall. Just this, this, this, this, this, this thing. See if you can find the center that you think is you. Where are you? I'll leave you with that. All right, gang. Love you. Peace out.

=== FILE: The costume most of us will never take off... [n0eTdwErYaM].txt ===

 hi everyone, Zubin, it's Wednesday, October 1st, another day, another month, Halloweeny, my least favorite holiday because of childhood trauma around shitty costumes that, uh, my, you know, my two physician parents who were working, working, working when I was young, you know, it's not like my mom had time to sell us custom costumes or spend a bunch of money on nice stuff, we would go to the grocery store and my mom would get one of those boxed costumes with the plastic mask and the little rubber elastic on the back and it'd just be like Darth Vader, fwoop, this crappy little, and it came with like a crappy little vinyl cape and I'd walk around and everyone in elementary school would make fun of me and I was like, enough of trauma, okay, screw Halloween, it's for losers, hi Emma, hi, not that you're a loser, loser Emma, Sophia, um, Kathy, Rebecca, come on down, we're talking existential truth today because it's Wednesday, the middle of a work day, at least for those of us in the USNA, um, yeah, let's see, uh, Chrissy says, oh, you've mastered the lighting, perfect, yeah, I got Mrs. Dog in here and we tweaked around with it on the weekend because she's a radiologist, so she has a good eye, so she's like, ah, this makes you look fat, this makes you look old, this makes you look too much like yourself, how about this, and I was like, perfect, I'm just kidding, she didn't say any of those things, but I did, um, does this light make me look fat, uh, hi JoJo, JoJo loves Halloween, I'm glad someone loves Halloween, that isn't me because I can't do it, hi Lori, welcome, um, so what's going on with you guys, like, it's, um, it's quite a thing, this whole process of, of, of dissolving identities and false beliefs and everything we think is true can be seen actually on investigation to be a total fabrication of the mind, a total story, which is, there's nothing wrong with stories, we're talking about Halloween, we play, act, we pretend, we put on a costume, we go out and hide behind a mask, pretend we're something we're not, and that's in fact the entirety of our standard human operating system, we go out, we pretend to be a doctor, we pretend to be a nurse, we pretend to be an accountant, we pretend to be unemployed, we pretend to be a trauma victim, we pretend to be, whatever it is, that's what the character is play acting at, the great difficulty of the human condition is we forget that it's a play, we forget that it's Halloween, we think this is actually who we are, and we take that identity to be the center of everything, the center of all experience, that identity is having a life, is having experiences, having the search for truth and enlightenment and awakening and God and all those things, and that's just part of the play, so when that starts to unravel, and sometimes it seems like there's investigation that unravels it, like you're looking for what's looking, or you're looking for who you are in this moment, because there's nowhere else you could find it, and it seemingly can't be found, and then things just start to go off the cliff, and with that comes all the conditioning you've had over a life starts showing itself, because you can't repress it anymore, because the character that was repressing it in thought starts to get tenuous, and then it becomes interesting, because things you cared about you no longer care about, things you don't care about suddenly become interesting, but not in the way they did before all this started happening, they can't really feel real beyond an experience, so it can be a little disorienting, and then the whole time that's emptying out, everyone out there in the matrix is projecting onto you their own story of what you're supposed to be, or what they thought you were, or what you should be, because that's how society works, right? So then you have that discomfort of letting go of those identities, so I was with a friend the other day, and she was talking about giving up her job of 20-odd years, and after all this awakening stuff kind of unraveled, her identity, her people pleasing, all kinds of different things that were baked into her equation due to a lifetime of conditioning, trauma, DNA, all those things that the Hindus used to call karma, I mean it's just causes and conditions in the dream, and it is really hard, because it feels like a kind of deep loss, a kind of grief, a kind of death, and you go through all the emotions, so I don't know if people out there are going through any of this, it may be that you're in the entry part of this, it may be that you've already gone through it, it may be that you don't know what the fuck I'm talking about, which is beautiful too, so you're still living the character story in the Halloween dream, right? So that's all fine, wherever you are is wherever you apparently are, there's no reason you need to be other than where you are, that's the other thing, it's like I can't recommend this to anyone, I also can't ever want what I was before, which was a completely mind identified character, it's very strange. Laurie says I'm kind of tired of my role in this play, I want to audition for a new role, yeah, when that starts to happen you realize any role is possible, and then you know what then starts to happen Laurie, even one step further if we're going to get really existential, there is a realization that there was never a you in the way that you think, and never a you in control of any of this, which means who's the actor in this play, if we're playing a character who is it that's playing it, and then you start to look even more and you realize no, there's no actor, there's no character, there's only the play and you can call that life, it's just all this stuff appearing, no one was ever in control, and then it's just this free fall of just radical nowness showing up as whatever it shows up as, and that is perfect, that is exactly how it should be, including the arising sensation that this sucks, I don't like this, I don't want this, I don't want to be here, that's all part of that, and it's and it's seen to be part of that, so there's one less bit that seems to resist what actually is, and I don't know, maybe Jesus might have called that the peace that passeth all understanding, the natural equanimity that arises when everything is as it is, and there's a realization by no one that it couldn't be otherwise, and it's felt as a kind of radical love or perfection, there's a reason that the great religions in their mystical roots speak in this way of unconditional love, forgiveness, God as everything, because this can actually be experienced, it can be realized in that way. Laurie says, I'm not there, I'm just hoping you're right, I want to let go of it all and just find acceptance, so that's an admirable, not an admirable desire, that would be some sort of military maneuver, it's an admirable desire, but who is it, Laurie, that wants that, so that's still the identity, that's still the ego, that's still the mind that's moving and saying, I want acceptance, I want release, I want equanimity for me, so what I'm pointing at here is the radical dissolution of the one who wants that, and honestly from here that seems to be the only true way that equanimity can arise in any stable way, because the one who wants it has to be seen through as another appearance, as another radically self-knowing, ephemeral, impermanent appearance in the play, and all there is is the play, and no one's playing, no one's acting, there's just the play, so it's the reason that this seems so obscure, this seems like what I'm saying is so confusing, is because you can't talk about it, you can't use words, because words create, they need a subject and an object, a me and an other, something that doesn't action on something else, and this is nothing like that, reality is nothing like that, the deepest truth, the existential truth of this moment is just exactly what it is, and you cannot say a word that will capture it, you can only say words that might point to this where you could never leave, this radical present nowness, and see the words are just kind of fumbly. Kurt says, very interesting theories, it's rather rough when you're pushed into another role, it's just improv, yeah so there's a lot here, Kurt, like theory is one thing, theory is what mine does, so I could tell you theories about reality all day, and they'd all be nonsense, because anything you can think about this is wrong, if it's a thought it's another appearance, and it's ephemeral and it's wrong, it's just maybe relatively right in a story, like in a tale we're telling, in a Halloween costume, but it's not right in an absolute sense, so what is, that's beyond theories, and so then it's seen kind of for what it is, then the roles that apparently are pushed onto us are seen as more story, like okay so what's pushing onto us, more appearance, so there's a radical freedom in that, at that point you can choose to fully inhabit the role, you can choose to be pushed into it, you can choose to believe or not believe anything you want, but you do it with this, what's interesting is you do it without a you, without a center that's actually doing it, and that's known at some deep indescribable level by no one, so then the whole dance becomes this absolutely zero stakes, but incredibly beautiful drama, or comedy, or romance, or whatever it is that is arising, um let's see I'm gonna try to scroll back and see some comments here, Anastasia, who's a supporter, says, all the world is a stage and all the men and women are merely players, they have their exits and their entrances, and one man in his time plays many parts, his acts being seven ages, this famous speech found in act two seen something, I can't read roman numerals very well, six, seven, uses a metaphor of life being a play, where people are actors playing different roles as they go through the seven stages of their lives, key elements of the quote, all the world's a stage, this is Shakespeare we're talking about, um compares the world to a theatrical stage where life unfolds, all the men and women merely players, humans are compared to actors playing their parts, and they have their exits and their entrances, life and death are seen as a person's departure from the stage, and one man in his time plays many parts, a person experiences different roles throughout their life, so Shakespeare understood the dance of this, that birth and death are also a story, their entrance and exit onto the stage by the great actor, but the great actor can't be found, so we have words for this, we have words like God, we have words like um the everything, the present, all that other stuff, but in reality just look and you'll see there's nothing but nowness, lovingness, beingness here, and that is what all this is made of, and it's dancing in a totally mysterious way, so there isn't an actor, there isn't something aware of the play, the play is self-aware, its mere existence is the knowing of it, it's very very strange, so I'm pointing today from right here, and this kind of pointing can be a little disorienting, ununderstandable, confusing until it's realized, then it's obvious, it's like seeing an illusion, you couldn't see something hidden in a piece of art or something, and then you can't unsee it, so the attunement is just look, just keep looking, listen to the words, don't take them too seriously, and just feel into what they might be pointing, what direction they might be pointing, all the world is indeed a stage, what did Rush say? And we are merely players, performers and portrayers, each another's audience outside the cage, oh man, living in the limelight, the universal dream, okay Rush fans, let's see what else do we got here, looking for some comments, I had an awesome breakthrough says Chrissy the other day where I realized my thought is responsible for my suffering, anxiety, and I feel really free when I remember to think that thought, LOL, right, so okay, suffering is a thought resisting what is, that's another way to say it, it's one thought now, because there can only be a thought at a time here, so your entire history, everything you think you are is one thought right here showing up as Chrissy, everything you think the future is is one thought showing up as the future, and it can be multi-layered, textured appearance, but it feels so real, so what happens is we spend most of our time in this labyrinth of thought, thought, thought, thought, thought, thought, thought, thought, thought, thought, thought, thought, thought, thought, and when that is seen as just another appearance, like any visual field stuff, any sound, any sensation in the body, taste, smell, thought is another sense, it's another sense gate, when that's seen, and here's the really crazy part, everything you think is terrible, like you know you get that feeling like this is terrible, this is so unpleasant, oh my god I'm so scared, or I wish I hadn't done that, that usually is a constellation that happens very rapidly, in my experience, there's a thought that tells a story, there's a sensation in the body that has a certain flavor, maybe it's an emotion, maybe it's a physical sensation, and honestly there's not a big distinction between those, because all these things feel very physical, they feel real, and that is turned by thought into a story of I'm not comfortable. Now you can see it, you can see it as just textures, the texture of discomfort, the texture of thought saying this is no good, and when that's seen, just as it is, you realize there's no one seeing it, these are just textures arising mysteriously, and they all pass, they all arise and pass before they're even formed. Nisargadatta, this Indian sage said this really beautifully, he said that which has a beginning and has an end has no middle, so anything that has a beginning and an end has no middle, it's hollow, it's just a radiant appearance. So all those textures that we're talking about that make up the feeling of our reality are these ephemeral dances, plays of textures, and they feel so real, so the thought that says oh gosh I'm worried about this thing in the future, that's anxiety, we call that anxiety, it comes with a sensation here, maybe here, maybe behind the eyes, and we tell this instant story coming from conditioning, from our parents, from society, from our own traumas, that this is real and that it's mine, that it's my anxiety, my fear, and all of that is a construction, it can be seen through in this moment, there's no other place it's seen through, it's not seen in the future, it's not seen in the past, it's only now that any of this can be realized. So sometimes it's just like drop it and you can't do that because the mind is not designed to drop anything, the mind is designed to keep going until it exhausts itself, so maybe let it exhaust itself and then the dropping happens and everything's just as it is, and that's sometimes what we call awakening, that realization, that there never was that center, the way we thought, that this was all a story, it's Neo on plugging from the matrix and realizing his whole life was a dream induced by phenomena, just so happened there were computers inducing the phenomena, in this dream we don't know what's inducing it. Let's scroll down, AJ says, yes, the feeling of dread is an artificial construct, been noticing dread lately, let's talk about dread, this is beautiful, so okay, let's say you watch the news or you get a notification and email from something that induces a sense of dread, dread is near and dear to my heart as a kind of Enneagram 6 like fear-based personality, that's due to genetics, it's due to conditioning, it's like a pattern, like a weather pattern, like I'm a hurricane type B, whatever, right, and you can do tests online to kind of see, do you fit these patterns, you're not going to be perfect, but there fun kind of guideposts, so for someone like that when I get an email that says you know you've failed to pay your this or that, suddenly there's this immediate sense of doom, dread, like oh my god the world is ending, and not everybody gets that right, so I have my own set of conditioning and traumas that make that the sense that arises, so when I was young there were times where I really did not feel safe, like I felt the world was collapsing around me, so now there that fear is encoded in the body, so when there's a minor thing like you know whatever it is, the bank is like oh you know you with over withdrew an account, I'm just making something up, there's a feeling of like the bottom of the universe dropping out and you free falling into into death, into annihilation, like it's it's that intense, and that comes from that particular flavor of traumas and conditioning and genetics and tendencies and whatever it is, so but but it feels real, it feels like everything there is true, and it feels like it's my dread, so what happens when you look at it as just another radiant appearance, another texture, and there isn't anyone looking at it, it's just the texture, physical, the physical sense of dread, like dread, and then the story about dread, oh my god we're get this huge vine and we're going to get in trouble and you know whatever it spirals into catastrophizing and all the cognitive distortions, I would argue that every single thought is a cognitive distortion, because it can't reflect truth, it's just another story, it's another appearance, like dread, we call it dread, all it is is this particular energy pattern, that we've been conditioned to feel is associated with these things that are not good, so we judge it, we resist it, we label it, we make distance from it, and what did the Buddha say, like desire and aversion, right, that those are the roots of suffering, we want this, we don't want that, and that's it, so what happens, and this is where again my boy Long Champa, this old Tibetan dude, basically said it right, he said well since everything is but an apparition, just an appearance, has a beginning and an end and therefore no middle, so dread is an appearance, and Long Champa would say since everything is but an apparition, perfect in being what it is, meaning it's nothing more or nothing less than what it is as an appearance, just like when you see an image projected on a screen, if you stop losing yourself in the movie, you see it for exactly what it is, dancing light, that looks like it does, looks like Tom Cruise, looks like Anne Hathaway, right, so an apparition, perfect in being exactly what it is, that apparition, then he goes on to say having nothing to do with good or bad, acceptance or rejection, and what he's saying is there's nothing in that apparition that says give me that or send that away, I don't like it, it has nothing to do with that, it's just what it is, and then he goes on to say, and I'll recap here, since everything is but an apparition, perfect in being what it is, having nothing to do with good or bad, acceptance or rejection, then here's the punchline, the cosmic joke, he says one may well burst out in laughter, and that's the laughter of realization, the laughter of freedom, the laughter of seeing the play as the play, free from desire and aversion, although the textures of desire and aversion, grasping and pushing away, can appear perfect in being what they are, but an apparition with no beginning, no end, and I mean a beginning and an end, and therefore no middle, empty, accept as appearance, beautiful, radiant, perfectly accepted because they're there, it couldn't be otherwise. Mish says catastrophic thinking has been my MO since I'm seven years old, me too, me too, me too, and it still arises, so for me, like today I got an email from my payroll company that does my payroll, and it was like this, that, the other thing, and immediately I was walking by a lake having a beautiful time and I decided to open my phone because I wanted to make sure my daughter wasn't texting because she needed some things, and I saw my email there and I said oh, and I looked at it and immediately I read it and I knew I was like oh no, and it's like the mind immediately spun out a catastrophe, like wait if I can't do payroll then how will I do this, and who will file the 941 payroll tax form, and what, it's total chaos, and I saw my mind doing it, and I was like oh look at that, the dance, zubin zubinning, like zubin's mind has always been, look for danger, try to stay safe, watch out for your loved ones and your family, so there's kind of a loyalty component and fuck everyone else, right, that's how it's how he's wired from his conditioning, so that all played out, but it didn't, it was never really believed, it kind of just happened, it was seen by no one, and then it just went, that was it, now I'll tell you, that is not what would have happened to zubin before, before I would have ruminated, there would have been rumination on that, trying to solve the problems in the path, and some of the problem-solving did arise, it was like oh, I'll just do this and this and this, and I can't do it now, so there's no point thinking about it, and I'd say that's years in the making, that much clarity, and it's still not perfect, it's an ongoing process, Carol says, mine is always aversion, want to avoid everything, well you know desire and aversion are the same thing, actually Carol, like wanting to avoid everything is wanting safety, so you're desiring this and you're, so you're avoiding that, they're just a loop, it's just a snake eating its tail, desire and aversion, but they are the root of suffering, when we believe our thoughts, we believe that there's someone who suffers there, Peter says, hey doc, I think doc needs to interact more with us, read more comment section, I'm not sure what I've been doing, Peter, that's all I've been doing, maybe you want more comments and less meat, that I can understand, Sandy says, hello from the other side of the Atlantic, my mind is something that we can control, the mind is something that we can control, we can dictate what we want the brain to focus on, we can choose to make peace with our fear and comfort ourselves by soothing ourselves, that sounds really beautiful Sandy, boy my mind really loves that, also I can't find anything here that can choose any of that, I can't find any sense of control, I can't find, I can find an appearance that I've chosen my thought or a sense that I'm in control of my mind, but then when I look I realize, no, I didn't choose to be in control of my mind, I didn't choose the sense that I'm in control of my mind, where did that come from, total darkness, nowhere, in a sense it's the radical lack of control that finally absolutely annihilates the one who gave a shit about control, and that's the one that suffers, that generates the suffering, so you know we can, we can, we can, there's so many practices where you can reframe your thoughts, cognitive behavioral therapy, all that, it's all great, it's all fine, it'll make the dream more comfortable, so that is beautiful, but we're talking about existential truth today, we're talking about the root today, and the root is total nonsense, there's no control, there's a sense that maybe, oh look see there's even less negative thinking, like what I, my wife and I noticed, I told the story before, suddenly someone had mentioned how much negative self-talk they have, one of our family members, and all the shame and shamey talk from trauma as a child, and both of us kind of felt into it, and we were like, oh we used to have that, where did it go, where did all that go, and I can tell you, you can't find it now, it doesn't arise, so negative self-talk in the way it used to, with shame and identity, doesn't arise, does that mean that I controlled my mind and reframed my negative self-talk into positive self-talk, or talked myself out of the negative self-talk, you can do those things, but that doesn't uproot the negative self-talk, how did it go, how did it go, well this is just a story, okay, but bear with me, and it's probably not true, but this is how it feels, it went as the identity started to go, the more we looked at what this is in this moment, we realized it's really hard to believe in an illusion once you really see it, and when you stop seeing the illusion, then when the thought that says you're a piece of shit arises, it goes nowhere, it doesn't stick, who is this you that is a piece of shit, how can there be negative self-talk when you can't find a self that's moving through space and time that isn't a story, so it loses its grip, it no longer has that energetic suck that pulls you into it, and it goes, that's very different than trying to control our mind, trying to push and pull on our mind, because what's doing that, the mind itself, it perpetuates the seeking function of the mind, which is all the mind is, is a function, it's a movement of thought, it's a kind of a function in consciousness, and by the way there's also no consciousness, but that's another conversation, beautiful comment, oh Emma's by the lake, nice, hi Venus, CJ says big question, or question big Z, do you have more positive self-talk, no, I don't, that's a great question, in fact, oh I really haven't felt into this, that is a really good question, let me feel into this right now, because all I do here at Listen Guys, I'm no teacher, I'm no guru, I play one on TV, but I don't know what I'm talking about, all I know is my own experience, so I try here to share my experience, reflect on your experience through the lens of my own, that's all I can do, so sometimes I'm projecting onto you my own shit, so just be aware of that, because we all do that, I know very realized people who project their shit all over the place, and it's just how it is, whatever realized means, so do I have more positive self-talk, okay so when the negative self-talk seemingly disappeared, and I don't know when that was, and by disappear I mean it no longer has a hold, it may arise, but it's just, it's gone, I think the same thing happened to the positive self-talk, so there isn't an inner cheerleader going, you're so great, you're doing such a good job, Z, like you're really helping people by making these videos, like you're really good dad, and good husband, and yeah you're good f-  frendipipl, and yeah, you fuck up once in a while, but you're a good guy, bro, and then none of that. Because there's a realization that, first of all, the zubin is just a constellation of appearance. Second, there's no control, so how can there be ownership of being good or bad? Third, I don't even know what good or bad means, because that's another texture, another flavor, without any innate truth value, it's just a flavor. That's a good action, that's a bad action, that's a flavor. I'm a vegan, I'm a meat eater, they'll argue all day. The truth is both flavors, both appearances. So good and bad don't seem to have a center, but then what happens? The actions that are taken, others might say, well, they're pretty good. Well, because it's also hard to go out and knowing what suffering is, knowing what mind identification feels like, go out and hurt some apparent other because you know there is no other, there's only what's happening as one happening. So what are you hurting? What are you pushing and pulling on? It's radical love is what it is, lovingness or loveless. These are just words I make up. I think I heard someone say lovingness once in a Zen book. I like loveless, actually, it's like made of loveless, it's unconditional acceptance of what's arising. So it's very hard to hurt somebody or something. Consciously or intentionally. Joe says, you say you're not a teacher, yet you still guide and teach so beautifully. There is guidance, but no guide. Oh, Joe, that's beautiful. I hope that's true, but also if it's not, nothing I can do about it. But yeah, this is the thing, to assume the role, the identity of a teacher is something others have projected on me too. Like you're the guru, you're the teacher, you're the one who can save us from this folly of whatever. And how many people have taken on that identity over the eons, including currently, all over YouTube and everything, only for people to find out they're humans. And if you share your own experience, others may look at their own experience, because that's what the best teachers, apparently, point to is your own experience. So if you can do that, if I can do that, then that's beautiful. And my thing is like, Zubin loves to reflect and hear the sound of his own voice. As one of the commenters said earlier, actually it's like, maybe read more of our comments and talk less. I'm actually starting to really let that settle in. Initially I was like, isn't that what I'm doing? Maybe not enough. So thank you, Joe. Carrie says, I recently had events come up in my life that brought me back into some past trauma, largely felt in the body. And I've been using my thoughts to remind me that I'm not in the trauma now. When living from the trauma response, I sure don't show up accepting all that is, exactly. And this is where my friend, Simon Brown, in the UK, we're gonna do another show at some point. He's so good about this. He's like, you can talk about non-duality and the nature of this is all an appearance and there's no thoughts shouldn't be believed. You can talk about it until you're blue in the face, that the body keeps the score. When there's trauma, the body feels it. It is not feeling safe. It is not resourced to drop into that knowing. It's just not. It is going to contract, create a story, try to protect itself and that is innocent. That's an innocent movement of the body to keep itself safe when it was young. What you're pointing at is you're now having this conversation with the body using thought, which is not a problem at all. You're saying, okay, I get it. You try to keep me safe. I see the trauma. Now I am okay. I can handle this. So you can relax. Like you've served the purpose and I see you there and I love you. I'm not trying to reject this part that's contracted and resistant because it served its purpose to keep you safe when you were young, when you couldn't do other. But now you can do other. You're older, wiser, whatever. So you can have that conversation with the body. You can feel it fully. You can let that hurt really be felt, really be inhabited. And man, this is the part of that shadow, that unseen part of you that it is so excruciating when it starts to happen. Because all the things you've been avoiding in thought and story, in distraction, you now face full on and you realize they look like a demon. They feel like a monster. They feel inseparable from you, from your identity because they are your identity. They're the shell around your identity. They're perpetuating a sense of self. So they can feel really sticky and difficult, but then when they're really allowed, fully accepted from the piece that passes all understanding. And that means doing the work with trauma, maybe seeing a therapist, seeing someone who specializes in trauma care and somatic experiencing different modalities that aren't just sitting in meditation and going crazy. We're trying to bypass into some spiritual bypass where you're like, oh, it's all emptiness. It's all just a story. That's not gonna work. Try it. It won't work. Not for long anyways. It's just gonna perpetuate the churn in the body. So that's beautiful, Carrie, that that's showing up for you now. Kavita says, I've been discovering courses in Kundalini energy path. It's so interesting. ZDogg, you should do it with me. Yeah, Kavita, I am extremely sensitive to Kundalini. So it's been extremely energetic. So what is Kundalini? Kundalini for people who aren't into the wonky terminology of the various traditions, it's a sense of energy or electricity or some kind of energetic movement that is felt in the body. Sometimes it can be felt outside of the body and it often moves. It has a movement or a dynamic component. So it's a kind of this energy thread of awakening which is like everything is made of this vibrating energy and that can be experienced. It's not a thought. It's like, oh, whoa. And for me, that started showing up after, I mean, a long time ago and I didn't know what it was. These little jolts, anytime I would drop into just pure presence, awakeness, consciousness, but at that time I was identifying as consciousness itself which was just another thought, but at the time it felt like a realization. And when that would happen, I would feel this like, oh, the body would just light up. Even more recently, you guys may have seen videos where I'm like, man, when I drop into just the void, it just lights the body up with energy. And since then, and my wife has this too, we can move energy around in each other. It's just a sensation. It's not some magic. And so the term that's used classically as Kundalini, it's this kind of snake-like energy. And it doesn't mean anything. We ascribe meaning to it. It's just another phenomena, but it can be quite disorienting. It can be quite seductive. It can be quite a story-generating device. And so people try to chase it or make something of it. And there's nothing wrong with that. And you can enjoy it. It can also feel harmful. It can feel uncomfortable. It can feel destabilizing. So what I've found, my friend, Angela DeLulo, talks about this quite a bit, is having some practice for energy is a good thing as this process unfolds. For me, it's yoga, and my wife and I just kind of doing touch. And that really, like, I've had experiences with that where I'm laying flat on a massage table. She's just doing some intuitive movement, touching the chest, moving it around. She's feeling it too, right, in her own body. And then what'll happen is it'll just, oh, like so much energy will come out the top of the head. You'll contract. You'll start crying. Emotion is associated with it. Traumatic imagery might come up. You might growl. You might clench your fists. All kinds of archetypal energies come up. It's all just conditioning. But to resist it is problematic. To allow it to be what it is, well, that is, again, the piece that passes all understanding. So allowing that with practices can be helpful. In my experience, yoga has been very helpful. Over the last year, been doing yoga for about a year now, and almost exactly a year. And it is like a total game changer, which I was surprised, because I always thought it was garbage. I'm like, yoga, who the hell is this? I'm just gonna hurt my back and all that. Never felt better. And there's something about the just energetic grounding in the body that just, it puts you right there. You're not doing it to get anything. You're not doing it to get, you get flexibility, strength, balance, stamina. You get those things, but that's not the intent. The intent is to be fully present in the body in these different poses. That's it. It's quite beautiful. I like Travis Elliott. He's a YouTube guy. My wife and I have been doing his videos for quite some time. He's a hoot too. You always tell these dumb little Dharma stories, and he's a total bro, and I love him. I love him to death. He's just adorable. Oh, thank you, AJ, I'm glad. Yeah, ruminations a big problem, Jessica. I hear you, many people. Your opinion on Tai Chi, Rebecca. So Tai Chi is another energy practice, beautiful. Absolutely, if it calls to you, don't force anything, but if it calls to you, 100%. Actually, Travis Elliott does this yoga Tai Chi thing too, where he kind of combines the two. I'll tell you a funny story. So my wife and I were in Flushing, New York a couple months ago with the family. We were going to all the Chinatown restaurants. We went into Flushing Meadows, and then we went to the Queens Botanical Gardens. So people from New York will know what this is. We were walking through the Queens Botanical Gardens, and there was a woman in full robes, Asian woman, middle-aged woman, in full robes, doing some form of energy practice. I don't know if it was Tai Chi or Qigong or what, but she was doing it all alone in this meadow. There was nobody else around, and my wife and I walked by, and I could feel like the hairs on the back of my neck stand up, and I looked around, and there was this woman doing this thing. And as I watched her, I could feel Kundalini being induced in my own body. Now this is all a story, right? It doesn't mean she was doing that, but something about the entire environment with that practitioner there induced these currents of energy seemingly in the body. And you know I'm not into woo-woo, right? But experientially, that's what I experienced. So I found it fascinating. I was like, wow, that's real. I almost went up and talked to her, but I knew I'd break her concentration, and she would make eye contact with me in this really spooky way, and my wife and I were just like, damn, that's a thing. So don't underestimate the energy stuff. It is another thread of the awakening unfolding along with the sense that everything is love, that unity thread, everything is empty of substance and self, the emptiness thread, and everything is just conditioning and psyche and unconscious and trauma, the psyche thread that Piers Algaro talks about in one of our, in three of our videos that we made together. Jennifer Curran, who's a supporter, thank you for being a supporter of the show, keeps the lights on. In yoga, we were doing a release pose and the entire class started crying. Oh, totally, I cried during yin yoga, which is the slow stretch yoga. I've cried during regular yoga. It's because so much is stored in the body. The body keeps the score, right? So so much is stored there, and when you really pay attention and attend to that, that energy comes through and it's beautiful. So where did all the negative self-talk go? How did that disappear? Man, maybe it was the yoga, maybe it was the energy practice, maybe it was the meditation, maybe it was awakening, maybe it was doing some degree of internal family systems therapy. Maybe it was psychedelics, maybe it was just spending time with very awake people who point in this way. I have no fucking clue. It doesn't matter. I can't even believe causality is real, apart from in the dream. So I can't say, go do this, go do that, go there. That's what David Kars will call the descriptive prescriptive fallacy. You're describing something like, oh, I had this thing happen, the sense of self, negative self-talk went away, and I did all these things. That's a description. But then people take it as a prescription. Oh, go do yoga, go do this, and you also will have your negative self-talk disappear. That's not how it works. It's all kind of an epiphenomenon of the whole thing, thinking, life-lifing, and that's what awakening really is, is this whole process beyond anyone's control. No one's doing it, just it's self-orchestrating in a way. You could say, God, whatever word you wanna use, it's all story, but it's doing it. And you're the along for the ride, the you that you think you are is just an appearance along for the ride. So I describe it, you guys may experience it, it may open your mind in a way, but I'm not telling you go out and do it, and then you will have this result, because that's seemingly the descriptive prescriptive fallacy. I'm not prescribing, I'm not saying it causes this, I'm saying this is what happened here. Leslie, your description of Kundalini reminds me of a description in Russell Paul in Jesus in the Lotus, which was written in the 90s about his experience as a monk at this ashram, a Benedictine monastery, yes, Catholic in India. Father Griffith was his mentor, Russell Paul also wrote the Yoga of Sound. See, this is where all these traditions then diagram out, right? They overlap, it's really quite beautiful. So I love these kind of connections between mystical Christianity, these monastic traditions, Zen, Hinduism, Sufi and mystical Islam, Buddhism, mystical Judaism like the Torah, and then all the standard practices in the religions are sort of outgross of those things. It's really quite fascinating, but then what happens? The matrix hijacks it turns into an organized structure and imposes a kind of a control and expectation, shame, all the other shit that happens, and that's fine too. Let's see. Anastasia says that plus knowing you cannot change the past and you have to consciously understand you're right here and right now. Stressing about the past is useless, but your future depends on how you feel and think right now. Well, there's nowhere else. So any future occurs now. Any past is only your memory now. So that realization that it's deepest, look, if nothing else, you're right. If nothing else happened, if you did nothing else and you just knew at the deepest level of being that there's only this here, that just that is the end of all problems. It's because that's the Eckhart Tolle, like totally power of now, it's this, right? That he kind of popularized in popular speak and Oprah speak. By the way, the Kundalini Leslie that you were talking about in Russell Paul Jesus and the Lotus. So this idea of the Holy Spirit that can be also described as Kundalini energy, this movement of love, this movement of spirit that moves you, the dynamic component of being, of nothing coming into being feels like a flow of energy. It feels like a flow of love. It can feel like bliss or discomfort or whatever. Right now it feels like a little neck pain for me, but it's that, that dynamic explosion of every moment. Yeah, beautiful Jojo. Yeah, Kabbalah is quite interesting, Karen. All kinds of interesting stuff. Let's see. All right, we've run out of comments here. Let me take a look at where we are. Yeah, hit me up. What's your experience currently? There was something someone said that made me think of something I wanted to talk about. Lori says, this is quite relaxing, comforting. I don't know, something like that. So Lori, isn't that odd because I'm talking about the fact that you have no control, that your entire life is a dream and a story and yet here it is showing up, radiantly perfect. That it feels like a current of love, loveless in action that there's only now. So why would your body and mind respond to that? Maybe it's not. Maybe there's a deeper part of you that has always known this. That's known this since childhood when it was obvious. And it's just responding by relaxing. It was always relaxed. So that deep part Lori is beyond all the trials and tribulations of the world. It's of the world. It's in the world, but not of the world, you could say, as our boy Jay Diddy said. You haven't tried any water fasts, Kavita. Fasting is another interesting practice that can some people really resonate with it. I've used to do intermittent fasting, but not for spiritual purposes, it was more for trying to lose weight. And the funniest thing was all my life, I struggled with trying to keep in shape and lose weight and last 10 pounds, last 10 pounds for how many decades of life. And since January, 10 pounds went away. And I don't know if it's, again, I could say, oh, well, we were doing yoga and I walk a bunch of miles a day and I stopped eating when I'm full and all that, but why did that happen? I didn't intend to do any of that. There's just a natural attunement to what the body is doing. So you, the you you thought you were just relaxes and gets out of the way and the body just bodies. So then it attains whatever homeostasis it's gonna be at. Maybe you're at baseline a little overweight, so what? Apparently at baseline, I am the lightest I've been as an adult, which is so strange. Because I didn't try. I saw my PCP for the first time in four years yesterday because I was like, you know, I should probably go. And he was like, yeah, he looks like he lost 10 pounds since last time, yeah. And like, I was like, yeah, I thought I had cancer because I didn't intend to do it. I did my own little workout and it was negative and it's been months now, it's been like nine months, 10 months and I feel great. Labs look good. It's like, what's even going on? Well, just letting the body be the body, not pushing and pulling on it, no shoulds. I mean, they still arise, let's not kid ourselves. Old pattern conditioning, addiction to food as a comfort, addiction to exercise as a control mechanism, all those things still arise. And when I say addiction, I use it lightly. It's like we're all addicted to thought. I don't mean like a severe addiction, like an eating disorder or something, but just does it have to be severe to really affect everything in the energetics of the body? No. Yeah, Lori did a fast, that's great, five days, yeah. Can be a real thing, real spiritual experience. Carrie says, we control nothing, but influence everything. Quote, I recently saw from Brian Klaas, any comments on these words? So we control nothing but influence everything. The way I interpret something like, the way I feel that in the body, in truth, in this moment, is we are everything. So there's no need to control because everything is us. So how could it be other than us? How could it be other than what is? Perfect. So in a sense, as everything, we influence everything because we are everything. And yet there's nobody there. So that's the beauty of words, is there always a paradox when it comes to truth. There always yes, and yes, and yes, and yes, and yes, and yes, and like it's all, this is true and its opposite is true. We have absolute control over everything and we have no control ever and never did, both are true. How? Don't use the mind. It's never been right about anything except how to tie your laces and these simple actions. It's not right about reality. And that's the root of suffering as we believe our mind. We extrapolate a tool, turn it into our master, and it's a great servant and a terrible master, the mind. Dennis, I'm just being aware of every experience and recognizing there is no experiencer, no self in it. There seems to be a growing effect and more glimpses of freedom. If I wasn't so busy, I'd just be focused there all the time. That's beautiful. So I'll give, I'm gonna take Dennis's pointing here and use a kind of a Buddhist sutra called the Bahia Sutra to point at this. So this is the story here. This monk's hanging out, he hears the Buddha's in town and he's like, bro, the Buddha's in town. I wanna find out what the hell is up. Like how do I get enlightened? Now this monk had already busted his ass. He'd done all the meditation, he'd seeked and seeked and seeked and seeked and seeked. He'd done yoga, he'd done fasts, he'd self-flagellated, renunciate all of it. But he's like, there's something missing. I'm still not like, I'm still not fully realized, I can tell, because they're suffering. So he goes up to the Buddha, he finds him, Buddha's out there begging for money with his homies. Bahia, the monk, says, Bahia of the bark cloth. He says, bro, how do I get enlightened? How do I get woke like you? And Buddha's like, I'm working here, I'm trying to get money, this is the wrong time. So he comes back, he says, I'm asking again, man. Like I just want the suffering to end, you have the answer, help me out. And Buddha's like, nope, sorry, I got stuff to do. Turns out in these Buddhist scriptures, like the third time's always the charm, like the power of three. So he comes back the third time and Buddha's like, oh, all right, come here. You're serious, because you, three times. So you must be serious, right? These old fables, hand to mouth oral transmission. Who knows what Buddha actually did. Bahia of bark cloth sitting there. Okay, what do I do? And Buddha tells him, listen, it's simple. This is how you practice. And this is what Dennis is pointing at. In the scene, there's merely the scene. In the herd, merely what is heard. In the sensed, merely the sensed. And in the thought, cognized, merely the thought. And notice Bahia, that there is no you in that. There's just that. You're neither there, nor here, nor in between. And that just that is the end of suffering. And Bahia has total enlightenment right there. And an hour later, he's killed by a cow, protecting her calf. And that's the end of that. And that's just how it is. In the scene, merely the scene. In the herd, merely the herd. In the sensed, merely the sensed. In the cognized, merely the cognized, that's it. Just the phenomena. Nobody watching it. Nobody aware of it, no consciousness. There is no you in there. Just this. This makes no sense until it is experienced as everything, everything-ing. And that just that is the end of suffering. The peace that passes all understanding. Let's see. Debbie says, I don't believe I'm in control of anything. I believe God is. I believe he gives us free will, but he is in control. Yeah, that's beautiful. I don't know. I've not found a controller, but you could say the whole thing is controlling itself, which you could call God. I'm just speaking for myself. You have God. You have God. You have God. I believe I'm in control of myself. You have God that you believe is doing this, and that's great. For me, belief kind of falls away, so it's more, what do I experience? And you might experience God in this way. You might experience God as the entire manifestation doing you, not sexually, doing you as like, this is just the dance and you're being danced. And then there isn't a you. There's just the dance. And then there isn't a God. There's just Godness. All of it is God. Can you feel that? That, oh, that is Kundalini for me. Just straight out the top of the head. Lori says, so our thoughts just like a bird song. Yep, they're tweets. Tweet, tweet, tweet, tweet, tweet, tweet. That's what thoughts are. Just like, just like that, just like that sound. There's no difference between a thought and this. None. Yeah, Dennis, it's a good story, the Bahia of the Bark cloth story. The Bahia Sutta is what it's called. You can read the, there's several translations. Some are better than others. It's just a pointer. A way of pointing. Dennis says, when you can't find a me anywhere, I once called it being squeezed out by way, squeezed out by the not self. Oh, that's interesting. When you can't find a me anywhere, you're squeezed out by the not self. Oh man, that's great. I just, that's like, send you right there. I don't wanna overanalyze what you just said, cause I could say a lot, but there's no need. Just let it point you where it's going. Which is nowhere, everywhere. Beautiful. Dennis. Okay. Man, this is, okay, I'm gonna reflect for a moment that we're here on a Wednesday, October 1st at like 120 Pacific time in the middle of like work week. There's, you know, somewhere between 60 and 100 people here at any time. And we're talking about things that are actually the deepest taboos. In human society and consciousness, which is that we are not what we think we are. That this is not what we're sold. And you guys willingly come here and spend your time sharing your experience with each other. Like that is unbelievably beautiful. And I'm so filled with gratitude for you guys that you can co-create the space. It's really lovely. I feel it, whatever it is. That's right, Dennis, cause there's nothing left. That's right, no thing. Lori. By the way, Lori, your comments are beautiful. So as are everyone's. So why do I judge birdsong as enjoyable and thoughts as painful? That doesn't make sense anymore. God, you're good Lori. Why indeed? Since everything is but an apparition, perfect in being exactly what it is.  is, birdsong, thought, having nothing to do with good or bad, acceptance or rejection, one may well burst out in laughter. How could I have done this all my life? Pushed and pulled on reality. Well, that was part of the reality that was showing up, so forgive that, let that be part of the love of everything. And what's next, and what's next, and what's next, and what's now, and what's now. Beautiful. Rebecca says, you have no idea how this is helping me. All of you will be 65 in exactly two weeks. Ugh, I see 65 coming. Beautiful. Happy, happy pre-birthday. Karen says, how is it different from acceptance? So here's the descriptive prescriptive fallacy again. This is how it's the same and different. Acceptance is saying, acceptance can be seen two ways. One is, ugh, I don't like that. I do like that. There's no reason I shouldn't like both equally. I'm going to just reframe my thought and I'm going to accept both. And that's fine. That's a nice hack and it will get you a long way in the relative world, no doubt. And then there's the second type of acceptance, the passive all understanding, which is it is absolutely known by nothing that this couldn't be any other than it is and that there's no difference between a dog shit and a beautiful flower. They're both radiant expressions of eternity showing up now. This is just ways of speaking. And so when pushing and pulling does arise, even that is seen as the radiance of perfection and everything is known at the deepest fundamental level to be okay beyond okay. Everything is perfect. Even the imperfection. And that is a different stratum of acceptance from the mind based acceptance that we try to control or force, which it's all fine. And it can be incredibly helpful when we're suffering to do that. So I'm not saying don't. I'm saying we're talking today about existential deepest truth, whatever that is. So that's where I'm pointing. Beautiful. Okay. Well, how long have we gone here? It doesn't say Oh, an hour. Hmm. That's too long. Alright, I think we'll wrap it up. So couple quick things. Usually I saw a stream this to Facebook. I send it to the Facebook Awakening channel on Messenger so they get notified. Then what I often will do is turn it into a YouTube video, put it on YouTube on the replay, put it on my podcast, the ZDoggMD show. So people can listen to it on their commute or whatever. People who like to listen and not look at my stinking mug. And that is how I like to do it now. And then I'll have chat GPT or Claude AI actually make a chapter list so that it'll go by topics and it'll summarize it in a blog post and I will edit it and make sure it's correct and then put it up on my website. So all of that is what I like to do these days because I can't come up with stuff to talk about without you because there's not we're co-creating this moment together. Like the whole moment's creating itself and I can't just sit here and talk at a camera without you. So I appreciate you for the people who support the show for the five bucks a month on Facebook, YouTube, locals. I'm deeply appreciative. You can always join that group on any platform you like. Just go to ZDoggMD.com forward slash supporters. And you I'll do live shows just for supporters, but it's also just being part of a group that's like minded, which is really nice. That's it. Love you guys. Yeah. Thanks so much for for this. This is so helpful for me too. Really. And I'll see you guys next time.

=== FILE: The kingdom of heaven is spread upon the Earth (Christmas Eve Live) [JNtuVr-JW38].txt ===

 I think we're live. I'm gonna load up your comments here. It's Christmas Eve, son! Oh, it does work. Look at that. So if I click on that, I can see your comments here too. Nice. Is there any reason to actually see them on an iPad as well? Maybe, maybe not. I don't know. Probably just purely out of boredom. Come on down. I got the living room going. Kathleen is the first comment. Merry Christmas Eve. That's right. So it's Christmas Eve, the eve of Christmas. The whole love thing, right? The, the, that Jesus was about. It was that total heart-based amazement. That's, I think, what we're trying to celebrate. Evan, Sunshine, Amber, Kara, Maureen Bruins, Happy Holidays, Love the Tree. Thanks. My wife and kids picked this while I was doing some other errands that day and they came back with this thing and Charlie Brown Christmas treat it into life. So it was kind of nice. And I think, hang on, let me see if I can, yeah, we got a fire going. Yay! Nothing like a gas fireplace to make the spirit real. Let me go back to your comments here. You guys talked about love yesterday and I've been thinking about it since then. That's interesting. Like love is one of those things that when we think about it, we think about the human conception of love. Like it's a very mind-based and emotion-based kind of sense. I think the love we are speaking of is more like the pervasive fabric of reality. And it's also sensed. It's actually realized. It's not thought about. You can reflect on it and thought, but it's not it. It's like a reflection. It's like a hallmark card versus actually being in love. You know? It's an embodied thing too. Like if you're walking on a path and you're feeling that and it's embodying, people will just smile at you. They'll say hi. Whereas when you don't, it's hit or miss whether they'll do that. It's really odd. It's something that I've just kind of noticed. And I may be imagining it because the mind does some funny things and all of life is just one big placebo. So there's that. Hi, Kathy. Happy Ho Ho and all that. Hi, Robin. Jennifer says much love to all this holiday season. Awesome. And Cindy says hi from New Brunswick, Canada. Yeah. All kinds of great people here today. Let's see. So yeah, so tell me what you guys want to talk about. Merry Christmas, Robin. Wow, I got so many little screens going. Hashtag blessed. All the cliches just seem kind of funny. We had a big windstorm here last night and our plants and stuff blew down. That was the excitement of the day and sending out all kinds of positive vibes to people working over the holidays. I found myself, you know, when I was working full time as a hospital doctor, I often worked holidays and it was actually really chill, really good to do that because you saw people in a different state. The whole vibe of the thing was different. You felt like you were kind of being of service just by showing up, even though you complained. And the cafeteria food was dried out, turkey and crappy cranberry sauce out of a can. It was still awesome. Kathy says hallmark love is unattainable and ruins it for all of us. It's a human conception and it's very much marketing. You know, Valentine's Day and all that, like what love ought to be. Who says everything is made of this? It can be realized that way. Whether I'm not making a claim about the nature of reality, I'm saying like inexperience. It can be felt that everything is made of that kind of non-human, non-conceptual, perfect, unconditional love. And that's beyond any words and stuff and that can show up as anger. It can show up as hatred. It can show up as war, that same love. That's the real paradox. So we reduce it to these different platitudes and cliches and things like that. And all that's fine. That's all fine too. That's how what humans are. Hi, Cory. Are you a local, right in the bay? Why am I so itchy? Probably because I haven't really woken up even though I got up at 4 a.m. and it's now almost 10 a.m. Isn't that ironic? I still haven't woken up. Cory says happy holidays may all arise as clear as it actually is. Oh, that's a nice blessing. Yeah, as clear as it actually is. Evelyn says, would you speak to sitting in unknown and uncertainty and adjusting to just being with what is? Oh, that's beautiful. Okay. Okay, if you actually watch your experience, watch your mind, watch what's happening in most of your daily experience for most people. We are living in a constant churn of thought that creates a supposed reality. So it creates expectation in every moment. Like, okay, in the next moment, it's going to be like this or later today, it's going to be like that or it's Christmas Eve, we're going to have a roasted chicken for dinner and it's going to show up like this. And the older we are, the more experienced we are that have the more conditioning we have, the more that engine of fabrication of our reality, the more efficient it is, the more habitual it is, the more ingrained it is. And so we live in this constant fabrication where we have expectations and labels and filters on reality all the time. So we're also thinking about the past. We're thinking about our problems. We're thinking about solutions to problems that we're creating in thought. These problems don't exist in the absolute reality. There's nothing but appearance here, but they exist in thought. So the issue of how do you live in the unknown without that, without expectation, what that's like. So it's the wordless. It's when you allow attention in some way is just allowed to drop out of that bubble. It's seen through instantly in any moment it can be. And then there's just the complete absolute mystery that this is not known at all, that this is just exactly like Cory said earlier, exactly what it is as an appearance. It's exactly what it is, which means you can't say anything about it. You can't pin it down. You can't put a spin or a word on it because words don't capture reality. So then in this now, which isn't even a now because that's another label, there's just absolute thisness. And then thought comes back and it's like, okay, but in five minutes you're going to lose the thisness. In five minutes you're going to need to wake your kids up so they can have breakfast and work on college applications or they're going to, you know, all that stuff will come back. And that's fine. But for that timeless instant and these instance become more frequent and more regular, there's just the unknown, which is reality itself outside of thought, inclusive of thought as an appearance. So thought doesn't go anywhere. It's just no longer believed. It's no longer, you're no longer lost in the sauce of that. Instead, there's just the waterfall of experience just happening to no one because there isn't even a center because the center is a thought. The self is a series of thoughts, beliefs, structures. So then without that, there's no need to even think about, oh, there's no self here or I'm in the unknown or this is so spontaneous. And those thoughts may arise. It's more just freedom for freedom's sake, for nobody. And it is. It's radically unknown. So until like some of our trauma, our emotional repression, some other stuff conditioning that we're sitting on, until that's allowed to express and come through in what people call shadow work and things like that, nobody's doing the shadow work. It's like doing itself. Until that is allowed to kind of play itself out continually, we live on top of that stuff and it becomes something that keeps pulling us like a rubber band energetically back into thought, back into the trying to solve these problems. So that's why that stuff is so important. It's like what prevents you from being in the unknown every moment? What prevents the spirit that Jesus said was the kingdom of heaven since we're talking about Christmas Eve? What prevents us from being in the kingdom of heaven in any moment? Well, it's that. It's all of that conditioning, all that habit, all that thought labyrinth. And as Jesus also said, unless you become like these children, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. Meaning the innocence of the child before it was conditioned, before it was traumatized, when everything was the unknown, everything was wonder. So the question was, how do you stay in that? That's where the words really feel like I could, I could give you platitudes like a million spiritual teachers and non-duality teachers, gurus, but really you know at a deep level it's this, it's what's happening. And even that is saying too much because nothing's really happening. Because to say something's happening, you put a label on it and the labels drop and then it's just pure. You could use words like pure presence, you could use words like God, you could use words like pure love, you could use words like, you could be more existential and nihilistic and say the void or emptiness or the unborn. You could be zen and say the unborn, like this thing that doesn't, was never born and doesn't die and it's not a thing and it's the radiant potential from which everything seems to vibrate and everything I just said is wrong. Because it's words. Robert Gonzalez says, what is all matter was merely energy condensed to a slow vibration and we are all one consciousness experiencing itself subjectively. There is no such thing as death, life is only a dream and we are an imagination of ourselves. Well that is one way to say what is unsayable using terms that mind will understand like consciousness, imagination, energy, vibration and it's fun and it does point at this. But if you take any of what you said literally, I think it becomes another story that we tell ourselves that's another conceptual realm that then not only do we try to live in, we seek. Like why can't I see that everything is condensed energy? Well condensed energy is a way to hack the mind and go okay what if this was all just condensed energy slowed to a vibration that's what matter is and it's coming out of the quantum void and everything we know about ourselves is a story and an imagination that that energy is doing. That's a fun way to talk about it and it can reframe, it can actually kind of put the mind on tilt and then what's left? Just this, you know, it couldn't be anything else. A few minutes ago you added, you asked why am I so itchy and seemed very mildly irritated or frustrated? This was striking to me because my practice right now is partly about sitting with itches not scratching them and feeling the sensations. I'm autistic so this is a huge amount of stimulation, this is Marcus Geduld by the way, huge amount of stimulation from me and it can bring me close to panic though not all the way into panic. What is it like for you to be itchy? What a great question Marcus, wow you're very analytical and precise and I love that. So I have done years of meditation and that kind of mindfulness where you're looking at sensations, so an itch like what is an itch? Like when we call it an itch we're labeling it, we're turning it into something that happens to a me and then anger, frustration, reactivity apply to it. So then you can go, I'm speaking for me now so what I did then was I'd sit in meditation and I would feel an itch and I would go oh what is this and try to deconstruct it into what its primary sense energy is. So what is it really? It's a dancing sense energy that seems to be here. Okay is it really there or is that another overlay of thought putting it in a place? Oh no it actually is happening in a placeless place that I can nail down and it's like an energy, a dancing energy vibration okay. Does it have any good, bad or neutral qualities only that I apply to it but in reality it's just what it is and then it can just be allowed to play itself out and usually it dissolves and if it doesn't dissolve it's no longer a problem. So that's the sort of meditative approach to looking at sensation which I think is what you're implying you're doing now which is great. Then what can happen is like after that starts to integrate and you the shadow starts to come up like all the trauma, emotion, conditioning that you haven't seen, pain, all the stuff starts to get processed. There's a maturity I think of insight that seems to happen and again I'm just speaking for my own experience. I don't know what these words really mean. Where an itch just becomes an itch again. So now itching arises, Zubin expresses, I don't know what words are coming from, scratches it, there may be a sense of a flash of irritation arises and then it falls away and it's gone and none of it is resisted, none of it is turned into a problem, none of it is analyzed, it's just allowed to be exactly what it is through the human filter and it resolves itself and it's quite free. Itching is no longer a problem but it no longer needs to be deconstructed, monitored, fiddled with, it's just allowed to be exactly what it is. So Corey early on said, I hope everything is seen as exactly what it is. I mean that's it. So that's my experience of itching. Great questions. You guys are on fire today. Christmas Eve, magic. Hi Erin, love you too and I don't know you but I love you. Sherry Anderson says, societal constructs prevents our mind from being there. So society, this whole thing, it tells us we're supposed to behave a certain way, there are expectations of us, we pay our taxes, we pay our bills, we go work, we raise children or don't, we have a partner or don't, we do all that. Those are all consensus stories that we tell and it's all fine and that if you don't want to play that game, don't but do notice it's kind of like what we were talking about with Marcus earlier. You can break, deconstruct those things and you can see them for what they are which is total constructions. They have nothing to do with anything in objective reality. Once you do that then you can dance with that. You go okay that's what it is so society expects this, maybe I'll play this game but I won't play that and it's natural what this body-mind organism wants to do is what it's going to do. So maybe it'll play the game of being a YouTuber or doing Facebook but it won't play the game of pretending to care about you know something that it doesn't or trying to be, have an identity as somebody who is ambitious or successful. What are any of those things right? So society starts to deconstruct itself and then it just is allowed to be what it is so it affects you whenever that happens and when it doesn't it doesn't but there's a freedom, there's a knowing of it in its right place that it is just a story and that's the freedom. So you can take it sincerely but you never have to take it seriously. Again that's freedom. Marcus says okay let's scroll forward Ann says I love you are talking how you're talking across religions. It's all words different words and versions trying to talk about the same thing that like you say aren't really able to be put into words right. So this is what I've noticed about religions. They're all pointing I mean the fundamental root of the great religions and the less great religions meaning the smaller versions are pointing at this. Jesus was pointing at this, the Sufis pointed at this, the Hindus were pointing at this, thousands of years ago, the Buddhists, the Confucians, the Jews all pointing at this. Big religions often get hijacked by societal structures, power dynamics, hierarchies, control, rules, all of that and that's all fine too but what I do find is sometimes like if I speak from a Buddhist perspective the Christians in my audience get triggered and they're like Zubin the reason you're so you know you're talking about the void and the emptiness of reality and the insubstantial and impermanent and unreliable and no self-nature is because you haven't found Christ and only he can save your eternal soul and it's like okay so that's I understand where you're coming from because that's your conditioning around that religion but these are all saying the same thing right and if I were better at communicating I would be more inclusive of the various expressions in any moment but sometimes I'm speaking to a more Buddhist flavor sometimes I'm speaking to a Christian flavor sometimes speaking to a like a Vedantic Hindu Advaita non-dual flavor like with the different deities representing different aspects of human expression different aspects of reality the dance Lila there's so many different beautiful expressions of this in humanity and we call them religion religion to link back that's religios I think is the I forget the Latin root that's what it means oh thanks Marcus glad I'm not going to try to pronounce it again because I'll get it wrong hi vicky hi doc vicky across and between religions exactly and then get rid of all let it all go because you don't need any of it but it's beautiful when it shows up like really it's this you trust your own experience this is like God is staring at you in the face if you want to use that language it's like right here Brian Pasalakwa says you helped me get through the difficult COVID times sharing your knowledge and humor thank you yeah Zubin showed up for that this character was designed to do that and now he's let it go and now he's also talking about himself in the third person which is interesting that's odd I'll stop that I'll stop that Roland says Merry Christmas good luck with my last name okay let me see here I'm gonna put my glasses on for this last name okay it's either la liberty or la liberty so you have to help me now or maybe it's yeah la liberty la liberty la liberty oh boy Chris happy holidays get your blue milk eggnog that's right Star Wars baby Chris uh pia font pia font pia font says Jesus gave unconditional love I would think he'd welcome all religions so if you read so Jesus is an absolutely amazing figure amazing enlightened I mean look at the stories and the words in the New Testament that are read that Jesus spoke the transfiguration the trial on the ship with the apostles where everything's hitting the fan and Jesus is like sleeping like there were so many metaphors there for the freedom of this of the kingdom of heaven which is right here and Jesus expressed it all through the lens of unconditional love and so you know what happens the Romans twist it the you know everybody twists it into the societal matrix which is fine you know it's all innocent in that sense we can't do it otherwise but if you look at the core teachings it's like wow wow just gorgeous um Joe Mitchell says it's good to be part of whatever this uh zube whatever this is zube thank you man glad you enjoy it Joe I'm glad you're here Paige says amen Vicki says you can definitely see pointing across and within religions doctrine but words cannot do justice to what is there you go so we try though because we have to talk I have to uh say like um you know there's 50 some odd people right now on this Facebook live on you know Friday Christmas Eve morning and you guys are like you can feel in the comments you can feel in the energy of this thing that this is like reality looking at reality through 54 different eyes and ears but can you feel that crazy Kara says was revolutionary reading parts of the bible in this lens beautiful yes if you really want to go deep on that Adya Shanti has an audiobook called Resurrecting Jesus um and it's amazing it's the Jesus story because Adya was like a hardcore Christian and then Zen and all this and he sees it all through the lens of liberation the kingdom of heaven is spread upon the earth yet men do not see it that's from the gospel of Thomas which is one of the Gnostic gospels I think that isn't accepted by all Christians right because it's newer it was found more recently some consider it like heretical but it was basically the enlightenment angle of Jesus's words Chris says he taught us to see a person's heart not the external coverings right and those and that heart is your heart love thy neighbor as you love thyself oh you read it Kara yeah yeah isn't it amazing yeah Resurrecting Jesus Adya Shanti on Christmas Eve it's a good one to recommend actually Maureen says feeling all these vibes today this has been a great conversation I'm glad you guys are here for it um Chaz says police got my car police got my car now Mamba Santa from Cuba oh man I like that I don't know what it means but I like it maybe that's why I like it because I have no idea what it means um yeah Anna Anna I read that too uh or feeling the vibes yeah um Vicki says less than I are walking in nature and pointed out that we are having church right now thanks yeah this is church for me that's why I used to call it Sunday's end when I do those Sunday things it was like oh yeah because because I've I've never really had that you know grew up as a Zoroastrian there weren't really there's like two churches in the US temples they call them and I didn't really believe in a single god that controlled my destiny or any of that um so it's kind of a agnostic uh so I never had that and now as I get older it's like oh it's nice to have a community where we can feel what these things are pointing at it's funny to my grandfather in India he used to tell me when I was a teenager I went and visited him in Pune India called Puna at that time which is the name I will still know it by and he um I asked him I said you know this place is like very spiritually feeling like India but like what's your deal with that like do you believe in god because I'm an atheist that's what I told him when I was 14 or whatever and uh he looked at me and he was like oh yeah I was like you I was an atheist like didn't believe in any of this nonsense and I was like okay so cool so we're we're the same he goes no but now I'm it's absolutely all of it true he's like god this is it's un without a doubt and he used to read me Rumi and Khalil Jabri or Jabri I forget you know I say his last name the Persian poets and um he was like no god is absolutely real like and I didn't get it at all I'm like how can this like guy that I admire so much that's that's so clear otherwise and cynical and kind of sarcastic believe in magic and now I totally get it not like yeah that's that's magic it's all magic it's all it's all uh it can be anything anything it can be anything this potentiality it is all like kind of like a sheen of god is a one way to say it uh clunky way let me grab your comments here Tom Reach this is church for me as well but wait a minute this yeah this this this is the church Vicky says hard to see the monotheistic perspective but I am I'm not even convinced that the bible points to that that's the thing it's all interpretation right they'll say things that were appropriate for the time like you shall not have false idols before me and so on right because there were all these multi pagan uh type sex at the time and the religions were competing for each other with each other I should say Gibran thank you Suzanne that's right Khalil Gibran Chris says we were given freedom of will we are shown different paths and it's up to us to choose so we were given the um it seems like there's a sense of choice and free will and that's enough is there actually choice and free will is there something determining our fate or is it all just mysteriously beyond that I'm in the latter camp now that um I used to argue for free will then I argued against free will  and so on. Now, I think it's neither free will or not free will, and it's both free will and not free will. It can be anything. There's no way that things are until we fabricate them. So we fabricate free will, we fabricate determinism, like there's a God that determines our path or fate, or scientific nihilistic determinism, where it's just like, no, it's the causative conditions of all the matter in the universe interacting with an element of chance thrown in from quantum uncertainty. It's also a kind of determinism with randomness in it. None of that and all of that can be true, and it doesn't matter. Moment to moment, it feels like I make choices. Moment to moment, I take responsibility for my choices, even though I know at a deeper level that there's no responsibility, no choice, and everything's just happening. But I don't need anybody to tell me that I'm held accountable. It just is natural, because it's very difficult to do something that's going to hurt. Or create suffering these days. But when you're stuck in mind all the time and you think things are supposed to be a certain way, it's easy to create suffering. It's in fact, I think the default. We just don't know it. We call it doing good and we're doing harm and we don't know it. Jojo grew up in the Philippines, nine mornings to five a.m. Oh, nine mornings, five a.m. to church, just thankful to that tradition. Yeah, the tradition can be powerful in the community around it. Yeah, Vicki, who knows about the free will question? We don't know anything. Nine days before Christmas, I see Jojo. Yeah, Tom Reach says, Jesus himself said, you are gods. That would kind of point things away from monotheism. Yeah, I mean, and I don't know enough about the details of that deconstruction. Whether there's God or gods or no gods or your God or any of it, it doesn't really matter because the realization is here now, right? Like of this, if there's God, he or she or it is here now. If there's no God, then there's only this here now. So it all comes down to this. The kingdom of heaven is spread upon the earth yet men do not see it. Chaz says, one in the past, one in the future, where is the presence? The presence are under the tree. Sorry, dad joke. Presence is a thought, too. There's no presence when you really look. There's just what is. You call that presence. But then now we're just playing with words, right? Oh, I'm glad, Paul. I'm glad you're comfy. Yeah, it is nice. You guys are going to think the video is frozen. But man, that is. That is nice, huh? Oh, thank you, Anna, for being here. Thank you, Jojo. All right. I think maybe we did a thing, huh? Oh, I will tell them. Yeah, yesterday was my daughter Nina's 18th birthday. So she's an adult. Christmas Eve Eve. That's when she was born 18 years ago. Isn't that crazy? So we went out to dinner yesterday at this Japanese restaurant we like, and it was really nice. Yeah. Oh, thanks, Gloria, for being here. I'm glad you're here. Oh, thanks, Gloria, for being here. All right. Time to bounce. Have a wonderful holiday. And I hope you're surrounded by people you love. And if not, then you're surrounded by pure love, which is all of the manifestation. To continue our Christian metaphors, the Holy Spirit. Everywhere. All right, gang, stay in the presence. Until next time. Peace.

=== FILE: The root of love (emptying out to be filled up) ｜ Previously LIVE on Facebook [YUUHWb4ceX0].txt ===

 All right, it's, oh boy, what is today? Tuesday, December 30th, the end of 2025. I don't know about y'all, but I'm glad to move on to 26. 25 was a challenge for me. I'll just say, beautiful, grateful for all of it. It was all just made of love, but boy, sometimes it felt like love was ugly. Ha ha ha ha ha ha. Oh man, all right, let's see. We'll talk about anything you want. I called this episode the root of love maybe, or something like that. I don't know, it just comes out and I'm like, like a monkey with a typewriter, basically like AI. So we can talk about, maybe a little, we'll start with like what I mean by that. Hi, Jana, or Jana, and Pierre in Virginia, Iowa and Virginia. So, you know, this little journey is such an interesting one because you go through all of this interesting unraveling and different insights arise, like, oh, everything's not substantial, like I thought. Like it's not actually a material world, but it shows up like that. But in experience, it's actually completely ephemeral. There's nothing permanent, no certainty, no predictability, no time, no space. Then you look more, there's no me, except for an appearance, a self sense, but no separate self that can actually be found in experience. So this kind of collapse into the abyss, into the void is part of the apparent realization here. And at times that can be, as you can imagine, for the residual self personality conditioning, very disorienting, they can feel different terms like nihilism, existentialism, these different kind of philosophical ideas can arise, but they're all more thought. They're more kind of trying to make something of something that you can't make anything of. But then, at least for me, it seems something kind of radical starts to happen where after everything empties out, all you see a lot of your conditioning, you see your trauma, you see all your patterns of behavior, how you've been trying to get, get, get, achieve, achieve, achieve, or survive, or make yourself feel enough, make yourself feel seen, make yourself feel loved. Do all the things. And after you start emptying that out and that scene is like, oh my gosh, what was that? And you've seen me express in all these different ways. Something starts to happen where now, and this is just a way of speaking, but you can start to be filled up again. And what is it that fills you up? And I don't know any other way of saying this, but to say that it's pure unconditional radiant love that is the fabric of the whole thing. It's nothing trying to be all of this, and it feels like love, and it just fills you up. And then all that stuff that you emptied out, all those hurts and traumas and patterns and habits, and they still appear and they still dance and they still, there seem to be made of love. They're made of the same thing. Abuse and abuser, abusy and abuser, they're love, dancing, expressing through the dysfunction of the human form. And there's a kind of a fullness to the whole thing. It doesn't mean you roll over and say, that's all okay. It means that forgiveness, love for other and self, and the disillusion of other and self, and all of it is one swirling radiance. And it's felt. You can't talk about it even though I'm trying because we're doing video. But it just fills you up. You embody this realization, meaning, mine can't know it, so what knows it? It knows it. It just wakes up through itself. This is all just ways of speaking. But it's just like, what? And you see it on people's faces. You see it in the pavement. In Jesus Christ Superstar, the musical, what did Jesus say? The rocks and stones themselves will start to sing. Andrew Lloyd Webber for the win. Cynthia, finally I caught alive. It's red haired Cindy from the Georgia tribe, have the best year's Eve, love you, love you too, Cynthia. Kathleen says, are you smoking weed? No. Although I have dabbled in all the psychedelics and all they do is point you back to this love. They just get you in the room with it. They're like, okay, come here, kicking and screaming, go here, here. And what you see in that room is what you're able to see at that time. So it might just be trauma, it might be fear, it might be demons, it might be God knows what, it might be bliss. But at some point, it just shows you, it's always been this, this is the love, this is the radiance, this is it. No need for drugs, no need for medicines. You know, there's a great story in Neem Karoli Baba, who was Ram Das' guru in India, and kind of famous guy, beautiful book called Miracles of Love. Ram Das wrote about stories about this guy, really a tremendous being. And Ram Das went to him and said, I've got this LSD, like, what do you think about this? You know, oh, great guru. And Neem Karoli Baba was like, give me that. How much is this? It's like 300 micrograms. How much is this? Another 300 micrograms. Like these are like insane doses. They would make any person go insane. And he just goes, takes three of them. And how long will it take to kick in? And Ram Das is like, like 20 minutes to an hour. And he's sitting there. And then he pretends for a second to go crazy. He's like, whoa! And Ram Das is like, oh, shit, I killed my guru. And then he's like, nothing. One hour goes by, nothing. And he tells Ram Das, he goes, when you're, when you remember God, and God is this, my friend Ishwar said this beautifully, love, this love that we're pointing at, is what's referred to as God. So when you're saying, remember God, you're saying, remember love, because God is love. Love is what's referred to as God in this way of speaking. I know some Christians are gonna be pissed, and some, God, everyone will be pissed. Beautiful, that's love too. So, so he says, when you remember God, you're gonna be pissed. And God is like, God is like, God is like, he says, when you remember God, you remember love. These things get you in the door, but you don't need them anymore, and they all have no effect. So all of them are gates or tools, depending on how you use them. They can also be addictions, dependencies, distractions, traps, also made of love. Also the great dance, Lila, the great dance. Susan, Mosley, are you familiar with Peter Brown? You sound very similar, just this radiant presence. Yes, my friend John Aston was a student or a good friend of Peter's, and spoke very highly of him, and I read a little of his, one of his books recently, because someone told me this, they're like, oh, you sound like Peter Brown. And then as I was reading it, I was like, well, I mean, the realization's the realization. So any of you, a parent use that will see this, realize this will potentially resonate with those expressions because they're coming from that same place, the placeless place of this, where you couldn't be anywhere else. There's always only just this radiance. That's why Ram Das wrote that book after he came back from India, be here now, be here now, there's nowhere else. Even here and now and be are all conceptual. But you gotta talk, so you gotta write a book. So what are you gonna do? Hi, Radha. 2026 is your blank canvas, paint it with courage, kindness, and unstoppable dreams. Happy New Year, 2020. That's beautiful. I like that. Yep, Sue. Hi from Germany, Ualdee. Donkashane for coming. I hope I said that right. Dinesh says, and I'm the one that went to the Parsi temple in Fire Temple in Toronto. I messaged you photos. Oh, yes. Gorgeous. That's my people, the Parsi's. There's a name Kauroli ashram in Taos. I went last year. Oh, Dinesh, tell me, was there a vibe there? Cause people say that he still transmits despite leaving his body in 1973. Actually, he died just a few months after I was born. And I was in India when he died cause my mother took me there when I was six months old. And I stayed there until I was about a year and a half. So I was there about a year. My dad was back in New Jersey doing his second residency. And so for all I know, I crossed paths. You never know. Tati Tati says, OMG, how are you? Docs straight out of NYCO. NYC is my favorite place. We went this summer and it was just amazing. I fell in love with all of it. Flushing, Queens, Midtown, Downtown, Uptown, Central Park. And I'm a Jersey boy. I was born and raised until I was eight, but left when I was eight. So I feel like it was raw. I was stolen away to come to California and I want to go back. Except for the weather. Dinesh says, I'll message you when they smudged. I took Palo Santo and Sage with me there. Oh, cool, man. Ted says, I'm still in medicine, but I'm happy to interact with you with or without Doc Vader's permission. Well, don't get me started. You don't need Vader's permission, as you know, to hang out. We can always mix in some medicine. Dave Dean, thanks for the stars, brother. Oh, cool, Dinesh is gonna send me the video. So that's what we're talking about, is this radical root love. That we've been talking about the whole time we just didn't know it. Yeah, Ted. Vader for the win. I have his helmet right in there. Cause I, oh, I'm in the studio today. I forgot to tell you guys, that's where I am. This is the outside. Here, let's go on a little walkabout real quick. So this is the outside of the studio. This is the kitchen and where I'm doing my little broadcast from. And here's the actual studio, but we're not gonna go in there, cause it is currently a mess. And here's some, let's see, some different art and things. Yay! Oh, check this out. This one's crazy though. We got this from an artist in China, who does these laser etched, so it's three dimensional wood carvings that are laser etched that he stacks. And it has this beautiful three dimensional depth to it. Yeah, I really love this thing. My wife found it, cause she's way better than me at all these things. And then one other thing I wanna show you guys, this is one of our supporters, who just, I just got this lovely video from today. And this is her, she calls it her parts art. So when she was doing sort of internal family systems work on herself, going back for trauma and things like that. And I'm not doing this justice at all. But that emptying out process I was talking about to re-expose that radiant love that was there as a child. Do you remember it? Do you remember it? Do you remember being a kid? That just, everything was love. We just didn't have a word for it, cause there's no need for words for it. Just magic. So when you empty that out, going back for that child, these little parts come out. And she had mentioned each of these as one of her little internal children in her internal family that needed to be seen, wanted to express, had been silenced or not given a voice or not thanked, not allowed. You know? It's beautiful. This whole thing, the whole journey, it's love. It really is. Got a yoga mat on the ground like, I'm gonna do yoga today. I'm just feeling lazy, bro. Evelyn says, pointers towards truth that may seem hidden yet reflected everywhere, everywhere, everywhere. They're everywhere. They're in your cereal in the morning. You know? They're all over the place. Everything is pointing at itself, at reality, at this fundamental truth, this love. But to get that clarity, it seems, at least here, how it seems is you gotta lose everything. You gotta empty it out. You gotta allow it, give it back into that. Because it never was yours, because yours is a thought. It's all that is. That's all that is. That's what you is. Never separate from this. Patrick says, I perceive love as our default setting. Dwelling on past and future develops, regret, anger, PTSD, fear, worry, et cetera. Living in the present removes all that, leaving you behind. You're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone. Removes all that, leaving only love and contentment. That's like you clean the mirror so you can see what's actually there. It's just bright reflection of what is. It's reflecting itself. But the truth is even that anger, PTSD, regret, living in past, living in future, that's this too. That is also this. It's also this radiance. And there's a realization where that can actually be felt. It's like the worst thing that's ever happened to you. You can just feel as this made of this radiance. And that's not to excuse bad things. It's not to say things don't feel bad. They do, absolutely. But ultimately that's the substance of it. That's the good news, right? Thoughts on trauma therapy, Brianna. There are many different approaches to trauma and I think they all can have their place at the right time. It's important if you've had trauma, I think, to you have to do this work in some way. It'll show up. If you don't, you can be exposed to these kind of realizations and they can feel terrifying. The body can recoil because the body's like, no, not safe. So that's the work. That's the love working itself out is trauma. So don't be afraid of that stuff. Well, it is scary to the person. It's scary to the sense of the separate self. And that's okay. It can be overcome and you won't do it. It'll be a surrender. You'll be surrendered in a way. Sheila says, hello, Z-Dog, happy new year. My husband passed on Christmas. Oh, but life goes on. Love your encouraging words and energy, Sheila. I'm sorry. Christmas. Yeah, I have a friend who lost his mother on Christmas and so that day takes on a new resonance. But Sheila, I think I can tell by the way you express that you already know this, that there's nowhere he would go if you know what I mean. I'm sorry. Another way of saying that is love can neither be created nor destroyed. It's just like energy. So it's like a phase change. Anytime we think about death, we're wrong. There's nothing that can be thought about. In fact, death is a concept. So, yeah, really sorry for your loss. Brandon says, in the end, there's only unity. Love moves us towards this inevitable outcome. Yeah, it's, man, even unity is tough. Like another way you could say this is not two, never one, none of that. Not many, not one, also many in one. It's a total paradox for the mind. This is all there is. Everything, all past future history exists here, this. So even oneness, you can have experiences of oneness, but there are experiences, there are thought forms, emotion forms. This is even, that's why they use the term non-dual. It's not two. They don't say all one, although people express that way. It doesn't mean all one is wrong because it can be felt like that, but even dropping the idea of unity, then what? Just what is? No way it needs to be, no place you're going to, no place you're coming from, just what is? And all that is, is this. And then that opens like a flower, like a lotus, just shows you all the things that aren't things. The radiance, the love, all these words, they're just words, but yeah. Su says, in your opinion, what exactly is the pain body, unhealed shadow energies? So we talked about this in the last live, pain body is an Eckhart-Tolli expression. It's basically the conditioning. It's all the energies that have accumulated, the Hindus would call it karma. The Buddhists would use karma maybe as a term. It's this accumulated conditioned energy and it can be traumatic, it can be reactive, it can be painful, it can be ancestral, it can be communal. So Jung talked about the collective shadow, Carl Jung. You know, like, you know, Jewish people have the Holocaust as a collective trauma. Americans have the civil war to some extent, still in parts of the country. And the pain body is something that when it's not made conscious, it hijacks identity. It becomes you. So you suddenly go unconscious and become reactive. You're suddenly acting out in these ways that seem totally maladaptive. And at one point they might have been adaptive when the trauma originally happened, but now they're not. And you just look crazy and then you're like, why did I do this? And you're like, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. You just look crazy and then you're like, why did I do that? That to me is what pain body is. So what to do about the pain body? Well, this is the thing because this idea that you're, that you have some control over this is not true. What may be true is you can allow the seeing of all of that and then you see what's happening. You see why you do the things you do and that's enough. Sometimes it just dissolves. Sometimes it shows up but it has no power. Sometimes it keeps hijacking you until it doesn't. Yeah, pain body. You know when it shows up too when you're aware. Because then when you're living really consciously it's like, oh shit, I just got hijacked by my shit. You can feel it. And then there's a natural tendency that seems to arise that wants to attune to it. Like, ooh, let me look there. And there's almost a little subtle excitement like, ooh, there's something I haven't seen. Something I haven't welcomed. Something I haven't allowed. Something that hasn't been given space to express and has been resisted and so it's persisted. Maybe, I don't know, I'm making this shit up. It's just coming out of my mouth. I have no idea. I really don't. I have my own experience and I'm sharing that but I don't know what's what. I don't know what causality is. I don't know what temporality is. Like this happened in the past and now it causes this. I don't know what that means anymore. I know what it means and I don't if you catch what I'm throwing. There's an unknowing here. A not knowing that facilitates all knowing of the mind. The mind is that not knowing love. Like, not knowing. It has nothing to do with mind. And nothing can be known because the thing that's knowing it is itself an appearance, mind. Thought's going to thoughts, going to belief, going to memory, going to phantoms. Phantoms, phantoms. Some of them are energetic. Some of them are thought. Some of them are sensations. Still just what they are, appearance. Perfect in being what they are, having nothing to do with good or bad. One may well burst out in laughter. It says long champa. Susan, great answer. Thank you. Still processing this crap. Oh, the processing goes on till whatever death is, I think. Dinesh says, I'm fairly certain it's in the books you've reviewed. What are we talking about? There is no loss. I'm going back to your comments, Dinesh. Those that we lose are close to us, will always be with us. Yes, Dave, thanks for the stars. Yeah, I mean, all the stuff speaks of this in different ways. Some of it's right. Some of it's just kind of made up. But it's all pointing, I think, from the same thing. Wally says, do you sometimes feel lonely, really lonely, even among people? You just accept it because that is reality? Something I have to accept and go through it. Your thoughts on the subject, yeah. So loneliness in this adventure. Is a recurring companion. Some of this loneliness is societal ostracization. So you kind of see things more and more as they are. Which means society doesn't make sense, except as another construction and appearance. So it becomes less possible for you to play that game, knowingly. And it can be very lonely. So people are talking about all their shit, and you're just going, don't know that that resonates at all anymore. And then, you know, there's the existential loneliness of knowing that there's only this, nothing else, no past, no future, constant free fall. All you're ever seeing is you. And everybody, everybody else you see is a manifestation of capital S self, if there's such a thing. Meaning it's all this. So there's no separation. So in a sense, that creates a kind of a existential loneliness, but for who? For the residual sense of the separate self that's still clinging to the things. And that can relax, that can go. But it is a big phase. But the human loneliness, for me, that was a big deal actually over the last couple of years. I say 2025, 2024 was worse for that. 2025 started to integrate that. Now the way it feels for me is, it doesn't matter where a human is, doesn't matter where they're expressing from, that's where I'll be with them, because they're me. So it's just, oh yeah, oh yeah. And the thing is, it's nice that we remember what that's like. And can energetically feel it and go, yeah, yeah. And so that loneliness starts to soften, it starts to feel more like loveliness. From loneliness to loveliness, where it's all loveliness, it's all this same stuff. And that means sometimes you're miserable, sometimes you're feeling other people's misery, and it's yours. So you feel it fully, but it doesn't stick. That's the difference. It's felt, and the act of compassion is to feel it and witness it fully, and then let it go, because they're self-compassion for this being, which is, it doesn't wanna suffer all day with the collective trauma or someone else's trauma or its own trauma, when it can be felt, acknowledged, thanked, and let go. Oh yeah, I know Dan. I know of Dan's films, Susan, very cool. Patrick, loneliness is created by the need for external validation, happiness happens when you accept yourself. So external validation is one of the last things to seemingly go, because we're social creatures, and that's deep pain body conditioning, that's deep mammalian conditioning, like we need our tribe to accept us or we will die. That's how we're evolved, conditioned. That's the karma of humans. So a loneliness can happen when you don't feel that validation, and that need for validation starts to go when the one who needed it starts to dissolve, starts to be seen through. The self itself, this sense of me, in my experience, it's not that it goes away. It's that it's seen for what it is moment to moment. It's an appearance. It's like a structure like any of this happening now.  as part of all of this, with not separate from any of it. So the belief in a separate abiding self goes, but the arising energetics of the separate self, or the self, can still arise. That's my experience currently. That may go too. I've heard that it does. Honestly, I don't care one way or the other. I've stopped trying to seek some outcome, although probably subtly there's a little vestige of seeking. Sandy says, you're explaining grief to me as an easier way to deal with it. Yeah, grief, Sandy, hmm, that becomes, as part of this, grief. So we're talking about love, right? Love and grief are the same thing. Why would you have grief? Because there's love. There's a sense that you've lost something, and there's this loving yearning and longing for it, an appreciation for it, a yearning for it, a grieving for it, that's what it is. But grief itself is just another beautiful movement of that love. And nothing is gained or lost ever. That's the crazy thing, because this is this, just radiant. What the fuck is this? Total mystery. What is it that could be lost here or gained here, and for whom? Everything is complete in every moment, everything, all of it. Especially in including the feeling of lost grief, longing, yearning, missing, loneliness, existential terror, all of it, anger, anger comes up, oh boy, does anger come up. All these boundary emotions, just like that have been suppressed because they're unsafe. Now they're safely expressed. You go screaming in the car, you scream into a pillow, you set boundaries with people that have been, maybe you've not done that with. It's a compassionate act. It's an act of love. Fear of Sandy, big one, yeah. Hi Patricia, in New Mexico. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, there's 56 people watching right now, December 30th, Tuesday morning. Why are you watching this? Are you watching it? Or is this just this thing together? Or is this just this thing together, all of this, us? Isn't it something? Like I feel it, I don't know, can you feel it? Especially live. That's why I like live video. Cause like here we are. Isn't this crazy? This is it, this is what I'm pointing at, this. It's now, here we are. Nowhere else, it's always been this. What have you been looking for? Look, just look right here, it's this. So much of our lives looking, looking, looking for that child that's always been sitting here, waiting, looking at his watch. Are you back yet? Looking at her watch, looking at their watch. I'm pronoun independent. Evelyn says absolutely it resonates with me like a tuning fork. I'm not a tuning fork. Absolutely it resonates with me like a tuning fork. Boom, right? Wayne, in a minute perhaps it helps to consider the experience as two tracks. Oh, Wayne Shepard, like stereo. That's right, I remember, I believe you talking about this if I'm remembering correctly. On track one is the dreaming experience of everything that seems to be happening. While on the other, it's the perfect stillness where nothing is happening. And all is unfolding perfectly just as it is. Okay, let me read what Wayne says again because Wayne told me this maybe two, three years ago on a phone call. If this is the same Wayne we're talking about. I hope you're doing well by the way. I was actually standing right here talking on the phone with you, Wayne, because I'd read something that you'd sent me and it was so clear. I was like, yeah, Wayne knows, Wayne has seen this. And yeah, you told me, I'll read it again. Experience is like two tracks like stereo. I think we were both audio nerds. On track one is the dreaming experience of this where mind is overlaying everything with substance, permanence, predictability, names, labels, forms. And on the other track is this perfect stillness, total empty, radiant potential. And they are playing in stereo, meaning they're both happening at the same time. And that's saying too much. We're already making a separation. They're the same thing. And it can just be experienced as empty, no thing, loving itself into form without any delay. Just that's what it is. And it's perfect. Meaning not that it doesn't have pain and trouble in it, trouble from the mind standpoint. It's perfect in that it is exactly as it is. It couldn't be other. And there's no problem here. Ultimately, there's nothing. There's nothing wrong. Never has been. Nothing lost, nothing gained, nothing missing, nowhere to go. And yet the appearance of a journey, appearance of a hero's journey, appearance of a life, appearance of all the things. Whoa, what a miracle. Both at the same time. Left channel, right channel merge into a stereo experience from the standpoint of experience. And then the experiencer drops and there's just that. There's just that. No need for a witness of it even. Not too. Awesome to see you, Wayne. Awesome, Maureen. Mm, I love you guys so much. Like the Facebook crew when we go live is just, oh, I feel it. Like, it's so beautiful reading the comments. Sandy, I'm glad. Can you talk about experiencing despair instead of laughter? Oh yeah, Ann. Oh sure. I mean, I've talked a lot about how when I drop into that, like really that stillness is so obvious that nothing was ever really happening, I just start giggling. But there are other times where it's like, what arises then is just pure fucking despair. Like, no. Because the mind wants, it wants a foothold. It wants to make something of it. It wants its whole life as a video game character and all the experience points it's built and all its treasures to be real, to mean something. It wants meaning for God's sake. And there's none to be found there except what we create. And that can feel like despair until it doesn't. Because the one that feels that is that constellation of contracted energy that feels like it's separate. Of course it would despair. It didn't want that. It's not wantable for that. There's no, just no way. Just no way. Tweak this a little for fun. Let me scroll down. Oh, that's sweet, Dinesh. I'm glad it comes through that way. Wayne says, yep, it's me. Currently living in the mountains of Columbia. God bless you, Wayne. Glad to see you still seem to be happening. Yeah, you too, brother. I know you're going through some stuff, so hopefully that's settled down. Yeah, Columbia, damn. You're living the dream, man. Hopefully you're growing and smuggling cocaine. No right and wrong, right? Krista, it's this this thing. Plus I have the day off, so it was meant to be. There you go, my Greek vampire. Patrick says, I guess I'm watching because I'm seeking truth and I perceive that you point to some truth. Not that I accept it blindly good, but that I reflect on it and perceive the truth in it. Exactly, and when you leave comments and we bounce off each other, there's something that radiates off it, right? Some kind of truth, whatever that is. Yeah, beautiful, I'm so glad you're here. Roxanne, I haven't seen you in a long while. You showed up in my feed. I feel your positive and authentic energy. That is awesome. It's nice to show up again after an absence. The algorithm's funny. It'll show you what you need to see, when you need to see it, whatever that is. RVS, Ronald Vectorsdokes, good to see you. Still hanging in there. The best Christmas present was to beat the cancer odds another year. You know RVS, if anybody's gonna do that, it's you. I know you've been going through the chemo and all that hellacious hell, but bro, bro, you got all the love here from the tribe, you know that. That's awesome. Happy holidays, happy new year. Hopefully 26 is another kick-ass, you know? RVS. Angie, hi, can you tell me how to get my appetite back, please? I think I have long COVID, it's horrible. You know, you could share some of that no appetite with me. I'd be all right with it. Just kidding. That's a complex question, right? Because is it a problem that your appetite's gone? What's the root of that? Like there's a million things, right? And I can't give medical advice, but I could just say, like sometimes interesting things happen. I lost my appetite in the beginning of the year. For months, I was eating hardly anything and it wasn't depression. Now it's back, but I find I walk a lot more so it kind of balances out. I don't know. Yeah, I hope you feel better though. Hadar, nice description of the same thing. Hey, good to see you, so Hadar. I hope I'm saying that right or is it? Yeah, I'm probably mispronouncing it. Shared with me this, a friend or associate of his, had generated this AI non-duality playlist and one of the songs is called, Even the Doubt is Alive and it's so good. And I shared it on the Facebook Awakening channel and on locals. So you can go on my Facebook page and join the Awakening channel. It's a messenger group. It's got about 8,000 people and they're all interested in Awakening stuff. So I shared the link to that there. So definitely check it out. It's amazing actually. What AI can do, like as a musician, I'm listening to it going, yeah, you know, there's some, obviously it's AI, but just the feel, the lyrics, the pointing at truth is powerful. It all comes together in that track. It's really good. So I'm glad you shared it with me and I could share it with other people here. Ooh, Patrick's in the mountains of Panama. Do you guys are living the dream? Oh, COVID and RSV Angie, you, oh, you got it, oh man. I sent some positive juju your way. Hi Debra, I'm grateful for you. Chris, tons of Escobar cash still hidden in Colombian caves. That's right, brother. We'll have to go dig it up, man. It's just waiting for us. Brandon, next VPZD, as soon as VP stops being at FDA, you can't do anything while he's there. He's not allowed. We talk regularly. Holly says, same, I lost weight in October now, I'm finally getting it back. Season's love to you and yours, you all, and thanks, ZDog. Oh, thanks, Holly. Hi Ashley. So yeah, that's what's up, man. Radiant love, all of it. Let me see something here. I was wondering if I, oh, okay, I didn't have that on. That's good. I wonder, oh, you can tweak the light and stuff here. Like, whoa. I don't know what I did there. I'm not sure I like it. I'm gonna turn that off. Okay, some Apple stuff. Sound good, video good? I'm using my phone in the studio. I'm just trying to get, I tweak the mic settings a little, try to make it a little more clear. Hopefully it's okay. Hmm. All right. Well, I think we're good today. We're onward with our day. Thanks for hanging out this morning. This was fun for me. I always love to connect in this way because it just points, like I don't know where whatever I'm saying is coming from and it points right back and reconditions my own shit, what's left of it. And I totally dig it. It's great to see Wayne too, man. Wow, that's awesome. And RBS says the sound and video are great, awesome. Sylvia, getting a cold. Okay, all the love's gonna cure you. It'll be exactly, exactly what it is. All right, Dinesh. Thanks, Kaz. All right, I'll see you guys next time. Thanks again, love y'all. And we out, peace.

=== FILE: Time is flickering light on a timeless screen (LIVE) [nRmsgVzQ6qY].txt ===

 amnoklu, amgongolive, which means this is either going to be amazing or a complete disaster. So I know you want to watch a complete disaster, and probably amazing is much more boring. Come on down, let's talk about all the things, whatever you guys want. I don't care. I'm bored. I got all this. It's like, let's chat, let's have coffee. Come on, come on, come on, where are you? Where are you? Come on in. That was aggressive. Oh my God, zero fucks are given these days. It's kind of nice. I was just looking at my social security statement, how much I've paid into it and what I'm going to get when I reach 67, or if I wait until 70, or I do it at 62, and I was like, that's not enough. How do people, how? That's not enough. All right, come on down. Why do I have no comments here? Maybe no one cares, or maybe I'm screwing this up. Hold on. I better refresh this. There they are. See, I knew I was screwing it up. Emma Cara, Kathleen, Dominic, Morgan disaster. That's what this is. This is like most public policy these days, a complete disaster. Most healthcare policy. Like dude, what is going on? The head of seats, some CDC thing was like, yeah, polio shots, kind of optional, you know, personal autonomy, polio. Dude, dude, I don't know. I'm having trouble. I'm having trouble, but I also don't care. But I also care. Linda, I absolutely love for absolutely no reason. It feels like I can join your conversation and be completely present in nothing else, which is kind of like ultimate relaxation. Linda, you are my type of person. So yeah, I was thinking about time a little bit. Like this is actually good because like what is this presence that we talk about? Time as it's experienced is a mind construction. Like there's something happening in past that moves into present that then becomes future or future becomes present becomes past. There's this kind of sequencing that seems to happen and time seems to be a real thing that we move through that flows and all the poetry and all the speaking and all the conceptualization around time backs up this kind of conception of time. Now what's fascinating is that's not in fact occurring. Like that's all appearance. Another way to look at time, which is again, it's conceptual, but we have to talk. So we got to do that. Imagine this reality right now is like the screen in a movie theater. And this analogy gets used a lot and it gets old, but bear with me. So there's a screen, a white, like let's just say a colorless screen on which a movie is being projected. And if you watch the movie, it seems like things are changing and time is progressing and things are moving from past to present to future backwards. I get time mixed up because I don't understand time anymore. I can actually, it moves from future to present to past and it's flickering on this colorless or white screen. So does time really exist or is that an illusion created by the flickering? But what really exists? What's the only thing that exists? Light, light flickering on this timeless screen. And in a sense, that's what we call the present, although it's not a time and it's not a thing. It's the unchanging colorless screen that is just this. And then all of reality flickers on it and we call that time. Like because we're believing the story in the flickering that's depicted by these moving images, these appearances. But what we're not seeing unless we know to look in this way and the looking is like almost a surrender into the moment that Linda was talking about. It's like you realize, oh, nothing's moving. Nothing's happening. Just a dance of appearance. And it's been doing that eternally, not in time, not of time. Time is an appearance and illusion that occurs on this timeless backdrop. And you can call that presence. You could say when you really sit in that knowing, it's kind of like you yourself are part of the dance of appearance flickering. And then even that dance can kind of be seen through. And then there's just the screen-ness of this moment. That makes no sense conceptually. But it's like just a dying into the nothingness of this brilliance that this light is dancing on. It's very hard. It's impossible to talk about. But hey, we're here just to clown around. So let's talk about shit that you can't talk about. Yeah, actually, time's a made-up concept. I mean, but it's not even made up. It's actually appearing as an illusion. It's actually appearing. There's a sense, almost a physical sense that you're moving through time that you're flowing. Just like when you watch a movie, it's just flickering light. But you get the sense that there's a flow, a story, a narrative, a whole world coming just from flickering light. Is this different? Look. Look and see. Look and see if this is any different. That's what meditation is. That's what inquiry is. What is this? Is this solid? I can't find solidity. This is energy that I feel. It doesn't mean there's an actual table here that's solid. And you say, wow, functionally it is. Yeah, because it's a function. Just like in a movie, the function of the protagonist is to move the plot forward and all of that. But does the protagonist exist? No, it's flickering. No thing. It's photons. And even photons, you can't find. They're just dances of energy. How is that different than this? How is this different than a dream state where we acknowledge that none of that is real? We acknowledge it's constructed as a story and that no apparent time is actually occurring. In fact, in dreams, time is totally distorted because it's constructed in a wonky way without a reference to reality. So we're fine believing that's not real. Or let's not use real and not real because that's a confusing thing. Let's say it's illusory. It exists as an illusion, like a mirage. How is this different? The only difference as far as I see is that this is contiguous. So you go to sleep, you wake up, they're still apparently the same continuous reality. It's like the movie continues, whereas in a dream it's different. Sometimes your dreams can continue, but that's unusual. In fact, it's so unusual that you go, whoa, that was unusual. My dream is continuing. Thanks for the stars, Jojo. Let's see. Linda says laughing my ass off, it actually made sense, which is really scaring me. Yes, so how scary that is is actually a function of how much our mind resists the truth with a capital T, which is none of this is really happening in the way you think. People will say, well, what about Gaza and what about ice and what about, to which I say, what about this? Can you hear it? Let me turn it up for you. I do get, there is the part of zoom in this, just like if you cannot. Okay. Until you can see the nature of reality, the nature of this, the true nature that you are, you're not going to do shit in the world that's going to do anything but cause harm, because more contraction, more suffering, more pain, fix the fixer by dissolving it. And then watch your actions in the world, see if they aren't made of pure compassion, just a dance of being of service for no reason. And these problems, these apparent problems will start to solve themselves. But until you do that, until you're operating from ego, from the sense that you can fix it and that you must fix it and that anyone who doesn't fix it is broken, dude, you're going to be stuck. It's the same as the people who show up in the comments anytime I do a video like this and they're like, well, you just haven't found Christ. And it's like, okay, bro, you know, maybe I've actually found Christ and you're still looking. Have you thought about that? I don't think that's true because there's, there's, the finding is the not finding of all this, right? It's like, whoa, there's nothing actually happening, which means there's liberation in every moment. Every moment is self-freeing. You don't carry baggage. There's no, you know, as Zen master Dogen said, whoever the hell he was, no trace of enlightenment remains and this no trace continues endlessly. Mish says, I want to clock this as now, now, now, now, now, 12 times. That's amazing. I'm sure someone's made that. It's just present, present, present. Like remember Flight of the Concords? Murray, their manager, the band manager would take a role and he'd be like, Jemaine, and Jemaine would be like, present. Uh, Brit, present. Murray, present. It's always present, man. That was the worst New Zealand accent I've ever done. Dinesh, we're all, we are all whole, perfect and complete, nothing to fix, just grow and experience. Yeah, man. I would, I would even take it a step further and say, growth is an illusion. It's just like, again, there's nothing wrong with the illusion. It's the appearance, the appearance of growth occurs. So I said this in a video I did yesterday. Things happen, but nothing is taking place. So this whole like evolution of consciousness thing, I just, I don't buy any of that shit. I can't find it. I just find this and it's not I that's finding it. It's just the, it, it is the finding. It is the looking itself. Um, very, very odd, very odd. Um, actually, despite the fact that I don't understand most of the references, I still laugh my head off when you do the accents. Eh, present. Um, Dominic says the old hurt people hurt people. Yeah. Well, I mean, you know, if you can't, if you're repressing traumatic experience, apparently, if you live from a place where you think you're a solid entity moving through time and space that's born and it's going to die and needs to protect itself, that's how you'll behave. That's how the behavior will show up on the movie. But when the movie character sees through the fact that it's just, just an appearance, there's a freedom that shows up for again, for no one because there's nobody home and it's just the dance life is just lifeing itself at that point. Now you could say that and talk about that all you want, but unless it's realized moment to moment, it doesn't mean shit. It's another concept you're going to add to the belief tool. I find myself sometimes speaking like this, but not believing it. Like that, that old egoic movement of, of, um, the one who knows arises like, oh yeah, Zubin knows that this is all fake, not fake, but this is all appearance. And it's like, does he, in this moment, does he? Oh, maybe not. So look there. Oh no, that's ego. Oh, that's me. Hmm. Just talking shit, you know, to get validation or to look like they're smart or just to move their fucking mouth. Like Zubin does that. It's not happening right now, which is interesting. So it's just the flow of this. I don't know where the words come from. You never do. If you think you're planning what words you're saying, where's the planning coming from? It's a total regress into mystery. What a relief. You were never doing it. So let it do itself. All you got to do is not think, not allow the, or not believe the appearance that you're actually in charge, that you're actually doing it. And then what's strange is you have weirdly a sense of control that is totally not control. It's all paradox all the way down from the mind standpoint. Jaira says, seriously, these lives with you are way better than church. I can't stand it when the priest doesn't speak from the heart and just reads off a paper, all dogma, no heart. Since the glimpse, I can't pray to a separate God anymore, even if I wanted to. Yeah. So try this. Go to church and feel. Let's say it's a Christian church. All right. Feel Christ consciousness there. Feel what he was embodying, this pure love that is the dissolution into the kingdom of heaven, which is this. That's church. I felt it in St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York and then the priest started talking and I was like, shut the fuck up because you're bastardizing. You're turning this thing into a thing. It's all ego hierarchy control platitudes and it has nothing to do with God, has nothing to do with what Jesus was embodying and people will get pissed at me. How dare you talk about the priest that way? Fuck the priest. He's a human. We're all just a dance. None of this is happening in that way. So let go. If you can let go of your most cherished beliefs about God or reality or science or the big bang, let it all go. Let it all die. Let all of it burn it if you have to burn it in the fire of truth. And what's left? Ooh. What's left is all you've ever been looking for and you'd never knew it. What's left is God with a capital G, capital O, capital D, and it's also dog. It's the silliest cosmic joke and it's also the most beautiful sincere truth that you can find because there's again, there's no, it is the finding itself. It's, ah, it's crazy. It's crazy. Janet says simply be. I don't even know how to do that because it's like this whole thing is just like, there's no choice. You can't not be, although not being conceivably happened. Like that can happen. That's cessation. And we won't go there. Pia, if you happen to have this, have had this view when you were 20 years old, how could that have shaped your life? I can't help thinking this life view is only, hang on, only sustainable for middle age since it will be very difficult having to come to conclusions like this much earlier in life. How do you possibly think about this? Well, Pia, I think when I was 20, I had a very similar view, but it was held as a view. It was existentialism. It was like, nothing matters. This isn't real. Like we were creating meaning. So let's go out and do it the way we want to. And I, I was a sort of hard determinist, like there really isn't free will. Like this is all just playing itself out through due to laws and causing conditions. And despite that atheist, hard determinist, scientific existentialist worldview, I became a doctor and I think I was pretty loving and compassionate in general when I wasn't burned out and under resourced to be able to feel my own shit. So I don't think it makes a difference. I think all belief is fundamentally like an albatross, including the belief that you have meaning in your life. Let that go. And then the meaning shows itself to be this. Like fuck, it's infinitely meaningful because it has no meaning at all. It's entirely constructed from the dance. I guess beautiful. So go out and just love everything to death. Like it's so, yeah. That, I mean, and again, 2026 for me has been this like this heart center is just kind of, and this is all just a way of speaking, right? It just feels like, wow, love all the things, even when I'm angry, even when I'm hurt, even when, because suffering, like all this trying to avoid suffering, just keep suffering going. You know, stop pushing and pulling. Just stop, stop, stop. Just it's this. Stop making. Let things be as they are. And they're, and that includes the doing you can do without any sense of a doer, although the sense of a doer can arise. And that's fine too. You're not trying to get rid of a self. You're not trying to, I am none of that. The stop, the stop trying thing is a good, good pointer. Yeah. Dennis looking is the fire. That's right. The fire that dissolves illusion is the looking itself. And if you even look, the looking is so dangerous. It's so incendiary that it burns up everything it looks at, including the looker, including the one who's trying to look gets destroyed in the fire of the looking itself until there's nothing but seeing, seeing, hearing, hearing, feeling, feeling, all doing it, all doing itself. Yeah. Dennis beliefs are just tools for playing the game. That's right. And the game is fine. If you want to play the game, that's no problem. Believe anything you want. All dogs go to heaven. Kathy, that's right. Chad, let go or get dragged. That's right, Chad. That's exactly it. Like, because I mean, it's going anyways. You don't really have any choice. You never have because there's not. That's just not how this is. But it can appear otherwise in the movie. The movie, the dream of this can. And by the way, that doesn't mean just because I'm saying, oh, this is an appearance and illusion, but that's the appearance is real. It's appearing. So take it sincerely. Go do the thing. What choice do you have? You going to go live in a cave? Go do that. You going to try to hurt yourself and your life? Good luck. You're going to try to get through it. You're going to try to get through it. You're going to try to hurt yourself and your life? Good luck with that. What do you think will actually happen when a dream character tries to end its dream life? There's no... There's no... You can't do anything about this because there's not a you doing anything about this. This is doing the thing. And the sooner you surrender to that, you surrender to that. You see the silliness of the whole thing, the cosmic joke of it. The sooner it's just allowed to be what it is, which means... Which it always was. Which means freedom. It doesn't necessarily mean bliss. It doesn't mean that you won't have pain. It doesn't mean that bad things, according to the conception of the character, won't happen. No, those things will all happen. They're just happening to no one and they're not a problem. And you'll do the thing that needs to be done. And that's how it will arise because that's how it's been. There's no escape from this timelessness. Where would you go if there's no future and past and there isn't even a present? There's only... Where are you going to go? When you die, where are you going to go? What if you're already dead? I've said this before. What if this is what being dead is like? So there's no death because there was never birth. You never were. Do you remember your birth? People will say, I relive birth trauma and all that. That's all fine. That's all appearance. But I don't think anybody remembers coming into being. Did that happen? Did we ever come into being? Is there anything here like that? Hi, Lisa. Very interesting. Lori says, stop doing, start being, and everything necessary gets done. God, just let go and everything does itself. Not my will, but thine said something in the Bible. In a sense, you could say, well, you're talking about God or you could say you're talking about life itself, doing everything. Zen master Bankai says everything is perfectly managed in the unborn. The unborn is the un... Is the... Oh, God. How do you say it? You could say, well, you can talk about the unborn. You cannot. You could say that unborn is a way of talking about the nature of appearance, that it is neither... It is really, truly a pure... No thing, just a vibrating, no thing appearance. And it's all doing itself. So everything is perfectly managed in the unborn, meaning the whole appearance is managing itself. Nothing you need to do. It doesn't mean there's an intelligent creator or any of that. That's all story that we tell. It's that the thing is... Lifeing. And if we actually really realize that here in the heart center, whatever that means for you, life becomes just this flow. Problems arise, problems are solved. Bliss happens, bliss goes away. Nothing sticks. No trace of enlightenment remains and this no trace continues endlessly. Renee, the unrealized idea... But even the idea that appears is unrealized. It never arrives. Try in this moment, look around. Look at just this focus on seeing. Just notice that seeing is occurring, right? Unless you're seeing impaired or blind or something along those lines. And even then there's maybe some imagery or something or sensation, something's dancing. You can find a sense gate to look at this with. So seeing is occurring. Seeing is occurring because there's stuff. There's stuff. Meaning there's visual experience happening pretty much undoubtedly, even with your eyes closed. There's some shit you see there. Your perceiving darkness, say. Or there's darkness. Let's forget about perceiving because perceiving is perceiving happening. Who's doing that? They're just darkness. Darking. It's a self-aware. Let's say that. If you look at this and you try to nail it down, you go, okay, this thing is here for good or this thing has some inherent nature or this thing has actually arrived and is persisting. Look carefully. Is that really true? Because the more you look, the more you see, the more just the vibrating dance of impermanence is apprehended. Nothing even arrives. It's like this waterfall that just keeps going but it never becomes water. It's just constantly in this now on that screen we were talking about in the beginning. And that is the unborn nature of reality. It's never actually here and yet. Look at this. It appears as a self that's perceiving a world that's stable in space and time and has a past and a future. Isn't that crazy? But look carefully and that's not the case. If you're not ready for that, that can be really destabilizing. So that's why the Zogchen teachers in Tibet don't just give you that teaching because you can just go, but I don't care. I feel like if you're ready, you're ready. If you're not, you won't listen. You'll be like this bald guy doesn't know what the hell he's talking about because I'm not any Zen priest up in a cave that you've walked thousands of miles to see and you're not ready and then your mind is melted. It's more like if you're ready, you'll look. All you got to do is look at you don't do. There's no readiness that happens. It's just like the nose in front of your hand in front of your face. It's not happening the way you think. Nicola, hi there from New Zealand. Feeling for all the U.S. citizens that are living amongst ice. Kia, kaha, keep strong. Thanks for the sentiment. I, you know, feelings arise about that. Empathy arises. Ability to see all views around that and go, oh yeah, that's what they think. That's what these guys think. That's what these guys are constructing. This is what happens here. That and then the next thing happens. Maybe that if that's happening in your community, the next thing that happens is you go and do something or you don't elect not to do something. That decision just arises. So it's like, yeah. But ultimately, like things from here are felt as like unconditional acceptance, including of the desire to do something or the desire not to do something. And judgment when it arises is seen as just another appearance. It's nothing that has any reality. Like just because Zubin has a judgment about something, it doesn't mean anything. It means judgment has arisen in this constellation that I'm calling Zubin. This constellation of thoughts, perceptions, beliefs, energies, sensations. Murray, prison. Jemaine, prison. Britt, prison. The distant future. The year 2000. Remember that song, Flight of the Concords? The humans are dead. The humans are dead. Dennis, in a sensory deprivation tank, a whole world can emerge. Yeah, I've sat in those. A world of nausea emerged for me. It wasn't what I thought. Lisa says, then why does life have to be so hard? What if that question made no sense? Like life is hard. That's a belief, right? Like let's say you're permanently disabled with a chronic illness. You've been suffering. There's pain all the time. You're out on the street living homeless. All these terrible things you can point at and you say life is hard. And you could say that. And that would be a value judgment that we make about the story that this apparent character is living. That's another like, life is not hard. Life is what it is in the fundamental sense. It's that dance of appearance. So the question why is life hard is like asking why is water, water or something. It just stops making any sense at a certain, from that like, place-less place. But that's not to say that it doesn't make sense in a relative sense. It's in the story. Of course it does. Why is life hard? We ask that question because they're suffering. So what's the only response that I can have to that is the heart opens and there's unconditional love and concern in the face of what's obviously suffering. Like I could say this is all appearance and I also know that suffering is absolutely experienced as real. So the heart opens in response to that because it can't stay closed because there isn't a separation that can be believed anymore and you feel it here, the same suffering. But it doesn't stick. It's not owned by anyone. It's just what it is. As you could say, life is hard. You could say life is great too. It's the duality of the story and both are held within this infinite unborn where they never really land. They never really arrive. This sounds like a bypass. You're just bypassing life and all that. That can certainly arise where you're selling yourself a bill of goods to go sit in this existential place where nothing's happening. But that's not how this is. That's just not how this is. I don't know how else to say it. I'm just not that good with words about this because I don't think you can be good with words about this. Maybe some people are. I haven't found them. Maybe I haven't looked hard enough.  alastorri. Hi, Pasadena, Nella. Lisa, how to tell it all to a teenager if only? Oh, man, I got teenagers. I just try to embody whatever I'm realizing, and I try not to lecture them about it because you can't tell anyone about it because it doesn't make sense. What I'm doing now really is pointless, but it's not really because some of you are like, oh, yeah, energetically, there's a part that just knows, yeah, that's how it is, and you can attune to it. When that readiness seemingly arrives from nowhere, it's nice to hear some bald clown say shit like that because the lived experience is right there. But otherwise, it's like, oh, it's just words, or there's a lot of mind argument. It's so funny. So this is the, okay, this is how this goes. My wife used to argue with me about this shit years ago because I would have these realizations. I'd be like, nothing is happening, suffering is this. This is a story that is that empty, empty of inherent existence, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and I was spiritually mansplaining shit to her, but I actually had that realization. But I had a spiritual ego that would come online and try to convince her because I wanted her to suffer less, and I thought I was in control of that. I thought I'd be the good boy and help her. And she's much smarter than me. Harvard, Stanford always kicked my ass in academics. She is way smarter than me. So her mind was just like, what about this? And what about this? And what about this? And how about that? And I would just be like, I can't argue with that. I'm not smart enough. Thank God, because I know it's not true. Why? What about this? I can't, logic doesn't apply here. Logic applies in the dream. It doesn't apply here. And I think that's a convenient thing for you to say. Of course, you're going to lose that argument. And so that would go on until she had her own version of awakening. And now it's like, if I try to talk about it, because I like to practice how I might. I'm just interested, like Zubin's intellect is interested in mansplaining awakening. And she'll just go, shut up. You can't talk about this. Literally it went from outmaneuvering using her Harvard intellect, like all the things, going through all the philosophy and just going, nope. Yeah, what about this? How can you say that? How do you know you're not just delusional? How do you know you're not telling yourself a story? All this stuff to, yeah, of course, why are you even talking about this? You can't talk about this. And I'll go, well, how about expressing it this way? That doesn't make sense. You're just using words. This is wordless. And so it just shows the importance of the realization of what truth is of this, this timeless this-ness. When that happens and it doesn't happen, it's like there's a stopping of delusion, maybe a seeing through a delusion. The character just goes, oh, I'm a character. Everything changes dramatically. You go from arguing about the shit to just being like, if anything, you're going to be like, don't talk about it because you can't. You're just doing it violence. You're just making it a story. You're bastardizing it. You're actually making it a thing. You're turning it into a religion like all the religions have done. Yeah, Mrs. Z for present dent. That's funny, Linda. That's good. Man's planning awakening, Ashley. That's what I do to my wife. And now she's just like, shut the fuck up. Because she's a gunner, she's already better at awakening whatever that means, meaning she just sees it. She's like, yeah, of course, duh. It's so funny. Yeah, waiting it out is great, Dinesh. That's right. You can just kind of sit, do nothing, see what happens. Give up. Margie, may you be well, may you be happy, may you be safe and protected. Namaste. That's a beautiful meta kind of sentiment meditation of compassion. Yeah, Linda, this is wordless. Beautiful. That's right. Just wordless. It's wordless. It's beyond the intellect. It's the knowing that happens in between thoughts. So when you ask yourself a question and then you say the answer, the space between asking the question and the answer coming out of your mouth is this wordless. The Buddhist might call it prajna wisdom. It's this wisdom beyond. But that's a wonky. You're making it something and it's not. It's no thing. It's outside of thought, outside of time. It's just what is. It's just the dance of reality giving you the answer. Even that's wonky. Forget I said that. Just say answering happens apparently. And I say apparent because it's an appearance. Jojo, you keep sending me stars, darling. I've been binging near death experience podcast and what you describe sounds very similar in some ways. I mean, near death experience, the word in there that's key is experience. It's another appearance. So you're talking about something that's experiential that appears. So unity consciousness, everything is love. Like all these different wonderful mystical states you can attain, including near death experience, they're all appearance. So what's if that's an appearance, what's real? What's actually this? Can't say a word because it's not. It's just not. That's a good way to say it. You got to negate. You got to go, it's not this is not this is not this is not this is not it's nothing you can experience. It's nothing you can think about. It's nothing you can remember. It's not being. It's not non-being. It's neither. It's also accommodates all appearance. Hi, Tom. I really do love you, man. It's nice to have a fellow Psychonaut around. Yeah, I don't even know. Like Psychonaut, I mean, yeah, we're just looking for truth, right? We're like truth and odds. We're attuning towards what is real. Real meaning what is this? I don't know what's real, honestly. I know what's not. And actually, even what's not is real as an appearance. It's like, well, so what is real mean? These are just words. Zoe says, sounds like a guru and they always laugh at those gurus. Yeah, well, you know, gurus are a trip, man. Corey, have you ever, you ever have that experience? Holy shit, I can't believe there's awareness. What the hell is this? Ha, ha, ha, what's going on? Of course, the answer is not in the mind. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, so, OK. All right, so awareness. You guys get me on awareness. I get real crazy. So I used to be obsessed with why are we conscious? Like why? How is it that we're having an internal subjective experience? This makes no sense. Physical matter, how do we explain that physical matter emerges a sense of the taste of chocolate or the feeling of a headache? Like that doesn't make any sense. And so then I was swayed by Donald Hoffman's arguments that, no, well, everything is just consciousness and interacting with itself and there's laws and rules about how that does and these conscious agents and so on. And I thought, OK, OK, good. Here's an explanation I can get behind. Consciousness is primary, not matter. So this isn't matter. This is what consciousness looks like in an interface that we call human that evolves over time, apparent time. And then I was like, wait, then I start looking and experiencing and having realization of, like, realization, meaning you're actually inhabiting reality as it. Some people call that awakening or whatever the hell. And it's like, oh, there isn't even consciousness. I'm not conscious of anything. The whole question was wrong. The whole question made no sense. Nothing is aware of anything. There's just the appearance. You could say it's self-aware, but that gives it some duality. Like there's awareness and the appearance together. No, it's just the appearance. It doesn't need any perception. It doesn't need, let's put it this way, it doesn't need a perceiver. Just seeing, just hearing. Simply that. Simply the scene, simply the heard, simply the felt, simply the thought. That's it. Without any you in it perceiving it, no consciousness of, just that. And you could say, oh, that's all consciousness. Fine, whatever you want to say, it's fine. Because the words don't make any sense. It's just exactly what it is. And it doesn't require any explanation. And any questions then around that dissolve into the void. They don't make sense anymore. So then you go, God, why is there awareness? And instead of that, what arises is, is why is there appearance at all? Like why is this even occurring? Because it doesn't need to. The nothing that this appears as, that it never arrives, could easily be just totally non-existent. Non-existence, absolutely. I've actually experienced that. Total cessation, like gone. No, nothing. If you've had general anesthesia, you might have experienced this too. It's like gone. Total discontinuity finished. And you can't even, it doesn't even feel like a lack of memory, although you can't prove that, right? It's more that consciousness, existence, reality is gone. And then suddenly it's back. And so that there's any appearance at all is a true miracle. It never lands. It's totally impermanent. It's absolutely ephemeral. It's happening to no one. There's no self that's real here, just an appearance. There's no separation beyond the appearance of separation. And why is that all happening? How is it happening? Total mystery, absolute miracle. And that is like, for the mind is just like, what? But for reality, it's kind of, I'll tell you, okay. This has been my realization. And of course, your mileage may vary. I'm not making any claims to knowing the nature of truth or reality beyond the realization of like, oh, what this is, that sounds real wonky. It's very hard to talk about this. Okay. Nothing, primordial non-existence, truly unborn, like unmanifest, cannot stay that way. It simply cannot. This appearance, this waterfall that we call reality is inevitably what nothing looks like because it cannot be nothing. There's no such thing. You know, nature abhors a vacuum. You could just say reality cannot just be a vacuum. It doesn't, it just doesn't, that's not how it is. It is this, it's like this. It's vacuum and not vacuum simultaneously. So you can't have only existence without the no thing and you can't just have the no thing without this. It just doesn't stably stay that way. Not that there's time, it's just, it cannot. And that can be felt. It can be felt like, yeah, of course this is. It's kind of like that. And this is where my smarty pants wife would say in her previous days, now this is just the mind telling stories, right? And maybe it is. Maybe it is, but it's fun. Dennis, that question is a great co-on. Empty being is consciousness. To be is to be aware. It's the very nature of existence. The idea of consciousness is an illusion connected to the idea of a self. Let's read that again, okay? Empty being is consciousness. To be is to be aware. It's the very nature of existence. The idea of consciousness is just a secondary thing that we come up with that's associated with a sense of self, the one who is conscious of. That's illusory. Consciousness is a story. To be, to appear, is all that's necessary to exist. That's all it's necessary to, I was gonna say be known, be conscious, but there's no need for knowing and consciousness. It just is. This appearance just is. It doesn't need anything to perceive it. Because it's nothing, it's nothing. It's not a thing that, it's nothing that arrives that is perceived. That's the crazy shit, man. People are, and then the comments are like, are you smoking weed? No, fuck, that would be so dysphoric right now. That'd be so paranoid. Are you kidding me? Hell no. Gotta be sober for this shit. Gotta be sober most of the fucking time, honestly, because there's no difference. You go do any kind of medicine, cannabis, ayahuasca, 5MEODMT, salvia, ketamine. I've tried all that shit. It's all appearance. It's all just another confirmation of this dance. Maybe it shows you a little of this or that in your own appearance. So what? It can be, seemingly can be helpful, but I don't know. I don't need any of that shit. Cause there's this. It's amazing. Like what? You sure did, Rose. Patrick says nothing can be perceived unless there is a perceiver. That's what, that's Buddhist dependent origination, right? Like perception and perceiver co-arise. That's a story. Where is the perceiver? Can you find it, Patrick? Like where's this perceiver? You could say, well, okay, it's consciousness. It's this field of awakeness that can't be made an object, but you just made it an object. Like it's, it's not a thing. It's another appearance. That's my two sons. Parabrahman beyond God is what the Vedantic Hindus used to call it. It's like, you could say consciousness, the field of awareness that we cook, that we can experience is God. And then what's, what's Parabrahman beyond God? What's God arising in? Like they say, oh, what made God and all that, right? That whole thing, oh no, God always is right, but you can find non-existence. And it's, and, and even the appearance of God is this vibrating, impermanent, never arriving, no thing. So I would say this doesn't require a perceiver. In the scene is simply the scene, as the Buddhist Sutta, the Bahia Sutta says, in the herd, simply the herd, and you are nowhere in that. There's no perception. There's just that. And he says in that Sutta, this just, this is the end of suffering. Because who suffers? There's just the dance. Tom, yeah, but you needed all that shit to know that you didn't need that shit. And so did you really need that shit? That's how it is, right, Tom? It's like, I'm glad it all happened. I'm glad I did all those things. I'm glad I meditated, you know, religiously for hours and hours a day. I'm glad I went to retreats. Glad I tried all the psychedelics, all of it, because it seemingly needed to happen to exhaust the seeking mechanism to realize that none of it was necessary. And this was always right here. It was always simple. It's always this, nothing was really happening. There was no journey. Wow, what a journey. Total paradox. It's beautiful. Yeah, what up, Rebecca? Cynthia says, when I was a child living in a rural area, I always knew things without being taught about life, love, death, and a deep knowing, then life happened with being told what I think. I have arrived or now I see as my child self felt. I mean, that's the thing Jesus says, right? Unless ye become like these children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. You have to unlearn what you have learned. That's what Yoda said. He told Luke, unlearn what you've learned. It's just this, all your concepts, all your baggage, all your belief, those are the trace of enlightenment that Dogen was talking about. No trace of enlightenment remains. And this no trace continues endlessly, meaning it's always been like this, eternal. Dogen was the man. He said a lot of shit that was pretty cool. Let me see, well, I fucked up your comments, hold on. No regrets, Dinesh, that's right, not a one. Jihairah, this doesn't require a perceiver, bam. Beautiful, yeah, thanks, he just joined. Welcome to the Sephardic tribe. Oh, Jihairah, that's wonderful. I hope I'm saying your name right. It's a beautiful name. Okay, there's no perceiver required. No jacket required, Phil Collins said, right? Why does this even matter? Who cares whether there's a perceiver or not? Whether we think consciousness is primary, like does it matter? Well, if the devotion is to truth, meaning you really just wanna see what is happening here, I think at some point you gotta see through the perceiver perceived thing. And in fact, if you look at Kevin Channelex, Federer's model of awakening, which is another conceptual thing, and some people find it helpful, some don't. Let's talk about why not, why the fuck not? I don't care, because I mean it's conceptual, but it can be helpful as a pointer. So Kevin was a devout Buddhist and done all this stuff and then figured out like, wait, Buddha in some throwaway thing talked about these Federer's, that block realization, and he had 10 of them. And the first three related to, ultimately related to the sense of a separate self. So those can be seen through like this, that there's an ego self, like a person moving through space and time that has a story and a narrative and that's who I am. First awakening, you see through that. And the second and the third are like having to do with the ritual and stuff. It all falls together, okay? So one through three done, sense of a separate self, no problem. So what are four and five? Four and five are desire and aversion. So the idea that, even though the sense that you're a separate self has kind of been seen through, there's still a sense of consciousness interacting with the world. That still stays there and that it can push and pull on that world in the present moment or in the future or the past. So that's still there. And so you want things, you don't want things. And so desire and aversion. And so you can do little practices to try to look at that and see through that there really isn't desire and aversion. That's a story that arises from impulses, thoughts, sensations, belief. And those can fundamentally fall, in which case desire and aversion, reactivity is another way of saying that. Like somebody cuts you off in traffic and you're like, motherfucker, you gotta go to God and you get all like bent up and you go into thought and you do all this stuff. Instead, what happens is, whoa, turn the wheel, flip the bird, move on. All just natural functioning. No actual sticky pushing and pulling on reality, just the functioning of the function. This whole thing, by the way, this appearance, is just another way of talking about it, is just it's a functioning. It's not a real thing, it's a functioning that's functioning and it never really lands. It's crazy, it's like an electrical impulse just dancing and it has a function, like apparently. So okay, so Federer's four and five are desiring aversion, okay, so those falls. And you're no longer pushing and pulling on reality. What's Federer six? Federer six is the belief that there's a subject that is looking out at a world of objects that actually exist. So there's actually existing objects out there that are separate from an observer. And you can see through that, that there's not solid objects, that there's no separation between objects, that there's no separation between a subject and the objects. So what's Federer seven? We're getting to 10. Federer seven is that there's perception. So we were talking about there's no perceiver. So Buddha said this, perception is a Federer. There isn't actually perception. When you look, there's nothing in here that is going out there and becoming aware of these non-existent appearances that you learned in Federer six aren't real. They're not solid, they're not separate, but still there's a feeling that I'm perceiving them. So that perception can stop and then there's just the scene. Just that doesn't need a perceiver. So what's Federer eight? Federer eight, all the stuff has fallen. Federer eight is, oh, there's still a sense of I. Like there's a sense of just a real interiority of experience versus out there. And all this stuff is still happening in reference to some I, I am. That can be seen through. But there isn't even a sense of I. When you look, it's just an appearance. So then what? Now we get into the real interesting Federer's, nine and 10. So nine is restlessness, the Federer of restlessness because what's happened? We've always been conditioned to look for solidity, continuity, meaning, and satisfaction in the world. We now realize there's no separate objects. There's no perception of separate objects. Nothing is solid, nothing's continuous, and there's no I. There's just this. So what happens? We're still looking for solidity, permanence, continuity, satisfactoriness. And what does that show up as? Restlessness. So in practice, that can show up as like just a general dysphoria like, fuck. Like I used to be able to get comfort from all these things apparently. Never really brought comfort, but it felt like it did for the separate self. And now I'm looking to do those things again and they're not, they feel really unsatisfying. And so you're trying all the, like you're going back and you're like drinking alcohol, or you start smoking cigarettes, or you try this drug you were addicted to, or you do this, or you do that, or you're like just jumping out of your skin with dysphoria, looking for the next spiritual teacher, or the next truth, or the next, because you're like, they're mother, but they're still, even though it's not desire or aversion, it's like this inability to stop trying to make things permanent, continuous, satisfying, real. And it can make you dance out of your skin. So when that fetter falls, you realize, oh, I don't, I don't have to do that. I don't have to look for those things. Those things don't need to be present for this to function. And then the restlessness can calm down. So then what's fetter 10? Fetter 10. Fetter 10 is the actual deeper belief that even though I don't need to look for those things, that they somehow exist. Somehow there is permanence, continuity, substantialness, solidity, and satisfaction. In reality, I just don't need to go looking for it. That falls. And then something quite remarkable called liberation, which then is like, oh, life can be exactly what it is. There's nothing that needs to push and pull on it because nothing can. And this dance is allowed to play out. And the classic images of this Buddha coming back into the marketplace, smiling with like a bottle of wine, like helping hands, meeting people where they are. Because what else is there to do? It's all just doing itself. It's liberation. There's no more second arrow. There's no more should be, could be, would be. And what's fascinating about the fetters is that they all build backwards actually from the 10th. So the 10th is, let's say, okay, here's the fundamental delusion of all humans. Let's start there and it builds up an entire world. Let's talk about it. Fetter 10 says things, the delusion is thinking, there's something solid here that continues. It's got some permanence or continuity and it'll ultimately satisfy. It can actually bring satisfaction in a lasting way. So that fundamental delusion leads to Fetter 9, which is restlessness, which is like, how do I find this? How can I have this stability? I mean, I can't find it, but it must be here. So I'll just keep looking, which then creates Fetter 8, which is the one who's looking, I. A sense of the one that this is happening for, the appearance, the awareness that it's all happening in, which then creates Fetter 7, which is the pulling back of a perceiver and the perceived, so that there's some perception of objects in the world. This world that we're saying is now, it's gotta have some permanent substantiality and satisfactoriness, which then creates Fetter 6, which is a subject in a world of solid objects that are separate from it, which then creates Fetters 5 and 4, which are, I don't like this object and I do want this object, desirin aversion, which then creates 3, 2, 1, 1, the sense of the one who was born, who will die, who is the container, the separate self for all of this fucking delusion. Isn't that fucking wild? Your mileage may vary. Ha ha ha ha ha ha. Damiana says, help us connect the Fetters with illness. Well, illness happens, it's an appearance. The Fetters are thinking that it's happening to a me, and that my solid body is decomposing, and it shouldn't, and that I'm experiencing the suffering of the illness, and that it shouldn't be as it is. Those Fetters will all create that, whereas a fully liberated through the Fetters would say, yeah, now there's illness. Now there's a sense that it sucks. Now there's the next thing that's happening, and you just do the thing. The organism plays itself out, it does what it needs to do. The whole thing is playing itself out. And again, it feels like unconditional acceptance, unconditional love, because there's no choice. Because you've seen through all the delusion, you've seen through the delusion that any of this is actually substantial, satisfactory, permanent, none of it, none of it. So then what is illness? That's a story that we're telling. So we do the next thing. If it's cancer, we decide we're gonna do chemo, we're not gonna do chemo, decision arises, you do the thing. There's nausea, pain, discomfort, fear, that all arises, you see it, it goes. Everything's impermanent, everything's a dance, nothing lasts, and that's the freedom. And it's freedom for no one. So when the sense of separate self arises, it's seen as the sense of separate self is arising, and that's impermanent, that will go too. Hi, Steve. Oh, I'm glad those things resonated, Ashley, and Steve. Let's go back. I don't know where that came from. I really don't. Zane Harvey says, Dr. Z, after listening to the Spiritual Philosophical Deconstruction, does your worldview still allow you to practice medicine in a soul, body, medical world, or are you retired? Well, so I retired because I'm more interested in exploring this truth in day to day, either through videos, through my own explorations, or through sitting with people that I meet. And that's what I feel like is arisen for Zubin, the character of Zubin, and I allowed that identity after great suffering to die, the identity of the doctor. But if that was encoded in here to do that, it would just happen. It would just happen.  it would be no problem that we operate in this reductionist healthcare system because that wouldn't really be believed, but you could still operate. You could still operate in it. There's no problem. Like, I had a skin tag the other day, and I had to Google some, because I don't have access to liquid nitrogen, or there's some shit on Amazon you can buy, and then I got my wife to freeze it and take care of it. Now, you say, well, if nothing's real and you don't believe in the medical model, how could you do that? Well, because it was done. It's no problem. I'm not going to deny that there's a parent causality and that things we do in medicine do help, and a lot of things don't. You would discard the stuff that doesn't seem to serve. It's totally possible, and I know a lot of doctors who are very awake, very realized, and they go on doing their thing. My wife is one of them. Angelo DeLulo, he's a practicing full-time anesthesiologist, and he's one of the most realized beings that I've met, whatever that means. By the way, that's nonsense, because there's no realized beings. But yeah, so it totally happens. Steve says, it's been a while since I caught you on a live. You just blew my mind. I'm going to take a rewatch. Great. I'm recording this. I will pull out the piece on the Fedders and release it as a clip on YouTube. Why not? If it resonated, let me know in the comments if you thought that was some journey worth taking, because I don't know what I was saying, honestly. I made that shit up. I have no idea. Zane says, we're in different places, but I do appreciate your answering. You're trying to be consistent. I don't know that it's trying to be consistent. It's just how it's experienced from here. It's like, yeah, I'd be fine. Being a doctor would be fine. But the reason it's not fine is it's not for Zubin right now. It's just obvious. I can't do it. I can't be a hospitalist right now. I mean, I say that, but I'm not sure that's true. If you put a gun in my head and you're like, you need to survive, you're going to be out on the street and your kids are going to starve. I'd go, OK, Zubin's going to be a hospitalist. I'd probably figure out a way to make it work, because there's a lot you do. Most of what I did as a hospitalist anyways was a whole lot of nothing, is getting out of the way, keeping the patients safe from the hospital, where some of my colleagues want to do a bunch of stuff to them. I was like, nope. That's a nope. That's going to cause harm. Don't do it. No. No. Don't do that. I had some colleagues who were way better than me at not doing stuff in a good way, in a good way, keeping people safe. Oh, cool. OK. So some positive stuff on the Federer stuff. Cool. I got to give a shout out to Kevin Chalek, and I'll do it in the link I'll link to. His website's called simplytheseen.com. He may disagree with even how I've talked about the Federer, but it doesn't matter. That's how I experience it. Yeah. It's so funny what arises when I was thinking of putting that clip up. In the mind, there was this conditioned hesitation to speak about something that I'm not an expert in, in this way, when there's somebody who is an expert, and I know him, and he might watch and be like, aw. And then I would be invalidated. All that went through my mind. And then I was like, oh, that's so funny, Zoven. Who gives a shit? Still there's that movement to validation and to authority, deference to authority, and that there's some way that things are, that all still can dance up into awareness, and then you just see through it. If you're paying attention, if you're not, you just go unconscious, and then you just do dumb shit. Like, don't post the clip because you're afraid. Maybe it's the right thing not to post the clip sometimes, because sometimes your intuition is like, nah, that's not helpful. Right? That's why I ask, was that helpful? Because getting some energetic feedback is, is useful. That's right, Patrick, if I was an expert on the Fedders, would that make me a Federman? Maybe. Where are we? You guys are great today, man. So many comments. This is wonderful. Yeah, Vicky, just keep living whatever that means. Evelyn says, post it on YouTube. Steve, Lisa, good, good, good, good. Okay. Jihara, do you guys have a meetup sometime soon? So refreshing to hang out like this when no one else in your life gets it. Yeah, I know how that feels. I'm lucky to have my wife now, but I didn't always. Yes, I do do the Zoom thing for supporters like you, the five bucks a month people that are in the tribe, because they're like hardcore, they're really into it. And so it's a safe space for us to do that in-person Zoom stuff, like live Zoom stuff. I haven't had one in a while. I need to do it. I do it when it feels right to do. I don't schedule it. And so what you do is look in your supporter feed if you're on Facebook, and you'll get a thing saying, I'm going to go live on this day, or I'm going live now on Zoom. I'm joined. Here's the link. And it's only for supporters. And then we usually have about anywhere from 10 to 30 people show up, and I don't record it. So it's a safe space to express whatever you're going through. And all we do is share what's coming up for us. That's it. It's like a little sangha, a little support group. And it's really beautiful. Like there's so much beautiful love that shows up there that you couldn't even talk about. And it's an organism in itself. And people who are in the tribe can speak to it here in the comments. Like Ashley comes almost to everyone, and she can speak to what it's like. So yeah, we definitely do that. And Jihara also, you can always message me, hello at ZDoggMD.com. Tell me you're a supporter and that if you have something you want to connect on, I'm happy to do that. Because this is all I care about, you know? Really, honestly, it kind of is. Like truth, whatever that is. Damiana says, to extend the conversation on health and wellness of the fetters, and the fetters, is total wellness truly possible in your opinion? I think the question of total wellness falls away. Because there's just what is. There's the natural functioning of the organism. And that is, you could call that total wellness. So it has nothing to do with anything beyond what's happening. So for me, total wellness shows up as this. Like I have oats for breakfast. I avoid too much saturated fat because I have high LDL and a mildly positive calcium score that went from zero to mildly positive. So Zubin, the organism responds in that way and does the thing. He exercises this way. He does this. He doesn't drink too much or smoke. He doesn't do those things. It's like, oh, okay, that's total wellness for Zubin. And that psychological stuff is part of the whole unraveling of shadow and all that. So I think the question becomes vague and a little meaningless. But I think you know what I'm pointing at as total wellness. Oh, Corey, in person and Zoom, just to clarify. So sorry, live Zoom. I haven't really done an in person meetup with multiple people because I've offered it in the Bay Area and nobody raised their hand. So I was like, all right, bug it. But I meet with individuals that are here in the Bay that are interested in this stuff. If really on a kind of intuition basis, like, yeah, this would be helpful. Like, yeah, helpful for both, right? Two days in a row, Venus, that's right. Yeah, so that's about, oh yeah, Venus did raise her hand. This was the only one who raised her hand. The only one. And I think you're kind of far away too, right? I don't know if you're close. I forget. My memory is really bad. Corey says, I'm renting a room in Berkeley. I have hosted, oh yeah, that's right, you're in Berkeley. Jim Newman, all those guys, you're more than welcome. You had Jim Newman over there? That's awesome. Jim is awesome. Jim is such a hoot. I've never met him. Actually, dude, Corey, if you know Jim and can ever connect us, that'd be a hoot because I really love the way he expresses. He's one of these radical non-duality guys. Like, look, none of this is happening. Your story, stop, stop seeking, stop it. It doesn't, there's no awakening. Shut the fuck up. Like, it's great. A church in Berkeley, that's awesome. Yeah, dude. Hit me up, hit me up. Hello at ZDougMD.com. That's awesome. Oh, you're in Piedmont, Venus. Oh, man, well, I just have to head up to Berkeley. We'll hang out. I have some other people up there that are supporters. Yeah, my friend Eric, some other people. Maybe we can have a little meetup in Berkeley. That's the perfect place for this shit, right? Actually, we could meet up at, I'll invite myself over to Corey's room in the church. We'll just have a little sanga, a little satsang. That'll be dope. Actually, Corey can lead it, actually. Yeah, that's great. That sounds like fun, actually. Daniel By says, shit, you just timeline my own thinking when I post stuff. If it doesn't make you pucker up a little, it's not worth posting LMAO. Yeah, that's great, dude. Pucker up, I like that. Yeah, if it doesn't get your sphincter just really tight, it's not worth posting. I love it. Let's see. Easy peasy, Corey. All right, hit me up. Yeah, we'll do a thing. Why not? All right, gang, I think we did a thing. This was fun for me. I always say this. It's always fun for me. As long as I don't think about anything I said afterwards, because then I'm like, what did I say? Where did that come from? Yeah, Venus is going to come to Berkeley. You're just down the street. All right, we'll do a thing. Until next time, gang, thanks a lot. If you want to become a supporter, go ahead. If not, that's cool. We continue to do this thing, the Awakening Channel. People show up in force, so it's great on Facebook. It's Bodie Day. Is it Bodie Day? Oh, Dinesh, I don't know anything about nothing. That's awesome. Okay, peace out. Let me see now. How do I stop this? Oh, yeah, bye.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.481257Z ===
