 resilisoo, sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec sec uh, so university of Rochester, then Vassar college, which is in Poughkeepsie, New York, and then Manhattan for NYU. And those are the three schools that she was, uh, accepted to in New York that she wanted to check out. She does not want to go to California. And so dad, who's been through this, um, I went to UC Berkeley back in the nineties and, you know, rushed through in three years. Cause I just found college to be dumb. Uh, I see my video on this. I'm simplifying it, but, um, I get to relive this whole thing in this dream that I now see as just a kind of appearance, but still there's nowhere to go. You live it fully. You love your daughter, you help her, you worry about her, you worry about her future. You, you recapitulate your own traumas and education and all your conditioning and all your ambition and all your hope streams and fears for being on the street, having enough money, all the things and trying to decide what your future is going to be. So I thought we'd talk about it. Everybody's here. PIP is here. Sue is here. Sue says, nice. New York, uh, New York city is a life changer. It really is unbelievable. So I'll give you a quick rundown. Hi, Emma. Good to see you. Oh yes. Um, and it's funny while we were there, Emma emailed me and she was like, are you, you know, grand central station. And I was like, what when we were in Manhattan and it turns out some machete wielding dude who probably had mental illness and wanted to die by police officer, um, slashed up like three elderly people at the subway stop at grand central station with a machete and then was shot to death by, um, NYPD that were working security, overtime security at grand central. Crazy. I wouldn't even hear about it, but they, but they canceled. I think they closed one of the subway lines and we'd gotten on the subway and we were wondering where, why it didn't stop where we wanted to stop. And we ended up somewhere in past Brooklyn. Me and my daughter are like, what? Trying to check out the Brooklyn flea market. Um, and Jenny C says, I'm in Poughkeepsie right now watching this. Jenny C, please email me. Hello at ZDogMD.com and tell me what you're doing in Poughkeepsie and whether we ought to go there. Okay. So here, okay. Here's the thing. So, um, so, so it's funny. I was talking, I was processing this with my wife. Cause I'm like, when I got back yesterday, it was, it felt like I'd been through like both me and my daughter had been twisted through like a, like a, a towel had been wrung out and just snapped and just, and so much of it is because you're feeling what she's feeling. And you're again, reliving this experience and you're feeling what the matrix is pushing back on you. This big illusion, what it's telling you. And it was different in all three places, but it was very much this, this kind of, you, you just can't avoid the textures of life in this whole awakening process. So whatever that means, it's not a process and there's no awakening, but you know what I'm talking about. So that said, we go to Rochester. Um, they'd given her, you know, some scholarship money and it was like, Oh great. Let's, let's go see this place. And we land and we stay at this Marriott courtyard Marriott and it's undergoing construction. So it's like a mess, but the people in Rochester are like the sweetest, most just polite, like crazy kind people. And both of us were like, what? Cause you know, we're used to the Bay area where people fake being nice, but they're really complete assholes. Bay area people raise your hands. We are not, we are nice, but not kind here. That's how it is. Then you go to New York. People are kind, but not nice in Rochester. People are both nice and kind. So there's, they're superficially polite, but they're also truly quite kind. And, um, so there's a lovely woman, uh, working at the Marriott and we needed breakfast before. So we came in in a red eye and, uh, we took the tour. And then that night we, we had to stay one night and then take the train to Poughkeepsie to check out Vassar college. And, um, she was like, oh, if you like steel cutouts, you got to try our steel cutouts. And I'm like, hotel Marriott, steel cutouts. It's going to be this soggy, gooey crap. They were the, I'm a connoisseur of good oatmeal. Like I get whole groats, like the full oats and I, and I cook them in a rice cooker overnight. And I add like pecans and pumpkin seeds and soy milk. And it's just delicious. And it will give you the best shit of your life. And it lowers your cholesterol. So like all the good things. And she comes out with this bowl with blueberries on top. And it was by far the best bowl of oatmeal I've ever, it was chewy, like nutty and chewy, not soggy. And she had a thing of like Canadian maple syrup on the side. And I put a little bit in and I was like, this is transcendent. My daughter like had half of it. She had like an avocado toast. That was amazing. So you find these like, and this was a court, you know, courtyard Marriott in Rochester. You know, we went and we toured the campus. I don't think it's for her. It's very science tech medicine, like STEM and, you know, these kinds of brick buildings and the weather was freezing like forties. There were snow flurries, like, and forties is warm for up there, snow flurries and all this. And it was just this leaden sky. And so we, we toured the place and she was just like, this isn't for me. Cause she's doing like music and economics and like, she wants to discover what she loves. She knows she loves music and kind of likes business, but she doesn't know much else. And so they have an open curriculum at Rochester where you can kind of find that, which is kind of cool. So they have very few requirements. So that was nice, but she could just feel from talking, like every student we talked to was a STEM student. Everyone who gave the tour was a STEM student. When we did the event in California, that was an away event for Rochester. It was all science tech people. And she's like, I don't belong here. Like Eastman school of music, which is one of the top music conservatories in the country is part of Rochester, but it's a separate campus in the city of Rochester instead of on the campus. And it's, it, you can take lessons there, but unless you're a music major or something, it, it doesn't, you can't really. So she was just not really feeling it, but boy, the people were awesome. And the amazing thing about that, uh, was we were like out in the suburb somewhere or near, near the campus. Right. And, um, not in downtown Rochester, which can get a little, I understand Rochester itself can get a little sketchy, but, um, we went to a hole in the wall Chinese place called chopsticks with an X and you're, and we, me and Nina were expecting, cause it was walking distance from the hotel. We were expecting like garbage, Americanized Chinese food. And we're both kind of like, you know, we live in the Bay area. Her mom's Chinese. It's kind of like, we know really good authentic, like our, the grandparents make amazing food, you know, um, this food. So the woman, okay. How many people have seen dude, where's my car? So in dude, where's my car, they go to order through a take through a takeout drive through a Chinese place and Ashton Kutcher keeps ordering and she keeps saying, and then through the little box. And he's like, oh yeah. And the fortune cookies and then, uh, and the chop suey and then, and the mushu pork and then, and then I think that's it. I think we can just pack it up and it's ready to go. And then, and he's like, and then put it in a bag cause we're ready to eat. And then, and they get this huge fight and he ends up smashing the box with a bat. When we order from this lady at this little place in a strip mall, she's like, and then, and my daughter's like, because she's seen dude, where's my car? And we're both giggling. And she's like, uh, anything wrong? I'm like, no, no, no. Could we get the, the, the, uh, the beef brisket soup? And she's like, and then I was like, oh, so it comes out, we get the Americanized stuff and the authentic stuff and all of it's amazing. Like amazing. Like general style chicken, totally Americanized. Unbelievable, sweet, spicy, perfectly breaded, um, hot, delicious. And then the more authentic beef brisket soup, noodle soup, absolutely authentic. We're like, this is unbelievable. And we told her and she was delighted because she gives us forks, right? And both me and Nina are like forks. What do we do with this? We're like, could we get some chopsticks? She's like, oh, and she gives us the chopsticks and suddenly we're like her best friends. Right. And so then it was just like full on, deliciousness. And this is Rochester in a strip mall somewhere. So human beings, like we have all these preconceived notions about, you know, different towns, different parts of the country, so on and so forth. And you go there and you just find love and pride and like perfection everywhere you go. And I knew this already because when I was doing a lot of public speaking, I would go to crazy, like all over the country, all over the world. And I would always feel that way. I was like, this place is amazing. Like it's, people are amazing. Even when they had different flavors, different cultures, different stuff. And I was like, I'm not sure I'd live here, but this place is amazing. And that's how I feel about Rochester. So let's read some comments. Melanie Cookson says, New Yorkers embrace the perception that they're mean and love the surprise when people realize they're nice. I'm on team NYU. Dude, New Yorkers are the best people. I can't really compare. I just know that it felt real. I was born in Morristown, New Jersey. I grew up until I was eight there. And we would go to New York all the time. I think it's just in my blood to be direct and also incredibly kind. And that's how New Yorkers are. And the perception of them as being rude is because like, for example, when we were in New York City, everyone jaywalks, everyone jaywalks. And, um, so this, um, girl is walking with college age girls walking their little frou-frou white dog and just jaywalks through the thing. And a guy on an e-bike, like a courier or something carrying like DoorDash or something speeds in front of her and, and you can, and he, and he goes, bitch, get out of my way. All right. And, uh, and the, and the woman just goes, oh, and just looks at him and then just, they go on with their day. It's kind of like, they just say what they think. And the key thing that he did was he says, bitch, get out of my way. All right. It's kind of like, Hey, recognize it was, it was actually not mean. It was just direct. You know, you could argue with the word bitch, but I mean, you know, it's two different cultures. They were doing their thing. I was like, I say bitch all the time, but I'm usually talking to men. Um, Dan Riddick says, uh, business and economics are two completely different degrees. Just saying, yes, economics, you know, kind of as a pre MBA thing, because a lot of these programs don't have undergraduate business programs and it just depends. And she's not really sure what she wants. She likes the study of economics, but she also likes entrepreneurial stuff. So it's a little, it's a little tricky. Um, Hey, Chris, I just saw your email before I went live. I figured I'll just go live and I'll tell you the answer this way. Um, to your question. So he says, some schools are stellar at selling their product. Others, not so much go with that gut feeling. It never strays. You're getting to the heart of it, Chris. So someone said team NYU, and I'll tell you what I think of that. And I get it. And also I'll tell you what I think. So, okay, Rochester, we kind of said, probably not. Then we get on the train, the Amtrak, which I haven't taken in God knows how many years. It was such a fun experience. You're going all along like Syracuse, Albany, all through upstate New York, and then down to Poughkeepsie. It took about five hours, but it was a piece of cake. Great wifi, big seats. Um, they have a cafe train. Nina fell asleep the whole time because we were, we were on a, um, red eye and we never really recovered from that. And it was beautiful. Uh, and then we get into Poughkeepsie. Um, let me just see if there's any other comments I want to read here. Uh, thousand percent pedestrians having the right of way is claimed all over the place direct for sure. Yeah. I mean, everybody does that. Uh, Jenny says, uh, I grew up in Bernardsville, New Jersey. Can't beat the grittiness of NYC. Oh man, it is the place. I love that town. I love it with a passion. Um, and it's a recent love actually that's come back visiting as an adult where I have, I'm not totally broke, so I can actually go to restaurants and do things. Um, so, okay, we get to Poughkeepsie, which is this tiny little post-industrial town known for like breweries and, you know, trade and stuff back in the day. And now it's like actually a lot of healthcare, like Optum is there. It gave me an antibody response because I fucking hate Optum. They're a horrible, evil conglomerate that's destroying medicine. And now I can say that because I don't ever have to kiss anybody's ass in medicine again and they can go fuck themselves. Great, nice people there. All the humans are great except for the leadership and even the leadership. They're good people maybe, but the organization is just emanates evil. Um, so fuck Optum and the way they buy up physician groups and everything, it's gross. Like talk about losing control of your profession. It's gone. Uh, again, this is just like Zubin Zubining, all right? There's no objective truth here. Um, so it's this like beautiful town right on the Hudson river. There's like bridges that you can mountain bike across. You can bike across. There's this adorable little kind of little gritty downtown area. And that's where we landed in this beautiful train station. And we're like, Whoa. And we get to the, the, uh, every Uber driver we had was like hilarious too. 90% of them were Jamaican. And, um, they were just so much fun. They would always tell us these great stories and stuff and ask us about California and everything. And so we get to the, another courtyard Marriott and this one was also undergoing construction. And the lady at the front, I don't know how many of you guys have seen Schitt's Creek, the show Schitt's Creek, but I swear to God, it was like an African-American version, like a black version of Stevie from that show. The woman who runs the hotel counter in Schitt's Creek. It was exactly the same. She was like cynical, but funny, but friendly, but, but direct. I was like, this is awesome. So we sleep, we take the tour the next day. And Nina's like immediately biased against Vassar college. So Vassar college is one of these, they're called the little Ivies and it's a group of schools called the seven sisters. I think some of which used to be like women's only colleges, but went co-ed eventually. And so Vassar went co-ed in 1969. It's an elite small liberal arts college that is only 2,500 undergraduates and no graduate students. So the professor to student ratio, something like eight to one, uh, or one eight students to one professor and tiny little classes, incredibly beautiful old school, like rural campus, beautiful trees, Gothic, beautiful buildings, an art museum that's open to the public that had like all kinds of incredible shit, like Picasso's, all this stuff there. And this beautiful Buddhist, um, art that at some point I'll do a show and I'll share some of the pictures. But it was, um, when we got there, she was like, uh, the, you know, this is so like, it's going to be stuffy and like elite, like left coast elite, uh, right coast, you know, East coast elite, um, you know, lacrosse playing like bro culture. And I don't, I don't want it. And so she had this bias and she knew nothing about it. Right. And, uh, we show up and initially we're sitting in the little orientation. It turns out, you know, at Rochester, they oriented us by like a hundred people. And there were only a few admitted students, everybody else was prospects. And so we went on these big tours and it felt rather impersonal just cause it's a bigger school. Um, although they'd send us so many emails and like, you know, come on, come to our school. It's so on. It's like a real hard sell. Um, and what, or, um, Vassar was like, sent us, Hey, congrats, you're accepted. Uh, and so we scheduled a tour for admitted students. There were only three other families from all from the Bay or no one, two from the Bay area and one from New York city on this tour. And they took us into a little conference room with the guidance counselor and a, and a senior from the college. And they talked to us about what it's like open curriculum. There's only one required class and it's, it's a writing class and you can take it in any number of departments. So you can learn to write about science fiction because they want to teach you how to actually express in writing at a college level. Everything else is open. A lot of the students double major, some even triple major with minors. It's a liberal arts college, but it also has science, cognitive science. It's the oldest cognitive science undergraduate program in the country. They have economics and their music department is ridiculous. Like it's insane. They have 67 Steinway pianos on campus. Steinways because Steinway had a relationship with Vassar that I forget the nature of it, but he basically donated like a, like a billion Steinways. It's more Steinways than exist in anywhere outside of a conservatory or the Steinway factory in the world. All right. Vassar college in Poughkeepsie, New York, this tiny little town. It was, so, so we're sitting in this thing and she's still like kind of biased. She's like, Hmm, it's not for me. She was kind of nudging me. Like, can we just avoid the rest of this day and just go to NYU? Cause I'm definitely going to NYU. And, uh, I was like, no open mind. Come on. And then we started touring the campus and it was like, here's the dining commons. This is what this is like. It was this insane. Like, we're like, Oh my God. And so we got to eat there. It was absolutely delicious. It's dorm food. You live on campus. Most of the time, like most people live there all four years in these houses, like Hogwarts, each dorm was like crazy. The library literally looked like Hogwarts to get there by train was like the Hogwarts express. The whole thing was like Harry Potter land. And they actively knew who she was. So the music department professor who heads their like symphony or whatever, what emailed her before she came and was like, I'd love to like give you a tour of the music department, even though you're not necessarily majoring in music, but we, she had to send in a, she decided to send in a music portfolio, like stuff with her, um, violin, playing violin and all that. And the dude watched it and was like, we'd love you to be in, you know, come audition for our thing and do this. And so I let her go to that herself. And she took a tour with this guy through the music department, through the music library with all these old scores and this beautiful performing arts facility and talking about how music is just a part of the whole fabric of the thing. And she was just, and, and then we, um, we, you know, she had another guy kind of show her around a bit and we went to all the different places and let me turn off that volume. And, um, both of us were just like, Oh my God, like just fell in love with the place. We were like, what? And, uh, it's a small, like 700 people in the freshman class. So we weren't, we were still just like, Oh my God, now what are we going to do? Now we're gonna have this tough decision between NYU and Vassar and Vassar. She had thrown on at the last minute on her applications. Cause my wife was like, you know, I think you should apply this place called Vassar. You know, when I was at, cause my wife went to Harvard, she's like, Oh, you know, we always knew like these little ivies were like really good and much more intimate. And she was miserable at Harvard. She hated it. Um, hated Boston, hated all of it. It was freezing. She just couldn't stand it. And, um, it just wasn't for her. Right. And I went to Berkeley, a big public institution where I was just dehumanized repeatedly. Um, and just, it was just a mix of everybody. So you had some really idiotic people, some horribly, like just terrible people. And then these amazing people who became my best friends. So you find your people wherever you go. Um, and I just got lucky cause I had to push and force my way through to, you know, go do what I wanted to do, which was medicine. She doesn't want to do medicine. So she doesn't have to go to a place like that. And, um, and she, my wife was like, just apply to Vassar. Like just, she's like, I don't even know what that is. I don't know what you're talking about, mom. And, uh, hang on. I just want to make sure I have the right stream here. There we go. And so she throws it on at the last minute, sends in a music portfolio video, does all that and gets in. And she was like, what? And so now she's falling in love with this place and she's bummed. She's actually depressed. Cause she's like, I have to make a decision. So I was like, okay, let's just go into the town near, like nearby, like the few blocks from campus where all the students eat and the different little cute little shops and stuff. And we're like, wow, this place is cool. By the way, the night before we ate at this place called the Dutch crown in Poughkeepsie, it's this little pizza place bar. As we walk in this older couple sitting at the bar and they both look at us and smile and go, howdy. And we cut, we come and sit in, we order a pizza. It's just us and that other couple and the, the bartender. And we get this incredible pizza and we're like, we want the chicken wings, Buffalo chicken wings with ranch on the side. And he's like, he goes, comes back from the chef from the kitchen. He's like, you know what? We're out of chicken wings, but how about I give you chicken tenders and I season them like the wings and I get you the ranch. And my daughter was like, sure. And they were the best chicken tenders. And the pizza was amazing. This is like thin crust. Oh, it was so good. So we had that the night before, but this time we went to this little acai bowl place, right? Where it's, you know, a little fruity little acai bowls that kids like. And she orders the stuff. There's all kinds of students there. Every single student I'm looking at, I'm like, that's my daughter, like dressed all quirky, kind of weird. I was like, this is my kid. It's a school full of my kid. Like what's going on here. And then other kids that weren't like her. And I was like, this is actually incredibly diverse. And, um, so we get our acai bowl and she's like, this is great. And I, as dad, right. Cause we've got to catch a train in a couple hours to, to Manhattan, but we have, so we have to kill some time. So dad is sitting there looking at these different students, feeling it out, talking to my daughter. And I, I, and I identify a trio. It's an Asian girl, another Asian girl and a white girl. And they're all laughing and giggling and talking shit and whatever, eating their acai bowl or whatever they ordered. And we leave drostanolone and I turned to them cause they're leaving too. And my daughter's with me. And I go, hey, you guys, should my daughter here go to Vassar? And of course, Nina is just like, oh, fuck dad. What the fuck? What are you doing? You know, she's like that total moment where you just are fucking with your kids so hard. But I had a feeling cause I could feel energetically that these kids were like, they were the ones to talk to you. I don't know how else to say it. There were a lot of kids there. I'm like, I'm talking to these guys. And so at first they look at me and they're like, are you trolling us? And I'm like, no, I'm not trolling you. Here she is. She's an accepted student. And the minute they heard that, they were like, what? Come here. They grabbed my daughter and they're like, we need to talk to you. And they sit her down and they're like, you need to come here. This place is amazing. And they start telling her all this stuff. They ask her all these questions about her, what she's interested in. They're telling them about her. They're like, come on, walk with us, walk with us. How much time do you have? We're like, oh, we have this much time. Come on, we're going back to campus. We're going to show you all the spots and we're going to talk. And all three of them, so one of them was from Queens, New York, the leader of the gang. And she was like super direct. And she was like, this is the good, the bad, the ugly. It's like amazing. This, that, the other thing. And the other one was like, um, um, uh, uh, uh, a white girl whose dad was from Australia and she was just radiated kindness and joy. I don't know how else to say it. And, uh, they were all studying different things like biology. They were all met in a biology lab. And then the third was a foreign student from Shanghai and all of them had a different perspective. And all of them were like, you got to come here. And my daughter was just like, what was that? Like, that is crazy. Like they were selling it. And, um, and we just were like, wow, we were blown away, but we were so sad because we're like, now it's going to be, now it's going to be a tough choice before we're like, we're just going to kind of go through the motions of this. And she'll go to like the school that has the most name recognition, which is NYU. Cause everybody's heard of NYU and she wants to go to New York. She, she loves Manhattan. It's like, all right, let's, let's go. But now we were totally fucked. So before we talk about NYU, let's look at, uh, some comments, Mr. Hyra, New York city is a little scary. My husband works there and people are like, uh, pooping in the subway. Like, why can't they get it together? It has that element of danger at all times, which I enjoy, but I'm not such a big fan for my kid just cause I'm a dad. I'm like, I don't know about that. Um, so we definitely encountered some of that, which maybe I'll, if I remember the stories, I'll, I'll tell you. So, um, let's see Vicky ducks like, so NYU, uh, so OMG, I always wanted to move wherever I go on vacation, but then it's good to get home. That's how it is. Vicky. I'm the same way. Um, yeah, it was kind of like school of rock mama teacher. Um, yeah, Schitt's Creek is the shit. All right. Cool beans says duck, duck, go duck. All right. So here we go. NYU. So we take the train into Manhattan. We get an Uber because we didn't know how to use the subway just yet from where we were to get to our hotel. And it was the middle of the night. Um, we got to, uh, like the Marriott, like, it was like the Moxie and East village, um, where we checked in incredibly hilarious lady at the front. Like, Oh, I can't even tell the story because it's so inappropriate, but it was a may, both me and my daughter were like, that was hilarious. And it's inappropriate. Um, may involve race. It was, it was, it was pretty funny. So we, we go up to the room. It's a box, literally a little day bed and my bed and a bathroom shower in the middle of the place. And the whole place is like, like 180 square feet and that's Manhattan. And we're going to be staying there. And it's like, so, but it was fun because downstairs they had this bar and this lounge and it was really fun. So immediately you're right in East village, amazing, vibrant area, right near NYU, like right in the heart of it. NYU is not a real campus. It's a bunch of buildings spread throughout this part of the city. And so that's, it's very atypical 30,000 undergraduate students, plus however many graduate students and professors they have private university. So expensive like Vassar and Rochester, but Rochester was less expensive because they had more financial aid. Um, and we settled in for the night, walked around, had food. And then the next day we, um, walked around that area and it feels like we went to Washington square park, which is their de facto quad. And it's just a big public park and it's beautiful, right? Trees. And it was getting warmer. The trees are starting to bloom. Nina's allergies were killing her. She was all congested, but it was really cool. And all the different restaurants and stuff. We ate at this incredible bagel place, but our tour, our formal tour wasn't until the next day. And that night we were supposed to see a Broadway show because Mrs. Dog scheduled us to see Moulin Rouge. And we were both like, this is the thing about Mrs. Dog. She knows what's what she knows what other people, what's good for other people, not in a preachy condescending way. She can read people and reflect back what they really want, even when they can't do it. And so I've learned to just surrender to this now, but I still put up a fight, but I still deep down I'm surrendered. So she's like, you guys need to go to a Broadway show. I'm like, why Broadway is so painful. You go to Midtown Manhattan. It sucks. It's full of like Times Square is gross. It's all tourists. It's the worst. Cause we stayed there last year and like Times Square was terrible. I do not advise. And, um, and so we were Sadie, Sadie Flett says, everyone has heard of Vassar too. Trust me. Not much on the West coast. It's funny. You say the name and they're like, I don't know what that is. It's, it's, it's really hilarious. Um, it's probably more of an East coast, uh, institution. So anyway, so, um, she, she, and this has relevance to the story. So she gets us tickets to see Moulin Rouge and guess who plays Ziegler or whatever the, the, the, the cabaret owner in Moulin Rouge on Broadway, Megan the stallion. So we're both like, now we got to go to Broadway. We've got to take the subway up there. So we did that. We get out, we're in Times Square. Both me and Nina are like, God, I hate this place. I hate Times Square. It's so miserable. We find, but we had some time to kill cause we got there a little early. So we go to this little park and I decided to do an Instagram live. Cause part of this is like giving, you know, the Z pack on Instagram and stuff like sharing the experience of what this is like, different restaurants, things like that. So this is Instagram. So, um, we're live on Instagram and I go, guys, we have tomorrow in New York and we need, um, we need an NYU student to give us a personal tour. Cause we're not getting a real personal tour. Saturday is like admitted students day and they're going to do this big event and we're going to that. And we need to really know the scoop. And within five minutes, someone had left a comment saying, my daughter's there at NYU. She's a senior. I'm going to message her and she'll message you. And within 10 minutes after that, I got a message from this incredible human, 21 year old senior at NYU, multiple majors. And she's like, I can give you a tour tomorrow. Um, and I was like, what? Oh dude, did we, did the, did the stream cancel? Oh no, there it is. It just showed that it had canceled. I was like, dope. What's going on? Let me make sure. Oh, it's doing this glitch thing again. I don't understand what's wrong with my YouTube streaming these days. It's kind of sad. Oh, well, at least I'm recording it so I can put it on a podcast. Um, yeah, Lisa, Lisa Kudrow went to Vassar. So did Meryl Streep. She gave the convocation actually. Um, yeah, I don't know why this thing doesn't stream good anymore. I think it's a YouTube problem, not a me problem, but of course I would say that. Um, okay. So we go up there and we, and we live stream and this girl's like, we'll give you a tour. I'll give you a tour tomorrow. Meet us at whatever time. And, and I was like, what? So then we, it was incredible. I was like, this is amazing. Like we'll get to actually get the scoop. So we go to Broadway, see this show. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. Like, trust me, if you're in town and you want to see a Broadway show and you like musicals and, uh, pop music, because it was Moulin Rouge, like the movie, but they take more modern songs now and they weave it in. And Megan Thee Stallion was hilarious. And we were like, had amazing seats. And I was like, Mrs. Dog again for the win. Not only did we love the Broadway show, but we happened to be in the right place at the right time to do a live show that this person was watching that hooked us up with the next day where we met this, um, student and she took us all around, told us her entire experience, studying abroad, coming here, doing this, her whole thing. And we got a full feel for what it's like there, at least from that perspective. And then the next day we did the, the, the thing. Now here's the thing. This girl loved NYU. And she's like, it's made me who I am. My daughter was hearing all of this and absorbing it and putting it through her own life experience and said, she just kept saying, this is not a fit for me because for many reasons, but one is it's, it's, it's very difficult to make friends at NYU because it's such a strange campus, right? And she's starting in the spring. She was admitted for the spring semester. So even, so there's a delay. So you don't even come in with the main freshman group. So you're in a smaller cohort, which means you can make friends. It's, it's the cost of living in New York is obscene. Um, there were some other things that came up like different episodes on the subway that we were, that we were talking about with her that were really scary. Um, that's fine. I mean, my daughter's okay with that, but it's kind of like, it just adds another flavor to it and all the opportunities and stuff are there, but it just felt energetically like an incredibly stressful, challenging, uncomfortable. experience through my daughter's view, which can be very good. That's how Berkeley was for me. It can be very good. If that, you think you're going to grow into something where you have that ambition that you're going to try to change the world or be the top of a field of something. That's not my daughter. My daughter just wants to be who she is. And so, and she has the privilege to do that because she isn't living on the street right now, right? She is okay with like being a high school music teacher that would be okay with her. She's like, yeah, that would be a lot of fun. And we're okay with that more than okay. If that's who she is, that would be amazing. She could make $50,000 a year and teach high school music somewhere in the Midwest. And we'd be ecstatic, right? As long as she's not unhoused on the street with, you know, suffering from mental illness, we consider that a win, right? And so, and so, and of course she'll probably do something more exciting, but I mean, more exciting than being homeless, although that's quite exciting, but you never know, right? So she, she's different. She has to be her. It's impossible for her to do anything that she doesn't want to do in academics. Now she did it through high school and she's like, I'm not doing that again, which I get it's a privileged position to say that, but she doesn't want to do pre-med. She says, so it's not like she's going into a science thing where she has to do stuff that she is some stuff that she's not interested in. She can do whatever she wants. So it's like, okay, NYU has all these requirements and she was admitted into liberal studies, which is like undeclared. And after two years of liberal studies, you declare a major in any of the colleges and you go, it could be business, it's Stern, it could be music, it could be whatever, but you're not guaranteed to get into those things. And you have to take these liberal study core requirements that include antiquities and like these things that she's not interested in. So that was another thing. So we were like, I don't know if this is a fit for you. Like the school sounds amazing, but maybe not for you. The next day we go to the admitted student thing, like a thousand students plugged into this huge auditorium and that's just liberal studies. And this was what was amazing. So they have a couple of the Dean of, Vice Dean of Student Admissions at NYU comes up and he's like, there were 125,000 applicants for the positions, all hoping they were going to be you sitting here today. So you should pat yourself on the back because you, you, you beat all these kids. Right. And it was, it's like, it was the most applications to a private university in US history was NYU this year. And he was saying, congrats, you did it. Right. And we were like, okay, ego, wonderful. And then went on to say, you know, NYU is a place where you are challenged, where you're not, where you're meant to be uncomfortable living in a city. The city is your, is your university. You're meant to be challenged so that you will go and do great things by being uncomfortable. And I totally resonated with that to a point. I was like, yeah, that is true. It's also a complete fucking story. Like everything, like the story that you should be coddled and taken care of all your life. Like the story that you should go be a doctor because that's helping people or the story that you should go be a businessman because you need money. Right. So all this stuff. So NYU was selling its narrative, which it's really good at doing. It is a marketing powerhouse. That's why everybody's heard of NYU. And, um, and I was, but we'd already had a beautiful, authentic, sincere, and honest assessment of what it's like there. And it was perfect for the student who did it and for many other students, but it not necessarily fit for my daughter. So now we're getting the, like the hard sell public thing. First of all, I have to say this, when we were accepted, we sent them, we tried to get a tour and all the tours were booked for the week we were coming. And so I emailed the admissions office and I'm like, Hey, we're accepted students. Is there any other way we can get a student or someone to give us a tour? And they said, Nope. When the tours are booked, they're booked. Just keep checking back on the website. If anything opens up. Otherwise there are virtual tours. The virtual tours are bullshit. You walk around the outside of the buildings and they give you a little, you know, I was like, this is what, this is how you recruit students. It's like, it's like, you're lucky to be here. Like you're lucky to get in. This is New York, bitch. Like get out of my way. They literally don't give a fuck. And so I did a virtual zoom, uh, uh, orientation thing. And I watched that and I was like, okay, very articulate, great pitch. And I was still just kind of like, Hmm. So we then go to this thing that the student Dean goes up, gives us, you know, admission Dean gives the speech about why NYU, like, you know, it's, it's going to challenge you. It's gives you all these opportunities, global reach, incredible professors in the heart of the greatest city on the planet, all that bullshit. Right. Then we get to the Dean of liberal studies and he's a Canadian guy and he comes up there and, um, he gives a talk and he says, look, I'm from Canada. I left Canada for the U S because all truth, U S higher education is the best in the world. It's better than anything in Canada. Canada is better than anything in Europe. And New York is better than anything in the U S period. Like this kind of, I was like, I didn't realize Canadians were so arrogant. And then he said something amazing. He's like, I used to teach at a small liberal arts college, elite, small liberal arts college, whose name I will not mention. Who knows? It could have been Vassar, right? Could have been Wesleyan or one of these little liberal arts college. And he's like, it was great. This, the professors all knew the students' names just like Vassar. Um, and, uh, they were in a bubble. They, they weren't out in the real world. They weren't in a city and, uh, it didn't feel real. So I left and I came to New York city to work here, to do a liberal studies education at a major university, which by the way is not what Nina wants. She's not interested in liberal studies. She's interested in whatever she's going to do, whether it's economics, business, music, you know, she's not interested in antiquities or English. Oh, you never know. It could happen history. That's not her thing yet. So, um, and then he said something that drew a gasp from the audience. There's like a thousand people in there or something, 700 people with parents, kids, he said, and the thing about liberal arts is, you know, it's really depressing to be poor. So why would you do that? You know, you should come where you're actually going to get a job. He, he said to families in the audience, many of whom are struggling, many of whom are looking for financial aid. He said, it's depressing being poor. Don't do something that will make you depressed and poor, which listen, I get it. I know what he's getting at, but that was about the most toned out. It literally, the audience was like, like, they were like, Oh my God. And outside NYU, outside the door, when we left were a bunch of protesters protesting NYU's, whatever the fuck they're doing and whatever the fuck, wherever Stern or whatever, maybe they're protesting that Baron Trump's there. Who knows? He's a student there. And both me and Nina were like, Whoa, fuck. I can't, believe that guy said that. Like good that he's direct. Good that he's honest. Is this where you want to be? And the more we were sitting there feeling the energy of it, I was like, okay, so this is a particular story, just like everything is. Vassar's a story, Rochester's a story, Berkeley's a story, Stanford's a story. This story is come to the greatest city on earth, be as ambitious as you can, be in a non-campus where you're going to be uncomfortable, where it's difficult to make friends, but you can do it. You got to take the initiative so that you can be as successful as possible, make a ton of money. That was the message that was transmitted. And you're lucky to be here. And I was like, I felt this before. I've know this feeling. This is how it felt at Berkeley. This is how it felt at these elite institutions like that, these large universities that are full of their own shit. And both she and I were looking at each other like, you've got to fucking be kidding me. And so then we went upstairs, got some free swag. It was packed wall to wall people. Like that's how big this university is. So the absolute opposite of the experience we had at Vassar. Now you could say, well, of course you're going to feel wanted and all that at the smaller university, but you're going to be more successful at the big university. And she still hasn't decided, but I will tell you energetically for both of us, we were like, this is not happening. And every person she talks to at her school, like the teachers, like friends of hers are like NYU, NYU, of course it's NYU. Like, why wouldn't you go to NYU? I don't know. I don't know. Where's Vassar? I don't even know what that is. And guess what? NYU has a world-class marketing and business program. Everything they said in this lecture was like marketing NYU. They had a couple of student speakers come up and give talks. And the first one, I'm not going to say anything. Actually, I'm not going to say anything about this because someone might know these people and it's like, I don't want to say anything that might be perceived as criticism of students because that's not fair. They did it. They did what they did, but let's just say it did not persuade us at all. In fact, it made us go, no. But I'll say the thing that made us go, no, the loudest was the Dean of the Liberal Studies Department at NYU saying, it's depressing being poor. So don't go to a small liberal arts college. Like that's not something you should say about other schools. Like it's direct and it's honest. You can say that in private, but to say that to 700 people that are trying to decide, I think it just says what, it says what that culture is, which is fine. If that's the culture you want, like, Hey man, when I was young, I'd have been like, yeah, fuck yeah. I don't want to be poor. Now I'm like, are you kidding me? Like happiness has nothing to do. Like to a degree, abject poverty is one thing, right? But once you get that Maslow's hierarchy taken care of, you don't need a shit ton of money to be happy. In fact, it becomes counterproductive. And so my wife and I were talking to Nina about it later, processing it because she's really sad because she wanted to love NYU and have a slam dunk and be in the greatest city in the world. Instead, we don't know what she's going to choose. She's still ruminating on it, but it's a good likelihood that she's going to go to a small liberal arts college, an hour and a half away from New York, where the students go in on the weekend to New York, enjoy Manhattan, enjoy the vibrancy and the connections. The professors take them on trips there to go do things, to actually have practical applications instead of just being in the Vassar bubble. And that's probably what's going to happen. And she's probably going to be happier. In fact, I'm pretty sure she is, but you never know. Anything could happen. She could suddenly be like, I'm willing to just suffer for four years and do this thing at NYU. But I'll say like that matrix of accomplishment, ambition, all these requirements. Oh man. I mean, and then we saw this big line of people out the door or around the block. And we asked somebody, Hey, so what's that? And they go, Oh, they're all waiting to take, go in to take their midterms. And I was like, wow, that many people taking a midterm, like each class, like 300, 400 people, especially in the lower division stuff. As you get higher, of course it narrows down. I mean, that's how it was at Berkeley. Um, my daughter doesn't thrive in those kinds of environments. And, and so she's better when she's relational, right? That's her thing. She's a little like a mini me in a sense. I really didn't like Berkeley. Um, for me, I had fun. I met really good friends, but like, ultimately if I were doing it again, well, I would do it exactly the same. Cause there's no regrets. Cause the story is written already, um, by no one. So, you know, for her, we, and, and we go, does that happen in the snow too? When it's cold in the middle of winter? Yep. They all stand out in the snow waiting to take their exams. I was like, you gotta be kidding me. So it's Hogwarts versus fucking it's a hard knock life for us. Like out on the street with like hobo gloves over a burning fire. I'm joking, but like, it just had that energetic. That's like, she was like, so then we spent the rest of the time in Manhattan, just loving the town, like enjoying East village, all the recommendations that our student, uh, guide gave us. We went down to the Brooklyn flea market and then walked across the Manhattan bridge through Chinatown, all the way up back to our hotel in East village took about an hour. It was amazing. Had the best boba tea she's ever had in Chinatown. Walked through, uh, Soho went shopping at goo and, um, uh, urban outfitters and all these places that she likes and, and walk back up. She found a $20 pair of jorts that she was like, I can't believe how cheap this is. And the taxes included at goo it's GU it's like a Japanese store, like Uniqlo that we went in Japan. Actually, it was awesome. And I was like, Manhattan's the best city in the world. No doubt about it. Doesn't mean you got to go to school in it, right? You can access it and dad'll come and visit and he'll stay in Manhattan or the, or Brooklyn. Um, so that's the story so far. Let's look at your, and then we'll talk about a little more about that, but yeah. So NYU, I wish I knew you says guy that comments, um, grew up not far from Vassar. It's an exceptional school. Awesome. Uh, Shari Quintana. Um, Chris says, that's why we look behind the curtains rather than assume the perception we create as reality, especially for impressionable teens. Perfectly said. And Chris has a kid at Berkeley and a kid who's deciding now, just like mine. And we've been talking back and forth by email and it's, it's, it's hard, right? Chris, like you, cause you feel all their conflict and emotions and you're seeing the pitch that's happening and you're seeing what their friends are doing and the acceptances and the rejections are heartbreaking and all of it, you go through all of it and you know, it's all a fucking story and having gone through it, you kind of look at it and you're like, bro, if I knew what I knew now back then. And so you do the best you can to help. That's all you can do. You just be supportive. So peek behind the curtain, ask the students at the table at Vassar like, Hey, should she go here? The questions you wish you had done when you were there. NYU was a perfect example. We got so lucky that this amazing student gave us her experience and it was a wonderful experience she had, but my daughter could see like, I don't think this is for me. Right. But it wasn't just that it was the whole thing. She already was like, I don't know if this is for me. And to be able to really look behind and see what's it like. And then to see the Dean speak in that way. And you know, it was like, okay, this school is for certain people. That's great. It's maybe not for you. And now, you know, maybe, maybe you're wrong. Maybe you should go here. And she's still. And so I talked to my mom about it. Of course, my mom's rooting for Vassar because, you know, we grew up in New York around New York and she's like, yeah, I'd like her to go to a smaller, safer place. That's just grandma where she can be her, you know, where they know her personally, where everybody knows your name, you know, and then she could visit Manhattan. But she's like, she'll know one day she'll wake up and she'll be like, this is where I'm going. And it might be NYU and it might be here, or it might be, she'll pick a school in California. She wants to leave California, but I don't think that's going to happen. But I think she's New York bound one way or the other. Anne Brown says, energetics don't lie. They don't lie. They tell you what they are, just what they are. You, you can weave a story around the energy you feel, but the energy is what it is. And so either that's what you want or it isn't. There's preferences that arise. Let's see. I grew up in NYC. I went to college at the urban campus of BU. Cities suck for college. DVD Mon. Yeah. Levy. I, I thought Berkeley was too much at times just because it was so urban, but it was half of what we experienced in NYU, but still some people for some people, that's amazing. And I was feeling the energy. I was like, if I was going to school now, this is where I'd go. Cause I would want this. I would want to walk across the street to fucking Whole Foods, Manhattan, get some shit and then walk across the street, this little hole in the wall place or strand bookstore, which was right there where we spent hours poking around these rare books and stuff. Like it's incredible, but you know, it can suck. And I'll tell you, those Vassar students seemed really happy. The dorms were sweet too. They were so crazy. So it's different for everyone. Levy says, but my daughter goes to college at Drexel. Oh, nice. Congratulations in the fall, which is totally urban campus. Yeah, man. I mean, it's all what they're looking for. Um, yeah, Levy, they filmed a bunch of severance, not far from Vassar. I think that's right in upstate New York. Yeah, that's true. I wonder if it was in Poughkeepsie. I need to search that. She's a huge severance fan. Oh my God. You're going to love this. So as we're getting the tour at Vassar. So, okay, here's, here's part of it. So the student who gave us the tour at Vassar was only a sophomore and she was a, um, um, foreign student from Estonia originally, but it studied in Ireland. And so her English had an American accent. You couldn't even tell she was from Estonia. And, um, she was a cognitive science major and was just the most articulate, dynamic, hilarious, authentic, spontaneous tour guide of any school we'd seen. It was like, what is this? And she, um, was telling the story about how every year they have founder's day. Matthew Vassar was a brewer who founded the college in the 1800s and had this huge piece of land. It's like on 700 acres. And, uh, and she was like, we have founder's day where we, you know, we dress up like the founder and we do this and we do that. And the thing that came out of my mouth as all the, we were walking with her, I just said, praise cure. And one of the families laughed because they probably watched severance and the others were like, what's this crazy bald man saying? And my daughter was laughing because we're like huge severance fans. Praise cure the founder. Um, yeah. So yeah, it is, it is glitchy. The whole thing's glitchy. The stream. I don't know why I really don't know why it does this. It's not worked for my studio and forever for, for YouTube. And I just wish I could solve it, but it's not my internet. My internet's fine. It's something to do with something. One day I'll figure it out. Um, but you guys should know that this will be an audio podcast and I'll put a, I'll put a clean version up actually that isn't glitchy. Maybe I'll, I'll delete the live and post the clean version when we're done. That'll probably be better. Um, yeah. Do they get to drink a lot of beer? Yeah. Apparently they had a bar on campus that they had to close because someone complained, which is a shame. Um, so here's the whole like punchline of this whole thing. Um, yeah. Dennis says, I chose my college based on avoiding the draft. I dropped out in favor of Hogwarts self-study program. Beautiful. Like this whole thing's a narrative, right? So you're going to the, the, the, the story is writing itself as it goes. There's an illusion of control. And so you're going to play in that realm. So dad's going to feel stressed. Kid's going to feel stressed. There's going to be the apparent choice. There's going to be the apparent rumination about pros and cons, but ultimately what's going to happen. It comes from nowhere and it's perfect. It is the entire universe, universeing life, just lifing itself in that moment. And then you go do that thing and it's going to be ideal. And what's strange about Vassar is, you know, my wife even had a dream about it. She's like, yeah, I just saw her at Vassar, told her to apply and she got in and it turns out to be so far the best choice of the bunch. And it's like, how does this even happen? Total mystery. Can't say I signed up for Berkeley sight unseen. I knew I was only going to go to California. My dad wasn't going to pay for out of state of all the UCs. It looked the coolest. So I signed up having never visited. I never took college tours. So this whole college tour thing was strange. The only colleges we've looked at basically, she did a, um, she did a summer at Berkeley. So she knew what Berkeley was about. She didn't really like it. She thought it was too big. And I was like, NYU is even bigger girl. 30,000 students. It's like, it's a really big school, but she's like, but it's New York. Uh, she just wants to get out of California, but then, you know, um, and she did Barnard college in New York and she thought that was too small. And, uh, so really it kind of settled in where she is. And, and the thing is just, the script is already written in a way. Right. Um, all right. So that's, that's the story. Let's see what comes next. Um, what else? Yeah, for me, it's strange. It's like the whole thing has been feeling all of this and it's not pleasant at times. And at other times it's joyous, but boy, it's hard to hide from anything that you feel now. It's also hard to shut up. Like when something's arising, it's like, nope, I don't think you should go here. She's like, but I'm like, okay, you, it's your choice, but like you, you want me, you want my opinion. It's like this. And I'm not trying to sway you actually. I'm just telling you, this is how it feels here. And I'm also reflecting what I think you do feel because you're feeling pressured, you know? Um, yeah, yeah, yeah. Um, let's see, uh, Orion B one says, hi, I wanted to go to Berkeley because my brothers went there, but UCSD turned out better for bioengineering. Beautiful, right? Isn't it funny how it works? It just always works out. Dr. Heidi Skye says, what a wonderful way you were holding this for your daughter. I'm loving your narration. Oh, I'm glad it's because sometimes this is all self-serving. I just like to express. So even just likes to express and, and process the last week. Um, and that's right, Vicki, she'll be fine no matter what. And the thing is she knows too. She's, you know, she knows what our biases are, but we also say, this is totally you. And if you want to go to anywhere, anywhere you want to go, we will support you. Um, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sue says, I'm feeling NYC energetically from you. And NYU is cold and large, unyielding, but energetic. That's a great way to just, to talk about it. It's a great way to talk about it. Um, yeah. It was one of those deals where like, you know, in the library, we look inside the library and someone told us that like, they put these greats up on, it's like a 10 stories like, and there's all these kids sprawled out at the bottom. And each story is, every other story is like silent. And they have these greats, these like beautiful metal things, like pieces of art along the, the corridors. And they told us, yeah, it's because, uh, like three kids jumped to their deaths from the, from the stacks. And at one point there was a kid living in the library because the cost of living outside was too high. And I was like, yeah, it's depressing being poor. Fuck. You know, that was the energetic that we were vibing. Yeah. It's actually life threatening being poor. If, if, if this is how the world kind of treats people who don't share the same ambition or energetic. And the truth is, it's a beautiful energetic. Like NYU is beautiful. New York is amazing. Ambition is great for the people who are wired to do that. And for the people who aren't like every expression is absolutely unique and it's absolutely perfect. It's absolutely not apart from the whole. So you got it. Eventually you're always trusting the energetic. You just don't know you're doing it because there's no other way it can be. Yeah. Thanks you guys. Okay. Sorry for the glitchy feet. I'm going to repost this, um, as a clean copy on YouTube. So I'll put a link to it. All right, gang, I love you. Thanks for hanging out with me and your comments and stuff. And, uh, we out peace. Peace.