 unfortunately, romao-cas дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис дис I did do those medicines. And what I would advocate, we did three videos. This video is a huge tour de force masterclass, a meditation prep video that she uses to kind of describe how she prepares her clients for these journeys to look at the sort of non-dual nature of reality and how you might un-journey back to it using the medicines. And then an integration session after you do the journey, trying to integrate what was happening. I recommend you watch that integration video with me first, because it's the punchline. I've done these medicines with her guidance that we talk about here. And the experience was really beyond words, but yet that video describes almost nearly immediately after the experience what it was like. So watching that first and then coming back here to do the deep dive is probably the best way. So I'll link to that in the description. Also, I expect you're gonna read the big disclaimer, because obviously this is not medical advice. These are complicated medications. You should seek the advice of a medical professional in terms of drug-drug interactions, other conditions you may have, and always use a trained psychedelic guide when exploring these, especially for the first time. Those links will be there, links to all of Mira's stuff. There'll be time codes, so you can get a sense of the topics and skip to what you're interested in, because it is a long video. There will be parts here that will frighten you because of Mira's own experience with these medicines that taught her so much about how to safely administer them. So definitely, if you're interested in this, this will be an amazing experience. And with that, I give you Mira Funk on the psychedelic un-journey. Mira Funk. Yeah. Welcome. Are we recording? Heck yeah, we are. Oh, wow. I thought you were gonna say like, okay, now we're live. Okay. You know that, but see, I'm trying to get away from the inauthentic broadcaster thing. But the truth is like, that's actually authentically me. Hey guys, welcome to the show. Like I've done it for so many years. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. But seriously, welcome. Thank you. Happy to be here. Thanks for trekking down. Where are you based? I'm in Corvallis, Oregon. So it's about 90 minutes southwest of Portland. Nice. Is it pretty rural overall? It's a small college town. Yeah. So it's like 60,000 when the students are there. Oh, wow. In the summers, it drops down quite a bit. So it does feel rural. I mean, it is the ag school. So, I mean, there's livestock on campus and everything. That's like where I grew up in Central California. And you're a licensed clinical social worker. That's right. Tell me a little about your background. Yeah. How far back should I go? Oh, man. Your childhood. Tell me about your childhood. My childhood. Well, let's see. I'll try to not go into too much detail up front. But yeah, so I grew up in Texas, in Dallas. And, you know, back then I was raised and understood myself to be a cis male, a straight cis male. So that was my identity back then. I had a pretty unhappy childhood, I would say, for a variety of reasons. There was a lot of strife and trauma in my household. But also there was a lot of medical trauma that I went through. And yeah, I guess the most salient example of that is this thing that happened to me when I was eight years old. Right. I had this febrile seizure when I had strep throat. And it like, I don't know for sure if it was that. Or I've also had this Lyme diagnosis recently. So there may have been some Lyme disease going on. But I just felt like from a very young age, at sort of like a neurocognitive level and just like mind-body level, I just always felt really disconnected, like really dissociated. And just sort of like trapped in my own thoughts. And so, yeah, I was just, I was really depressed. And I think I felt a lot of unworthiness. And I channeled that into my studies. So I was just like really like academic, like hyper achiever. You're like a Harvard person and all that? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was such a weird, yeah. I mean, Harvard, it was so, yeah, symbolic of like who I was back then. That really meant something to me. I know that feeling. Yeah. In terms of like having some label that made me feel better about this emptiness that I was feeling. Oh, man. Inside. Oh, I know that feeling so well. It's like achieving your way out of emptiness. Oh, totally. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And just, you know, I mean, my dad like left our family when I was pretty young. And I mean, he was still around here and there. But I think it left this wound of like, you know, I think as a kid, you take that on yourself rather than like really attributing to the parent. It becomes easier psychologically to say like, oh, this is my fault. So I think I felt somehow, yeah, less than or unworthy or unlovable. And so I think getting all the attaboys and accolades from the academics like kind of helps cushion that. Yeah. To a certain extent. Yeah. But obviously it wasn't enough. And yeah, I mean, I basically, so I was when I was in college, I was really into I was such a nerd. I was like really into classics and like ancient Greek. And, you know, and I ended up majoring in comparative literature and doing like Russian literature and all this stuff. And I was just like all about academics. But I, yeah, I basically had like a couple of. Well, I'm essentially like a kind of nervous breakdown in college where I just I was so depressed. I couldn't function. I remember I was sitting in the library just trying to like memorize ancient the ancient Greek alphabet and like the different forms and suffixes and stuff. And I just yeah, I just like couldn't do it. I just hit this wall. And so I took a whole year off. And that was really grounding. I lived with some family in New Hampshire and lived on this farm. It was like shoveling horse manure and like feeding geese and stuff like that. And yeah, it's interesting I bring that up because I guess that's actually an interesting turning point because I remember. Yeah, I just felt I was so in my head that it felt like I felt a physical weight almost. It's as if like my head was like full of marbles or something like that. And it was just like just yeah, it almost it would just sat my energy because I was just thinking so much. And I didn't know what I was going to do if I was going to go back to college or what I was going to do with my life. And every day I'd have this deep uncertainty of like, am I going to you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to change colleges. I'm going to go back to Harvard. Like, am I going to never go to college? Am I going to be a farmer? I don't know. And it was Harvard versus farmer. Yeah, exactly. And it was kind of like it was interesting because this I don't know was this obsessive loop. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. And then I was shoveling horse manure one day and I just had this brief moment where my mind was just clear. You know, I think it was probably just a moment of flow where I was just shoveling horse manure. But I noticed it and it really surprised me. It was like, oh, what was that? Like, where did all the like I just became really light and kind of empty in this relieving way. And I just yeah, I just noticed that I thought that's interesting. I don't know what that is. And I was I was Googling around on the Internet and I came across something about Zen and something about, you know, maybe not knowing or don't know mind or something like that. And all of a sudden it was like, like, I just felt like this connection was made. And I remember at the time saying to myself, maybe I'm maybe I don't need to reinvent the wheel here. Maybe there's some kind of spiritual practice that already exists that is exploring this don't know mind, this kind of clarity, this presence. And I it just so happened. There was a little satellite group of the quantum school of Zen. Do you know those guys like the master song song? I'm not as familiar. Yeah. I mean, there's so many different schools of Zen. And so, but yeah, Sung San was this Korean Zen master who I think it was around the 70s. He started like coming to the West and, you know, he was first in Rhode Island. And then he set up all these centers all over the world. And it's this, yeah, really robust community. And I remember I went to a Zen group there. And this is in New Hampshire with some family and where I was living. And yeah, the Zen master there, I remember I was asking him these questions that were just very much like, dualistic and very much mired and thinking and trying to figure things out. And I didn't, I didn't understand what he was saying, but it was hitting me at some different level. I just, I just remember I was asking these very cognitive questions. And I was getting these answers that it was almost like they were orthogonal or on a different dimension. And something in me just said, I don't know what the fuck that is, but yes, like I want that, you know. And of course, in my mind at the time, it was like a thing to have, but I just had the sense of this is, I need to do this, whatever this is. So, you know, I ended up going back to college, but I, the Cambridge Zen Center, which is just down the street from Harvard, I was there and I practiced there for a while. Um, and yeah, but then I had another kind of, it was a little bit nervous breakdown and more of like a spiritual crisis, I would say. Um, that was like junior year of college. And again, it was this feeling of depression, like disillusionment and feeling like, I don't know, my studies just felt so kind of meaningless. And, but I had this, this passion for, for Zen. I wanted to go all the way. I wanted to know, I wanted to go deep. And so I concocted this kind of wild scheme. I was like, I'm going to take a leave of absence. And then I like maxed out my credit card. I bought this ticket to Korea and I lived in this Korean monastery for, um, three months. And it was during, so in Korean monasteries, they have these two periods of the year. There's Kjolche and Heijae and Kjolche, my understanding is the translation is like tight Dharma. So it's, it's really intensive and it's silent. And then the Heijae period is a little looser, although it's still like pretty, you're still getting up at 3am and, but you can talk. Like, wow, it's not silent. And so I went for one month of the Kjolche and two months of the Heijae. And yeah, it was really intense. It was, it was some of the, the most suffering actually I'd ever experienced because I didn't really know how to meditate. I was totally unprepared. It was actually like, I would never advise anybody on the spiritual path. You just jumped right into the deep end. It was just like, no. And so I would just sit there for hours and hours, just stewing in my own juices and just, you know, and just like obsessively journaling. I was just really doing it wrong. I wasn't even meditating. I was just like. But was it really wrong though? Well. Yeah. In retrospect now. In retrospect. Yeah. I mean, got me where it was, but. But it's suffering. Yeah. Yeah. It was not, not good meditation. And, but it, you know, eventually something happened, you know, where things did start to settle down. And, and I did start to have some, some, you know, miniature little opening experiences. I remember this one time I was sitting on a cushion and just in like utter agony, like my legs were just like on fire. And I don't know what it was. I just had this instinct, maybe I'd heard a Zen master say something, some piece of advice, but to just, just notice it, just like go into it and be with it, the pain. And all of a sudden the pain, I remember it kind of expanded and opened up and like exploded. It felt like there were all these just sparkles or something like that, just energy. And it was, again, it's sort of like with the shoveling the horse manure, it's this moment of like, oh, huh. This is just sensation. It's not something, it's not a problem. Like my mind is storying it into a problem, but I can just sit with it. And yeah, the last thing that I remember before I left Korea was I'd been there for those three months and I was just chilling with like the residents and master at the local, they call it a ginger bond, which is like a bath house basically. And, you know, I was just like in a mugwort tea bath with a spirited away. Yeah. What have you done to me, son? Right. Yeah. And I remember I still had this melancholic kind of like existential crisis thing going on. But I think in retrospect, it was very kind of adolescent in a way. And I remember just asking, I was like, you know, I've been here for three months. I've meditated so much. I feel like I've had insights. My mind has settled and been more clear. But I still just have this feeling of like, what is the point? Or this just feeling of sort of existential meaninglessness or I'm not sure why I'm meditating or what, like, I don't know why any of this should even matter. I remember he just sort of said very matter-of-factly as he was just like, you know, scrubbing himself in the bath. He was like, it sounds like you're thinking too much. It sounds like too much checking. Which in the quantum community, like, checking was like a sung sung catchphrase. That was just sort of like, he would always say, like, don't think, don't check, don't make. Sometimes he was a little extreme. It's like, you can't not think. But I interpreted that to mean like, you know, your mind is clinging on to, you know, stories and kind of formations as opposed to just allowing thoughts to come and go and just be in the flow of this mystery. And that was a huge, almost like a, yeah, just like a koan that just, like, I just realized, wow, like, my entire adolescence, I've been, you know, stewing on this kind of existential melancholic crisis of, I remember I would just spend hours as a child just like walking around deep, you know, mired in thought, just asking myself these philosophical questions. Like, you know, what is, you know, what is, what is like, what does it mean to be a moral person? Or what does it mean to be good? Or why am I here? Or why should I, why should I even go on living? Like all these questions. And it just, yeah, it never occurred to me that the answer could be just so simple as, you know, before your mind is making those questions, there's just this kind of clarity. And it's like before you, before the minds, or it's like if the, maybe the, maybe the thought can form in your mind. But if it's understood in this almost energetic, aesthetic way of just sound, just energy, rather than as some kind of problem, then there, there is no problem. It's just, it's just what's happening. And so, yeah, my existential, just all of my existential angst just almost instantaneously melted away. And it's, it's never come back, like, which is, which is such a relief. That is beautiful. That is beautiful. Because what you described is that, is this. It's just, we, we, we live, especially as adolescents. And if there's trauma, it seems to, the way you described it as a weight, like this weight, it just becomes this huge heavy balloon that can't ever just be what it is. Yeah. Yeah. And, and so you go through then the seeking and the seeking is more of this. It's more of this. Oh, totally. Yeah. Why, how do I meditate? And how do I achieve this thing that this guy seems to have in the bath? And then it just, it's just one click sometimes. Yeah. And the energetic house of cards just collapses. Yeah. Yeah. And it's so, it's so comical because I mean, back in the day, I mean, I was really into, in college, I would read, you know, Camus, you know, I was like into like the eventualism. Right. Right. And it actually, this is so funny to me now. I, when I went to Korea, I brought with me, and this is what a ridiculous thing to pack, you know, an international trip, this massive tome, which is Martin Heidegger's Sein Dünzeit, like Pinging in Time. And I really had this idea that I am going to read this book, which I never understood. It's so absurd. Oh, it's heavy. Yeah. And I obviously don't know German. So anyway, and, and, and I'm going to read this and I'm going to meditate and somehow I'm going to figure this shit out, you know, at a kind of intellectual level. And I just left the book there at the monastery. I just gifted it to the monastery library because I was like, I'm, I'm dropping it like a hot potato. I don't want to read that book ever again because it's so, it's, I don't know, it's useless. And, and that's an interesting thing too, is that I, I don't know, I really have a hard time at like with Western philosophy, almost in its entirety. Like there's almost like, I don't want to completely throw the baby out with the bathwater, but I'm just like, is there any part of Western philosophy that actually is useful in any sort of way? Cause it just, it, to me, it's like just more thought upon thought upon thought as opposed to something that's this more of this dance, this energetic dance. It's more like learning how to ride a bike or learning how to, how to tango or something like that, which is more anyway. And during the flow of this moment, which isn't a moment. Yeah. Right. And, and where you, you implied something here, which I thought was beautiful. And by the way, we're, this is the spontaneous conversation that we're having, but like, there's a reason we're talking, which I'll get to, but it really, actually, this is the reason we're talking. Because when you reached out to me by email, you were pointing at exactly this in a way that was so, it was so compelling because I know what this is, but I also struggle with the suffering of thought. Western, the whole philosophy thing, right? Yeah. It was such a heavy balloon in itself. And, and it's, it's again, thought upon thought upon thought. And so this, this letting go where suddenly all that existential stuff that was really mind created, why can't I find meaning? Why can't I find purpose? Who am I? What am I doing? From this state, which isn't a state, which is just this, the question doesn't even arise. Yeah, it doesn't. Yeah. Or if the thoughts arise, again, it's, it's a, it's a different kind of, it's, it's almost like an aesthetic relationship. Right. Like, oh, look at this philosophy or this question, isn't it? It's just what it is, but it doesn't have the weight of absolute truth in some way. And even I would say in a more real time level, it's like, I mean, if the thought arises, you know, why, why should I act in this way versus that way? Or what is the good, these philosophical questions? Maybe it's more of like, it's like listening to music. Yeah. It's like, or listening to the Twitter of birds or something like that. And I, and I don't mean that in a dismissive way, because I think sometimes people can say, oh, the thoughts, they're just like, you know, this over here, they're just like background noise. Ghost. But, but, but actually, I think it's, I think we need to honor our thoughts as part of our sensory experience. And so in the same way that you might, yeah, like be in a, in, in the ginger bond, like, like feeling the, the texture of the soap and the, the warmth of the water. Thoughts are also another sensory channel. Right. And I think, I think that's something that's often ignored in spirituality that, that our thoughts have as much rich sensory texture to flow with than, you know, as anything else, as like our breath or as any other sensation. Um, but it's, it's a, it's a, it's a kind of aesthetic sensory relationship that you build the thoughts as opposed to one that's more conceptual or problem solving, I would say. And that, and the beauty of that, that's really well expressed by the way. The beauty of that is that you don't privilege any particular experience or sense gate. Yeah. So you could say thought, like they say in the East is the sixth. Yeah. A sixth sense. And so you treat it as beautiful as the visual field or a soundscape. Exactly. Sensory touch, like you said, sitting in the bath and feeling. And when that happens, then thoughts don't attain this privileged position of this is what I am. Yeah. Identity. Yeah. Starts to disintermediate, disintermediate from thought. That's true. Now, now, so, so when you'd emailed me, you'd kind of pointed at some of this. And then I went and looked at your website and I was like, oh, wow, because you're, you know, you're a trained therapist, you're a licensed clinical social worker. You've been through this whole, let's call it an awakening journey, although it doesn't feel necessarily like that means anything. And I can say that reasons I don't necessarily like that word awakening, we can get into that. It's kind of interesting too. Absolutely. Yeah. But we'll say that, like, to speak in that way, to say, okay, people who maybe think that's a path, like you've gone through that. And there are different tools that you've used, meditation, the different, you know, non-duality, and that word is a little heavy too. So, but then also psychedelics and medicines and the tradition, the deep traditions around those. And you are a guide that helps other people with these medicines as appropriate where it is allowed to use them for that sort of growth and to integrate as part of this process. And the key thing that you point to is, this is what really drew me because there's so much bypass in this. There's so much, and this is when you talk about thoughts, it just proves this point, which is, oh, thoughts are bad. I, you know, they're nothing. Right. No, no, no. They're everything. In this moment, the thought is the entire universe. It's just this. Yeah. And so using all these tools to bring us fully back to the realization that it's only this perfectly, even when it feels imperfect with all our humanity. And so the bypass of trying to distance from our humanity, maybe that's a stage or maybe that's a perceived stage in our. Yeah. I was there for years. I've loved bypassing. I mean, in some ways, the entire spiritual journey is moving on a spectrum from, I think, deep bypassing into, you know, subtler and subtler, like less bypassing. I don't necessarily believe that you can 100% not bypass because I don't really believe in this idea of mythical, like full enlightenment. Right. Right. It doesn't suffer. Have you ever met anyone who you think is fully mythically enlightened? Yeah. I've met people who have claimed that. That for sure. You could just meet YouTube and see it. Yeah. But that's, yeah. I mean, I think our human wiring is to seek pleasure and avoid pain. Right. So it's like very wired in us that when there's something difficult coming up, like we want to distance. And so, yeah, I think, I think the practice is this iterative kind of asymptotic thing where you're just getting more and more connected to your experience, like as it's happening. Ah, beautiful. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And so, yeah, I don't know. So how did you then start to relate to these medicines as a way to help with this? Because many people in my community ask about this. Oh, Zubin, what do you think about psychedelics? What do you think about psilocybin? What do you think about 5-MeO-DMT? What do you think about ayahuasca? What do you think about LSD? And I tell them my own experience with it that was limited to certain compounds. But so how did you come to this and what was that sort of journey in a nutshell? Yeah. Yeah. Well, it's a perfect segue. And it just seamlessly is the next part of my story. So after college, then I, you know, there's sort of a whole thing there where I had like a career in art. But eventually I decided to go into social work and decided to be a therapist. And so I worked for a number of years doing basically mindfulness-based therapy, especially acceptance and commitment therapy, which has actually some non-dual influence in it. So that's kind of interesting. Is that like a Kabat-Zinn flavored thing or something different? The Kabat-Zinn is the MBSR. Right, right, right. And then Stephen Hayes is acceptance and commitment therapy. I see. Okay. It's a really cool framework. I mean, it's limited in some ways, I think, as you go deeper and deeper in the spiritual path. But I mean, Stephen Hayes, to his credit, basically like took a lot of elements of Buddhism and non-duality and made them into a Western evidence-based modality that you can bill insurance for. Wow. Which is incredible. Yeah. So kudos to him. But anyway, I was practicing that way. And yeah, I worked in community mental health. I worked in the VA. I worked at Oregon State University. And then the shift for me was when I read Michael Pollan's book. And so this really wasn't that long ago. How to change your mind. Yeah. Because that came out in, I think, 2018. Yeah. I read it around the same time. Yeah. And it's so interesting. I love in life how you can just surprise yourself by just doing things you never thought you'd do. Because, yeah, I remember for a long time I was really anti any kind of substance, any kind of mind-altering substance. I just had this really strong, aversive reaction to it. Maybe that was because I was raised in a fundamentalist Christian household. Oh, is that right? Maybe that's because I was raised in that generation, you know, where it's like the- Just say no. Yeah, just say no, all that stuff, that programming. So I- But in a spiritual level, I had this kind of puritanical purism, I guess, where I just believed like, no, you have to do it like the right way, which is through meditation. And if you're using substances, that's just- It's cheating or it's just something superficial. It's just an experience. It's another addictive component. It's bypassy. Totally. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I remember I had this friend who we were both kind of, you know, spiritual companions, I guess, back in college. Dharma buddies. Yeah. At some point he told me that he'd done this DMT quest, you know, somewhere in California. And I remember just listening to him and thinking, oh, that's just so like- That's like fake superficial spirituality or that's just- It's so California. Yeah, it was just so dismissive. But I don't know what it was. But I read Michael Pollan's book and I just had the sense I should read this book. And I remember I was reading it and I was in the bath. Here, getting back to the ginger bond. But I was just in my bath at home. It seems like the bath is a central theme. It is, you know. Makes me want to go jump in the tub. Baths, you know, I think actually baths have been a spiritual experience to me. If I think back on it, even in childhood, there was always something about- Because it's a time of refuge, right? When you're not necessarily, you know, maybe your parents are out doing something else. And, you know, especially if you're old enough that you don't have to be supervised. And so you're just there. And of course, there's something about water and just the- It's very sensory, right? Yeah. There are bubbles. Full body sensory. Yeah. And I also always used to love going underneath the water and just closing my eyes and just staying there. And I don't know, maybe it takes you back into being in the womb or something like that. There's something very primordial about it. Yeah. But anyway, I was, yeah, I was an adult, you know, reading Michael Pollan's in 2018. And just, I was looking at the soap bubbles. I was taking a bubble bath. And I was having this, I was listening to it actually as an audio book, now that I remember it. And I was listening and he was describing some psychedelic experience. And I was watching the soap bubbles. And somehow it was just, it must've been dampening my default mode network and just getting me more into just now. And it was just such a beautiful experience. And it just, something just clicked in me. I thought, you know, maybe I've been dismissive or judgmental towards these substances. Maybe I should try this. And it just so happened that a friend of mine, well, you know, is Oregon. So the land of mushrooms, right? Mushrooms are everywhere in Oregon. He had some, and he was actually just turning 65. And he really wanted to do mushrooms. He'd never done them before either. And he also read Michael Pollan's book and he was also a therapist. And we decided, let's do this together. So that was my very first experience. And so that was just like 2019? It was November of 2018. Wow. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. It's been a just explosive period of growth for me over the last six years, which I credit to the psychedelics. Like it's just, my mind just really opened and accelerated. And then since then it's just been, you know, faster and faster of just exploring all these medicines. And I feel like I've been in this rapid intensive R&D process of figuring out what works for me and my body and my brain and what seems to really grease the wheels for this. Well, we'll call it now awakening process. I want to talk about that later. We'll undo that later. Yeah. Yeah. We'll undo that. And yeah, here I am. But yeah. So in 2018, so basically what happened was we rented this yurt and we, yeah, we took, we didn't, we had no idea what we were doing. Like the scale we had, I realized later it was somehow calibrated improperly. So we actually took a lot less than I thought. Like I thought, I thought I was taking 15 grams, which would be ridiculous. I was, I was, I was that ignorant, but I was actually just taking one and a half grams because it was somehow off by a factor of 10. I can't remember. There was some setting. I thought you went to Harvard. What's going on? I know. I know. It's embarrassing. But anyway, but I took that one and a half grams and it was a very mild experience. And at first it felt like nothing was happening. And so I thought this was a dud. And it's interesting, you know, I might've just walked away from that being like, oh, I guess this isn't for me. But somehow I had this impulse of, you know, maybe I need to do something to kind of go deeper into the experience. So I, I lay down and covered my eyes, which of course now is so common in a medicalized setting. But I, yeah, I didn't know kind of what to do. I was just sort of walking around or just, I was trying to meditate, nothing was happening. But something, somehow that allowed my body to just relax. And all of a sudden the experience like really came on and still it was relatively mild, but what happened was it just the, I mean, non-duality just became obvious. Like, like, and I think there was also this integration for me of, I've always had a long interest in, longstanding interest in neuroscience and I've always been really intrigued. And, you know, I was part of the generation that watched like the matrix, you know, when I was growing up and stuff like that. That's a documentary. Yeah. And so this idea that, that's yeah, that your, you know, your subjective reality is, is created by your mind, you know, is somehow correlated with your brain. We don't obviously know how that works, but, but this idea that when I'm looking at, you know, a cup, this isn't the actual cup, this is a representation that my mind is generating in consciousness as opposed to like the physical atomic cup. Like I already had that somewhere in my mind as just an idea. Yeah. And then I had all this practice knowledge of Zen and, you know, there are certain catchphrases in Zen, like the mind makes the world and stuff like that. But I had never, I don't know why I'd never connected those two dots. And when I took mushrooms, it just went like that. And it was like, oh, holy shit. Yeah. This is so obvious. Like, obviously everything is one. Obviously everything is consciousness. And again, I'm using all these terms kind of like under erasure because it's just sort of keywords. We have to be able to talk. Yeah, exactly. I don't know what consciousness is, but it's, you know, the, the, the, the sensorium, the, the, the, the collection of sensory experiences, it's all, it's all like a unified tapestry and all the sense gates synesthetically combine into just this one fluid experience of, of now that's just happening. And it feels like you're in the middle of this incredible art installation. That's just like unfolding without your control. And, and yeah, like a thought in my head, you know, the, the sound of somebody playing music, um, at a yurt, you know, next door, it was all just, it, it just, it all felt like it was all just happening in the same room, the room of consciousness. And it was just, it was just, yeah, the light just came on immediately. And that was, that was kind of it for me. It was just like, holy shit. Like, this is what I've been searching for my whole life. I had that feeling. I feel like I've been, I've been trying so hard with, with Zen and, and honestly, my meditation practice was so brutal. Um, and that's one thing I do have some critiques of like the, um, practice or sort of the teaching, I guess the pedagogy of Zen and within the quantum school in particular, like, I just feel like there, there's an aversive relationship with thoughts. I will say to a certain extent, I mean, Zen Master Sung San used to say like, you know, he'd talk about your backseat driver and he'd be like, you tell your backseat driver to shut up, you know, it's kind of brutal. Yeah. And at the time that made sense to me, I was like, oh yeah, cause my thoughts are the problem. I'm thinking too much. They're assholes. Yeah. Yeah. I need to shut my thoughts down. I need to cut them off. That's right. And you hear that a lot now in circles on YouTube, people talking about this stuff. Oh, the thoughts are the enemy. Oh yeah. Yeah. And it was so much bypassing. It was so violent. And, you know, I feel like I, I like squished my mind through this meditation of it. It was very hard. It was very rigid, just trying to not think basically. Um, and you know, to a certain extent you didn't get somewhere with that. I mean, if you really are just trying, okay, I'm focusing on my breath or I'm focusing on a koan or the, what do they call it? The hwadu in Korean. This like, you can, you know, ask like a great question. Like, like who am I? I don't know. That's part of the, the quantum kind of, kind of hwadu practice. Um, yeah, if you do that and when, you know, your thoughts come up, you kind of ignore them and you come back and you do that kind of seesaw thing, you can get better at just focusing, but it's, it's, it's very violent in a way. It's very like traumatic. It's because you're really splitting a part of your experience off and you're labeling it as somehow, um, yeah, with this kind of aversive or dismissive label, like my thoughts need to be sort of controlled or corralled or something like that. Um, I've never liked that metaphor of the, the monkey mind and we're trying to train the monkey. It's like that poor monkey. Like it's so, it's like, he's part of all the, to animals, the monkey should be flying in the jungle and that's what, that's what non-duality to me is. It's like, oh, when you just open your mind, like your, your monkey can just play and your thoughts can just play. And then when, when the monkey is just playing, the monkey isn't a problem because you're no longer in this kind of like, almost like colonial relationship. Like I'm trying to tame the monkey. This wildness. Yeah. Yeah. Cause the mind is just wild and that's fine. It's actually amazing. It's more than fine. It's like, wow. It's nature itself. It's nature itself. This, this, and, and, and the strange thing is the one part of that, that, that really resonates too is this whole display is seen to be happening spontaneously to no one in particular. It's just, that's where the word consciousness fails because there isn't even seen to be a perceiver of it. It's just what it is. Yeah. Self-knowing. Yeah. And even that is a clunky way of saying it. Yeah. Reflexive. And so then how are you, when, when, when you're pushing and pulling on thought, you're setting up a, another thought structure, which is this bipolarity of here are these bad thoughts. Building all these cages and walls. Yeah. Right. And maybe you could argue. So here, let me throw this at you as devil's advocate. Maybe you argue that these traditions talk in this way as a bridge, you build this boat that says, okay, you're going to fight with thought and you're going to do this and you're going to yell at him in the backseat and you're going to do that. And then once you realize, oh, it wasn't like that at all. And the questions fall away, you burn the boat and you're there. So you used it as a tool, use the mind as a tool to overcome the conditioning of the mind. And then it relaxes into the non-dual isness of this and it's done. So do you think there's a problem with that? Sort of. I do actually. I mean, I don't want to say there's one right way through this path because I think everybody's different and whatever works, works. And I mean, for me, I think that there was sort of a progression where my mind was just all over the place. And it seemed like doing that really intensive practice of trying to quiet the monkey mind, like gave me enough space maybe to do other practices. But I still think that if, and this is just a hypothetical, but I think if I had started from the beginning with just relaxing the mind, I think that I would have progressed a lot faster, honestly. Yeah. Yeah. It's out of compassion. So I just, I don't, I don't personally see the role for ever having an aversive or dismissive relationship with like part of your sensory experience. I just don't. Part of you. I don't see that. Yeah. It just feels like it's something you have to undo later. It's like you're, you're building a fraught relationship with part of you that then you have to heal later. So it's like, why create the wound? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Can I say just one more thing? Yeah, please. This is really interesting to me and I hope the listeners will be fascinated as well. I think there's something really interesting going on neurologically with the kind of practice where you're trying to tame your thoughts versus the kind of practice where you're just opening the minds. And the person who's worked on this the most that I've seen is this guy, Zoran Yosipovic. Have you come across? No, I haven't. Oh my God. You would love this. If you just Google, it's like Zoran Yosipovic. I think the video is titled like the mind is wired for unity or something like that. Basically what he talks about, and it just makes so much sense when I read this, I thought, wow, that is just amazing. And this is all obviously correlation. It's not causation. We're talking about neuroscience, but, but basically if you're doing practices that are, you might say, you know, effortful mindfulness, that's what Locke Kelly would say, or sort of dualistic mindfulness. Or effortless mindfulness. Right. Where it's like, okay, I'm going to, my meditation practices, I'm going to sit here and focus on, you know, acts like the breath or whatever. A mantra. A mantra. A mantra. And then when the thoughts arise, I'm going to treat them as a distraction and be like, okay, I'll move back. Ignore, move back. That what's happening is that you, you have this default mode network and your task positive network, and these two are anti-correlated, right? So it's like, oh, okay, the thoughts are bubbling up again. Oh, that's a problem. And my default mode network is, you know, too elevated. So I'm going to, I'm going to really focus on the breath and, you know, increase that task positive network. And okay, now the thoughts are decreasing. Okay. Now I'm back in that flow. And so basically what's happening is there's this observable, what Yosipovic calls this like anti-correlation where it's a seesaw. You know, and you can feel that. I mean, even somebody who's never meditated, I mean, you have the sense of when I'm, you know, in some kind of flow activity, I'm thinking less. Absorbed in a task, yeah. But then when the thoughts come up more, obviously I'm not as good at what I'm doing, you know, with my hands or something like that. So you're kind of managing these two networks. But here's the really interesting thing is that, yeah, you can, if you do the one style of meditation, which is what I did for years in my Zen practice, I'm not saying that's all Zen, but with the, you know, tell your backseat driver to shut up, like you can, what you're doing is you're, you're getting really good at training that functional anti-correlation so that your task positive network is, is much more lighting up a lot more than the default mode. You're getting really good at like managing that. Right. But something different happens. This is where it gets really cool. When Yosipovic has done these studies where he's scanned the brains and fMRI of people practicing non-dual styles. And that something really different happens, which is that the anti-correlation actually falls away and that these two networks are now synchronizing. And this is really interesting too, because if you loosely say that the default mode network is more of like a internal network of like my thoughts and the task positive is more of like, I'm focusing on something outside myself. I mean, maybe it's in your body, but it's like outside your head or it feels that way, but actually outside and inside are dissolving, which is, so it's just really interesting that the, and this is just correlation, but the, the connectivity of the networks between outside and inside in the brain seem to correspond subjectively to a dissolving of boundaries between inside and outside. And so to me, that's another argument for it's like, if, you know, the, and we have to be careful here about value judgments, like is non-duality better than duality? That's another story. But I mean, at least in my experience, at least having access to that open spaciousness is just such an incredible relief for just the, the, yeah, just the fraught relationship with one's thoughts or with one's emotions, but there's just no room. It feels like there's no room for everything just to open. If we, yeah, if we want to give people more spaciousness and more vastness and to, yeah, just let everything flow, then to me, it just, I don't know. I just don't, again, I don't see the role of training the mind to get really good at this kind of separation seesaw thing that you have to let later undo, like why not just start off? And so I don't, you know, when I teach meditation to people, I, I do do a little bit of Vipassana, but I'm always very clear from the very beginning that we can do this Vipassana on anything. So we can focus on your emotions. We can focus on your thoughts. We can focus on your body sensations. We're not excluding or privileging one over the other, but then very quickly, I mean, even from the very beginning, like the very first meditation, and I'll guide you on this later. Yeah. I always incorporate the non-duality. So we start off with, there is a subject object, but then we're starting to soften and collapse that by the end. Yeah. So I just, yeah, again, I, I am skeptical of the idea that we need the, the rigid kind of effortful mindfulness boats. I just think it's very damaging. That's, that was my experience. Yeah. So, so I can speak to my experience with this. So 2012, I had a very spontaneous and, and prior, I've done a video about my experience with psychedelics, particularly LSD psilocybin. And that was a sort of crack in the matrix. That's when I first realized, cause I, I, like you was pretty heavy as a young kid, just being like, what is this? And absorb with these things. And then, you know, college comes around and I try these things and the mind cracks open and it was seen like, oh, this is all generated by, this is, this is not, there's, it's, it's, it's empty. It's immaterial, it's immaterial, it's a beautiful display, it's virtual. It has a, it has an affective emotional component that's woven into the fabric of it, right? Yeah. There's no distance, the body and the environment are not too. And there was a knowing that this is how animals actually move through the world in some level. And, but then that closes down and then you go and become a doctor and you do all the things and, and, and there's a closure. So in 2012, I had a spontaneous shift where it was seen again, like, oh, there's only this. It's so simple. Yeah. And for quite a period after that, it was the spontaneous sort of goal is the path kind of practice where it's like, you just drop into this, relax, open spaciousness. Anytime there was felt suffering, I could just go, it's actually just this, like this, where is the sufferer? Like what is even going on? But then as thought started to sort of reassert itself in the conditioning, years of conditioning started coming back, especially the medical conditioning of you must accomplish things through study, effort and work. Then I started looking at Vipassana and doing, you know, doing the breath meditations and, you know, all this striving. And it felt like a lot of work and you would have these. Did you do Goenka? It was, I never did it. I never did a Goenka retreat because I never had the time at that time, but I did enough home stuff where it was like, you know, hours of sitting, following the breath and having, you know, reasonably mystical type experiences in that process, but never touching the simplicity of this. It was always a dualistic feeling of striving, setting up that polarity and consciousness. And then all the thinking about it, well, what if everything is consciousness? How would that work? And all the philosophy of it, which is all fun and great, but it is a trap in the end. It's dead weight. It's dead weight in the end. It starts to fall away like a booster rocket once you, once you. Yeah, it's, it's, it becomes painful actually. It is. It's like, you're just sitting there. Yeah. It's almost like if you're, I don't know, watching a movie and then trying to like do your taxes or something like that. Why would you be doing your taxes when there's a movie? It just doesn't make sense anymore. You don't do your taxes during that. I got to watch Interstellar and I'm like, man, you know, if I just had taken the earned income of deduction, I just made less money, it would be. But, but so then coming back and rediscovering through, it's partially through grace and partially through all that work of the Vipassana actually allowed a kind of ability to recognize thought for thought more. And then that clarity kind of opening up. And then the meditation retreats being retreats where I sat and did nothing. It was just this. Yeah. And then some self-inquiry. So like, what is actually looking at this? That was a big shift for me was the, the crack of, like, I remember I was suffering at a retreat, suffering, just suffering, like how you described. And it was a lot of, why the fuck am I doing this with these just crazy people? Everybody's so depressed and, you know, emotional. And it was all in my mind going crazy. And suddenly I was like, so who is it that feels this way? And look and experience and just empty radiance of this moment. And this laughter, laughter, laughter, laughter, because, whoa, what a relief. And you described it as a relief. Yes. Yeah. It's a spaciousness. So now let's come back to this. Yeah. This journey, the psychedelics, because we have a good sense now of kind of the, this kind of unfolding. Yeah. Yeah. Actually, as you come back to that, I have a anecdote that I think will tie a lot of these things together that actually has to do with a Goenka retreat that I went on. And for people who don't know, the Goenka retreats are these very kind of like silent 10 day, very little support. Yes. And it's very regimented. Right. And yeah, it's, you listen to recordings of Goenka. So there is usually a teacher there who can answer questions, but yeah, they're all kind of very, it's very cut and dried. Like it's very systematized. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I want to be clear to you, I mean, I don't want to create some sense of aversion like towards the- Any particular practice. Yeah. Any particular practice. Like I think it's all about integrating all these different things. And I think in a way, because you can bypass with any practice, right? So it's like, you can use Vipassana to bypass away from your thoughts. You can also, you know, in Vipassana maintain the sense of an observer, right? So you're kind of bypassing from the investigation of like, who is the person noticing these thoughts or noticing the breath or whatever. But then, you know, by the same token, you can do open awareness practices where it's like, oh, I'm feeling grief and sadness and anger. Let me just go to the open awareness so that I'm not feeling that, right? You can use that as an escape. Right. Right. You can use this unbound consciousness as a bypass so that you're just a witness. Yeah. But you're not that. Right. Yeah. Or you're not connected to your body. So I think what I try to do in my work is to bridge these two worlds together. Like I said, you know, when I start people off, we're doing Vipassana, but, you know, everything is on the table, you know, in terms of what we can investigate. And we're weaving in the non-duality. So I feel like Vipassana kind of without the non-dual spaciousness feels incomplete, but also like if you just teach open awareness, but you haven't trained somebody to develop a really robust connection with their own body and their own sort of sensory flow and energy and just knowing what it feels like to feel pain in this microscopic level or to feel anger, the heat in your face. If you haven't done that, there's another bypass that's possible. But you bring those two things together. And then I think it's like the ocean and the waves. Like you have the micro textures of all of the waves and all of the sea foam and everything. And you also have this sense of, oh, the vastness of the ocean. And then you have those two things coming together. So that's kind of how I try to think about it. Yeah, that's beautiful. Yeah. Because they're not two. That's non-duality. They're not two. The ocean and the wave, they're indistinguishable. It's all water, right? It's all water. But you can think about that intellectually and say, yeah, that's true. Or you can realize it through these practices or the medicines that help with this. And that realization is, it is in a sense the liberation because now there's just what's happening without separation, without pushing and pulling. Because how can a wave push on the ocean and somehow think it can be separate? Yeah. Or vice versa? Yeah. How can the ocean push on its own waves? Yeah, totally. Yeah. And we should bookmark too this other key word, liberation. Yeah. Tell me about this. This linguistic critique later. Yeah, please. But let me, I want to, before we get too far afield, tell you about this Goyenka retreat. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. We'll bookmark that. I feel like you and I could talk for like 16 hours. Yeah, totally. We'll do this and then we may even do a separate piece. Yeah, exactly. We'll come back. We'll come back. Yeah, these are like the footnotes. I just feel like there's something really interesting about language. I mean, I'm kind of obsessed with words. Yeah. But I think they really do matter. I mean, when you're using certain words, they can be an opener. They can end up really getting you stuck. Yeah. And I think, yeah, awakening, liberation. Anyway, we'll get there. But yeah, so this is kind of a, in a way, scandalous, embarrassing story to share because I broke one of the precepts on the Goyenka retreats. And yeah, I guess I feel okay sharing that because it feels relevant to the story. But I do want to be honest that I, yeah, in a way it was an ethical misstep on my part or it wasn't like an... So anyway, what happened was when you go on a Goyenka retreat, they're extremely strict. They're so strict that you, you aren't even supposed to do any practices at all except for the Goyenka practice. So even if you're doing like yoga on your break, that's kind of sort of like, you shouldn't be doing that because that's not the purity of this Goyenka practice. And, you know, I'll be honest, I feel like I have a bit of a rebel streak in me. That's something that has taken me some time to, there's an ego thing there of like, I'm going to do it my way. And I've done a lot of work for the last, especially six years of just learning how to be more in harmony with others, not always trying to... And I think that's part of being socialized as like a white person to this sense of like, I know the best way, you know, that... But anyway, and being socialized as a cis man too. And I'll get to the gender stuff later. Yeah. But, but so I was on this retreat and yeah, really rigid. And of course, you're not supposed to, definitely not supposed to do any substances. I mean, that's just obvious. That's the rule that I broke. Okay. Keep going. I'm sorry. I feel so, I want to apologize to all of the Vipassana or the Goyenka people because I just, I shouldn't have done this, but, but I, anyway, so the story is I got there and I'm, I'm doing the practice. Um, and yeah, and I'm already having this kind of rebel part come up where it's, it's so regimented and it's so, there's very particular protocol where you're doing, you know, just noticing that the streams of, you know, about the whole thing with the, yeah, the streams that are the tip of the nose, the lip. Very fine grain. And I see the value of that, right? If you're building that neural architecture of just like, can I connect with my sensory experience? That's right. And noticing the impermanence of each experience. Yeah. Yeah. And I, I had already had my mushroom experience before then. Um, and I also been doing the body scan for like a long time. And so I came in and I can sort of tell in retrospect, I had this sort of arrogance, like I already know how to do this stuff. Like, so I kind of had this sense of, I, you know, I already know how to do the body scan. We're like, well, I already really good at noticing, you know, sensory clarity and focus with my, my physical experience. So maybe I don't have to follow the protocol exactly as it is. Maybe I can kind of use this as a container to like a laboratory to kind of, you know, sit and play with these different forms. Um, and I, I started to develop on my own, this, this thing I, I was playfully calling the, the no body scan. And I'll share this with you later as part of my meditation. But what I would do is I would sit, I don't know, maybe for like an hour or so. And then the first 30 minutes I would do the classic body scan, you know, part by part, piece by piece going through every body sensation. But then what, what the mushrooms opened up for me is that, as you just said, like the body is just a construction within this ocean of consciousness. Right. And so then I would actually do the body scan again, but each time I would get to a part of my body, I would just dissolve it. And so then over time there was no body. It was just space. And so that was my, that was my kind of custom Vipassana practice that I was doing. And so when I came to the, the Goenka retreat, I don't know, it just felt so, I don't know, it just felt so dry, like so dry just to, just to do the upper lip. And I thought, I'm just going to do my thing. I know I'm not doing it right, but this is just what feels right to me in terms of what the edge of my practice. So I was doing the body scan, the no body scan and yeah, it just felt like things were coming together. But then I had also brought some mushrooms along with me and you're not supposed to do this. And I'm just, I mean, it can be so naughty and like bad and just such a rule breaker, um, at different points in my life. I feel like I'm better about that now, especially now that I'm a parent and I'm married and I have like a career. It's like, I have a nine year old daughter and a wife. And actually being, you know, a psychedelic guide, it's like, you really have to be so careful about doing everything right. You know, because there's, yeah, there's so much potential for harm or, um, or for, you know, just legal issues and stuff like that. You have to really be, be very meticulous. But so I, I think it was day seven, maybe of the 10 days I took the mushrooms. Um, and I also didn't know what I was doing back then with dosing before I was like, okay, one and a half grams. I didn't even measure it. I was just so reckless. I just had a lunch. I took some mushrooms and, oh, wow. It was just, it was wild. I remember so much happened. I, at first it was very dysphoric. It's always interesting when that happens. Like it came on and I, I was trying to do the whole eye shade thing and I was getting these horrible images of, of like Donald Trump and like, um, like excrement. Like there was like miles of like poop and like Trump's face. And it was just, oh, this is really, this is really gross. I feel like now I would, I would, I would be able to just flow with that. But at the time I was, I was sort of looking for my good spiritual experience and it was like, oh, this is, and so I took the eye shade off and everything just felt really aversive. Like I remember I was, I was going to, I will take a walk and I was putting on my jacket and my jacket, it just, the crackling of the material of the jacket just felt, everything just felt very uncomfortable. Like I was having this, um, and I was just walking around the grounds of this place and yeah, things just were really opening up in these big sweeping ways. And I was feeling these waves of emotion and, you know, great feelings of loneliness and isolation and sadness and these huge sweeps of joy. And then I, it was time to go to the meditation hall and I was still tripping hard. I didn't intend it. I thought, okay, by the end of my lunch break, I'll be kind of down and I can sort of weave back into the retreat. I was trying to be really respectful. Um, but I, yeah, I was lining up to get back into the meditation hall and things were just so out of control. I remember having this feeling of, I can't tell if other people can tell whether I'm tripping or not, I was feeling paranoid. And it felt like there was this feeling of crisis, like something is wrong. Almost like a bomb had exploded. Like there was this weird feeling that I was in some alternate reality where something was wrong. But I, but I finally made my way to the meditation hall and I was sitting there and doing, and trying to, you know, do the meditations. And then all of a sudden it just, everything just dropped. It was just like, it was sort of similar to my first trip, you know, the mild one where all the walls just falled away. But I experienced it in this really, really intense way where I just felt like the, the glass shell between me, like in my own head and the world just went. And I just remember sitting there in utter astonishment because I just, I had no, it felt like all these tangled knots of anxiety and all these little micro things that, you know, as humans were constantly worried about, like, is my, you know, did I get enough food? Am I, you know, am I, do I sleep enough? Am I in the right posture? You know, I don't want to be in pain later, you know, just always trying to micromanaging our own emotional state and the state of our body and all these things. It just all fell away. And I was just in this, this, this is radiant presence, like you talk about. And, and then I remember opening my eyes and it was so interesting because there was no longer any separation. It felt like between me and other people. And so, and it was funny because of course everyone's, you know, has their eyes closed and then going in style, there's such a, you know, he says like work, work, work. So this is really strongly, almost like puritanical intensity to it. And so when you look around, you know, a lot of people are like, like on the cushion, almost like straining, like they're, like they're taking a shit or something like that. Valsalva maneuver. You know, and that's how I was feeling too. But I just felt, I felt clear and I felt the sense of incredible compassion for everyone. And I remember just, again, I'm just behaving very poorly for a meditation retreat. I opened my eyes and I just sort of gently like looked around the room and just looking at everyone. And I almost had this feeling that time had frozen and I was just sort of magically moving through this like dream world. And a lot of these are just sort of fantastical things happening. But there was a integration for me that happened there where I just, yeah, especially as I was coming down, everything I was doing when I went to the dining hall and I was just preparing a little bowl of fruit for myself. It just, yeah, I felt so free. Like it, like it didn't, I didn't feel that there was any problem, anything I had to worry about or anything I had to like fuss over. It was like, I could cut the fruit this way or this way. And everything's just kind of happening on its own and everything. And, and especially looking at everyone's faces, I just felt this incredible sense of connection. Cause I had been, you know, when you, sometimes you do a silent meditation retreat, you're just in this like tunnel of your own thoughts, especially I think early in your practice where you're just stewing in your own juices. And I, I felt like with that barrier removed, I could just see people's faces. And that, that has never gone back for me. Like whenever I look into another human being's face now, ever since that experience, there's just this immediate feeling of, I don't know how to describe it. It's just like, Whoa, like look at this other being who's here and look at their face. And there's almost this feeling of divinity, you know, it's like, I'm looking at you, you're looking at me. And it just sort of takes my breath away and it's a really beautiful thing. And it, and it just like opened my heart so much. And so, so yes, I admit that I should have done that, but it was, it was like, it was a really, it was a light bulb moment for me because I think I also, and this was kind of the birth of my whole practice of doing non-dual psychedelic integration, because I just realized, wow, like I've, you know, been on this one track, this one methodology of, of doing, you know, this really kind of hardcore intensive meditation and doing the Zen, doing the Vipassana, you know, I'd had this, this opening with a small dose of mushrooms with this bigger dose. It just, I just felt, wow, like this, this union, this synthesis of meditation practice with psychedelics is doing something so much faster and so much deeper. And this, this has to be something that I devote the rest of my life to. That's how I felt. I was like, this is what, this is my path. I want to, I want to continue to explore this for myself. I want to figure out how to help other people do this because yeah, I just, and there was so much compassion because I just remember looking at everyone's faces straining and thinking, you don't have to be doing it that way. It feels like this almost Sisyphean, like rolling the boulder uphill, just like, it doesn't have to be so, so effortful. Like there are tools and there are other practices that it can, it can sometimes happen spontaneously. It can happen quickly. And that's what I want to give people, you know? So that's, that was sort of the start of it for me of doing this work. Yeah. That is absolutely beautiful. It's gorgeous. What a story. And you know, what's funny is you did all this shit that is absolute, like if you tell a meditation teacher that you're going to show up and do mushrooms at their silent Goenka retreat, they, they will, I mean, you will be exiled to the phantom zone, like in Superman two, where they're like flying through space. I'll never be able to do a Goenka retreat. Yeah, exactly. Which is fine because that was part of the journey and it's done. But because you made these mistakes, because you were authentic to what you were feeling. Now, actually, you seem to approach the whole thing with this understanding that, oh, there is this synthesis of non-dual meditation, all the techniques that you've kind of pointed out where there's nothing is really rejected, but there isn't this like, the striving with these medicines that, that you have your own experience with, that you've made the mistakes. And now you can actually serve as someone who guides, because you also have the training as a therapist. You have all this experience with non-duality and with the medicines. So together, it's like kind of a perfect storm. And that's when, when you reached out to me, I was like, what? Because, you know, I've met a lot of really amazing psychedelic guides and I've met a lot of really amazing non-duality teachers, but I haven't met a whole lot who integrate the two. So a lot of times with psychedelics, there is a kind of like, oh, I'm just trying to get to the root of my trauma and feel better. I'm just trying to feel better. And, but what you're pointing at is ultimately, you know, and the word liberation is that crazy word, right? But really it's, it's seeing that there's nowhere to go. It's, it's always right here. And then the compact, the heart just blows open and you look at other people suffering and you just go, it's my suffering. Yeah. Yeah. There's no distinction. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's almost like, yeah, like everyone's carrying this hundred pound backpack and finally it just drops. Yeah. And then when you look around and you see everyone carrying it, like all you want to do is, is try to do what you can to allow people. And of course you can't force anybody. You can't twist their arm. You can't do it for them. Um, but starting to just build a relationship with people if they're ready to be like, can we work on dropping the backpack? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And, and, you know, and sometimes meditation is, is not enough. And that's, that's a big message I want to get out to people is like, I think that there are a lot of people who have, I would say a certain neurological locker privilege where they can do meditations and they can get into these very deep states and all this stuff. And that's great. But for most of us, and I count myself and I'm somebody who has a lot of neurological issues, you know, from this brain damage I had when I was a kid, you know, to Lyme disease and, you know, other, other sort of brain injuries I've had that I can tell you more about later, but, um, I just couldn't do it. Like I, I, I could have meditated for 30 years and I probably would have been a more functional adult with less anxiety and more focused. Right. I don't think I ever would have broken through to any of this stuff without, without psychedelics. So, so it's more in the frame of like what I talked with Ron Purser on my show about McMindfulness. Like you can use these tools as kind of massaging the self to feel a little bit better. And it's been Westernized and almost like colonially acquired, colonially acquired from like these Eastern traditions that have these long lineages. Right. Or, um, you know, you can, it's ultimately because, okay, meditation alone, psychedelics alone for some, either might actually be a crack. Everybody wants the magic answer to release suffering because everybody's, the people who are on this path are, are, they're suffering. They're striving, they're looking, they're, they're in the Goenka retreat doing this. But sometimes I think what you're pointing at, and I think this has been my experience, is it some mysterious integration between all these things? Like you went into your first psychedelic experience, having, having sat for three months in Korea in a Zen thing, having had this flow experience, shoveling shit on a farm. So it wasn't like you're going in expecting the same. Yeah. And then things start to crack. And, and for me, it kind of went in the opposite sequence. Like I'd had this taste and then the meditation and then just spontaneous shifts. But then it's, I'm like you, it's like, I can't do, I need help. Yeah. I need help. I need help. Like, and I can't do it. Like the conditioning of my life is so strong, whether it's the traumas of being a child, whether it's a traumas of being an adult, whether it's all our societal matrix, which we'll talk about the gender stuff, because I think that is just like, for me, it's a huge blind spot because I'm a product of the same conditioning. Right. And where does that sort of fit into this? When we're talking about like non-duality, we say, well, the identity is like you're everything. And yet here we are saying, well, no, I actually identify with the pronouns, she, her, and I consider myself non-binary or how you can describe. And so where does that integrate? And all of it ultimately feels like, I don't know how to say this, like magical perfection when, from that standpoint, but yet still, like from here, I can tell you, like I can have these absolute clarity, like you and I can sit and it's just obvious radiant presence. And then five minutes later, I'm in my head, contracted, suffering. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And so any tools in the combinations that seem to show up that can help start to clarify, I think are welcome. Knowing that there's risks, which we can talk about, and there's sort of some best practices that people are learning, right? Yeah. And that's where the integration comes in. And that's, you know, to your, to your point about, yeah, I had the privilege of all these years of meditation before doing my first mushroom trip. And without that, it probably would have been really different. Who knows? I might've just, yeah, I might've just seen Donald Trump face with shit. I see Dan Quayle for some reason. And thought, though, that was weird. Yeah. So, so yeah, it's the classic set in setting. And this is what I try to do with people. Cause I take a lot of folks who, some people have had some prior meditation practice or some contact with non-duality, but honestly, a lot of people who reach out to me, they, they're, you know, having some kind of trauma or some kind of depression. They've heard that psychedelics might be helpful. They've never heard of non-duality. Maybe they've never meditated a day in their life, but they want to work with me. And so that's where I, over the last several years have developed this protocol of how can I take somebody basically from, from zero, someone who has never heard of non-duality whatsoever. And I try to do it in five sessions before the journey, give them basically a crash course in, in Vipassana. That's where I begin so that they can, they can shift from avoidance of their emotions and the, and the bypassing to really contacting their emotions in real time in the body as energy. And then we start to move into non-duality so they can access that sense of spaciousness and, and also just directly in their senses and their visual field and their auditory field and their, their haptic kind of tactile field, like really feeling this experience as consciousness for lack of a better word, rather than what we assume it to be, which you might say is, you know, kind of, um, sort of naive 3d reality, like material reality. Something up here, perceiving something here. Yeah. Yeah. Through nerves and ligaments. And yeah. And then once, once, you know, we both feel like, or I feel like they're ready and they feel like they're ready, then we introduce the medicine and it's, it's greasing the wheels of that process. Um, because otherwise, yeah, I feel like it, it might not take, you know. So let's, let's talk about this. And I think what we'll do is then we'll, we'll take a break or something and then we'll come back and you will, you can take me through the integration. Yeah. Because the intent then is to, to use these medicines and you can go through it with me. Like, how would you prepare, like what you're pointing at? And I think, so one of the first questions would be, what are the medicines that you use mainly? Yeah. Yeah. So I've used a lot, um, I've experimented with so many and there's, there's three that I have settled on that I personally have found to be the most useful for me. That's not to say that they are the most useful for everybody. Um, and, and those three are 5-MEO-DMT and then NN-DMT, um, especially when that is combined with an MAO inhibitor. And I like to use harmoline and this is, this is the classic combo that you find in ayahuasca. And I like to name that explicitly because it's an incredible innovation that these Amazonian people came up with. And then nobody knows who was the first person to, to discover that. Um, but it's, yeah, it's, it's a brilliant combination. And in ayahuasca, there's actually, there's three MAO inhibitors. Um, it's, it's harmoline, harming, and tetrahydroharming. In the natural compound. In the natural compound. Yeah. And I, I experimented with all of them and I, I found personally that harmoline felt the most effective and the cleanest for me. Um, and yeah, and I like to say too, I mean, I, I, the reason I don't work with ayahuasca per se in that form is that I, I personally have just a very sensitive constitution, like a lot of chronic health problems. And so when I take an ayahuasca brew, not only is it causing a lot of digestive upset, yeah, but also, um, and this is, I had never totally got to the bottom of why this would happen to me. I couldn't figure out if it was a mold allergy and some of these brews just had some mold in them because they weren't stored properly or whether it was something to do with my Lyme disease that was somehow being triggered. I don't know, but it's, it's what, what I've found is that when I would take the natural brew, um, it was almost like playing Russian roulette with my brain because sometimes it would be fine and it would be smooth. And other times it would trigger this very intense neuroinflammatory response. And, you know, sometimes when I try to tell people this, they're like, oh, it sounds like you just had a difficult trip. And it's like, no, I've, I've done enough psychedelics to know the difference between a challenge, a trip with challenging content versus a trip where my body and my brain are entering a state of like acute inflammation. Um, that, and I would, I would have like brain fog that would last for, you know, weeks afterwards. And so I finally, and I do this with most of my work. I always try to isolate, you know, what are the, what are the active ingredients? And let me try to find the purest compounds I can to move kind of away from the, and this is the other reason I don't use the Bufo because that also has a lot of other compounds in there. What is Bufo? So Bufo is the, the, uh, secretion of the Sonoran desert toad. So when people talk about toad, they're talking about that dried secretion, which you can smoke. And, and so the reason I don't use Bufo, A, there's an ecological problem there because it's impacting the toads, but also you don't know. It's very imprecise because if you have a little, a little crystal of Bufo, it could be 10%, 5-MeO-DMT, 20%. So dosing is impossible. Dosing is all over the map. And also it has, it has other stuff in there. I think they're called cardiac glycosides. If I remember correctly, that it can be a little, you know, it can be a little difficult on the heart. And so. And you work with a medical consultant too. I do. Yeah. So this is not just flying blind. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I'm happy to say his name, Dr. Ben Malcolm. He's amazing. The spirit pharmacist. Anybody who ever has a medication interaction or safety question about psychedelics would definitely reach out to Ben. So anyway, but I was saying, so, so I use the pure molecule, the 5-MeO-DMT. It's synthetic. And I use, yeah. NNDMT either. I can either use synthetic or extracted. As long as I always try to go for that 99.5% or above purity, that, that pharmaceutical purity. And then usually the, the harmoline as the MAO inhibitor. And then the last one is salvia divinorum. Um, which to a lot of people might be a surprise because that one has a horrendous reputation. Um, and yeah. Can I speak a little bit to that? Absolutely. Yeah. It's really interesting because, you know, some people who are into psychedelics may have heard the history of Maria Sabina and the Masatec people of, of Mexico and Oaxaca who really, um, yeah, did a lot of, a lot of innovative work on, on working with mushrooms that, that has since been, you know, you could say colonized or extracted by the West in many problematic ways. Um, but what, what people don't know is that that same Masatec people from Oaxaca, like also have this rich tradition of working with salvia divinorum as this, you know, this healing medicine, this, this entheogen, this spiritual opener. Um, and unfortunately that history has been lost or kind of erased or covered over because what happened was in the, seems like late nineties or sometime, I don't know exactly why, but salvia extracts started showing up in smoke shops. Cause legal. Cause it's legal. And, and, you know, because of this moral panic that I'm about to tell you about, it's, it's now been, you know, declared illegal in certain states. I can't remember which ones, but, um, so, you know, when you have a smoke shop full of stuff, you know, people just want to get high. Like you got your nitrous oxide, you got, you know, whatever, like your kava kava and, you know, you got your, oh, here's salvia. So people, young people, especially, I've, I've talked to so many people in the psychedelic space. You're like, oh yeah, salvia. I tried that when I was 16 and it fucked me up. Like I, you know, fell through a hole in the ground into a pit of demons or something like that. I would never do that again. Um, and we get to set and setting, right? Cause they, it's not their fault. They, you know, they didn't know about the proper way to use it or the fact that it had this rich indigenous healing tradition. People were just looking to get high and, uh, had these really dysphoric experiences. So what happened was some, there were some viral videos that went out there starting in like the early two thousands. There was this whole thing with like Miley Cyrus. I can't remember when that was 2015. She like did a hit of salvia off a bong and it like went viral. And so there was this huge moral backlash of people saying, you know, this is a dangerous drug. This is, you know, people are treating it like bath salts or something like that. And so we need to like make it illegal. And so there was this whole movement, uh, which fortunately didn't take in all states. There's still, it's still legal a lot. But so salvia is, it is the most potent psychedelic by weight in the natural world. That's an interesting thing that like, yeah, it's like it's potency by weight is around the same as LSD. Like, like you're talking about micrograms, not like milligrams. So like a, like a 500 milligram or microgram, uh, dose of salvia is like, that's like a pretty good starter to moderate dose and a, and a kind of full release or kind of last off dose. You could say it might be around like one milligram, you know? So it's, it's really, really potent. Um, and yeah, because of that set and setting and preparation. How long does it last experience? It's brief. It's, it's, it's very comparable. It feels similar. I would say to taking a hit of if you're, yeah, if you're vaporizing it or if you're smoking it to working with NMDMT vaporizer or 5MDMT. So it's, it's around that depending on the dose, like it could be as little as five minutes or maybe as much as like 20 minutes. So it's very short, rapidly metabolized. And yeah, so it's, uh, it's, yeah, it's really interesting. And it, it, it requires, I think a lot of preparation. And I like to think of it sort of as the last psychedelic that people should try. So in my triad, my system, I always start people off with 5MEO DMT, which surprises people because that one also has a certain reputation as this kind of just explosive, like, like, you know, like a hydrogen bomb to your ego. Ego death. Right. And it can do that at the high doses. And some practitioners just serve it that way. And that's how I first received it. But more recently, there's been a whole community that's been working with it in these vape pens. It's, uh, they like to call it like the stepwise way where you're starting off these very low doses. And there's this incredible, beautiful work that can be done around, yeah, trauma healing and around, I mean, getting back to Vipassana, just like connecting with the energy in your body and just releasing energy and releasing contraction in your body. Um, and so, so that's kind of a great medicine, actually. I think it's actually the best psychedelic to start with. I'm just going to go ahead and say that. I really believe that. MEO. Yes. I really do believe that. In this graduated. In this way. Yeah. Yeah. And the reason is in people, yeah, I think a lot of people be like, what? You should start with mushrooms or you should start with MDMA. But what's, what's so amazing about 5MEO as a low dose is I can take someone who's never had a psychedelic experience in their life, who might have a lot of anxiety about what's it going to be like and what's it going to feel like, what's going to happen. And I can say, well, let's just give you an experience that'll last about five minutes. And then when it's done, we can talk about it. And when I tell that to people. Big relief. There's such a relief because most people have heard about mushrooms. You know, they read Michael Pollan's book and most people seem to conclude. I did this too. When you read that book, well, mushroom seems like the best, like the other ones seem to out there, you know, I mean, his toad experience just sounds like wild. Oh yeah. Why would I do that? Right. Yeah. So most people come to me, they say, I want to do a mushroom journey. And I tell them, okay, well, let's talk about that. I can do that, but let's, let's kind of do pros and cons. So if I give you mushrooms, you might feel really nauseated. That's really common. Even if I do it like a tea preparation, it's going to last for maybe like four to six hours. And once you take it, it's like a roller coaster that you can't get off. And, you know, it might take you into all sorts of territory that you don't feel like you signed up for. Like you might, you might experience retraumatization. You might go through just a lot of like very bizarre extended dream sequence, like stuff that may not actually be useful to you. Um, and, and yeah, if at any point in the journey, you have this feeling of like, I didn't sign up for this. I'm kind of in over my head. There's no pause button. Like, and, but let's just, you know, again, I don't want to throw the baby out of the bath where it's like, let's try to integrate all these different things. Mushrooms has its place. I obviously got a lot of benefit, but then I tell them, here's this molecule 5-MeO-DMT. So if we're going to vaporize it in this titrated way, um, I can give you this experience that, yeah, might just last five minutes. And then when you're, when it's over, we can have a conversation and we can start to integrate and, and you can tell me, um, maybe that was already too much for you. Maybe you're done. And this has happened to me with some clients where they do just a couple of light doses and they just say, okay, that's, that's all I need for now. Yeah. Um, or maybe they say, okay, I want to go deeper and then we can go deeper step by step. It's like, you know, going into a cold pool and just like one step at a time. So you're acclimatizing the nervous system and generally there's very minimal nausea. Um, sometimes there can be purging, although yeah, if you're fasting, it's, it's usually very, very minimal. Yeah. Some vomiting. Yeah. Um, yeah. Nausea is very, very light. And it's, and what I love about it is it's just so trauma informed because, you know, each time we're just stepping up the dose like a little at a time. And so if somebody is feeling like, oh wow, like that last dose, I was just really hitting into some difficult territory. Then we can press pause or we can just, or we can repeat that dose or we can go like lighter. So there's never any expectation that we need to go all the way into that full release. We can, but, um, and then when I explain this to people, yeah, the vast majority of people say, oh wow, that sounds so much better because they, they're not worried about, oh my gosh, I'm going to get on this roller coaster. And what am I, you know, it's like, oh, I can just, it's like, I can just test drive this car for like five minutes. Yeah. And that could be it. And so, so that really sets people at ease. And that's why I think it's just a great medicine for a first timer. Essentially. Cause you just don't hear that. Yeah. No. Yeah. And I think probably this is a little newer in terms of the titration and the, the, the vape pen dosing and so on. And, you know, I've not experienced any of this. And, um, it's really interesting because that, that compound has a reputation. Like you said, I've just, Michael Pond talks about it. Even he was like, I don't know what I got out of that. It was just obliteration. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, so yeah, I think each of these three medicines has their place and I don't want to pigeonhole them, but I, when I try to describe them to people, cause people want to know what, what, what should I expect? Or how do you, you know, think about this in terms of your framework? Um, I, I sometimes describe 5-MeO as the massage therapists. Yes. So I say, it's like, it's like going to have a session with a very skilled deep tissue massage therapist. And so what they're going to be doing is finding, you know, the medicine, it feels like it finds the places in your, your mind body system that are contracted and that are traumatized. And it finds them very quickly and very well. And it starts to release them. Hmm. And just like getting a literal deep tissue massage that might feel like a, or it might feel like a, Oh God, like, ah, the whole thing in my shoulder, you know, that I've been carrying like this years of, you know, where my dad touched me or whatever, whatever it is that the trauma has been encoded in that part of the body it's releasing and it can feel very uncomfortable. But then, you know, as it's being worked out, people, the general arc is that people are going into greater relaxation and greater nervous system kind of settling. Um, and yeah, and, and that, that sort of release can go, of course, all the way up into that full release where you just become feels like just energy is consciousness. But that's how I like to describe it is like, it is, it's, it's really metaphorically and literally in a way it's like your muscles are just too tight. Like the muscles literally in your body, but also spiritually you're just contracted, right? It's like that a hundred pound backpack. I'm saying we're just, Oh, it's like I ain't good. Like it's straight. And so it's, it's, it's softening all of that to actually allow you to relax. And when you're letting go of the gripping on the problem, the kind of abstract problem of just life, right? It's like then, then the problem, right. Then it's just like, Oh, it feels, yeah, it feels like life is somehow more like a, more like a art installation or a movie or something that's just happening. So then we get into NNDNT and I like to call this the yoga teacher. Um, because when it's combined, I mean, you can, you can, you can vaporize it too, but especially when it's combined with the MAO inhibitor, you're having like a, you're starting to do longer sessions now. So that can last for maybe an hour or two depending on the dose. Yeah. And I want to say too, just a note on, I'm just obsessed with language and words that a lot of times people call this pharma waska. So if you're looking for a keyword, but I will say, I really don't like that word. And the reason I don't like it is to me, it just feels disrespectful because I think we really always have to remember when we use these medicines, who were the indigenous peoples who, who first developed them and not just treat them somehow in abstract isolation, which I think is disrespectful. And so even 5-MeO-DMT, I mean, it's, there is evidence, uh, archeological evidence of it being used as a snuff, um, and what's called Yopo, like in, in South American, um, uh, tribes, like using it as that snuff. And that goes back, I think, I can't remember which, which article I was reading, but I want to say some of those were carbon dated back to like, maybe like 3000 years ago or something like that. Wow. Somebody can fact that, check that for me. But, um, but so, so 5-MeO-DMT, at least in a snuff form, like has this, this rich, ancient, uh, history. People treat it sometimes as like this brand new medicine. This one guy like Ken Nelson from Texas, like went out in the desert and smoked the toad. And then that's, and it's true. I mean, Ken Nelson like did kind of create this movement around it. Um, you could also say that maybe he brought, uh, you know, excessive attention to the toads and created this ecological problem or whatever, but, but anyway, um, with, uh, so I'd like to, you know, I, I do think the, the use of it as a inhaling it, vaporizing it, um, as opposed to insufflating it, maybe something that's, that's new, but the molecule has, has an indigenous, um, tradition behind it. And yeah, obviously the same history of ayahuasca. And so, so yeah, like, I just want to pay homage to the original inventors of this medicine and also to the Quechua language, ayahuasca and that, you know, soul vine is how I understand that translates. And I have to say this, like, this sounds abstract to some people who've not experienced this, that, that you're paying homage to this, like, you know, almost like a land acknowledgement or something like it's almost a little detached, but it's not. If you've experienced, and I've experienced ayahuasca, the actual natural one with a shaman, um, there's a felt sense, whether it's an archetype or something, that you are connected to this tradition. Yeah. In a sense, you're, you're honoring it by being witness to it. It does not feel, um, in any way separate from the lineage from which it's coming. I don't know how else to say that. Yeah. Yeah. I'm glad to use that word connected too, because speaking again of keywords, like the, I use that word a lot. And in some ways I like to use that word in place of like awakening or even like liberation. Yeah. It's like, how are we deepening our connection and to everything? I mean, our connection to our emotions, our connection to our thoughts, right. Instead of dismissing them, our connection to each other, our connection to the body, our connection to tradition, our connection to, you know, the indigenous heritage of these medicines, because I, you know, I look around at our world. It's, I mean, it's sort of a cliche, but it's like, everything feels very fragmented and very disconnected. Yeah. And at the same time, homogenizing into a oneness, a McDonald's-ness of the whole thing. That's also true. Yeah. Yeah. And so I see the, you know, it's usually called an awakening process. You could describe it as a connecting process. And that's, yeah, it's happening at all these different kind of strata of the, the intra psychic, the, you know, integration of self and in a therapeutic sense, the interpersonal, the social, the kind of macro level. But I'd also like to think it's, it seems to be happening also at a neurological level. As I said, with the Zron Yosipovich study, there's something when people are having experiences of feeling completely plugged into the light socket at this moment, you know, there's actually more demonstrated like functional connectivity between all these different parts of the brain, which is really interesting. And so, so to me, like, that's a really operative word of, of describing moving along the spectrum from, you could say like, like traumatic dissociation, which I think most people are in a state that that was my life for most of it into moving along towards more of this, this deeper connection, but it can't, it can't be just individualistic, but it can't be, oh, I'm just gonna, I just went on Reddit and saw like, okay, Pharma Waska, I'm just gonna, you know, order some stuff off the dark web and go in my closet. And I've seen some clients have come to me having done stuff like that in a state of spiritual emergency. And they need me to help them pick up the pieces because they weren't connected, right? They weren't connected to, to a guide, to, to friends, to loved ones to help them integrate. They were just, you know, and I'm not like trying to put blame. It's, it's, it's like, it's what people have access to, right? But it's, it's, it's a very disconnected way of doing these medicines. Okay. I think this is probably the, because I know I can already anticipate in the comment section, there are a lot of people who will be concerned about safety and things like that, which are all very valid concerns. What you're pointing out here in my own experience, and it's limited compared to yours, but is the central piece of set and setting in a sense. It is, it is knowing that you're supported, that you're co-regulated, not just by one other single human, but the whole tradition and lineage of the medicine. Yeah. But, but, but the connection component allows for a sense of safety, gratitude, and almost like a child who, when they're given a safe space, they can explore. Oh, that's a hundred percent correct. And, and actually it's very literal. It's literal. Because, because people regress to states of travel. That's right. That's right. That's right. And that's part of the healing process. I, this is something I tell every single client in my first meeting with them. I say the number one thing that I'm going to be cultivating with you in our relationship is a sense of safety. Yeah. And I mean that in every sense of the word, you know, first of all, obviously we're looking at physical safety in terms of making sure we're using these medicines, you know, up to the standards, you know, working with Ben Malcolm and make sure that everything is dosed and, and tested and just, you know, checking all those boxes. But, but then when we get into the circle of the experience, that sense of emotional safety, because people quite literally, and I've experienced this myself, you, you actually go back into your child, your inner child. I've, yeah, I've, I've quite literally become a child again, like in some of these experiences. And so when you're in that really vulnerable state, yeah, there's all this sort of psychodynamic intra-family stuff that's happening. These dynamics, these old dynamics that are encoded in you. And the guide becomes a kind of projection of your parents. It's very common. I mean, this happens in therapy as well, and this happens in romantic relationships, it's all sorts of relationships. Your boss can be your dad, right? But that, that, that stuff gets really heightened when you're on the medicine. And so, yeah, I mean, I, I had an experience once of when I was being guided on 5-MeO and I, I felt like a child and I reached back for my guide's hands and he held my hands and his hands felt massive. And I realized, oh my God, I am right now, I am, I'm a little child and I'm experiencing like the hands of my father, except I had a really fraught relationship with my father. And my guide was able to do this kind of reparenting, this symbolic reparenting. I felt this is a father figure who in this moment of deep childlike vulnerability is really there for me and is holding all of my emotional messiness and all of my just, yeah, just stuff. And it was so healing to me. It healed like the, the sort of that, that image of a father that was holding inside of me that was so fraught and so twisted with pain, just softened. And it was, it was beautiful. Yeah. Yeah. So. And that's, what's on offer, right? Yeah. That's what's on offer. Yeah. Is healing in the deepest sense of the word. And we haven't, I mean, none of this in a way touches into non-duality yet. I mean, this is just, this is just at a, at a purely like psychological, energetic, somatic, personal level. And, you know, people don't even have to necessarily go into the full release or into that non-dual stuff. I mean, if this is all that, the work we do, I mean, oh my God. Decades of therapy. Oh my God. Decades of therapy. That's the thing. Like, you know, I used to think like, you know, my intention, if I were ever going to do this, were to just go into the full non-dual every, no, no, I've had that experience just in meditation. What I am struggling with is feeling into those parts that have never been integrated. Yeah. That have been not, they just, and it's hard and therapy can be helpful. But boy, this is, you know, has a huge potential. And again, that connection. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And, and I've looked at your checklists and things for safety and for medical questionnaires and all of this. It's very thorough. Now that said, and, and by the way, you have a website where we'll point people in the link. Yeah. Yeah. And you are accepting clients and so on. But the one thing I think if we wrap up this discussion with. Yeah. Is I think, cause we've been, we've been kind of saying we'll get to it. Yeah. So the, so for you, and this is a personal thing and tell me if you want to talk about this now or another time, but so the gender identity piece. Yeah. I do want to talk about that. I also feel like there's one other loose end that we haven't tied up. Cause we were going through the three medicines. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And so I was saying, so let me finish this first and then I'll get to the gender piece. Is that okay? Absolutely. So. Okay. So the medicines. Um, so I was saying, yeah, I think I went on this digression about the language of ayahuasca that I don't, if people want to, yeah, if people, people should know the term farm ayahuasca cause there's just a lot of stuff out there. Farm ayahuasca. Yeah. But I personally don't like to use that word because I feel like it's taking this Quechua word, ayahuasca, which is as far as I understand, translates as like soul vine. It's this very like sacred word that that's, you know, talking about connection, like it's paying this homage to the innovators of this medicine. And then it's just slapping this like Greek, like Western modern, like prefix. We're medicalizing it. Like, yeah. It's like, okay. Farm ayahuasca. Yeah. Um, so, so what I like to do is call what I serve to people, an ayahuasca analog. Um, and I didn't come up with that term. I'm trying to remember who there's some researcher. I want to say it was Jonathan Ott, maybe I'm getting that wrong, but he has some book called like ayahuasca analogs. Um, I like that term cause I feel like it's sort of a book. It's like, we're going to acknowledge that I didn't come up with this. This comes from ayahuasca, but this isn't exactly, this isn't the brew. Yeah. It's an analog. It's taking the active ingredients and it's combining it. And yeah. And I like to, again, getting to safety. I almost like to think of this as like, um, I don't know, almost like, like dairy milk versus like nut milk or something like that. It's like the brew is an amazing medicine, but for some people it's not going to work for their bodies. And I'm one of those people. I found it very, very physically unpleasant. It's, it's really hard. The body load is huge. Yeah. And I know I have a lot of clients who just are older people. Yeah. Um, who just couldn't handle it. Yeah. Um, that's the thing. Yeah. The purging is really intense. Uh, and, and like I said, there's kind of this wild card of a lot of times, I mean, and there's this thing about dosing too. And that's the problem with the bufo, right? Like what percentage when you take an ayahuasca brew, I mean, I've actually seen, there's an interesting paper where some researcher took, I don't know what it was like 20 different ayahuasca brews from all these different tribes and all these different groups and tested them. Um, let's see what, what are the actual ratios of NNDMT to, um, Harmaline, you know, Harmin, Tetrahydra Harmin. It was all over the map. It was a crazy quilt of, and then there was even one brew that had zero NNDMT. Wow. It was just the Harmalas. What? I know. Did it have effect? I mean, the Harmalas are psychoactive. I would say more mildly. I mean, you feel a lot of body load. There's some stuff that's happening. Right. Um, but that really surprised me. So you don't know what you're getting, but also. There's other, other stuff sometimes. I mean, people put, um, what's that? What is it? The nicot, uh, there's some plant that it's like nicotina or something like that. I can't remember. You can edit that out. Cause I don't know what I'm talking about. We'll leave it and just say, we don't know. Yeah. Other plants sometimes end up in there. Um, and, and sometimes it's like Chalipunga versus the, um, the, uh, uh, uh, Socotria viridis is the, is the, the, um, gosh, my, my, my, my. So it's, it's complicated. Yeah. It's complicated. There's different like plant elements you can put in there. And so you don't know what you're getting. You don't know what the ratios are. And, and then sometimes at least I, this is my theory of what was happening to me. Cause I know I have this mold kind of allergy. That's why I actually had to stop doing mushrooms because I would have these like horrible inflammatory reactions, um, which I get now to all sorts of mushrooms. That's a whole nother story with the lion's mane thing I can talk about. But, um, yeah, I was getting that with the ayahuasca. And so it's like, I, this is just not medically, this is not healthy for me. So I need to do the analog. So that's how I think of it. Um, and I don't, you know, I want to be clear, like I don't identify whatsoever as an ayahuasca or ayahuasca. Or I don't identify as a shaman because to, yeah, to, to claim that title, I feel like I would have to go spend decades like in South America, like training under somebody, you know, to really, it just feels, I don't know. It's respecting that tradition. Yeah. So, so yeah, but, but at the same time, we don't want to, I think, take it so far that we say, oh, well, you know, nobody can use this medicine unless. Because it limits the reach. Yeah. It limits the reach. So, so this is the, the awkward or, you know, I think hopefully happy medium I try to develop where it's like, I'm going to serve these medicines. I'm going to honor the tradition, but I'm going to do it in this very precisely dosed way. Kind of integrating. Yeah. Like my, my. Western training. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Beautiful. Um, I call it the yoga teacher because I feel like, yeah, it's sort of like, I mean, again, getting this, this metaphor of the body and like the massage. So it's like, if you imagine going on a retreat, okay, you've had your massage, your muscles are really relaxed. But if you are wanting to do sort of mind body training, you might want to do something else. That would be like trying to increase your bodily intelligence, your mind body connection, your, your sense of posture and flow. And these different asanas, like I'm talking about, you know, literal yoga here and actually in sort of strengthening and, and your flexibility and stuff like that. And I feel like, I feel like the ayahuasca analog, the NNDNT has the potential to do that in a sort of complete mind body and also spiritual sense. And this gets into something that I, I'll, I'm sure I'll talk more about, which is this idea of unjourneying, which is sort of like a guiding idea within my practice. Um, because when you first start working with psychedelics, I feel like it's inevitable that you're going to go on a journey. It's just so unfamiliar. It's such a surprise to the nervous system. And so I think most of the time, I mean, starting with low 5-MeO, maybe you're still in your body, but, but even with that medicine, you know, very quickly, you're going to leave the plane and you're going to feel like you're traveling. Maybe, you know, with, with NNDNT, you might feel like you're, yeah, like going into fractals or meeting entities and stuff like that. So all those things can happen, but at least in the way that I work with these medicines and with a non-dual integration, I see personally, um, this is not any judgment on anybody who wants to explore those realms, but that really making that the main focus of I'm taking this medicine to have a really spectacular otherworldly mystical experience. The light show. Yeah. It ends up being a kind of bypass and being, again, just a kind of craving or an attachment. Yeah. And so what I've found is that something different happens when you kind of have, eventually as you, you go through that phase, but then you have this kind of been there, done that realization of, oh, that's not actually like serving me in terms of just dropping into this. So then instead of journeying, you start to unjourney, um, which I would describe as sitting with the medicines. And sometimes it's in a different way, even posturally or energetically, instead of maybe lying down with your eyes closed, maybe you're sitting up in meditation posture and your eyes are open, perhaps. Um, maybe you're, you're engaging in certain physical movements to keep yourself in this plane. And then the medicine starts to take on a different character. I find where in a way less and less is happening. Like they're, they're, cause they're not taking you elsewhere. They're actually just really almost in this, this monomaniacal kind of way, like gluing you to this where there's no other possibility except what's just happening like right now as it's happening. Um, and you can, you can do that with all of these medicines. So with 5-MeO, you know, first, first it's like the pendulum is sweeping from this rigid duality and contraction, you know, slowly, slowly, slowly releasing, releasing, massaging you out eventually into that full release. But then what I've found for myself and some of my clients, once you've done that several times, maybe you don't need to keep doing that. You know, sometimes people just keep, Oh, you know, just a release again and again and again and again. But what I've found is then you can go back. You start at the beginning with a low dose and now maybe your, yeah, your posture is different. Your intention is different and you can start to meditate with 5-MeO. So, and it almost feels like this is going to sound strange based on, well, let me, I was going to use one metaphor. Let me use a different metaphor. It's like, it's sort of like initially you're, you want to go surfing and you go to the beach and like a wave comes and, and with initially with 5-MeO, you just like surrender to the wave. It just like crashes over you and just like become water. But then when you come back to the medicine in this unjourneying way, it's almost like you're surfing it. It's like you're on a surfboard and the waves are coming and there's all this like explosive energetic stuff that's kind of happening, but you're staying here and you're kind of using the medicine almost as a kind of training to, for your, your, your non-dual mindfulness kind of integration to be that much more here, like that much more just plugged into this moment. And once you get, what I find is interesting is if you do it that way, the medicine asymptotically seems to have like less and less and less of an effect. Yeah. Which is interesting. Because what I've found is that people who take 5-MeO and their intention is just to release and that's all they want to do. They tend to get more and more sensitized to it. So people will say, oh, I need, I need so little medicine to have my full release now. But what I've found is when you take it and the intention is to unjourney, actually you build up more, more of a tolerance because it's not, you're not going anywhere. That setting is different. You're, you're, you're staying here fully. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And yeah. And so, so once, what I find is once you kind of get good at that, so to speak, like you can take fairly high doses of 5-MeO and there's just almost like nothing happening. Maybe your heart rate's increasing a little bit. Like maybe your palms are a little sweaty or whatever, just a little physiological responses. But there's just some sense of, yeah, like I'm still here. Like water is wet. Like, yeah. Like Ram Dass' guru. Yeah. He gave a ton of LSD too. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Niamh Karoli Baba. Yeah. And that was my, my inspiration for this is, and I don't, I don't want to digress too much. This is a whole nother can of worms, but I, I, I personally, you know, was somebody who would always take medicines to go on a journey. Right. That was my approach. And something changed for me when I took lion's mane mushrooms. Hmm. And I, most people don't know this, but there's a small community of people listening who probably will be like, you know, so, so happy to hear somebody validate this experience is there's a small subset of people who, for whatever reason, when they take lion's mane, they have this really, really strong negative reaction. I don't know if it's an inflammatory reaction. I don't know exactly what it is, but the symptoms are horrendous. I mean, it's like neurocognitively, just nervous system, energetically, completely destabilizing. I mean, it could just like, can wreck your life. And that's what happened to me. This was in 20. And this is a legal mushroom that Paul Stamets talks about. They talk about it on Rogan. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's, it's, yeah, it's really unfortunate because it, it does have all this to a certain, well, it doesn't have a lot of human subjects research, but there's some research that shows that it increases neuroplasticity, um, nerve, nerve growth factor and things like that. And some people certainly report benefits. I mean, you can go on Reddit as just a little anecdotal kind of sample and you'll find people saying like lion's mane saved my life. Lion's mane, you know, really like healed me or whatever. But then by the same token, there's a community of called lion's mane recovery, which has last time I checked like over 6,000 people. Um, and it's just full of these horror stories of people saying lion's mane destroyed my life. And, and that's basically what happened to me. I, it was in 2020 and I, I heard about the Stamets stack and I was just curious. Okay, let me just try this out. Um, and I had this horrible reaction and I, I can say that I'm still not totally recovered from it. Like even as I sit with you here now, there's some echo of it. It, it, it just, it made my entire brain feel like cotton balls and I, yeah, I had trouble sleeping. Um, I experienced just all this, this energetic kind of contraction happening like in my pelvic floor and my, um, my stomach that made it like hard to sleep at night. It was just over activated and amped. But the, the really devastating thing was the just neurocognitive debilitation. And I'm, I'm talking like pretty severe. I mean, to the point where I would try to watch cartoons with my kid. And these are like, this was, uh, like, you know, like Tom and Jerry level, like really simple cartoons. And I couldn't follow the plot. Like, like even, even if there was no dialogue, it was just like my brain, I'd see a few frames of it and then my brain would be sort of confused and trying to catch up. So I was in the state for about two years of just feeling almost continuously confused. And just like, I almost had to teach myself English like over again. It was really weird because I would just say phrases and they wouldn't make sense to me. Or like, I couldn't use double negatives in a sentence. Like that's scary. Yeah. Even now, I mean, these are some of those, the leftovers. Like if somebody uses a double negative in speech, it'll take me just a second. I'm just like, okay, so you're not, not going to, you know, it's like, okay, I think, yes. Okay. I understand that. So it did something to my linguistic processing that just really messed it up. And this actually gets to the gender thing too. It's connected. But, but yeah, I, it was really hard. I mean, it was really hard to function. It affected my relationship with my wife, with my kid. I was just, I felt like I was in this deep cotton ball brain fog for like two years. And it's still, like I said, there's still some whispers of it. It's mostly gone. Thank goodness. Like four years later now. But one of the, I guess you could say like silver linings of that just really devastating experience was that it somehow, I don't know what it did, but it somehow changed my neurology so that when I would take mushrooms, it was a really different experience. And I specifically remember this one day I was lying down, you know, taking some mushrooms and I was putting on my eyeshades and I was all ready to, you know, put on some music. And just go off into the light show and just become fractal energy. And I was all excited and it didn't happen. And it really, it was such a dramatic, just interruption of my usual process. It almost felt like, like I was getting in my car, like ready to, you know, ride off into the sunset or something like that and just have this beautiful. And instead, you know, I just hit a brick wall. It was like, what the fuck is happening? I cannot let go. I can't dissolve. I can't, you know, enter the fractal wonderland. And I remember I just, I ripped my headphones off and my eyeshades and I just sat up and I remember feeling just so discouraged. Like, is this the end of my, my own psychedelic kind of journey? And at this point I was already doing integration work with people. So I was like, am I done? Can I not do psychedelics anymore because of this lion's mane damage? And I was just sitting there just feeling like I can't trip. I can't trip. What am I going to do? And then I was just sitting there and I just thought, God, I'm really like here right now. Like this feeling of like the thoughts I'm thinking, you know, this, the, the textures in this room. I'm just, I'm just here. This is interesting. This is new. It's kind of like the whole, you know, shoveling the horse. It's these little surprise moments of, and then I remembered that Neem Karoli Baba story. It suddenly flashed into my memory. And I remember thinking, well, that's interesting. Cause I'd always heard this story. Okay. Ram Dass gave Neem Karoli Baba the LSD. Nothing happened. And then people debate, you know, did, did, was that apocryphal? Was it sleight of hand? Supposedly Ram Dass did it again and repeated the experiment. And who knows? But somewhere in my brain, there was this, I guess you could say kind of archetype of a guru or somebody who's, who's done a lot of spiritual practice who has taken medicine and, and has essentially nothing happening. And I thought, I wonder if, I wonder if something this lion's mane is somehow, um, almost like a blessing in disguise or sort of a happy accident. Maybe this is showing me a different way to work with psychedelics. Like maybe I was using them to buy, I mean, there were some insights, but maybe now I'm bypassing and maybe there's a different way to use them. That's just about being here. Well, I would say even the way you describe it, like I was sitting down and I was ready to take my journey and have the light show and go into frackle. It sounds, it feels that way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Totally. Yeah. And it was like, oh, the, I guess I have this instead. You lost that and gained the everything. Yeah. Exactly. I guess I'll just have the, yeah, the, the choiceless just isness at this moment. Fuck. Like, I guess I can't have, you know, I guess. So in the end, there were no mistakes, even the lion's mane. Yeah. Right. But then, so you mentioned that it ties into the gender thing because, so, so can you tell us about that as we sort of finish up? Like. Yeah. Although I still feel like I haven't finished going through the medicine. Oh yeah. Yeah. Oh boy. All right. Go for it. All these different push pins that I just want to make sure that we're not leaving too many threads. Like. Undone. Undone. Yeah. Hopefully people are still with us. It's like, it's like all these open parentheses that we need to kind of close for it. Yeah. Okay. So let's put a push pin. Yeah. There's a gender thing. There's a lion's mane thing. But I was talking about the unjourneying and, and working with these medicines in sequence and what they do with the unjourneying. And so basically, I mean, that, that was where this unjourneying thing came from. It's like, oh, maybe, maybe there was something to Neem Karoli Baba. Like maybe, maybe there is a way. And it happened to me a second time and it really solidified. I remember it is another funny setup where a friend of mine, a friend of mine invited me to do a flotation tank. Oh yeah. I've done that. And it was kind of framed again as this, Ooh, it'll be this special experience, you know? It was nothing. And well, I, I, I wanted to make it even more special. You can see how I wanted to. I was like, I'm going to take a little bit of just a gram. Yeah. Tiny. And it was so interesting because the same thing happened. And I lay down and I was already just to dissolve into the water, the ocean of contest and all this stuff. And I just felt really uncomfortable. And again, it felt like my brain has just hit a brick wall. I'm not tripping. Nothing's. And I just felt so frustrated. And so I was grieving, like I can't trip. And I got out of the flotation tank and I still had like an hour left or something like that. And I just sat, I was in this own private, my own private room. And I just sat like on the steps leading up to this flotation tank. And I was just listening to the hum of like a fan in the room. I'm just looking around. And again, it was the exact same thing. It was like, ah, damn, I can't trip. But here instead life is serving me this on a platter. It's just like, this is what's happening. Like just like the ordinariness. Yeah. And again, so that was really, that was kind of the end of me tripping. I feel like having the intention of tripping. Yeah. Or really journeying. And it was like, okay, this is what I'm going to do now. This is my new, my new path is, you know, in a sense, not going on a path. It's just, if I'm, if I'm working with medicine, it's going to be only to meditate with it, to just get closer and closer and closer and closer to this, you know? Um, and so that's what I started doing. So with, so what I find is with the 5MEO, and I think there's value in, in that having that full release, but then you start meditating with it and eventually, yeah, you get to the point where it's, it's just having less and less of an effect. You can take a fairly high dose. Um, and I had to kind of interrupt. I haven't fully finished. I have this longer term project of trying to get up to the highest dose as an experiment to see if I can still have essentially nothing happen. I got up to like, uh, what's, you know, people will know is like a one to four pen. It's like, it's generally considered like a moderate dose or what people call like a, a hug dose. Um, and like nothing happened, you know, it's like, okay, I feel like my heart. Yeah. My heart rates increasing a little bit, but there's no leaving the plane. It's just, it's just this. Um, and then, yeah, I had some other neurological stuff come up that that's a whole nother story. It's actually another really interesting one, but I'll save that for later. Um, and so then, so then you, yeah, you just, and eventually I almost feel, I hope this doesn't sound presumptuous or arrogant, but I feel like you can, you can kind of graduate from 5-MEO. Yeah. Cause with psychedelics, like I don't, I don't see psychedelics as, I mean, I think any medicine should, the goal of it should be to make itself unnecessary. It's a medicine. You shouldn't have to take a medicine indefinitely. Well, that's the thing when you get the message, hang up the phone sort of thing. Yeah. Yeah. Although I should say that quote is often taken out of context to mean like a one and done. Oh, it's not one and done. Right, right, right. Yeah. Cause there is an iterative. Yeah. Cause I think he also says like, like a microscope, you know, you, yeah, exactly. Yeah. And we should clarify that. Like people think this is a magical thing. Yeah. You'll do this once and you're fine. Oh, and it's definitely not. It's not like that. Yeah. Yeah. Um, but, uh, but yeah, so you can, if I can say so, like kind of graduate from 5-MEO where it's like, okay, I feel like I've learned the lessons from that. And now I'm going, I'm starting to work with it. NMDNT and I, NMDNT is, it's less like explosive. I find it's, um, especially with the, when you take it orally with the MAO inhibitor, it comes on slowly and you're in that experience for maybe like an hour or two, depending on the dose. And you can sort of do like a booster dose, kind of like taking a second cup of ayahuasca and, and, and control it that way, the experience or, or, um, the flow of it. But again, here's an interesting, there's a, there's a pivot point here or kind of a fork in the road where you can take NN, NN, kind of a tongue twister, NNDNT, and you can absolutely like, you know, see the, the, uh, you know, what do they call it? The machine elves, right? You know, you can, you can go into all the, the alien worlds and all this great stuff. Um, and I can, I can feel the pull of that. Like when I take it, when I started on journeying with it, you can almost feel this. It's like, it wants to pull you into this kind of interesting, almost like sci-fi trickster realm, or there's all sorts of, you know, you can like entities and things like that. But then there's this other unjourneying path that if I think when you somehow prepare your neurology to go down that other road, then something else happens where it feels like all of the, the entities and the dimensions and the fractal landscapes and the machine elves and all that sort of stuff kind of burns off just like a fog. And then all of a sudden it's just like blazing presence, just so intense, so vivid. Everything just, you just look around and the palpable sense of everything being conscious, being dreamlike. I mean, it's like when you read Lonchenpa, you know, it's like, it just feels like this Lonchenpa. It's just like pure Zogchen. And that's the high, I mean, it is the most direct. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And, and I want to say too, and this is, there's, there's like, I feel like each chapter of my life is framed by like a certain kind of brain damage that I had to heal from. It's like, there's a brain damage from a child. Maybe the Lyme disease is part of it too. So then I went into meditation, choreo. Okay. Psychedelics. Okay. And then there was the lion's mane brain damage, but then there's like, there's one other chapter of brain damage that I want to get to that also helped me to let go of the whole Zogchen thing, because I used to think Zogchen, oh, that's the highest, that is a crown jewel. You know, once you, once you really just, you know, and I would have these moments in, in the, well, in actually Ayahuasca when it was working for me, but also with the analogs where it's just, wow, everything is perfect. And there's almost this exuberance. And when I read Launch and Pie, I get like, there's, I feel like in those texts, at least in translation, there is a kind of exuberance of like, it's the primordial pristine, like it's so lively. And I, and I see it like when I was reading Launch and Pie and using an NDNT, it just felt like a complete sort of synchronicity or dovetail between these things. Like, I totally get it. Like everything is perfect. Everything is consciousness. Everything is radiant and pure and just like empty, but also, you know, full of its energy. It's shining, radiating. Unknowable. Yeah. Yeah. All those. Beyond the dualities. Yeah. All that stuff. It just hits so hard. And, and, and yeah, there can be a kind of high and excitement with that of just how it really is perfect. And in it, obviously we mean that in a sense of beyond. Beyond. Yeah. Beyond. Yeah. Beyond. Yeah. Perfect. But I feel like there is still, I would say a feeling tone to that, that, that is a kind of excitement of like, yeah, I know it's not perfect and perfect in the ordinary sense, but it's, it's perfect in this just the way it is sense, but there's still a sense of, and so perfect. Like there's still something there. Graspier. Of like, you want it to feel really perfect. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And, um, yeah, but anyway, you get, what I find is you keep working with the medicine and then you're on journey and journey and eventually, yeah, you're taking higher and higher doses of that medicine and you can just meditate. You can sit upright, eyes open, eyes closed, whatever is working. And it's doing less and less because you're just, again, plugged into the light socket of just this as it is. Yeah. And yeah. And then, so that's why I described it as a yoga teacher. Cause it feels to me, I mean, I was somebody who with all of my weird brain stuff, just totally disconnected from my body. So when I started taking yoga classes, going back to high school, um, there was this feeling of, wow, this is really helpful. Cause it's really plugging me into my body and just being here. So I feel like NNDMT when it's used in this on journeying way has this, yeah, it's this, it's this beautiful kind of glue that just like puts you, I guess, yeah, I like this, this light socket metaphor. It just plugs you into like right here, right now. And it's really radiant way. Okay. So then we get to, um, salvia, which is like, whoa, like just like a totally different animal. And I do think salvia it's, in some ways I'm, in some ways I'm really upset about the reputation it's accrued because it's so, you know, people have such a fear around it, but in some ways I'm, I'm glad that people are a little scared of it or maybe a lot scared of it because it is extremely powerful and it is really, really different than all the other psychedelics because it doesn't work on the same receptors. And I like to call it in this triad of the, the, um, massage therapist, the yoga teacher, and I call it the neuroscientist. So it's like, you know, yeah, you see your yoga teacher, you see your massage therapist. Now you're going to meet with a neuroscientist because I feel like it just, it just pulls back or unzips the, the nature, I don't want to say the nature of reality. That sounds so presumptuous. Like I know what that is, but, but just, it, it, it feels like it reveals very clearly the way that, uh, you know, apparently at least subjectively your mind is just really creating everything in the moment as, as it is. Um, and that there is no escape whatsoever. There is no control whatsoever. Like, like you cannot find, I mean, I never liked to make these sweeping statements. Like there's no self or there's no free will or anything, but it's just like, I can't find it. Like I really can't find a self, a controller. I can't find any volitional power in this experience. There is this subjective feeling of it's kind of choicelessly just each sensation is doing its thing on its own. Um, and Salvia makes that so clear, at least for me, it's just wild. And I think that, I mean, I just have pet theories about this because there's not a lot of research on it, but, um, so all of the psychedelics that I've mentioned so far, the NNDMT, the 5-MEO-DMT, they work on the serotonin receptors. Um, and specifically the, um, 5-HT2A is, is the main one. And I have this kind of pet theory about Zogchen and awakening that maybe a lot of what we usually classically refer to as awakening. And that's often sort of celebrated with all of these adjectives like pristine and open and bright and spacious. And is, is perhaps something that is some kind of optimization or enhancement of a certain kind of activity in the brain that's centered on these serotonin receptors. This is just speculative and that's just correlation, right? It's not causation, but, um, it just seems to me that when I, yeah, when I read the Zogchen texts, when I, uh, take these different medicines, it just all kind of aligns into what feels like this really radiant, precious, beautiful heart opening and emotionally sweeping with awe and wonder. And, uh, of just the texture of, wow, this experience like is just so, but there's a, there's a kind of rich, um, how can I say it? It's almost like, like a high def quality to it. It's like, there's still, I would say there a certain kind of investment in how, how high def, how, how, how, how high res, how vivid that experience is. And, and it feels like you're kind of on this path of trying to make it as, as vivid, as rich, as just spacious, as, as crystalline and perfect, like as possible. Um, and I feel like salvia doesn't give a shit about any of that. And that's why it's like, so refreshing in a way. It just, it's sort of like, it feels orthogonal. Um, and again, I don't, you know, nobody really knows exactly how it works, but it, it, there's some theories that it's, it's hitting these kappa opioid receptors and those are throughout the body, but the colostrum, which is a certain part of the brain that has sometimes been described again, some sort of speculatively as the conductor of consciousness. So it's this part of the brain where supposedly a lot of the, the sense gates and, uh, are, are, um, sort of bound together. And so what happens is salvia is you, you, you're sitting there and you're just watching in real time. Oh my God, the sense of time, the sense of space, the sense of self, the sense of the senses being separate, even, even the sense of, I would say there's, there's almost this global feeling of, you can feel how your mind likes to put a frame around this experience as I would describe it as sort of the, the known, the intelligible universe, I would say. Like, like if you imagine constructing this moment, like from scratch, like in your mind, it's like, let's just start with a complete blank space of just nothingness, no concepts. And then somewhere along the line, there has to be, again, this is speculation, but some sense of, okay, okay. The sense of the universe of meaning that I'm inhabiting in some ways, otherwise, you know, none of this would make any sense, even if it's just thoughts, feelings, sounds, textures, like without some binding sense of like, this is the known universe that I know to be familiar or intelligible. It just would be completely like unintelligible. It would just be like, not make any sense. Um, so Salvia seems to do something like with 5 Meo, even in the full release, it feels like it can dissolve all of your sensory experience into this kind of fractal energy explosion. But at least for me personally, even in those multiple really deep high release states, they're still intact somewhere in there, some sense of, oh yeah, my whole universe has dissolved. But that, that frame of like my whole universe is still there. Salvia dissolves that too. And it's really interesting. It feels like somehow it just takes the deconstruction to a deeper level to almost more of just that blank slate. Like it, it feels like you go from just sitting there and, and this is when you're still kind of journeying with it, right. Where it's like, um, when it first hits, especially at higher doses, you don't have a come up. It's like all of a sudden you're just in the experience and it can feel like you've entered a different universe. Um, or it can feel like your mind could create any kind of universe and you can have all sorts of strange experiences like, yeah, meeting aliens and things like that. Um, but then as it's, as you're coming down from it, you're starting to see the mind create the universe from this kind of raw material of just sensations. And it's like, oh, okay. The, the, the, the frame of the intelligible universe was not the frame of the, uh, infinite, um, time gods, you know, when you're in some mystical state, okay. I see how that frame is falling away. And now, okay. Here's the frame of the intelligible universe that I sort of know to be familiar to me and within that kind of meaning space. And then you kind of are coming in with, okay, here's time, here's space. Here's the sense of self. Okay. There's my vision sound. It's coming in. Oh, wow. I just witnessed like this moment of me just like sitting here looking at my cat constructed in my brain from scratch from almost like nothing. Um, and, and sometimes that can be like a cessation. You can actually, I mean, I've had my first cessation was on salvia. Um, and then you see the brain reconstructed or the mind kind of reconstructed. Yeah. Cause it sounds like that. It sounds like deep Vipassana cessation. Yeah. Stream entry. Yeah. Um, and so, so that's why I call it the neuroscience. It just feels like, whoa. And you can, it does just wild things with, with the sense of volition, the sense of time. And you can, you can experience time in slow motion. You can experience instant replays of the same sensory experience multiple times in a row. You can experience, you know, your hands and body doing things and have complete disconnect disconnect from any kind of sense of volitional control or agency. So you're just watching your body move as if it's not even you. And so all of these different things that we attach to like, you know, free will or a sense of volition, the sense of, um, this is my body that I'm controlling it. You know, it, it just, it breaks all those things down, um, and shows you that. And then the other thing that I find really interesting as I've been unjourneying with it is that's kind of the journeying stuff, um, is that it has this thing, I would describe it as like saliency where it just, this, there's a feeling that can come on of, oh, wow. The most important thing in the universe is happening like right now. And it's just so resonant and resounding. Um, and at first your, your mind can kind of get a little like, oh, I wonder what it's going to be. Maybe it's something in another universe or whatever. But as you keep meditating with it, it, it becomes clear that subjectively kind of the most important thing is this, like that there's nothing else that your mind should be paying attention to or even could be because attention at some point doesn't even make sense because there's nobody to direct your attention down to things are just happening. And it's just this, but that, that the sense of this hits, um, again, like it's, it's different than the Dzogchen, like perfection. It's more of just this almost, almost like helplessness, like this sort of surrender of, oh, wow. Like I used to think that I could, you know, really get, you know, be, get better and better at the Dzogchen thing or whatever. And I could go around and just have this pristine, crystalline kind of spacious experience all the time. But actually that was still, I was still wrapped up in the liberation story. And this is where I don't like liberation because there's still somewhere in there, somebody who wants to have a certain type of experience and somebody who thinks certain experiences are better than others. And he's trying to get the good experiences, the Dzogchen experiences, not the dualistic experiences. And Salvia just throws a wrench in all of that because it just, it feels like it just all coalesces into just this is-ness that isn't, doesn't necessarily have, it doesn't have any particular qualities other than the fact that it's happening. And that's where I think it really differs from Dzogchen and where it really differs from what's happening with the 5-HC2A receptors because it feels like a deeper letting go of having any dog in the fight in a sense of like, I want my experience to be like the Dzogchen experience or like the non-dual experience. It's just this, it's just, yeah, it's just this as exactly as it is. And maybe there's things in there that aren't non-dual. Maybe at that particular moment, you are completely stuck on a thought or maybe you feel like you're looking at your cat and there is an observer in that moment because you're making the sense of I'm over here and the cat is over there. But like Salvia doesn't care about any of that stuff because it's just showing you this is what's happening in this moment and you don't have any control over it. So if you thought that you were on some path to, you know, be a Dzogchen master or something like that, you've been kidding yourself this whole time because in that is already some sense of like a person who's controlling the experience who's on a path who is trying to get liberation or is trying to kind of optimize this certain kind of experience. And it's just whatever is happening, it's happening. Like the sensations are just doing what they're doing. And I think Salvia, that's why I think it's the last one to work with is it just, it just makes that so clear. And it's just, yeah, it's, it's a very helpful tool. It's the punchline to the cosmic joke actually. Yeah. Because it's like, okay, all of this in, yeah, yeah, yeah. So that's, that's my, I finally wrapped up that thread. Thank you for your patience of going through the medicines. Wow. And what they can do. Yeah. Thank you for listening. Oh no. Wow. Yeah. No, that's the tour de force master's class PhD level. And, and I have to say this because as a disclaimer, I mean, there's going to be a lot of the audience that are lost on some of that, but this, that is the full sort of sequence of what's on offer with these medicines in your experience. Now, some disclaimers, there are people who aren't, they're not ready for that full sequence or they have some history of mental illness or something else. And obviously those are pre-screening criteria that you don't do this because some of these realizations can be, again, co-opted by mind at some point later and turned into depersonalization or all the things that we talk about as the risks. And Michael Pollan is good in his book too, about talking about some of this stuff. But so to kind of contextualize that, now that all said, so you do work with clients with these different, the, the, the massage therapist, the yoga teacher, and what was the last? Oh, the neuroscientist. Yeah. Yeah. That's just my current formula. Maybe it'll, it'll probably change in another year. Everything's always changing in my practice. When you work with clients with this stuff, are they, do you find that these are the sort of more archetypal experiences that they might have, or is it unique to every single person? It is unique to every person. And I, I like to be really clear with people that I don't want to prescribe or frame in any way what experience you should have. I tell people, I don't want you to have my experience. I want you to have your experience. I want you to connect with your experience. What other experience can you have? Yeah. Right. As much as possible. Because sometimes that can be, I think, an issue in the non-dual space in particular, like certain non-dual teachers can talk, you know, perhaps so eloquently and effusively about how wonderful their experience is and their enlightenment. And then people have the sense of, well, I should have that experience. Yeah. And then they're not connecting to just what's happening. So I always, yeah, try to be clear with people that this, this is a framework that, that has worked for me. If you're interested, I can guide you through it, but also I don't want to assume that that's what you, what do you want to do? Right. And I don't have that expectation that clients have to be on board with my protocol as it is to work with me at all. Right, right, right. Because sometimes clients come in and yeah, maybe they're just not that interested in yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And so maybe trauma work. Yeah, maybe that's just where they're at. And maybe they don't, and I don't even want to assume that anybody even needs to know about non-duality, right? And that's the thing from that realization, there's a knowing that it doesn't matter whether you know it or not. In other words, there's a, there's a knowing that like the whole thing, the whole conceptual chase is not what you, not what we can think at all. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Hard to talk about that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then also there's this funny feeling of like, because sometimes these questions, there's a should hovering over it. It's like, should I do this or should? And then there's a funny realization of like, well, in some ways, should questions kind of become moot in a way because it's like, if everything is just happening as it is, there's not a decider who's sitting there weighing, should I do this or should I do that? It's just like each sensation is happening each half second or whatever. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And that's, that's interesting too. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah. Do you feel, do you feel resourced now at the end of this long, like, I mean, that was a tour de force. Like, I mean, that was comprehensive. Do you feel like talking about the gender identity? Yeah. Um, let me think. Well, maybe, maybe now would be a good lunch break. Yeah, we can do that. I feel like the two things. They're not really. Yeah, absolutely. And, and we can feel into how to do that. That's perfect. So we'll do an edit here. We won't, that part will stop and we'll go, okay, well, Mira Funk, we're back. We took a little break. We did. Cause you, okay. You went on a tour de force talking about medicines in a way that I've never quite heard. And while we were doing it, um, because I'm interested in this, like I want to, you know, there's a deep part of me that wants to experience this myself. There's a mix of like fascination and a kind of fear tone because you talk very openly about, you know, there can be these very challenging elements and there's a very precise science about how you set up the dosing and the delivery. And it's, you've had to work this out and you've have the community of people that are doing this together. And so feeling back into that conversation, it's like, Ooh, I could feel like I'm sure there are people in the audience who feel that bit of push and pull. Do you experience this also with clients who come to you and say, I want this experience, but I have some trepidation? Oh yeah, absolutely. It's almost a hundred percent. Someone will feel fear at some point. Even people who at the beginning are very eager and excited, you know, as we approach the actual day of the journey, there's, there's always some kind of fear. And I think it's, it's natural. I actually feel some trepidation as well for the journey because I don't know what's going to happen and the person doesn't know what's going to happen. I mean, I know what I've seen based on my clients, but there's always that potential for something, something new, something unexpected. And that's part of the, the work in a way is, is getting, getting acclimatized to uncertainty, right? And respect for the uncertainty. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I like is if you don't feel a little of that trepidation, I feel like you're not, you're not respecting what this is, which is the unknown. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's interesting. Even when I am working with a medicine that I've worked with many times and I've been doing this on journeying and I know that probably it's going to have very minimal effects because I've done so many previous doses. I still notice it's interesting. Sometimes as I'm about to take the hit, there's like the slight elevation of heart rate. And I just noticed that. So, that's so interesting. Look at that. There's still some, some part of my nervous system that's like, oh boy, what's going to happen? You know? So, I think that's par for the course. Like, I mean, yeah. And I have many friends and colleagues who are deeply experienced psychonauts. And we, we often share that there's, there's, yeah, every time you take a journey, there's, or an unjourney, or however you're working with it, there is still that, that wild card. Right. But that's, that's also life, right? I mean, really every moment is a kind of wild card. And I'll say one thing, like my own experience with say psilocybin, like when I was young and it's a recreational kind of thing, there was something called a bad trip. And that bad trip would have been challenging. And, and, and, you know, from the standpoint of the, of the intent of the journey, which was to have a great time, to trip out, to have this experience. And I think a lot of people listening will relate to this. You know, they may, they may have tried this in college and had some experience where it was traumatic. Yeah. Because, but, but now it's interesting. There is the fear component, but you're almost seeking, you want to be shown whatever is there, whatever's to be shown. And if that's something challenging, now it feels like challenging. It doesn't feel like, oh my gosh, oh gosh, you know, I'm having a bad journey. It's like, no, this is what it is. Yeah. And that's something that came with some maturity for me, just my own experience with that. But, so it is so much of the, like, what you're calling integration and integration for you. We've talked offline about this. It's not necessarily just integrating after the fact it's integrating before the fact. Yeah. Yeah. Setting that momentum. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. I find, I mean, integration, psychedelic integration, it's, it's a big kind of umbrella of a lot of different modalities and a lot of different therapists plug in their favorite modalities. So people will do, you know, psychodynamic or mytho, poetic, Jungian, what else? Yeah. Mindfulness. I mean, all these different sort of alphabet soup of therapies. You can, you know, IFS or EMDR, whatever people are, which is great. I mean, it's great that the people are being creative. Um, for, at least for the way that I do the integration with this focus on non-duality, um, I often, I often sort of prioritize the, the, um, front end integration, like more than the backend, because I feel like if there's a lot of focus on the backend or that's the primary focus, sometimes that can be about making a story out of the experience and then it can become, yeah. People talk about meaning making and that's sort of a slippery word because that can be something that you get attached to. Like people can come out of a, an experience saying, oh, now I know this is the purpose of my life or this is the truth of the universe or something like that. And they can get attached to that. And then it's sort of setting themselves up for this bubble to burst at some point into this disappointment of, oh, that's not what it is. Cause reality is always one step ahead of you. So, so this is so important because like, even, even with certain journeys I've had, like say ayahuasca, I, I, at the time it was just what it was. Then afterwards the story started to coalesce out of it, which was, oh, this is about those closest to me. It's about a heart opening. It's about this energetic opening to family, whatever it was, that story. And then if something happens, so then the new identity is formed as the one who had this story about this experience that had this meaning for the person. Then when something happens that is, that challenges that in real life, the cognitive dissonance is, is the definition of suffering. You just go, oh, what happened? What happened to my beautiful experience about this and my story about this? Yeah. Yeah, exactly. And, and I, I feel like I, I know these different arcs because I've experienced all, like almost every psychedelic mistake or integration mistake that you could possibly make. I feel like I have personally made. That's awesome. At some point. And so what I try to do with my clients is try to say, Hey, I have made all the mistakes so that you don't have to, so I can help you, you know, sidestep around that pothole or that chasm so that you can, you know, get to the, just this faster basically. And that, that's, I'm so glad you said that because what we were talking about earlier, where you were going into very exquisite detail about these experiences that you've had and also experiences with your clients. There are people who will watch and go, well, I don't want that to happen like this particular, but it's like, no, no, this is, was your experience really fleshing out how this works. And by making those, what we call mistakes, but they weren't really mistakes. Right. Yeah. Um, now it's like, and that's why when I connected with you, I was struck by your sense of, first of all, the deep presence that's there, but the, the expertise that's there because you've done it and when, and you'll talk openly about, okay, so this happened. And then I, that was not a good thing to do. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I've made a lot of, a lot of those. Yeah. Um, yeah. And it's, and it's nice cause I can, I can talk to clients openly about, yeah, like this, you know, I did it this way one time and it really wasn't effective or it created this dysphoric outcome and that's why we're going to do it differently. Yeah. Right. Um, or just things I've seen out in the community or with other guys and things like that. Um, so I, yeah, so I usually, I'm a little bit unusual in that when I guide people through my integration protocol, which is usually around six sessions, I usually do most of those beforehand. So there's a lot of focus on the front end and that's because the focus of at least how I work is not that we're going to spend a lot of time journaling and meaning making the purpose of your life, et cetera, et cetera, all your values, like afterwards, it's more about learning how to let go moment by moment into the blazing mystery of this experience, whatever this is. Um, and so what do you can really get accustomed to doing that? Like even before the medicine, then when the medicine arrives, the energy of all the images, whatever the phantasmagoria, even all the fractal, whatever it is, you can just let go of that. And then when it's over, you're just eating your berries or whatever, just like taking a walk. You know, there's not this kind of rumination of gosh, well, when I was in my journey, I felt like I met God and God told me, you know, X, Y, and Z, but I don't know what that means. And I know that that doesn't get you anywhere, at least for me, because I went through that. Like I went through so many experiences where I felt like I met entities. I felt like I was receiving some kind of download of the ultimate truth of the universe, et cetera. And in every single case, of course, right. How could it be otherwise? I was wrong. You know, like I was always, always wrong. Whatever I thought was the meaning of whatever, it always falls apart because it's just, it's like trying to build a house of cards on like a river. It's just, you know. So, so, so. Yeah. Listen to what she's saying. Okay. This is actually the central thing, which is we're, we're, as humans, we're meaning seeking creatures because it ties back ultimately, I think to identity and our continuity and time and all of this. But ultimately what you're pointing at is any realization that can be beautiful. Oh, I have oneness with everything. You know, it can be the next moment superseded by whatever is happening. Yeah. Yeah. And so the, the definition even of truth in that way becomes like what it's, whatever's happening. Right. Right. Exactly. Yeah. So, yeah. Um, but we should talk about safety. I want to, and, and, uh, you know, now that we've had the break, we have a few items we're going to try to just circle back, circle back to, to clarify some things for people and expand on a few things. So, so yeah, I do want to say a few things about safety. And, um, I also want to say to you, I know I talk openly about these. Ways that I have inflamed or, or, or damaged my nervous system. And I can understand people being like, oh my God, I'm never going to do psychedelics because this person is supposed to be an expert and they've clearly just, you know, screwed themselves over by, by, uh, breaking their brain. So why would I ever do? So I want to explain that a little bit. Like first, first of all, like my first instance of, of, of, of, you know, some kind of neurological damage or some kind of trauma to my brain was a seizure I had when I was a child that had absolutely nothing to do with psychedelics. That happened when I was eight years old. And I feel like that sort of set the stage for a lot of, yeah, just the way that I am and a lot of my spiritual yearnings because it just, it just really experientially disconnected me from my senses, from my body. Um, I was just really different after that. It was very, very traumatic in a way that I didn't even realize until actually some later work with psychedelics that actually, where I relived that experience, which is kind of interesting. Viscerally relived. Yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah, for sure. It was like a childhood trauma that I'd never unpacked. And I kind of realized, oh my God, like that was really, that really, yeah, shaped who I am so much. And I think it's the reason that I felt, I mean, there's other reasons too with my family, but, but I think that this, this just feeling of, of being, when I was a kid, I always felt kind of almost like a broken robot. Like there's something wrong with my brain. I can't focus. I can't be present. I can't be in flow. And I really think that it had a lot to do with that, um, that, that injury. Uh, I mean, yeah, when I talked to my mom and kind of piece, put the pieces back together, I was a very different kid, like before that experience. And then after, and a lot of the symptoms that I have struggled with for a lot of my life, like cognitive symptoms, brain fog, um, neuroinflammatory symptoms, like they all kind of go back to that time. Um, and there's also this kind of wild card of like this Lyme, which I know is kind of controversial. Like we talked about, like some people don't think chronic Lyme. Right, right, right. The thing I have been formally diagnosed with it recently. So that's kind of something I'm exploring. Like, yeah, is it, I know that can, can it's arguable, but show up as neurological symptoms for people. Yeah. And so, yeah, you know, I spent a lot of time in the woods in Adirondacks when I was a kid. Like, did I get bitten by a tick? Is that part of why my head feels like it's on fire almost all the time and has since I've been a child? I don't know, you know, but so anyway, I just want to be clear with people that like, none of that has anything to do with psychedelics. Um, nor does the, the, I would say the second instance, which is the lion's mane. Lion's mane is not a psychedelic. Right, right. I want to be clear about that. It's a medicinal mushroom, like reishi, like turkey tail. And yeah, it's just something that's not known by people. Cause it's just, it's widely promoted as just like a memory booster, cognitive enhancer. And I thought, yeah, I saw Stamets stuff. Um, you know, like a lot of people would just get on Google, read like a health line article and think, okay, this sounds safe. And I thought I'd done my homework and I tried it. And, um, yeah, little did I know it's, it's like Russian roulette for certain people and nobody knows why, but it just completely. Yeah. Changed my brain in this really devastating way for at least a couple of years. I mean, as I said earlier, I still feel like there's some lingering symptoms, but you know, it's been four years and it's like, I hope maybe in another four years, it might be totally gone. I don't know. We'll see. I want to reflect for a second because I know that's, um, the internal experience and I can just reflect that like when I interact with you and we've known each other for just day or two now in person, like there's a, there's a presence and a sharpness that would, one would never know that that was your internal experience. Yeah. I get that a lot. Um, and I think it's maybe I've overcompensated. Like, I think, I think for a lot of my life, I think this is true, probably up through. Yeah. Like grad school and beyond. Like, I, I feel like I always have had attentional issues or just sort of brain problems, just problems. Yeah. Focusing or just being, just being really awkward and receiving feedback from so many past like partners and family members. I'm just like, you're in the way or just this feeling of like, I'm not in the flow of conversations or situation. They're just putting my foot in my mouth or just like stepping on people's toes. Cause I'm just clumsy. Just being really out of it essentially. Huh? Um, and I think I've, because that has impacted my relationships like so much because people have perceived me and this is true of a lot of people with ADHD. Like there's a, there's a component where it can be perceived as almost like a moral deficit because it's like, Oh, you're not totally here. So you must not care about me. Yeah. You're selfish. Cause you're obviously just in your head and you're not. And it's like, no, I really want to be. I just feel like there's this, this like pervasive fog. And I still, I mean, I can feel it right now. It's like, it's like this really weird sensation. It feels like somebody has stuffed my brain with cotton balls and like put a bunch of cayenne pepper in my head and it's just like burning cottony feeling. And I felt that ever since I've been eight years old. Wow. Um, but, but yeah, I think I've, I think I've almost in some ways made it part of the purpose of my life to kind of overcome that, to actually be present because I felt, yeah, I felt like being just present, you know, with a person has been like clawing up a waterfall my whole life because everything about my neurology is always wants to take me into this dissociative kind of fog. And so I feel like I've gotten maybe good at masking, I think, to a certain extent. Um, but also I will say that the, the, um, and this is, you know, speaking positively about the medicines, like, like the medicines have for the most part, I would say really helped in terms of reducing the inflammation in terms of increasing the level of presence. Um, and yeah, and moving into the kind of non-dual shift, I feel like, yeah, just coming out of that cocoon of, of just separate selfhood also just really opened up a lot of new presence for me. Yeah. Ah, so. You know, I, I'm just feeling into, there's so many people in the audience who suffer with similar symptoms, whether it's Frank ADHD. Yeah. And the questions are always, how can I be on this path when I can't, it just feels indescribably chaotic or, and here you are saying. Psychedelics. That's how you can get on the path. More or less, you know, but muscle, manno. Yeah. No, exactly. I mean, that, that there is. Yeah. Like, this is not gonna. So in other words, first of all, it's doable. Second of all, like, and when I, when I was talking about the sense of presence around you, it, it, um, I should clarify it. It's not the typical social sense of presence. It's an energetic sense of presence. So, and it's very powerful. And I think that's all the work that's, well, I don't know what it is, but if I just know the outcome right now. Yeah. So it's really quite beautiful to be in that presence and feel seen. Oh, thanks. Yeah. Because you know, because you're feeling seen, like I feel seen and it, and that. So if you were talking about, well, you know, people would say in relationships, ah, yeah, you're not here and you don't care. And I know that I, I, I'm a little that way. My, I have friends that are much more that way, but you know, they're such loving, caring people. Um, it's just so beautiful to experience then. Okay. So with all the journey, unjourneying and journeying that you've done, like here we are in presence. Yeah. Yeah. And I do want to say that as an encouragement to people that if, if yeah, folks are feeling like I'm, I'm out of it. I, and I get messages like this all the time. I feel like my brain is broken or I just can't be present. I'm in this fog. Like, yeah, I don't, I don't want to say these are panaceas or silver bullets, but I will say that like, definitely, I mean, these medicines do have a very powerful anti-inflammatory effect and neuroplasticity effect. And sometimes they can really make profound differences. And for me in particular, the, the NNDMT, especially when combined with the, the harmoline, it's some kind of magic sauce. I don't, I can't explain exactly what it's doing. I know that the MAO inhibitors are anti-inflammatory as well. Um, but it just, it feels like the first time I ever took ayahuasca, I almost could feel, I mean, this sounds kind of extravagant. I don't know if this was actually happening, but at least subjectively, it felt as if some kind of old damage in my brain was like repairing itself in real time. Yeah. It almost felt like there were all these connections in my brain that were just kind of like this, just kind of like, just not really functioning. And all of a sudden on that medicine, I just felt this like that. It was like, whoa, like I just, I couldn't even believe it. Like in the moment I just thought, oh my God, this is what I've been missing my whole life. I feel totally connected to my senses, to my body, to this moment in this way that I've never felt before because it's felt like those connections have just been gummed up with, I don't know what. Like a stable dissociation. Yeah. It's just, and those changes have been, I want to say like long lasting and even I would say permanent. Like there's certain experiences I've had on these medicines that have just completely changed my perception where I feel like I have more flow and presence. It feels very natural that I'm not clawing up a waterfall, trying to mask, you know, to kind of fit in, that it just feels like, oh, this is, my brain actually just works better now. Yeah. Because of these medicines. Yeah. So I really want to say that to people. Like if you feel like your brain is broken or you feel like you can't, you know, meditate, people tell me all the time, I can't possibly meditate. It's like really consider psychedelics. Like they can really change your brain and in these ways that, that heal damage and inflammation and might allow you to have presence that feels more, more effortless, you know. And in, in, of course, working with a trained guide. Yeah. The evaluation and everything. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Beautiful. So, so yeah. So the only time I'm trying to think of the other, when I talk about the brain damage. So there's the whole lion's mane thing, which is just kind of a mystery. Nobody knows what's going on there. Really? Yeah. I mean, some people say, I mean, this is all just spec and you can get on Reddit. People have all sorts of theories. It's like, is it, is it, you know, increasing the nerve growth factor or the, I think the BDNF is the other, the other factor. Like so much so that maybe your, maybe your brain is growing in ways that it's not supposed to. And it sort of grows at some malformed connections. I don't know, but it just, yeah. My, my brain was very, um, uh, inhibited or, or sort of, um, what's the word I'm looking for? Impaired for like a long period of time. And, and there's lots of stories of similar things, especially linguistic stuff. When you get on Reddit, like people talk about, it's like, yeah, I hear this word, but I think this word, or I can't, you know, I can't read anymore. Yeah. It's like, it does something. And that's an oral you're taking. Yeah. So I really want to, you know, if we're talking about safety, beware lion's mane. I do want to say that. And this is not something that you hear. I mean, you can go to any, any like natural food store in the United States and they're going to have some lion's mane and stuff, even now just mainstream grocery stores. And there's no warning label. And you could really, I mean, if you have a sensitivity to it, there are stories of people who have taken just like one capsule and it's like, they're on Reddit saying it's been three years and I'm still really struggling. I only took a very small number of doses. I think it was like, I don't know, a dozen capsules or something like that over a period of some months. Like, so that's something I want to say safety wise, be careful. It's probably not worth whatever benefits you think you're going to get from it. It may not be worth the risk. Like, let's think about it. What else do I want to say about safety? Well, one just clarification point I wanted to say from earlier, I mentioned something about how salvia is really potent. And I was mentioning the micrograms. And I wanted to just clarify when I say that I'm talking about salvanorin A, which is the psychoactive ingredient. So salvia itself, when you acquire it, it's a leaf. It's usually dried. It's usually sold in extracts. But the actual ingredients, which, you know, it's kind of a very specialized thing to actually extract the actual salvanorin and work with it that way. But that's when you're working with those really tiny kind of microgram levels. Um, yeah. So let's see. So the only time that, so, so, yeah, I don't want to scare people about it. It's like, it's not the psychedelics that have been hurting me, but I will say the only time that I've had problems with, with psychedelics that seem to be exacerbating things or causing issues. Um, it, it, I have had some cases of that. And, and these are, they seem to be very, very unusual and very kind of idiosyncratic to me because I, I've talked extensively with like Dr. Ben Malcolm, a medical consultant about some of these things. And, you know, he talks to people all the time about psychedelic safety and even he was scratching his head. Like, I've never heard of these kinds of reactions. And so the reactions I have had that have been, you know, problematic or seem to be harmful is when I did ketamine, that was a one and done thing for me. I don't know why, but it, this, this brain fog inflammation problem I've had since I was about eight years old. When I took ketamine, it really flared up. I don't know why, but it really increased and it was for about a month. It was just really. Some idiopathic reaction to it. Yeah. Yeah. And then I've also had that with ayahuasca, not with the analog, which is why I use it. But for some reason, the brew, why is that? I don't know. Right. Is it something, you know, is it, is it. And everybody's unique. Yeah. Is it like the mold? Cause I, cause I also have this weird thing with like any kind of mushrooms, especially the medicinal mushrooms. It seems to be, I have a sensitivity. So it's like, do I have a mold allergy? I don't know. But then the last thing that happened, and this would be, well, an interesting segue to another kind of story I want to tell about, yeah, about sort of like awakening and about non-duality and in some ways getting over non-duality, I guess, like my fetish for non-duality. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So this is actually fairly recent. It happened just, well, yeah, in 2023. So just last year, I was working with 5-MeO DMT and I had this inflammatory reaction to it. Kind of like with the ketamine, but it was, it was different and it was more intense and I'd never had that before. And again, why does that happen? Like, I've never seen this with any of my clients. I've never heard of this in the community. I've asked, I have a very peculiar neurology. Physiology. I don't know why that is. So when people are hearing saying like, oh my God, this might happen to me. It's like, I'm probably just like a very strange edge case. Like, please don't think that if you take 5-MeO, you're going to have some inflammatory reaction. Yeah. You know, I've heard things anecdotally, like if someone has MS, that 5-MeO can be exacerbating. I've heard things anecdotally about if someone has Lyme. So could it be that? I don't know. But the fact is that, yeah, like last year I took a fairly small dose of 5-MeO and I had this inflammatory reaction that lasted for about, this time it was about a year. The lion's mane was about two years in the peak of it. This one was about a year. And it was, I'm not going to lie. It was hell. Like it was really bad. And the reason it was so bad is that it was doing something to my serotonergic system. And the reason I, I mean, I don't know for a fact, but subjectively the reason it felt that way, I'm pretty convinced it was, is because I feel like I'm very sensitive to knowing when my serotonin system is working well and when it's not. And that goes back to high school. Because when I was really depressed in high school, I was put on Effexor. And as people may know, Effexor is one of these really notorious SSRIs that when you start to come off of it, you can just have horrible withdrawals. And my withdrawals were just nightmarish, which is interesting. Even back then in high school, I was having, you know, I have strange reactions. Yeah. Right. But I remember, yeah, like coming off of Effexor, I just felt so dysphoric and it felt like this chemical dysphoria in my brain that just felt, I just, it felt like neurologically, I just cannot enjoy my life. I just feel absolutely horrible. That same feeling, and it was a very familiar feeling, like just some of the weird prickly headaches, you know, not exactly the lightning headaches people talk about, but somewhere in that genre and some weird nausea. But basically for about a year, I, for the most part, was just, this was last year, was just like really dysphoria, like experiencing this like very persistent dysphoria. And it was after this, this 5-MeO inflammatory thing. And yeah, it was really hard. I mean, it would sort of come in waves. Like sometimes I would have a, you know, a really bad day where the inflammation really kick up and there were certain exacerbating factors, like knocking up sleep or sometimes if there was wildfire smoke, you know, I live in Oregon and I'd be, you know, inhaling some of that. It seemed to really kick it up high. Sometimes it would, you know, every once in a while I'd have a better day. But it was a really, really interesting spiritual sort of like trial by fire, like crucible. And because basically I, what I realized, I mean, I, I spent that whole, like, I don't know, maybe the first three quarters of that year, just almost in grief because it was this feeling of I've, I've messed up my, I don't know what's happened, but I've messed up my brain. Maybe I can never do 5-MeO again. And also at a deeper level, this feeling of, because I'm feeling so sort of just at a, at a neurological neurotransmitter level, so dysphoric, it also felt like it really blocked my access to just some of the familiar phenomenology of non-duality. Because at that point in my non-dual journey, my non-dual process of unfolding, I feel like I'd gotten to some kind of point where it sounds silly to say this in retrospect, but it's true, where I feel like I kind of pat myself on the back a little bit, like, yeah, I got the whole non-duality thing. I'm pretty much in this more or less, you know, persistent state, you know, in an everyday basis where everything just feels kind of like dreamlike and, and, you know, immaterial and sort of the feeling of the emptiness and the simultaneous fullness and the radiance and all these things, you know, it's almost like a cliche, like these keywords we talk about. That was my lived experience. And I felt like, okay, like I've arrived. It sounds ridiculous, right? Yeah, it's very kind. I've got the non-duality prize. That's my lived experience. Seeking, done. Yeah. And even, you know, it's like, okay, I'm feeling, I can feel these different emotions. I can feel them as energy, all this sort of stuff. So I got this. And, and, and I had become sort of acclimatized to these certain aspects of my phenomenology, just being, being available. Right. And then comes in this like unexpected tidal wave of this inflammation. That's what I'm calling. I don't know if that's what it was, but just based on talking with various doctors, it seems consistent with some kind of neuroinflammatory flare up. And all of a sudden, some of that stuff is still intact, but like a lot of it is not there as much because that, that sense of just the effortless, blissful, radiant presence of being, you know, that we always talk about non-duality, not there so much when your brain is just like so inflamed that your neurotransmit, your serotonin system is, is dysregulated. And so I actually just felt really like the sense of heaviness and, and darkness and separation and cloudiness. It felt like a huge loss. Oh yeah. Like grief, grief, grief. Yeah. Yeah. Like, oh my God, you know, is this, have I, have I lost it now? I thought I got, got awakened right now. And I'll interrupt for one second because there are people who without any drugs have had this exact experience. The, I had it and I lost it sense of that. Yeah. Yeah. Continue. Yeah. Um, and yeah, a lot of stuff was still there, but it was just, yeah, it was, and so I had this feeling of, I've, you know, I've lost it, but then there's still this, you know, with any fear comes, comes the flip side of the hope to kind of counterbalance it, but, but I'm going to get back up on my feet. I know if I, maybe it'll take, you know, a year, maybe I, maybe I need to try some other medicines or maybe I need to get this treatment or maybe it'll just go away and I'll get back. And so I kind of, in, in my grief and in my suffering, I still was holding onto this future vision of the more enlightened me who was kind of back to where I was, like, I'm going to get it, get it back again. Um, and then something happened one day I was just sitting in meditation and it's interesting when these things happen. And I, I'm generally like, I would say a terrible meditator, like when you think about people who are just the spiritual athletes who just, you know, just get in that flow or they can just go into the jhanas and all that sort of stuff. I, because of, I think probably just all these brain things that I went through as a kid, I just, yeah, meditation was always just like a slog for me. Yeah. Um, never had any facility for it, but I just hung in there. No one can relate to that. Yeah. It was hour after hour, you know, day after day, retreat after retreat. Um, and yeah. And then it's interesting, you know, I always thought maybe I always needed psychedelics to have something come up, but then sometimes things do happen, just a meditation. Um, and now, I mean, now meditation feels much more effortless, but it took many years and hours and the medicines to help. But, um, but anyway, I was just sitting there meditating and it was interesting. I, I was, I was feeling, it was a particularly bad day of inflammation. So I was feeling the dark clouds of like this just neuroinflammatory dysphoria and the heat and the pain and the headaches and everything. And just sitting there and just having this sense of just like, uh, you know, like this is so horrible. Like, when am I going to get back to the kind of goodies of non-duality that I was so familiar for, for several years of just like resting as awareness. Um, and then something just, I don't know what it was. Something just unlocked for me where I just, it just hit me. I just, it was very gentle. It wasn't like a big realization, but it just hit me. Oh, huh. That's funny. I like, yeah, I'm not, I can't check all these little boxes of all the adjectives that we usually associate with the non-dual experience at this moment. And, but I'm still here, like having this experience and I'm still kind of aware that I'm having this experience. And I'm also becoming aware that I'm attached to this experience, having a particular quality to it. Like I would, if I had my druthers, I would really prefer for this experience in this moment to be more non-dual than it feels because non-duality is clearly better than like everything else. Right. And so all of that just kind of came up and I thought, huh, that's interesting. It's interesting. This moment is somehow continuing on, even though I'm not having the experience that I want, that I was conditioned myself to. So, so that was just really interesting. And I basically, I guess in a nutshell, I feel like what happened to me is that I lost interest in happiness. This is, this is a nail biter for me because I love this stuff. Yeah. Yeah. So it sounds like a really, I mean, I'm sure a lot of people would be like, what? Oh no. Keep going. Yeah. And it, it, it, life like this, this year had to just bring me to my knees and beat me into the ground for me to even begin to go to that place. Because of course, I mean, of course it feels, it feels so, I don't want to say it's innate because I think it's also very socialized, maybe even particularly in the West, like this sort of thing of the individual happiness. Yeah. Pursuit of happiness. Pursuit of happiness. Right. But yeah, I just realized like, oh, like, yeah, I've been kind of, you know, at some level just really focused on trying to be happy. Like, and, and my spiritual practice has also been subsumed under that. Like, and, and I realized too, that within so many spiritual circles, um, even within non-duality, there is, that word is sprinkled around a lot. And so then you encounter these words like liberation or like, I mean, people will say things in the non-dual space, like, oh, our natural state is happiness or is bliss. Um, or people will frame and kind of, it's almost a salesmanship around non-duality because her salespersonship, I just said. And a spiritual perfectionism. Yeah. Because it's like, if you're a spiritual teacher and people are coming or watching your YouTube channel or whatever, they want, you know, there's some sense of like, well, why should I follow this person? What am I going to get out of it? Right. And so if somebody is saying, well, I can promise you that if you do, you know, my method, you're going to achieve liberation from suffering in this lifetime, because I have, because I don't suffer. I mean, this is a, this is a very common sales pitch that we see. Um, and I, I think I bought into that and yeah. And so I, I think that there was a part of me that still was invested, had, had a dog and in my, my, the fight of my practice, because I wanted to have a good experience for myself. I wanted to be happy. I wanted to be free from suffering and yeah, it's just interesting. I mean, to go for a year where, where happiness was almost impossible. It was taken. It was taken from me. It's just like my brain just couldn't produce those chemicals. Like, like the serotonin was just gone there. And so it just sort of revealed itself to me. Oh, that's just another conditional experience to crave. I mean, not just happiness in general or feeling good, but also, I mean, people might disagree, but I would say a lot of the non-dual phenomenology that is so fetishized as sort of the be all end all thing. It's another conditional experience that, and, and, you know, and, and I think it's interesting that a lot of people in non-dual space throw around these words, like the happiness independent of conditions or the unconditioned. And I think people, this is just my personal opinion. Like, I think people use those words, not realizing how fragile actually that state is. Like if you take, I mean, a lot of people who make those kinds of claims, I would say appear to have incredibly privileged lives in terms of usually being like white and male and cis and living in a certain amount of material comfort and also having a certain amount of just health. But I wonder like, yeah, I mean, if you take somebody who claims that they're experiencing some kind of unconditioned happiness and all of a sudden they have a traumatic brain injury or they have some kind of neuroinflammatory disorder, like that, that can be taken away from you. You know, it is conditional. And, and Ram Dass has spoken of this with his stroke and Adyashanti has written about this and yeah. So it's really, yeah. So I kind of just, I mean, it sounds really simple in a way like, oh, you know, attached to happiness, but I don't, I don't think I ever saw it so clearly that I really, yeah, I was invested in non-duality because I wanted to get to some point where I wasn't suffering anymore. Isn't that what we're, isn't that what this is all about? I mean, isn't that what Buddhism, it's like liberation from suffering. Why if what we're doing is I want to be free from suffering. Right. Yeah. And so, but I would, I say that life, I want to, you know, encourage people. I think life gets much more interesting when you're not interested in happiness anymore. By the way, I don't think people have this conversation, you know, in spiritual circles. It's almost a taboo. Yeah. That, that the end of the road, first of all, there's no end. And second of all, happiness is not the carrot dangling at the end. Yeah. Yeah. Because when, when happiness becomes, you know, it was impossible for me at a certain point, then it's like, well, what is, what I'm interested in? I'm interested in connection. Yeah. So tell me what's interesting. What's interesting about this without, let's say happiness drops away. Connection. The connection is interesting. Like just, and, and, and there's, there's sort of two layers to this because there's, you could reframe the spiritual path as, okay, I'm not chasing after some particular state. I'm just really dropping into as deep a connection as possible with whatever is happening in whatever form. And that could be, yeah, it could be that you're, you have, you know, just food poisoning and you're vomiting and you're just completely connected to noticing all the minute sensory details of that experience. It could be that you are having this really deep non-dual drop in and you're noticing how that feels. Or it could be that you've just been triggered from a childhood memory and you're in your ego and you're feeling that separation and you're also connected to that experience, but you're not privileging any as the, the thing. Now that's still a kind of practice as I describe it. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But what I, what I find is it seems like the limit of that is, is the slow collapse of there, there being any spiritual practice because still there's some kind of something predicated in there, some kind of assumption that I might have some kind of control right within there to pursue happiness or not pursue happiness. Like there's still a construction of a spiritual agent and they're doing a spiritual practice. And that it's not okay as it is. Right. And it needs some change. Yeah. Or that you, or that it even can be different. It can be different than it is. Like I don't, it doesn't feel like it can be. Which is the root delusion. That could be wrong, but. Right. Yeah. That's the thing is you can't know anything. Yeah. Right. And this is where I think, yeah. So, so yeah. So I, and I, as I try to say in this, in all these conversations, like I'm not trying to say that any of these things like non-duality is somehow now to be, you know, tossed out just like Vipassana. It's like, well, how can we integrate all these things? And if, if, you know, we start off provisionally as the practice being connection, deepening connection, um, that immediately helps get it, you know, sort of limit bypassing, right? Because then it's not about trying to, you know, cut off the fear of death or, or not have any fear or to only experience positive states or all these things. It's actually just experiencing what you're experiencing as deeply as possible. Vipassana is awesome as a practice at doing that in your body, but I would say it's not enough because, because Vipassana doesn't necessarily, it doesn't, um, allow for this deep, like it doesn't connect me necessarily to like this water bottle, for example. I mean, yeah, I can do a sort of, you know, intensive Vipassana meditation on it, but, but with a non-dual dropping of the walls, all of a sudden everything is connected and you can even try these things on as different lenses, right? It's like, okay, I can do Vipassana. Okay. I'm here. That's over there. But then I can drop the subject object. Okay. Now everything is just this unified experience. And that's another kind of connection. And so now I'm connected to my body and my emotional experience and also just the inanimate objects in the room because they're not actually objects. They're all just the warp and weft of the fabric of this experience. And, but then I would say there's, it feels like there's something else because if there, if there's some feeling of, okay, now I'm this spiritual adept who can sort of, um, very masterfully slip between these different lenses. Oh, look, I can try this one on. I can, I can be the non-dual state. There's still some sense of control or some sense of doer. And so what I find is, and this is where, this is why I'm so interested in Salvia is because I feel like the DMTs are really, really good at getting you into the non-dual stuff. But I think that you could get stuck being attached to that. And Salvia, at least for me, it feels like it just takes you into the, whatever is happening in whatever form and, and just reveals that there is no control. There is no, like spiritual practice itself just feels absurd because it's still, there's still some sense there of someone who is chasing after something. And so the liberation, like awakening, like all this sort of thing that starts to kind of fall away because it's like, literally, it's just like, there's a visual sensation of this microphone and there's a feeling of like warmth in my chest right now. And there's a feeling of pressure in the chair and, you know, there's the resonant sound of my voice happening right now. And that's like, that's it. It's just the sensations are doing what they're doing. And there's no, there's no sort of ghost in the machine in there. He was like the little, you know, kind of homunculus, like controlling it. Well, and I'm going to reflect for a second on what, because I mean, this is it. When you talk about these medicines in that way, it really strikes me that this is how I perceive the kind of series of, and it's not really a series and it's not in time, all that, but let's speak like humans because what else are we going to do? Um, it's like, yes, there's the, okay, there's the, the, the, the, the, the sort of subtle realm and the, you know, the body and the psychic realm on it. Then there's the not the, the like emptiness and you can, the witness, which you talk about where you're just, everything's happening in you and the identity shifts to like, you know, this whole thing. But then what you're pointing out at this salvia level is the collapse of the witness into everything that is just as it is without a doer, without a subject. And it's all just happening and there's no value judgment on it. There's no self and no lack of self. There's, you know, it's like the heart sutra. Yeah. I'll take it even one step further. It's like, those things might be arising, but there's still a sense of you can't control that either. So it's like, if the feeling of a subject is arising or even if you're having a thought that's like, or like, you know, I want to be happy or something like that. It's like, that's also arising. Like it's just, there's no control. Like there, there's just, everything is happening without your control. Processing, just doing, just, there's no word for it. It's just pure verb. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's just. Now, now for, this is why I guess in the classic Zogchen, they don't give you the certain teachings until you've done all the grunt work. Because I think for some people, especially with trauma and so on, that realization of no control, no doer is destabilizing. Yes. I'm glad you mentioned that. And now we're starting back to safety again. And this is why this always, in my opinion, should be done in a stepwise way. And this is the word that in my 5MEO community, they like to say stepwise. Yeah. It's trauma-informed because, yeah, it's funny. I actually, when I'm first working with clients, I use the word control, ironically, control an agency a lot to describe how their first 5MEO experience is going to be. I say, when you're in the medicine, you may feel a dropping away of kind of surrendering of control, but between the sessions, you're going to be able to choose what dose you want to do and whether you want to just go take a break or put your feet in the grass. You're going to have so much agency. Whereas if you take mushrooms, it's just going to sweep you out for five hours, all these places. And so I'm always working with clients, trying to meet them exactly where they are and trying to use the right, appropriate language. And so sometimes I might be saying things that look completely opposite. Like when I'm first working with someone, I might be talking about, you're going to be feeling all this agency and control. But then as they're working longer and longer and as they're working more with me and they're getting deeper into the stuff, it's like, are you ready to explore deconstructing your sense of volition? Because if you are, and you might consider trying salvia if you want to go there. But some people don't care about that or they don't want to. You know, like sometimes I've had clients, I'm depressed. I have some childhood trauma. I just want to, you know, feel an alleviation of that. And I want to feel more connected to my partner. You know, it's like, okay. Beautiful. Right? Like, right. Although it gets a value judgment to say that's not just exactly right. Yeah. It's happening. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know why. I'm just like, I mean, I think I'm like you, I'm just, I'm a super hardcore nerd. Yeah. We're gunners about this. About consciousness. I'm just like really interested in deconstructing consciousness. What is this? Yeah. And I'm really interested in the brain and I'm interested, it fascinates me when I watch, yeah, my sense of self or time or space get glitchy and fall apart and come back together. I can imagine for a lot of people that doesn't sound appealing at all. No, it sounds the opposite. Like, why would you do? No. No. That's okay. No. Right. Right. You don't have to go down that rabbit hole. For me, it's like, yes. Yeah. Yes. And more. What else? Yeah. Yeah. And it's so ironic because someone might say, maybe you go down the rabbit hole because you're craving this liberation. But the funny thing is, it feels like, first of all, there is no bottom to the rabbit hole, but the deeper down you fall, the more that liberation just feels like some dead weight because it's this whole spiritual story of attainment. Yeah. So, yeah, anytime there's any spiritual teacher who's out there saying something like, you know, I've attained liberation from suffering this lifetime. I'm, you know, this is what you can expect to attain when you work with me. I'm always like, hmm. Yeah. And what they'll say in response to you is, well, clearly you haven't had it, so you don't know. And maybe I haven't. I mean, I want to be humble. We have to be humble. Maybe I'm out there. Maybe there are people who don't suffer at all. But I've personally found that anybody who claims that when I get to know them, there's a lot of blind spots and a lot of red flags. And, you know, I have the opportunity in my work to be connected with a lot of people, either directly or indirectly with some of these so-called spiritual masters. And, you know, you hear things behind the scenes or the anecdotes where it's like, oh, on the YouTube video or the interview, they were talking about how they had no fear or they, you know, experience no suffering. But then behind the scenes, they're sharing with, you know, this friend of mine that they actually just had a psychotic break and were in the hospital. You know what I mean? It's like, oh, OK. Yeah. I feel a lot of compassion for them. Yeah, it's a heart opening. Yeah. There's some kind of disconnect there. Right. And that's, I think that, yeah. But this is all, see, the great thing is this is good news. Yeah. Because it means that if this is our lot as humans, that we're going to be human. Yeah. Then let's go for it. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Well, why do we want to try to create a pedestal and then go stand on it and only to be, only to be knocked off by the next change in conditions? It's like, well, you know, that's why when you first reach out to me, it resonated so directly because there wasn't, I didn't get the sense that, oh, she's trying to bypass this thing or she's trying to put these medicines on some kind of pedestal as the end all be all. No, there was humility and there was directness and there was like, yeah, I've made all these mistakes. This is what I've learned. So many. Yeah. It's great. Because, you know, it's almost like I trust that more as someone who's been through a lot of this. It's like, because I know it's a shit show. That's how it is. And that's the teacher. Like life taught you in the last year that, oh, what happens when you take happiness off the table? Okay. Life will show you. Yeah. And it turns out it's this incredibly tactile, like indescribable whatness. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Or it's not in that moment because you can't control that either. Because you can't control it. Yeah. And the next minute you're super contracted. Yeah. You know, I was recently, I recently had COVID and at some point, like day seven, I had this horrible experience where I was lightheaded and all this. And I had this massive panic, like I was going to die. And I won't tell the whole story. But in that moment, any sort of belief that I'd had that I have some non-dual attainment that has immunized me from the fear of death or that I could drop into when I'm panicked, I was disabused of that because it was just panic. It was just terror. It was just thoughts streaming and you're going to leave your kids without a father. You have talked about COVID for how many years now on your show? And now you're going to die of it on the floor in your living room and just feeling that unadulterated. And that was what was arising. Yeah. And then 30 minutes later, it was something else, you know? So to just finally say, okay, that's all right. That too. Yeah. Yeah. So let's see. What else can we talk about with safety stuff? I think there's one more thing. I had a list of things. Let's see. Oh, yeah. I want to just touch on. Well, so I want to talk about the difference between N and DMT and 5-MO DMT briefly because I just, I feel like I almost want to like scream this from the rooftops because it's so, so important. It's probably like the number one psychedelic safety thing I can think of, but I just want everybody to just get in them is the fact that, so these two compounds, they're really often confused all the time. Understandably, because they both have DMT. Which is true of all of the tryptamine, even psilocybin, if you look at the chemical structure, it's DMT at the end of it. But confusing them is very dangerous. And let me tell you why, just so people know that, so 5-MO DMT is significantly more powerful by weight. And so what that means is if you confuse, if you mistake like NNDMT for 5-MO DMT, that's probably just going to give you like a weaker trip because it's a much weaker medicine. And it's like, okay, that's not, but if you do the reverse, that can literally be lethal because, you know, if somebody, let's say has a, you know, acquires some medicine and it's labeled as DMT and they don't know what that is or what type it is, when they look up online, okay, DMT, and they might find something, okay, maybe it's, you know, I don't know, 30 to 60 milligrams is like a good strong trip. So then they think, okay, I'll put that in my pipe. Well, if that's 5-MO DMT, like that could be the last experience you ever have. Because that one, you usually stop at like 20 at the absolute most, but usually for most people, like 10 is plenty. The dosing would be nuts. It would be nuts. And you could have a seizure. You could, yeah. So there are the physiological consequences of overdose. It could be came over. Yeah, yeah. So confusing those, which it's, it's, it's kind of, it almost scares me as someone in this work because it's just, I could see it happening so easily. And I'm, I'm so grateful that it feels like it hasn't happened, fortunately, but it's like, they have similar names. They're often confused. They can both be very similar looking powders. They have kind of a similar smell. Like, I mean, 5-MO smells sort of like corn tortillas and DMT smells sort of like, well, it kind of has a similar thing, but it almost has a little bit of like a, like a new shoe smell to it or something like that, or like a moth balls. I don't think I've ever heard this talked about yet. Yeah. Right. So like, if you know, but, but it's like, there's enough similarity that it could happen. And then the other thing is with the, the MAO inhibitor. Yeah. So you can combine. Monoamine oxidase. Yeah. The MAO. Used to be used as antidepressants. Yeah. They still are, I think. Yeah. You can use those along with the NNDMT. Oh, if you're doing that, that, you know, ayahuasca. Yeah. Yeah. Combo. Not with 5-MeO. Please do not do that. So what happens with 5-MeO if you're on a monoamine oxidase inhibitor? Oh my God. It's very dangerous. I will say there are people out there who are sort of extreme psychonauts who do this, but I would just say to the general public, please do not do this. It's like playing with fire. It just, it's basically, 5-MeO is such an intense activator or agonist of those 5-HT2A receptors. The serotonin stuff. It needs to metabolize very fast. And it does, fortunately. So it does its work. It's metabolized. And then you're fine. But if you have that MAOI on board, it just, it's keeping, it just keeps hitting those receptors so hard with this really, you know, kind of dynamite. It's one of an overdose. Yeah. And basically it's, it's, yeah, it's kind of like an overdose. You can have serotonin syndrome, seizure, coma, death. I mean, that's, that's where you're headed. So, so it's, yeah, it's really important that people know that. And so what that means is that if you're doing this on your own, which I don't recommend, but, you know, harm reduction, it's like, do your homework. Make sure you're getting this from a very reputable source. Always test your stuff. Always send it to a lab. And, you know, we can share details about that later, but to make sure you know 100% what it is. Right. And what I would say is I have to advocate as a physician, like, um, I would not do any of this stuff without a absolute experienced guide. And that's just what I believe as a physician for most of the public. Yeah. There are psychonauts and there are people who are DIY and that's great. People are going to do what they do, but I could not advocate that with good conscience, um, as a medical professional. And, uh, and we talked about a lot about safety, which is good. Makes me much more comfortable because there's a feeling now with the resurgence of psychedelics in the popular culture that, okay, this is the answer to my problems because it wasn't the Lipitor pill. It wasn't, it wasn't Ozembek. It's something else, right? Because people are looking, like you said, for happiness. So it's really good that you speak in this way. So eloquently about, okay, this, these are the, man, this is, it's a powerful thing. And that's the reason it has a benefit. Yeah. And the neuroplasticity, the fact that you're open, that things can be reorganized in a way that's so transformative. And I, and I did experience that with ayahuasca. It was like, I, if I'm making an analogy, it was like, I'd been energetically blown open and my heart had just exploded open into the beauty of compassion for all suffering. And then over time, as the energetic pattern of me started to reestablish, it formed in a different configuration. It was a little more open, a little more loving, a little more tolerant, a little more self-forgiving. And it wasn't magic. It wasn't, it wasn't some one and done transformation. It was part of a journey or an un-journey, ultimately. I have a feeling I'm going to be sort of flipping those terms around a lot and being like, why did I come up with this? I love it. Making a word salad for myself. It's beautiful. Hey, we're good at that in person for sure. So, so just a couple more pieces to tie up some loose ends. So one thing is another route of administration of 5-MEO that I want to talk about. And I'm excited to talk about this on the show because as far as I know, and I could be wrong, maybe there's something out there, but I have not seen anybody on the internet publicly talking about this other route of administration. It's known in the underground and guide communities, but I want to just get it out there for people's awareness because it's super powerful. And it's also really interesting. And it's really interesting what it brings up for people physically and emotionally. And as soon as I say the word, I know people are going to have a reaction and it's, it's rectal. It's the rectal. Rectal. Oh my God. Butt stuff. Right? Listen, when you talk to me, you say rectal, I'm all in. It doesn't matter what, but, but yes, there's a huge, like what? And I've talked to a couple of people about this because you'd mentioned it to me, like recently seasoned psychonauts. Psychonauts and they're like, I'm sorry, what? Yeah. Because there's such a visceral reaction. So please, please go on. Even though in medicine we're giving enemas, we're giving rectal suppositories all the time, but this is like, whoa. Yeah. Yeah. It's a totally legitimate way to receive a substance. I mean, when I was a kid, I had suppositories. I don't even remember what it was, but something I received that way. And I only had to call child protective services on my dad twice because he was the doctor who was administering. Oh God. Yeah. Yeah. It's very strange having physician parents. You don't get to see a real doctor, but they, you know, give you all kinds of stuff. And, you know, in the end it's, I don't know, it's a specific type of trauma. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. I hope you, I hope you've broken that intergenerational with your kids. Transmission. Well, no, they still don't get to see the doctor, but I also don't do anything. Yeah. So, so basically when you, so there's a lot of different ways to take 5-MEO. So people, yeah, people insufflate it up to the nose. There's a vaporization, there's a smoking. People are doing IM now, which is interesting too. Yeah. So that's another thing that people are experimenting with. But, but so rectal, so, so with rectal, there's a number of different ways that, you know, you can do that. Some people have basically like a, they put the medicine in like a coconut oil kind of suppository. Basically, when I make a formula to give to people, and I always tell people it's self-administered rectal, just so they know that I'm not. Yeah, you're not doing it. I'm not in the room. Right, right. But basically I, so I take the, the free base and I combine it with distilled white vinegar. And what that does is it's a chemical reaction that converts it into 5-MEO-DMT acetate. And that is, it's a salt, so it's water soluble, which makes it more easy, easily uptaken by the rectal tissues. You can do it with a free base, but I think it's generally considered not as effective that way, at least anecdotally. So, so then I just put that in a, well, I have this step where I bake off the extra acetic acid because I, that's kind of the. It's a little irritant. Yeah. Yeah. Because otherwise it can be, it can be irritating. And then I just, yeah. And then I just combine that with a sterile isotonic, you know, saline solution, the 0.9%. And so what it is, is it's, yeah. And it's just a, it's a, it's a syringe, one tip, no needle, you know, goes in there easily with some lube. And it's usually start off with about one and a half milliliters of fluids. It's a very small amount because it's 10, the solution is 10 milligrams per milliliter. Yeah. So usually, usually concentration of it. And so it's, it's really easy, you know, it's very effortless. It doesn't, it feels like nothing. Uh, there's no, yeah, there's no pain or stinging or anything like that. But the reason it's, it's a powerful alternate way to take it has to do with how it impacts people and how it hits the nervous system and, and the, the time flow of it. So usually when people are smoking or vaping, 5-MEO DMT is extremely fast and it has this very flashy quality. So, you know, low dose, it can be just like five minutes, you know, higher doses, peak experiences are not going to be longer than like 20 minutes at the most. And so, and it hits almost instantaneously. I mean, usually you inhale, you're holding in your lungs for some period of time. And even after sometimes like 10 seconds, you can feel it. And there's this kind of, if it had a sound effects for me, it would be like, it's just, it like whisks you, uh, at least when you first start working with it, like into hyperspace, you know, it's just like, and into this kind of just white light and fractals and all that stuff. And, and then, you know, you're, you're there and then you come back fairly. So it's kind of, it's almost like you become pure consciousness and then you get reincarnated back into yourself very fast. And there's something about that speed. I think that is partially helpful because it just cuts through the, the thinking narrative mind and resistance. It just like punches through that. Um, but there are disadvantages as well, because you don't have a lot of time to marinate in the medicine and really integrate what's happening. And so the rectal is really different. So what happens is it, it takes about five minutes to come up. So there's some time where you can actually feel the medicine coming on, which is nice. I'm like the, the, the vaping is just, it's almost instantaneous. Uh, and it, you know, it usually starts as some kind of feeling coming up through the core of the body. It might be some feeling of like warm energy or something like that. And then you're in that experience for as long as an hour. It's really different. So before we're talking about maximum, like 20 minutes, this is like an, at least in the peak, this is like an hour experience. And because of that, I will say again, safety, I never give people rectal at a high dose because to me, that's just too much. You're committing to this. Yeah. Too much serotonin activation. This is, this is, uh, you know, moderate, low to moderate dose depending on the person. Um, and yeah, it just gives people, so, so with that dose, people generally aren't going into these, these very expansive states. Usually you're, you're wherever you are, you're in the room, you're still in your body, but I would say it allows for this very deep and profound somatic trauma healing work. And that's where I see is the, the big, the big benefit to it. Um, and it's really interesting how, and I would love for people to research this to kind of get to the bottom of what's going on, but it feels like the site that the, that the medicine is, is received, um, seems to be very energetically connected with the healing that's happening there. So like when I have vape and, and, um, it feels like the energy is all kind of from literally, quite literally from the lungs and up, there's this kind of like thing happening here. I mean, there's other things that can happen in the body, but that's where I feel all of the energy. It feels very up and out like this, but when I've received the rectal, it feels like there's a lot of deep, deep releasing that's happening in the pelvic floor and in the, you know, the gut and, and in that kind of lower vagus nerve area. And I'll say, you know, a brief anecdote, the reason that I serve rectally, even though it's, yeah, it's like, you know, awkward for people or it sounds like a political biography reason that I serve rectally. Oh, cause you're on the right. Yeah. Um, uh, is because I, you know, I had worked with 5-MEO, I'd been guided, I'd done, I'd done the bufo, I've done smoking, I've done vaping, you know, all these different ways of receiving it. Um, and there were still parts of my own trauma and my own contraction that had not been touched. Huh. And I realized at a certain point in my life that I was having a lot of physical symptoms that were showing up as pelvic floor issues in particular, a lot of chronic tightness and pain and like bladder issues, like all these sorts of things that all seem to be centered in, you know, it's usually called like the root chakra. Right. Perineum. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And so I was really, you know, I was investigating this from like a medical side of things. And then as I started to do pelvic floor physical therapy, I started to connect some dots that, Oh, maybe this is like a trauma thing. Cause when I was a kid, I, I did have a lot of trauma. I don't want to go into all the details, but there was, there was, um, trauma that, that also manifested as a lot of like really, um, long, long-term like potty training issues, um, where I felt like, yeah, I mean, when I was as old as gosh, even in second grade, I remember I would have issues like at school, like peeing on the floor, like shitting my pants at school. That's like very unusual for a kid of that age. That age. Yeah. Right. And so there's, there was something going on with, you know, the control around of my bladder, of my bowels. And I think it was very connected to my, my trauma. Um, and I've heard this from many people actually who have trauma. Yeah. And so there's something about that site and it makes sense to me intuitively because just the way even colloquially, like we talk about fear, you know, you say, Oh, like, you know, I'm going to lose my shit. Right. Or like, or saying someone's like a tight ass, like there's some way that we intuitively associate attention in the pelvic, like the pelvic floor in the sphincter with like control and fear. Right. Or you think about an animal, even like a deer, like it's spooked, like it'll, it'll shit sometimes as it's, as it's running away. Right. So there's something there. And I, yeah. So I, I heard about the rectal route of administration. I didn't even know that was possible, but I, I have a friend who's a guide who was serving in that way. And I said, like, I really think this is going to be beneficial for me given what I'm dealing with. And yeah, so we, we did it that way. And I was, I was blown away. Zubin. It was, yeah. Like I, I don't even know how to describe it. Like it almost felt as if my entire pelvis was like this really clamped tight, like rose bud that, you know, still, still had the green leaves and the outside, just like really. And all of a sudden when the medicine hit, it just like bloomed. Kaleidoscopically. Like I just felt this deep opening and release. And I felt like there was like electricity and warmth going out all over through my extremities. My hands were buzzing and alive. And I felt this incredible sense of safety. It was really interesting. Root chakra. Yeah. Like I felt like, wow, I've never felt so safe in my life. And then I, I went back into this childhood regression and that's the story I told earlier about holding my guide's hand. Right. That was during that same experience. And so after that, that was just a revelation for me because I thought how interesting that the same molecule, different route of administration never touched any of these issues, but here I receive it rectally and somehow, again, this is just speculative, but it seems like it's somehow hitting that lower vagus nerve or something on the site. And it's, it's doing some work in that chakra that is not, has not been accessed by the other route. And so now I, I'm kind of an evangelist. I feel like of the rectal. Every time I get a new client, I always tell them, you know, if you've had sexual trauma, if you have any kind of pelvic floor issues, or if, even if you just feel like you hold fear in your pelvic floor, in your sphincter, strongly consider this because it might be the very thing that just goes in there and even in a single session can just like release that. This is absolutely nuts. I've never heard this and it's, it seems really promising. But one question that arose is, can you, can you re-traumatize someone who's maybe not ready for that? Yeah. I mean, I think that there's always a potential for re-traumatization with any of these medicines. And that's why this work always has to be done really carefully. And, you know, for my process, I always, it always starts from the, the very first conduct I make with a client is, is the screening process. So they go to my website, they fill out this form. And so I'm always looking for people to see where they're at in terms of trauma. If somebody has, if somebody checks certain boxes that indicates to me that they have really serious trauma and that they're in an active PTSD kind of symptomology, I'm not going to work with them because at that stage, I might work with it later on. Right. But I would refer them to someone who's doing EMDR, someone who's doing prolonged exposure therapy to just really work on some of that stuff without any of the medicines to get the nervous system activation level down lower so that then they can be ready. And then I wouldn't even start them with a rectal. We would start with the light dose of the vapen. Let's give you a five minute experience. Yeah. A 10 minute experience. Let's see how you do. Handshake. Yeah. And then once it seems like they're okay with that, then I would consider the rectal. And even then I would probably, if there's a lot of trauma, I would probably start with a very low dose. You know, I'm usually, I usually max out at like 25 milligrams for people. So that's like, yeah, two and a half milliliters of my solution. But without, yeah, if somebody had a severe sexual trauma history, maybe we just start off with, you know, five milligrams or something. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then this is so is again, and it all circles back to the safety because I'm thinking, you know, my friend Simon Brown in the UK who I've done shows with, he is very adamant about working with professionals who specialize in trauma in those early stages of that because the risk of re-traumatization and the lack of co-regulation and all the other pieces, attachment issues, everything that happens requires a real acute training. And in non-dual spaces, everyone's like, oh, just, you can just bypass it and just feel whatever's arising. Yeah. It's like, oh, well, that's not, no, that's not how it's experienced. Yeah. But this sounds, the way you describe it, I mean, I feel it in the body as like just this, this warm, safe embrace that allows then the exploration in a way. Yes. And, you know, in the classic, for people who don't know the whole chakra thing, and this is just another model, right? Just like all the Western models, the chakra model, the root chakra is, is, is, is the grounding to the earth, the safety. And people who've had trauma around safety tend to have issues that might, you might say, are associated with root chakra. And it's funny because, you know, my wife and I were talking about this because she, you know, and she's a scientist, but she was getting interested in the chakra stuff because energetically she can feel correlations in the body and she's able to like move energy around. She just has this gift. So she was telling me, and she's like, you know, all your fear-based personality traits, like always worrying about taxes and saving for retirement and catastrophizing and always looking for danger, this sort of Enneagram six stuff. She's like, the feels very root chakra to me, you know? And so then when I would meditate off, I would start to focus on that and would often bring up feelings of fear or of, oh, and, and so it was quite helpful. And then feeling energy kind of root into that. So these things, look, even if it's a story, right? Which everything is ultimately. If it helps you to process these things that weren't seen, you know, to bring them into light, then that's beautiful. So I don't think I've ever heard anyone talk about rectal administration. I'm sure it's on the forums and stuff, but. Yeah, not much. I don't know why it's, yeah. That's beautiful. Thank you for sharing that. Yeah, absolutely. I'm happy to get the word out so people know about it. And I also want to just de-stigmatize working with that part of the body. Yeah. You know, it's funny. Even you can see me making jokes about it because it's, we're so conditioned to try to put a little distance. There it is. That's a, you know, pure MEO Pumoji. Yeah. Well, it's, it's, it's interesting. I mean, you know, here's my psychodynamic hat coming on. When I look at something like this, it's like, why did, yeah. Why culturally do we make so many jokes about poop? And it could be because we're afraid of that animalistic part of our human experience that it feels, maybe it reminds us of death. And I think we were talking about this earlier that there's this, Ernest Becker in his book, The Denial of Death talks about maybe kids make jokes about poop because the act of pooping, it feels so primal. And it's like, again, you can't ultimately control. I imagine as a child, it's probably, I mean, I would think about the first time I ever saw my stepdaughter like throw up when she was two. She said something that just blew my mind. I was like, wow, that's so interesting. She said, oh my God, something that was inside of me just came out of me. Oh, yeah. And she was having this primal experience of the horror in a way of like, you know, like what is it? Like these boundaries of me and not me. And so I just sort of imagine like when we're so little and we're peeing and pooping and stuff like that, there's got to be these primal feelings of kind of horror around these acts like what is, what the fuck is happening? Yeah, what is this? This like stinking like mass is like coming out of my body. Where did it even come from? Like if you don't even know it's from your food, like what even is it? Like it's so, so. Oh man. So, so this, okay. This, you, you can start me talking about poop. I'll go. I mean, I had a song called Nothing Compares to Pooh, which was a Sinead O'Connor parody. But, but he, so I had this experience. I find sometimes sitting on the can is one of the most meditative experiences when you really dial into sensation. And I had the experience of, okay, you're taking a crap and this is too much information. No, I'm sure. My mom's already tuned out because we're talking about drugs, but, but there's a sense when it's felt energetically that nothing is leaving anything. It's just a flux of energy. That is true. I know exactly what you're talking about. Yeah. It's really, there's a, and there's so much sensation. Yeah. It's very, it's very rich. It's very root sensation. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's really interesting. I didn't know we'd be talking about this. Otherwise I, you know. What's really interesting is, is pooping when you're on the medicine, which I've done in an ayahuasca ceremony. Oh yeah. Because it's very, uh, I had some GI stuff and I was like, oh wow. Yeah. This is just all energy. It's all energy. It's all a flux of, it's not going anywhere. Yeah. Yeah. But there's something, I think there's something cultural here. You know, I think that, I mean, people throw this around the term, you know, the West, obviously that's like kind of vague category. But from my cultural context as like a white American, I feel like it's, it's a very, the dominant culture is very death phobic. Oh yeah. Very like butt phobic and poop phobic. Like these are all kind of taboo things. And I think it's all connected because it's part of, it's part of nature. It's part of what connects us to animals. And we want to think of ourselves as somehow better than higher beings. It's this kind of speciesism. And so I think there's something about it. And this is part of the process that I worked through with clients is when I first mentioned it and I had to learn this, I couldn't just say rectal. I had to say a self-administered rectal because the first time I ever said a client went, you know, and I was like, self-administered. Oh, okay. Oh, okay. You're not going to, you know, of course not. I'm not even in the room. Like I just give you a kit and I leave the room and come back. But, but what is, what is that? Yeah. Like this thing around, around our anus, but we, we, we, we have a reaction. I think it has to do with the fear of death. I think you're right. Yeah. But I think so much of society is arrayed against the fear of death, especially in the West. And it goes to everything. It goes to the constructions that we have on identity and everything, gender, what our political beliefs are. They're all putting a little distance and trying to control something by categorizing it and putting it in a box and so on. It makes us feel safe. It makes us feel, and it's natural and you can't like, it's easy to feel shame when you recognize that you're doing it. But at the same time you have to go, okay, no, this is just how this thing is wired. This matrix runs like this. We can change it. Yeah. But we have to change ourselves too. Yeah. Can we change it? I don't know. I don't know. Seems like it's just happening. Yeah. Yeah. You're right. Actually. Yeah. Gosh, when I say we can change it, it's almost like you can get the part of the story can be that you did this change. Yeah. And, but the change just happens. Yeah. It's just, it's just happening. Everything's changing all every minute. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah. So beautiful. So beautiful. Guys, this conversation. And, yeah. I just, oh, I'm so grateful, you know, that you were able to come all the way here and share this with people. And this is personal stuff. It's difficult stuff. It's stuff that's been taboo to talk about. It's stuff that's, you know, been stigmatized for a long time. I'm just blissed out, right? Yeah. Even though I'm, I say I'm not interested in happiness. I'm noticing this temporary experience arising of like, whoa, this is great because, yeah, this is so, this feels so rare because I feel like I tend to be, I'm an introvert, I would say. And so I tend to relate, you know, best to people in small kind of one-on-one ways. And I feel like for the most part, yeah, these kinds of conversations, not everybody has an interest or willingness to do them. And so I feel like I have, I feel like my friends are like my, my, my jewels that I collect them because it's these very special people that I've met along the way. Me too. That are really, wow. Like I can talk to you about, yeah, like, I don't know, things like sociopathy or, or death or pooping or like, or just the weirdness. I mean, I was talking with a friend the other day and he said, we, I, you know, I'm also a literature geek and I was, we were geeking out about this, this amazing book called Solenoid, which I want to put a plug for it by Marcea Carter Rescue, amazing novel. But anyway, he was saying, isn't it just amazing how weird everything is? The fact that every few seconds I have to take a breath and I'm taking in these molecules of oxygen from the atmosphere into my body inside of me to stay alive. And isn't that just so bizarre? And I'm like, yes, thank you. Like, I'm so grateful to have friends like that in my life that we can go to these weird places instead of just, I mean, I want to say, again, not passing judgment and you know, it's like, it's not everyone's jam, right? Yeah, it's fine. You don't care about that. But it's like, I just, this is what lights me up. And it's amazing. Even though we haven't known each other that long, I feel like here we are like, you know, live being recorded, just like having these really free flowing, open, vulnerable conversations. It's awesome. It's beautiful. And you know, we haven't done medicine together or anything. This is just us doing, it's the doing. It's beautiful. So, oh, sorry. Go ahead. Well, I know that you've been trying to prime me to talk about gender for some time. So I'm ready. I'm ready now. Okay. So it's funny. When we took our break, we talked about this a little and I'm like, yeah, sorry. You know, I was kind of hounding you to get to the gender thing because I know my audience will be curious. And you said something that was real, that really affected me, like caused me to lean in. Could you, I don't know, could you share kind of what your feeling was when we were trying to guide towards talking about that? Yeah, this is really interesting. I didn't know what was happening at the time. It was something unconscious that I later processed with Zubin. But it's interesting. Yeah. Ever since, I think ever since we've started our relationship, anticipated this, you've said, oh, I really want to talk to you about your gender. And I actually, I do want to talk about it. And I think somehow there has been some slight resistance for me around that. And I think that was showing up in the earlier segment because, yeah, various points you were, I would say very gently. It wasn't, I didn't experience it in any way as some kind of imposition. We were sort of saying, kind of redirected, can we talk about the gender piece? And I kept sort of saying, well, there's one more thing. Let's talk about Salvia. And yeah. Yeah. And yeah, in the moment I was thinking, well, you know, I just, I had this kind of architecture of the conversation and we got to tie up this before this, it was very rational. But I think there was something emotional, unconscious that was happening. And I think it has to do with the fact that I don't want to be put in a box. Like, is that being the primary way that people relate to me? Like in this conversation, I'm, I'm mostly excited to talk about, you know, awakening and sort of a freighted word, this kind of connecting process. I'm excited to talk about psychedelics. I'm excited to talk about meditation. I do want to talk about my gender, but I, I don't want that to be the main thing. Yeah. It's kind of, yeah, it's sort of like, I mean, I do in my biography, I'll sometimes say I'm a queer non-binary therapist because it feels sort of efficient to say it that way, just to kind of, as opposed to saying like, I'm a therapist who also happens to be non-binary. But I kind of, I kind of like, in some ways, if I, if it wasn't awkward to say it that way, that would be a little bit more true to my experience is that I, I want people to relate to me in terms of, yeah, in terms of, in this conversation, in terms of my professional background and what I'm offering. Um, and. Which is ridiculous. I mean, so much. Yeah. Judging by the conversation alone. Yeah. Yeah. Well, thanks. And, and, um, yeah. And like, I also identify as non-binary. That doesn't mean, and people, as soon as you have that identifier out there, people put you in all sorts of different boxes and make assumptions about you. And even, you know, if you say I'm an, I'm a non-binary therapist, people will think, oh, okay, well you only see queer people or you only treat issues having to do with LGBTQ identity. Um, I, I found this really interesting when I first came out on my website and on psychology today, which is this, this database that. And that was recently. Yeah. It was recently that, that my number of, you know, straight or cis clients just totally dropped off a cliff. Most of the night I started getting, which is fine. I'm like happy to work with that population, but I actually enjoy working with like everybody, no matter how you identify. And you have been for a long time. Yeah. And I was talking with a, a friend of mine about this from college who identifies as straight and cis. And I was talking to him and he said, well, let me tell you something. If I'm going to be really honest, if I went to your website and I saw that you are a non-binary therapist, my assumption would be, I shouldn't approach you to work with you because you probably only want, that's like, you know, you're a queer therapist who wants to work with people. And who am I? Right. And I thought, oh, that's so unfortunate. I hadn't even anticipated that. I wouldn't even have thought of that. Yeah. And so now I have, he encouraged me to have on my website, I have some little line. I can't remember exactly what I said, but it's something like, I also love working with cis people too. Or cis people. Like I, I'm not exclusive. Right, right, right. Who I work with. So I think there's, yeah, I think I was feeling some kind of resistance of let's get all the, the, the content out first in terms of what I really want to deliver here. Cause this is what I mainly want to talk about is psychedelics and psychedelics and non-duality and that cross-pollination and yeah, let's talk about, I've been on this gender journey as well. Yeah. And I don't want one to sort of overshadow the other. Beautiful. And there's also this thing about curiosity came up, which I think is super interesting. Yeah. Let's talk about that because I told you, I said, yeah, I know that, that the audience is going to be deeply curious about that. Right. Yeah. And I totally, I empathize with that. Of course. Like I know as soon as people see the little thumbnail or whatever, and here's this person with a beard and earrings and this floral shirts. And she, her pronouns. Yeah. And she, her pronouns. And I would think for a lot of the audience, there's going to be something there that doesn't compute. Right. Some kind of glitch is going to be happening cognitively. Like this doesn't fit the binary. There's something that feels wrong about this. You know, if I'm more generous, maybe something that just feels a little uncomfortable or just, it doesn't. Yeah. And so then people of course want to, so there's some kind of, I think, anxiety there. Oh, what's, what is this? Like something's not right. Or this, this is different. And then with that comes that anxiety. And there's of course a desire to alleviate the anxiety. And I think the curiosity is trying to alleviate the anxiety because you want to know. And so, and this is really interesting because curiosity is often upheld as either, I would say like a neutral quality or just a positive quality. Like, yeah, it's good. Why not be curious? You just want to know things about the world. But I think what people don't understand. And I think this is especially true. I think in, in the identities that people hold that maybe are more dominant identities and less marginalized. And I've been on the other side of this, which I can explain too. Curiosity can be received as what's, you know, it's usually called like a microaggression, but just in more common language. It can, it can feel alienating. Yeah. And it can feel insulting or even dehumanizing. Yeah. Yeah. And I know this on both sides because before I began to identify as, as non-binary or as queer, I mean, I hold a lot of privileged identities. Like I grew up in a pretty wealthy family. I was raised and socialized as like a cis straight man. I'm white. So there's just like a huge amount of privilege there. And so I've had so many moments in my life when I think back, I can think of an example where I was in the grocery store and there was some people talking. In a foreign language that I didn't understand. And I just walked up right up to one of them and I was like, Hey, where are you from? No, originally. Yeah. All that sort of stuff. And it's like, what? I'm curious. You know, like, how could that be? What's wrong? I just want to know. I'm just engaging with this person. Right. And it's, you know, built into the definition of microaggressions is this idea that the intention is, is actually, is actually good. Like there is no, there's no desire to cause harm. It's often coming out of just a desire to, to, yeah, be curious or to know or to connect with somebody. But on the receiving end of that, yeah, somebody who is an immigrant or a person of color who gets that question maybe all the time. Where are you from? No, where are you really from? The impact of that over time is that person starts to feel like an outsider, right? Or like an alien. And they're told to assimilate, but then they're made to feel like they're still not assimilated. Yeah. It's a paradox. So I have done, I have been, yeah, I can think back of many examples where I have used curiosity. It's been, it's a weaponized curiosity and the people wielding it don't realize that, but it actually just feels really, it's like, you think you're connecting with the person, but you're not, you're actually creating this connection. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's, and so, so anyway, so, so let me, this is really interesting. Like I've also experienced the curiosity around gender sort of pre my gender shift or opening, whatever I want to call it. And put, and sort of like a difference post and dropping off of that because it used to be, and this is why I empathize with people who might look at me and be like, oh, what's going on? I need to know. So for, you know, for most of my life, I would say when I would go around in the world and I, as long as somebody would present very clearly as like a cis man or cis woman, you know, it's like, there's no cognitive load. It's just, it's just very effortless, right? There's nothing in the brain. There's no disconnect or yeah. That's trying to process something. But as soon as, you know, somebody comes along walking down the street or in the grocery store or whatever, and it's like, oh, there's something going on with that person because I can't tell whether they're a man or a woman. This is very binary thinking, or this person seems to be dressing in some kind of androgynous way or some gender non-confirming way, or, or maybe I'm getting to know somebody who is even telling me they identify as, as, you know, trans or something like that. And I'm noticing myself doing these little mental gymnastics of, okay, I need, I can need to, I need to pin down the story. So, okay, this person, they said they're trans woman. Okay. So that means they identify as a woman now, but that means they probably were assigned male at birth. Okay. So now I understand it. So they, they probably have these genitals and now they, you know, so there's this whole kind of thing. Process. Yeah. And so I used to do that instinctively, like reflexively. Mine does that. Yeah. Around gender, whenever somebody wouldn't fit the mold. And I don't, I don't know if I have any memories of specifically going up to somebody and being like, are you a man or a woman with that curiosity thing? But, but there's a, the curiosity is kind of like, it's almost like the curiosity is a pretext or sort of a euphemism for something that's actually based in like fear. I feel like it's like, here's something I don't understand. And we are scared of things we don't understand. And we want to pin down the story and put them in a box so we can go, okay, now I know where that person's coming from. And I don't fault people for it. Like, I think it's a very human thing. It's probably a very built in like survival mechanisms. Like you want to know whether someone's in your tribe or not, whether they're like you or not. Yeah. That's it. Yeah. The tribal sort of confirmation. Yeah. But it's, yeah, it's, it's, it doesn't, when people will only really understand this if they've been on the receiving end of this in their bodies, like it doesn't, it doesn't feel that kind of curiosity. What's, what's the label is curiosity. Like doesn't feel good. Yeah. Like if somebody were just to come up to me on the street and be like, so, I mean, I've had kids ask this to me before. It's like, are you a man or a woman? You know, and I can educate them in sort of gentle ways, but, but yeah, it doesn't feel good. And also the other thing that doesn't feel good is, and actually we had this funny thing happen in the grocery store. Yeah. Let's talk about that. And somebody, it was like this sort of drive by compliment thing. We were checking out. Yeah. And this happens to me all the time. A lot really where, yeah, we're checking out in the grocery store and then somebody will just walk by me, love the skirt, you know, nice earrings. And again, this is a classic kind of microaggression in the sense that the intention I would say is very good. They're wanting to pay me a compliment. They're wanting to maybe affirm me. I mean, I'm making assumptions, but I think probably in their mind, there's like, oh, look, a non-binary person, life is hard for them. Maybe I should make them feel good by affirming them or something like that. But to me, it's like, it's not about me. It's about them. It's about this kind of virtue signaling. Like, oh, now I feel good because I- I did this act of- Yeah, I did this act of- Understanding. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then I think too, there's an implicit request, I think, like of emotional labor on my part because they want me to say- Thank you. Thank you. And sort of have the sense of like- The validation. Aren't you such a, you know, like good liberal or whatever? Or like- When this happened in the grocery store, I could feel it right away. I could feel the good intention of the gentleman who was saying it, but I could also, I was like, yeah, that's virtue signaling. Yeah, that's the way to describe it. You could just kind of see it. Yeah, yeah. And if it happens repetitively, it must just, I can empathize how, it's just like- Yeah, it doesn't feel great. It doesn't feel great. Yeah. I don't need to dramatize it. Like, it's not something that I lose sleep over. And I want to be clear too, that there are a lot of- Trans and gender non-conforming non-binary people in environments where, you know- It's aggressive. They're facing like violence and death. Straight up aggression. So like, I feel like I have so much privilege in the environments I live in, but that's like the worst I'm facing. Yeah, it's still. And so for me, this is, it's so interesting because what it highlights in me is a complete blind spot. And I think this is something that you and I have talked about off camera, which is, so why do, why should we be interested in these pieces of identity and things like that? Well, partially because part of this whole unfolding is feeling into everything that is hidden or that's seemingly hidden, that we won't allow or we can't see in ourselves. And some of that are these unconscious biases, assumptions, and programming that society is doing all the time. And actually, ever since I've met you, like, because I don't know a lot of non-binary people, even though I worked at San Francisco General at the height of everything in the 90s, it was mostly a gay and lesbian population. And in those days, we didn't, I didn't even know that we had all the language. And so then you kind of feel into, okay, so what are my assumptions? Like, what are, what's my curiosity about? Like, what is it that, and when you talked about it to me, I was like, oh my God, that feels like a component of that. Right. Yeah. Wanting to understand so I can put things in the societal place they're supposed to be in. Right. For you and also for your listeners. And for the listeners. Yeah. Because part of my superpower is knowing kind of what my listeners are feeling and then asking in that way. And so when we were reflecting on it, I was like, wow, like, that's exactly right. Yeah. Yeah. And yeah, I don't want to be clear, too. I'm just imagining people in the comments being like, oh, that person was just paying you a compliment. Like, why are you being so sensitive or whatever? Whatever. And it's just, it's, you know, I think there's a nuance when we're talking about connecting and relating and really forming a bond with somebody. It's like, if that person had come up to me and we had had a conversation and they were really close to me and we were connecting and then they said, oh, by the way, like those earrings with the, you know, the, with the color. And that's like really cool. I really like that. I would like be like, oh, this feels super authentic. This feels like it's actually, it's not just this token kind of virtue signaling thing. Because this person made a beeline away from whatever they were doing, came into our line and was like, those earrings are great. And then made a beeline. Yeah. Yeah. It was very, I could feel it. It was about, yeah. I felt like it was more about them. Right. Right. And again, good intention. Yeah. Again, good intention. But like. Yeah. Yeah. And so I think, yeah, maybe there was something there where I was resisting because it's feeling of, okay, you want to cater to your audience is chomping at the bit because they're curious. Yeah. What's going on with the earrings and the floor shirt? Yeah. Yeah. And you want to cater to them. And there's this whole pressure built up around curiosity. And then I am sort of being asked to satisfy that so that everyone can. Yeah. Okay, now we know what's going on. Yeah. The non-binary person or whatever, and whatever story they need to tell in their heads about what genitals I have or whatever, you know what I mean? Right, right, right. Which I know because I used to do that kind of stuff. Sure. And then your nervous system settles down. I can imagine what body this person's had. I don't have to be afraid. But what's really interesting to me is when you notice that, you know, there's benign forms of curiosity, of course, but this kind of, this particular kind of curiosity that is connected to fear and fear of the unknown. What's been so interesting for me is that having experienced this transformation myself, that has gone away for me, which is really interesting. And now when I'm out in the world, I really don't, I don't feel like I see binary and then, oh, all of a sudden here's an outlier and I need to do this cognitive work to make this person somehow fit in this third category. It's like, I just see people in this really beautiful gender map, you know, that I actually wish was much more diverse. And it's, there's the diversity of the gender map has been so limited by the binary system. Right. Um, and you know, I, I shared with you this, this video of, uh, Alok. Alok. Remarkable video. I'll link to it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, and yeah, part of their project is degendering fashion. And I just think, yeah, I just think gender is such a beautiful expression of our humanity. And to me, it's, it's just as unique to each person as, yeah, like as you, as your name or as your, as your, um, I don't know, it was like getting a tattoo or it was just like the music you listen to. I think it's, it's something that's like a creative process. And I think it's, it's so sad to me in a way that, that mainstream's, you know, dominant culture has basically said that you have like two options. It's almost like only having two ice cream flavors and that's it. Chocolate and vanilla. What the hell? Like, why, like, why can't I have a beard and wear she, her pronouns? Like, why do we need rules around that? And if there are rules, like how do they serve people? Like if I'm somehow not allowed to do that, like. Who, who is that helping? Yeah. Who is that helping? Yeah. Um, and I know who it's hurting. Yeah. Yeah. And it might actually, it's hurting all of us. Yeah. Isn't it? Yeah. I think it is. Because then everybody's uncomfortable just being who they are. They have to try to find, okay, can I fit into this identity? Yeah. And it's like how many, I've heard so many stories from people who has kids. So yeah, I used to, you know, pay my nails or just. I told you my story. Yeah. I used to dress up like Little Red Riding Hood and go into the woods and like basically a dress and a basket. Yeah. Yeah. And at some point, you know, you and I too, like received some kind of message. Maybe it was verbal. Maybe it was pre-verbal. Maybe it was in the form of violence. Maybe it was the form of being mocked or called a sissy or a fag or whatever that like, that's not okay. And I think a lot of that is rooted, and this is something that Alok talks about as well, in misogyny because it's this idea of like, you know, if we hate women, then men should not look like women because then you're feminizing yourself and that's, you know, to be denigrated and it's debasing yourself down to the level of like women. And yeah, I think. And in some sense, in a spiritual level, like from this, if we're, let's use the word awakening again, the masculine and the feminine energies are both certain movements. And this isn't in the classic masculine feminine we think about in society. There's certain movements like the sort of enmeshment, feminine, I don't know how to talk about it. Angelo actually speaks fluently about this. And then the masculine sort of deconstructive energy. And if we're really fixated in one or the other without allowing whatever's actually there, it can be a little problematic. So in a way that that openness, it seems to me like your work with the medicines have allowed a more open. Yeah. Yeah. I'm glad you asked that because that was the one thing I left on the set was how this happened to me. Like, how did I, how, why am I wearing earrings? Like, how did this, how did I end up like this? And yeah, I mean, essentially I identified as, as straight and as cis for most of my life. I certainly, if I think back, there was lots of coloring around, you know, outside the lines or, or blurring the edges, different experiences. I had that there were certainly like queer experiences of queer design, you know, just like reading a homoerotic scene in a book and feeling, you know, aroused by that. But then having some way of telling myself, oh, well that's, you know, that's not, I'm not gay or like, there's always ways of trying to shut it down. So can, and, and relating to that, because some people don't know this and I'm not sure I fully understand the definition of queer. Yeah. Um, yeah. So queer is a word that used to be, and I'm not any kind of like scholar. You should really follow a loke if you want to know that the look is like the, yeah, such a, such a, very eloquent. Yeah. But, um, yeah, my understanding is queer originally was a kind of derogatory or pejorative term, um, to describe people who were in some ways, you know, LGBTQ kind of identified and then it became reappropriated, um, as, as pejoratives often are by the communities that are targeted as a way of reclaiming power. And so it's, um, it's often used as a kind of umbrella term. Mm-hmm. So, you know, you have this alphabet soup of the, you know, LGBTQ and there's several more like I, A, plus, yeah, yeah. Um, and yeah, so queer is like within that initialism, but also it's often, I would say, and people might disagree with me, but, but it's sometimes used as an umbrella term to encompass like all of that. Mm-hmm. Um, and there's different ways people use it. So, I mean, I, I personally just use, I mean, I use non-binary to describe my gender. I use queer to describe my sexuality. Um, and to me that just means I'm attracted to lots of different types of people. Mm-hmm. Um, you know, I, I could probably use the word pansexual, but I also, that doesn't totally, I don't know, for some reason it doesn't totally fit. Mm-hmm. And I think it's important to have this great diversity of words so that people can find what clicks with them. Right, right, right. Better descriptors. Why not? Yeah. Yeah. And sometimes people complain about, oh, there's so many words now, gender. And it's like, yeah, like why not have, like if you're going to have ice cream, why not have a bunch of flavors? If you're going to paint a painting, why not have a bunch of different colors? Like if you're going to express your gender, like why not have all these different identifiers? I think it's the more the better, I would say. And yeah, so, so that's how, so like queer, those two words just, they resonate with me in terms of like my gender and sexual feeling tone. But obviously they might not for others, but, but yeah, I would say generally speaking, like queer is sort of like an umbrella term for being not straight. And, and sometimes people will say like genderqueer for like not being a cis. So sometimes that term is, is thrown around as well. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you for that. So you were saying you, you might, you know, have some homoerotic feelings reading a. Yeah. So I kind of, I, I think there was some element of queerness there my whole life, even as a young person, but I always found these ways to shut it down for obvious reasons. Cause it's, I was raised in a fundamentalist Christian family that was just not acceptable. And so I, I, I had these ways of almost like creating these, these, uh, intrapsychic, you know, chambers in my mind of like, we're just gonna, that's the exile. We're going to shut that off. Cause it's too dangerous. Um, and then, yeah, what, so fast forward to 2020 and we're getting back to the lion's mane. So this is, this is one of the really interesting things about lion's mane, which as I describe it sounds like the worst thing ever, but it actually, there were, there were, there were a couple of really good outcomes. One was this unjourneying thing. Another was this opening up of my gender. And, and the way it happened was through the linguistic neurocognitive disruption, because what happened was during that peak phase of the lion's mane difficulties, this is about two years, but it was mostly in that first year. It was so hard to process language. And I mean, really hard. I mean, I would, yeah, I wish chat GPT had been around back then. That would have been great because I could have constantly been asking chat GPT, how do I say this? How do I use this word? I was constantly Googling. Cause I just, it's like, I just forgot how to speak English. That's how it felt. Like, like things just didn't sound right, um, or intuitive. But so then here's a really interesting outcome of that is that you realize like how much of your, your experience is structured by language, by this kind of like semantic web of associations. That's, um, it's like, you know, I mean, some philosophers would argue the language is like almost like primary. It is. Yes. Primary. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, and. Or the structure of thought. Yeah. Yeah. Structure of thought. But that was very impaired and very offline. And so what that meant is that my identity and my identifiers, you know, somebody just asked me previously, like, and this is something we do in like social work school, right? You always have your sort of like identifiers, you know, in a social justice context, it's like, okay, I'm straight and I'm white and, you know, I'm have this disability or whatever. Um, but, uh, but, uh, but that it, it felt in a way, I remember the time the metaphor that made sense to me was, it's almost like if all those identifiers are in a cupboard, it was always like ready at hand for if somebody asked me, you know, how do you identify? I was like, oh yeah, this is me. This is my name. And this is, and all of a sudden I was having this experience in the lion's mane fog and of reaching into that metaphorical cupboard of identity and just like, where is everything? There's nothing there. It was so weird. And so I would have these strange lapses in memory where I would forget words and yeah, somebody asked me, well, how do you identify gender wise? It'd be like, okay, I'm reaching, I'm reaching. Okay. I guess like a man, but then I would be looking at this sort of object, you know, of the word, you know, man. And it's like, what even is a man? What is, you know? And then it's like, okay, I'm straight, you know, where's that? Okay. Okay. Yeah. That one, I think that's what it was. And it's like, wait, what? What does that even mean? You know? So that's how impaired my brain was. Wow. That words didn't make sense. And I hope that people won't listen to this sort of go down this kind of like, oh, you're non-binary. It's a mental illness. Right. Right. Exactly. Because that's a narrative. Yeah. I think I would say for myself, I would frame it as, it's kind of like, you know, that idea of semantic satiation, satiation, that word is always hard to say, where if you keep repeating a word, like apple, apple, apple, apple, apple, it just becomes gibberish. Yeah. Right. Yeah. And so I think that's essentially what was happening. And this is also connected with non-duality because you recognize that everything is a construct, right? Like your mind is making everything into these objects, but these things can be deconstructed into something else that's much more expansive or fluid or creative. And yeah, it's true of language and that's true, I would say of gender identity and of sexual identity. And so I was just in this very fluid period where I remember just saying like, wow, I don't, I don't, what even is a man? And is that really me? Is that how I identify? And so I just felt this great sense of freedom. Initially it felt like, like an emptiness, like almost like a void, like there's been a loss of identity. But then what filled that was this sense of just openness, like an open meadow of, well, I could, yeah, I could, you know, getting back to the palette, like I could paint with whatever colors I want. And so, so it really, you know, as an adult, and this was, yeah, this is back in like around 2020. So this was just about four years ago. Very recent. Yeah. I really did this deep exploration of who, who am I really? And, and, oh, and the other thing too, that I'll say is there was something around shame. I don't know what the lion's mane did, but somehow shame just my, my overall just level of shame just globally, just like significantly decreased. What a gift. Yeah. And it was, it, it, it did it in weird ways that some people are going to be like, oh, not so much a gift. Yeah. Where it's like, I, again, it's like all the familiar categories. It's just all the, the knee jerk reflexive associations of this is good. This is bad. This is who I am. This is who I'm not. All this stuff just got really fuzzy. And so the sort of visceral, maybe disgust or sense of something is bad that maybe I'd been trained in my whole life to think of. I mean, I remember as a kid being in like province town and there was a poster of like two women kissing and my mom was like, oh, don't look at that. Don't look at that. Cause you know, oh, and I remember having the sense of like, but I want to, it's interesting. It's different. It's different. The women are kissing and, but okay, I can't cause it's evil. That was the framing of my mom. So I had all that. And that gets, you know, in your nervous system as disgust, right. Or as like contraction. But somehow all of that stuff just got really fuzzy. And yeah. And I also was experiencing this and this is, I have no idea how to explain this except that maybe I was having some kind of inflammation kick up or something, but I became like really hypersexual during this period for about a year or two and just like really attracted to all sorts of people that I just like wouldn't necessarily have been attracted to before, but it just felt like my level of sexual attraction was just really amplified in this very kind of jarring way. And so it was interesting because I would experience this, this attraction. And then there'd be parts of my brain that were saying in the past would have been like, well, you can't be attracted to that person because that's disgusting or that's wrong or that's bad. Because if you kiss that person, you know, it's like my mom, you can't kiss, you know, women can't kiss women, all this sort of thing. But, but the shame, disgust reaction was no longer online and the, the sexual energy was very high. And so I just experienced just looking around and just feeling this great sexual kind of, you know, kind of liberation in a way. It's like, oh, I can be attracted to whoever I want. And like, no, who's, who's punishing me? Like, like that's, that punishment is just in my head from my childhood and it's not here now. And so I can really be attracted to whoever I want to be. I can identify. And again, with gender, it's like, oh, here's an interesting thing. It's like, as, as a person socialized to be cis, like if I were to wear a skirt or, or something like, you know, earrings and look in the mirror or just look down at a skirt, like there would be a definite visceral feeling of disgust, you know? And I think, and again, I don't fault people for this, but I'm sure a lot of listeners might relate to the fact that if they see somebody who appears to have been assigned male at birth, you know, wearing a dress, like there might be some feeling of disgust that arises. And I want to tell people that's okay. That's just your feeling. It's not your fault. And that, that comes out of transphobia and that comes out of cis sexism and this, this, and that comes out of misogyny as well. So I had all that in me, but with the lion's mane, somehow, I don't know how my brain was just in some kind of state where all that stuff just went offline. So it meant that, oh, I can put on a skirt and I can look down and I don't feel the disgust or it's very diminished. And so without all those different constraints, in a way, it's almost like, I used to describe it to people as it, it feels like my gender is just, is just very fluid and very open. And somehow in my childhood, it was shunted and confined very tightly into kind of container by all the trauma, all of the religious trauma, all of the, yeah, just, just sort of the gender binary, the patriarchy. And, and then all those walls just came down. And so then whatever that fluid was just kind of found its new level. And so, so that was kind of it. So it, it, it unfolded over a period of time where I started to, I remember I started telling my wife, like, I feel like I don't identify as like a cis man. I feel like there's something else, something feminine in me. And, and I, and your wife identifies as a cis female. That's true. Yeah. So, um, I identify as non-binary and then I started, yeah, I started experimenting with wearing skirts and dresses and it was, it was really hard, you know, going out in public and feeling very vulnerable and very scared. And I didn't know what was going to happen. You know, am I going to get beat up or who knows what? And yeah. And getting a lot of looks and things like that. And then, yeah, then over time it became more acclimatized to it. And then I started, initially I started using different pronouns like he, she, or they. But then I found that people would always default to he again, because they always want to put you in a comfortable box. Right, right, right. And so I started leaning more into she and, and over time I've, I've found that that particular pronoun is the closest that I can find to my gender, what I call like gender feeling tone. Like the tone of it. Yeah. Yeah. It just, and yeah. And there's something, I recognize that for a lot of people and I've gotten this a lot, even from close friends, it's like, okay, she, but you have a beard. Like, okay, I'm going to work on it, but that's, it's hard for me. And I, and I, I get that. Cause that's how we've been socialized. But I, yeah, in some ways I wish, again, I wish there was a greater palette of pronouns and, and there are, I mean, there are like neo pronouns and stuff like that, that for whatever reason I haven't found one that I really like, but, but I actually, there's something about, again, this curiosity and this pull to put people in boxes that I think is so damaging to everybody. And for me, like there's something about for me staying in that place of resistance to that and sort of inviting people into their discomfort with that, that feels very resonant with what I'm trying to do in the world with my gender. Like the fact that even for me, sometimes when I hear she, her, there's, there's like this moment of like, yeah, there's some shadow of some training from my past where it feels like it doesn't connect, but then in my current self, it feels, no, it feels resonant. And so I've empathized with people when they, yeah, have a hard time with it, but I'm, I, it's like, I don't want to cater to that curiosity and that comfort. I want to, like, can you come with me into this little bit of discomfort around the gender binary and like stay here and see what might open up for you? Like maybe, maybe you might want to paint your nails every once in a while and, and like explore that, you know what I mean? And not like feel disgusted at yourself. Like, you know, I thought, I thought I would have a million questions about this and I don't. It's just clear. The way you expressed was perfect. And when I see you, I think, you know, initially it's like that. It's like, oh, but beard, she, her pronouns. It's not adding up here. I can't, like my brain is so conditioned that I can't, I keep misgendering even mentally. And then the more I'm here, the more it's just like, oh no, this is exactly who and what you are. And it's seen as one cohesive perfection. And then this sort of occurrence occurs. And I think this does help to have some non-dual perception where you realize it's exactly as it is. Why do we need even a label? Like we do in society to be able to talk, but it's, it's perfect. And, and that's hard initially because we're living in a world where we are constructing it through thought and conditioning. Yeah. And I think if I'm understanding at all, and I can't fully because I'm, I'm not you, but there was a collapse of the overlay and you even described it as semantic overlay, as language overlay. And so that toolbox of language is gone and now you're just seeing what's there. It's beautiful. Thank you. It's just absolutely beautiful. Thank you for sharing that. Yeah, absolutely. And I, I hope it's just inspiring to everybody. And, and I, I share with, again, I keep dropping this name aloe because they're just amazing, but, um, that, that this is hopefully inspiring to everybody. And I don't, I don't, I don't have some, you know, people sometimes like, oh, the radical queer agenda, the radical gender agenda. You're going to invade my bathroom. I don't. Yeah. It's like, I don't want everybody to be like me or I don't have any problem with people identifying how they identify. I just, I just think there should be more options and less shame. Right. And, and I think that if there were, I just think people, I don't know. I just think people would feel more at home in their bodies, you know, and in the world. Which in some ways is this crux of the problem is we don't. Yeah. Yeah. We're, we're alienated. It's almost like original sin. We've been kicked out of Eden and Eden is here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So beautiful. That's it. I just, I, I, now it's like, it's funny when I feel like the body light up, I can't not express something about it. I don't know what it's like. There's so much stuff that I'm unable to, like, even when we were talking after the first segment and we're like, okay, so what's our next segment? I don't know how it is. It's like, it's impossible to not express if like, oh, I felt some shame during this or this happened. It's like, and, but it doesn't happen with everyone. It happens with people who are also quite open. And so imagine if everybody got more and more and more open. Yeah. Wouldn't that be something? And this is what I love about the emphasis of spiritual practice being connection over liberation. Cause it's like, all these things are just more experiences to explore together and to share. And if you're feeling shame, yeah, it's like, I don't, I wouldn't want you to cut yourself off from that. Or it's like, it's like, tell me and let's share it together. Cause I feel shame too. And it's like, shame isn't bad. It's, it's just, it's energy in the body. It's conditioning and, you know, and yeah, things like we talked about this earlier, like the fear of death, you know, that's, that's often seen as like the main thing in spirituality that you're definitely supposed to get over. And if you're, if you have fear of death, you're definitely not enlightened. You haven't done it. Like, and it's like, what's wrong with the fear of death? Like, it's a really interesting experience. When it comes on me, I was telling you this earlier, like I, for whatever reason, I particularly feel this glassy cold sense of fragility come over my body. And that's a really interesting sensory experience. Like in some ways, just as interesting as being deep in a, yeah, a non-dial meditation, the taste of chocolate or anything else. So it's like, yeah. I love it. This was such a wonderful conversation. I'm so grateful. I'm grateful too. Thank you. So, so I think what I'll do is we'll put this out, we'll share it. People who are into this are going to be, they're, they're in for a super treat. And it's challenging. Yeah. Some of it's challenging. It's, and then I think what we'll do is if we do have the time or the capacity, we'll try to go through some of the meditations in another video. If we can't do it, that's okay. Yeah. And. I suspect it'll go pretty quickly because these are designed for beginners. Yeah. Which are not. So I think you'll take to it very quickly. Yeah. So yeah. Okay, good. So let's, let's break. We'll say bye to the audience and thank you if you've been through this. Thank you. And your website is unjourneying. Unjourneying.com. Dot com. And we'll link to it. Yeah. We'll link to the Alok video. Oh yeah. We'll link to, that's the main thing actually. I think we do those things. Yeah. Because that, that video, you had me watch it. And at first I was a little resistant even because I was like, well, I'm going to meet you and we're going to talk about this. And then I wash it and the hosts were a little tricky, but the, because I'm a, I'm a host snob, but, uh, which is a fixation of mine. And, but Alok, the way they expressed about this was heart opening for me. Like I'd never seen it through that lens. And I, you know, I'm one of the skeptics too, like, oh, you know, why are we even talking about this? It's more identity. What are we doing? And now my, I'm just, my heart is open. And he, they said something that I thought was beautiful. They said, you don't have to understand me to love me. Yeah. I thought that was so beautiful. Yeah. That, that, that definitely hit me too. Yeah. It's nice to have both though. Understanding and love. Yeah. Well, that's why these conversations are helpful. Exactly. Exactly. All right. Thank you. And we are out. Peace.