 kogan, kogan, kogan, kogan, kogan, kogan, kogan, kogan, kogan, welcome to the show. Thank you very much for having me. Ah, so for people who don't know you, you're, I think people who watch and know Angelo have been to retreats with Angelo DeLullo are familiar with you because you're a very special presence at those retreats. And I'll just remember like so for people who don't know you, you're a, you're a Zen monk for most of your life, a monastic, like truly living in a monastery, doing the thing, studying with the legendary Zen monk, then masters and these lineages that are legendary lineages. And again, I'm using these words lightly. And now you're sort of exploring what is the intersection of those traditional monastic paths, which seem to be dying off, seem to be disappearing, with the new way that the Dharma, the truth, this indescribable realization of what is showing up now, like YouTube and rich in-person retreats in the West and mixing modalities, right? Mixing modalities, whether it's like, you know, Zogchen pointing headless way, like non-dual meditation, Adyashanti, you know, just sitting, whatever it is. And then trying to sort through the chaos of what's going on on YouTube when everyone has a platform now. Oh, yeah. Decontextualize from what used to happen in these traditions where you had a teacher and a structure and a container for these realizations. Totally. And so at the retreats, I first met you at one of Angela's silent retreats in North Carolina. And you and Esho, who was your fellow monk, fellow monastic nun, the way you guys would sit in these retreats spoke volumes. You know, everybody else were lay people, were householders, were kind of dabbling in non-duality, trying to relieve suffering or trying to understand truth or whatever it was. And then we see you guys and you've got your robes and you're sitting in a way that like, it's impossible to talk about, but it's like watching a natural phenomena. And the way you moved in between sessions, it was again, like watching like a, like a graceful animal naturally move without any hindrance. I don't know how else to say it. It was remarkable. And I was like, who are these people? And so there was something there that was transmitting, even just with your presence. And, and so we got to know each other. You've been staying with me last couple of days doing talks in the Bay Area. Yeah. Yeah. San Francisco Zen Center, Berkeley Zen Center. And we thought, let's just do a show. Why not? Yeah. Yeah. Totally. And, and, you know, I remember meeting up at that retreat and it was kind of funny because, you know, kind of coming from like a real monastic background and by being an introvert, right? We're kind of like, we knew, we knew our friends with Angela and like, oh, there's this flamboyant Zito guy. Well, you know, you know, people kind of come gather around you. Okay. You know, that's good. But actually when you, when you came up, you were just so kind of kind, humble and, and genuinely, you know, authentic in our exchange. They were like, oh, wow. Zito guy is really awesome. Oh, how sweet. Well, that, that was how I felt because I was like, I am, I am fans of these two. Like, because again, there's something there that just radiates through and especially on retreat, you're, you're sensitized to that space even more. And so, so, so let's back up a little bit. I mean, this is beautiful. And I'll get to know you more too, through this interview, which I'm really excited about, even though we've been spending the last couple of days talking. And by the way, so talking, so for people who, okay, what's it like talking to someone who spent most of their life in a, in a monastery, in these traditions with these incredibly powerful teachers, there's something that comes through guys. That's like, you know, my wife and I were experiencing it and it, it, it, you can't really put your finger on it, but it's, it's quite profound. It's a heart opening experience too, as well as there's an energetic aspect to it. And you're not doing any of this intentionally. It's just how it kind of shows up. And hearing your own path was really fascinating. So you grew up in pre like communist Poland. Sure. It's like my early childhood. Early childhood. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then post communist Poland was actually, you know, to some degree, it was even weirder place, you know, because that kind of, you know, transition and, and everybody kind of not knowing what is this whole thing of, of freedom means. They thought the freedom means the political, political freedom. Right. And, and here the freedom comes and everybody feels just so still stuck with their own suffering. Right. Yeah. So that whole thing, you know, so I grew up vaguely Catholic, you know, nothing, nothing too intense about that, but my, you know, that was the kind of tradition of in Poland for over a thousand years, really. So that's the dominant religious force there. But didn't find really the answers there. And, and at a certain point I was exploring various ways in which, you know, this whole thing called life can be explored and, and, and, and, and experienced in a different way. There was this kind of intuition that there is a different way to experience reality than just this regular veil that kind of like starts to set in when I was, you know, a teenager, I kind of could feel it. Right. This sort of more and more of kind of little angst and kind of like sense of being separate from life, like being apart from it and trying to figure it out. Right. So that was kind of, you know, um, pretty universal experience, I think, you know, people growing up. Right. Yeah. And then, you know, finding, trying to explore ways in which you can actually address that thing. And, you know, with many trials and errors, I kind of got into Zen, which was, which was very, um, spoke to me, you know, it's really, it's really hit something, uh, in my heart. How did you discover it? Because, you know, growing up as a Catholic, you're probably dabbling in psychedelics and stuff as a kid, you're running around the projects of Poland. Yeah. Doing mischief and, and that sort of thing. So how did Zen hit you? Yeah. You know, I think it was, you know, maybe psychedelics were a little bit part of it. Just kind of seeing like, oh, wow. Like there is a possibility of, of very different way in which consciousness can function here. Right. Um, that was one thing, but also just, you know, reading a lot of books and, and, and, you know, trying different things. And then eventually, uh, I think it was Alan Watts is the way of Zen. Ah. And, and, and there's descriptions of those Zen master from Tang dynasty, which, which was very, this, this very wild. It was kind of like, you know, the culture was very rebellious. It was, you know, the, the, uh, Buddhism came to China way before that, but it was much more of that kind of like studying sutras, worshiping Buddha, you know, on the altar and kind of projecting this holiness outside. So it became like a, you know, this sort of religious. Yeah. Deity based. Yeah. Yeah. And then Zen came in and suddenly, you know, the, it was like this disruptive force that was saying, it's not about worshiping anything outside. It's actually realizing your true nature. Right. And, and they were doing all sorts of, you know, all sorts of crazy things. Right. Like, like the, if you read exchanges between those masters, it's like, it's wild, right? Like they would shout, right. Or they would like, you know, there's, you know, they would hit the student or like they would do something to just wake them up from that, you know, kind of familiar worldview. Right. So they were wild people. They were kind of tigers. And what did Bodhidharma say? What is the meaning of all this? Vast emptiness, nothing holy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And exactly. It's like, you know, it's just, it's just a remedy, right? It wasn't, it wasn't even a statement of truth necessarily. That's right. He saw where's the fixation. That's right. And then he, he gave the medicine for that. Right. That's right. So in the same way, great master Lin Chi, who was, you know, master, maybe eight generations after Bodhidharma, he had this famous phrase, I have no doctrine whatsoever. I only, I untie the illusory knots that appear in front of me. Oh, wow. So, so they were very spontaneous and I kind of responded to that. I was like, wow, that's really awesome. You know, there's some aliveness. It's not, it's not like your, you know, Catholic priest in a Polish church, you know, telling you who to vote for and, and, and, and kind of to give the money to the church. It's actually, you know, this, this really powerful force of, of awakening that you can do for, you know, for yourself. And, and how much of that, you know, what's, what struck me and what you just said is how customized it was to the individual students fixation. So now, you know, we sit and you can watch YouTube videos and it can serve you anything about anything at any stage of anything. And like you said, like saying vast emptiness, nothing holy means one thing, but it's not a, it's not a truth in itself. It's a pointer beyond a particular fixation. Like maybe you're worshiping somebody as a deity or you're finding that like doing meridious acts is going to get you some kind of realization. And so, okay, let's point past that. Yeah. Let's hear, but now it's kind of like, Ooh, you could get any number of things. And without that, that teacher, that direct interaction, it can be a little challenging. And I know I floundered a lot, just reading books and trying to, same thing with you, you know, what is this? What is this? Why are we conscious? Like, what's the meaning of this? Why is it so unsatisfactory sometimes to be alive? Yeah. I have everything I want and yet I'm still not, you know, feeling that great about it. Yeah. What is that? So, so this kind of struck you, Alan Watts's book, and then you found Zen to be, that's just that direct. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And again, I was a little bit fooled into it because Tang dynasty, China Zen, which was Chan at the time is very different from Japanese Zen, right? And it was, you know, whatever, 1600 years apart, right? Right. So, you know, before I encountered the Japanese version of Zen. But at the same time, you know, the thread of this directness was still there, but it was in a very different form. So, so for example, in China, often those teachers would, would, you know, would take people like into the room, right? Into a Dharma hall. They would give a discourse and they would say, you know, Master Lin, she had those phrases like, if there's a courageous one who wants to spread his banners in front of me, I'll test you, right? He had that kind of, you know, taste to it. And, and, and, and he would like respond immediately to people how, how, how, how they showed up and what they brought to him, right? What their understanding was. But in Japan, you know, they develop this methodology, you know, size of monasteries might also affect that, that you would meet with teacher one-on-one in a room. And basically every, you know, let's say morning or evening, depending on the monastery, suddenly there would be like a bell sounded, you know, in the far of hall. And, and every, all monks, they know this bell sounds, it means you run. Everybody from the meditation hall, as you sat, everybody just literally leaps up and runs. Some of them like not even taking their shoes and you run and you line up on this, on this kind of corridor before, before this hall. And, and there's a little bell in front of it, right? And then when the teacher rings the bell, like a handbell, then the first monk is ringing the bell and then walks towards the room, right? And, and then you meet and you, you know, there is some exchange about your practice, about your state of mind, about where are you holding on to what's going on. And then, you know, when the teacher feels that the, the, the interaction is over, he rings his bell. And then the next monk is hitting the bell, right? So in that way, everybody goes there and receives, you know, instruction from the teacher. So it's, you know, it's very different format, but the principle is the same. You are getting instruction where you are at, right? Like, you know, what's needed, the next step. You don't need to know the whole territory. You need to know the next step, one single step, right? Because otherwise you might get a little bit confused. So there's that untying the Natsaf illusion one by one in the Dokusan. Is that Dokusan? Is that what that's called? I see. Yeah. So you guys would book over there to try to, wow. So, so you were 23 when you left for Japan and before that you were singing opera. Correct. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, again, it's well, it feels like maybe it's, it's completely different world, but there were similarities for sure. Yeah. Like that sort of mindset of, of training something that's nonverbal and, and it's related to the breath too, right? Like, you know, it's, it's, it's, it's something you do together. Yeah. You know, I was more in a kind of choir, uh, you know, choir sort of. Young person's choir type deal. Yeah. Yeah. Traveling all around Europe and everything. Yeah. Yeah. And, you know, we were going to school at 8am until 7pm. Right. So then it's like, your day is full and, and it, and you are in a group of men, you know, my school was men only. Um, and then, you know, of course later in the conservatory it was mixed, but, but still there was this feeling of like, we are here for a different purpose than most other groups and, and we are doing something together and it's related to our breath and we are doing it a lot. And, and, you know, and, and, and later we, you know, we, we kind of go around and share it in some way. So weirdly transitioning to monastic life, it felt like, oh, of course, that's awesome. Yeah. So you left for Japan and is that where you first, was your first monastery, your main teacher? That was, that was my ordination teacher and someone I, you know, consider my, you know, there's a kind of term root teacher, right? But it simply means like in your heart, it's someone the most kind of, who formed your being the most in a certain way, influenced you and helped you in some ways. And this, this is Tangan Harada Roshi. Yes. Yeah. And I've mentioned to my audience before your book that I read, um, throw yourself into the house of Buddha, which is Tangan Harada Roshi's, uh, story told by him. You translated and edited it after his passing. Yeah. Correct. I mean, there was some previous translation, I was correcting the translation a little bit. I see. Um, so, but yeah, I, I, I was, um, I was, I was involved in that project. And that, that book, like, I remember you sent it to me and after I went to Japan and I did a show about my experience in Japan and you said, oh yes, yeah, you, you seem to understand what Japan is about. Maybe you'll like this book. And, uh, that was a period where I wasn't able to read much because everything had kind of, it had emptied a lot. But, and I read that book and I was just struck by the, just the, the radiant compassion that came from this person that I will never be able to meet, but I could feel it through your translation and through your own, even the inscription in the book. Like it was like, wow, this is what this kind of, this kind of Dharmic transmission can feel like even at a distance, a purported distance when there's really no distance, but it, and hearing his stories of, you know, being a kamikaze pilot in the war and going to die that day when the war was declared over, they surrendered. And then feeling like, what is it like, you know, when all my friends have died and now I'm given this and that existential sort of questioning that led him on his own path. And then hearing you speak of him and so on. And so, so that, that experience, is there anything you can sort of speak of? Like, what was that like for you? Like, what was it like in monastic life under, uh, Tanganharata Roshi at Bukkokuji? Yeah. You know, it's, it's, it's, of course it's as, as many of our, I mean, all of our experiences, really, it's kind of, um, undescribable. Undescribable. Totally. You know, even the mundane ones, like it's hard to, you know, we can, we can try to communicate them, but with him, it was very interesting. I had a, I have practiced Zen for, you know, several years before I went to Japan, right? I was doing every summer I would do like 90 day long retreat or a month long retreat. And, and, you know, I was really steeped in that. And, you know, as a young man, you know, you, you, you can get a little bit of that arrogance. Oh, it's holy. You know, like I know what Zen about, right? Yeah. And I remember meeting Tangan Haraloroshi for the first time and he was, um, he was very kind of, you know, very, very, very gentle. Uh, there was, there was something striking about him from, you know, like the moment he was kind of coming out, it was like a sun coming out of the clouds. You know what I mean? There's some, something about this kind of presence was radiant and, and, and immediately you just felt like, like, oh, life is magic. You know, like there's some, something else here, right? Just, um, just connecting with that through just he, the way he moved. Right. And then he, and then he came out and he said, you know, in Japan, we have this gesture, which is called Gashio, right? Which, which is putting the hands together. Right. And, and, and he said, so let me teach you that. Let's start from there. Right. And, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and then he said, you know, when you do Gashio, it's not that your hands come together. It's that whole universe becomes one. And in this moment, like, tears start to flow down my cheeks and the whole thing stopped. Nothing was moving. And it's not that, you know, sounds were not happening, but it's just my mind stopped completely. And then I was like, oh, okay, I should, I should really stay humble here and, and follow what this man is doing, you know? Yeah. Wow. That transmits even now. And that is, wow. Yeah. So after that, you know, I was just so in love with that life and, and with him and, and it was beautiful. I mean, it's a harsh life in some ways, right? Like, you know, depending on the monastery, wake up between three and maybe the most luxurious monastery is 4 a.m. is wake up. But, you know, it's kind of like, you know, that's for wimps, you know? Three or bust. Yeah. Yeah. But, and then for me personally, what was the most challenging was cold. That was the most challenging aspect. Because there is no heating inside the buildings. And we're in Fukui Prefecture, which is, you know, kind of snowy, colder than the Pacific coast of Japan. And it's the Japanese sea coast of Japan. Ah, right. So if outside is 30, inside is 30. Ooh. Right. There is no, there's no difference. So it kind of might sound like, oh, you know, I go for a hike when it's 30. It's no problem. But if you don't have any time to go back to something that is warm, there's no time in the whole day where that's the case. It's a different experience, right? It's kind of more like, you know, like living homeless in some way in that aspect, right? Yeah. You know, I mean, again, not to kind of like try to make it too scary, but, you know, the head monk of the temple who was there from before I was born, he didn't have any fingernails left. Wow. And earlobes because through those, all those harsh winters for, you know, decades, it's kind of just fallen off. I mean, he had some blood circulation problem. So it wasn't, you know, whenever we speak of that, like some people think it's like, oh, this line between Gulag and Monastria is kind of blurry here. Right. So it's not like, you know, of course, everybody's there voluntarily and most people are dealing with the cult better than that particular monk. But, you know, for me also, my body type is I like to feel warm. Yeah. You know, I'm easily getting cold. So it was challenging. It's kind of almost like as if you're in a stomach of a demon of cold that is digesting you over months. You know what I mean? Because, you know, in late November, there would be snow and in April session retreat, we would still have often ice on the pond in the mornings. Right. So, you know, it's a long time, you know, when the winter comes. Right. And, you know, like, oh, if I start to like reference things in my mind, you know, be on the timeline. Oh, it's hundreds more days of that or is this or that, you know. You're done. Yeah. You're cooked. Yeah. So that itself is a powerful movement of surrender. Yeah. And, you know, as you were speaking of this, it made me think of our medical training, in particular, surgical training, that kind of thing. You get up at three, get up at four, go around. You're not done until six, seven, eight, nine. You don't have any free time. And it's so structured that you do ultimately surrender to the process because resistance is not only futile, it is the end. Yeah. You won't survive it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It is like a forging process, right? Yes. In the fire of it, you know. And again, maybe it's not as inclusive. That's right. As, you know, some other approach could be. So, of course, in this world, in this relative world of opposites, every single thing has its upside and downside, right? Right. So, of course, like this is training that, you know, maybe it's easier for young people, right? And people who are healthy and all that. But at the same time, you know, I have seen a person who was, he used to be a free climber and he had fallen and he was paralyzed from, you know, back up, down. Yeah. Like from the waist down. From the waist down. Yeah. And, you know, and he was like, hey, I really want to live this life and can I come over? And, you know, people are just like accommodating him the way it was possible in the buildings. You know, they are not accessible like for, you know, wheelchairs or anything. So, he was like literally, you know, moving himself across the wooden floors with his hands when he needed to go to Doksan, for example, because, you know, he couldn't use a wheelchair on those. On those parts. Yeah. Wow. So, you know, people did, you know, people who wanted really to access that, they felt that vocation, they were able to access it. Yeah. It's, it's, it's not for everyone and it's, it's not the best environment for everyone to bloom in. Some people need something completely different, right? Right. So, so it's not at all, you know, maybe it's, you know, again, when I was like 23, I thought like, oh, we are the Navy Seals of spirituality kind of, kind of mindset, you know, that kind of arrogance. But, right, right. But of course, later you see, it's just like, it's just one of the diverse, unique expression in which that whole thing can play out. And, you know, Thai forest monks have, you know, their set of hardships, but it's a very different way of life than, than Zen monks in Japan. Right. And even just going from Japan to Korea and practicing in a Zen hall there, it was very interesting because of the, you know, somewhat complicated karma between the two countries. Whenever they were like, how do you do it in Japan? They would ask me and then I would be like, you know, this is how we do it. Right. And, and the phrase would often come up, this is not Zen. This is Japanese military culture. Zen is natural. It's relaxed. Just, you know, just, just like water flowing down, no resistance, you know. So it's interesting. The same tradition went to two different countries, right? And, and, and how different it became. Yeah. Picked up the karma and the flavor of that. And in China, like you said, it was different than it was in Japan. And, and all of that came from ultimately from Buddha in, in India. Yeah. Yeah. And it was very different there too. Very different there. The red bearded barbarian Bodhidharma. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And, and so you had experience then with, um, Tanganharata Roshi for how many years then was that? I was there for, you know, with some, I had some, you know, knee surgery and, and, and, um, but I was, you know, for the four years, last four years of his life, I was, I was there. And what was your role in the monastery? My role was, um, you know, bottom of the chain, surviving kind of, you know, I mean, actually Tanganharata Roshi's monastery was very inclusive. Yeah. Which was coming from him. Yeah. And that kind of like sense of very high hierarchy, like it was in other, many other monasteries was not there. Mm. Um, which was very striking actually, uh, very unusual. And I remember actually going for, um, you know, we, we bathed together, right? Like as a monks, you all, you know, become naked and, and, and you make prostration to the altar in a bathhouse. Bathhouse is considered one of like a meditation spaces, one of the practice spaces, right? Mm. So it's, you know, Zen life has, has its ritual, right? So, so you, you go in, you, you chant this mantra of vowing while I clean both my mind and body together. I vow together with all beings to remain always clear. And I don't remember the other line, you know? Right, right, right. You know, but there are always some kind of little vow and then you enter the bath space and then, you know, you shave and, and, and, and I remember I was there with, with the head monk that I just mentioned before. Um, and you know, I was just, I just arrived 23 year old guy from Poland who spent there two weeks and, and, you know, just received the kind of initial, you know, I was kind of approved this as his student to stay there. Right. And he was there since before I was born. Right. So, you know, so many years and, and, you know, coming from that, you know, um, you know, I, I, I just felt like, you know, years apart and, and, and, and, you know, I admired him a lot. And, and, and, and, and I remember sitting there with him and I was, and I asked him, did our teacher, we used to call him always Roshi Sama, which is a very kind of respectful, uh, way of addressing an old teacher. And I asked, does Roshi Sama have any successors? Um, and he said, you know, Roshi Sama has many Dharma children like you and me. And I was like, wow. It's like, you know, he just put two of us at one. Wow. We are just, you know, we're just all students of, of, of this wonderful being. And, and, you know, there's no like divisions and, and, and stuff like that. Wow. Yeah. So in a way I was, you know, I was really young and, and, and I was just like, you know, then I got ordained as a monk and, and then I got more jobs and, you know, I used to do opera. So sometimes I'm, I'm good in a ceremony department. I'm not, I'm not good with like, you know, carpentry or stuff like that. That's not my thing. So, so I would probably often be like in a, in a, in a ceremony department or, or, or, or laundry actually quite a bit, you know, it's just, monastery is like a big family, right? Like there, there are all those same jobs that we do in a household that needs to happen just on a bigger scale. Like there's like, you know, 25, 30 people. So, you know, someone cooks, someone makes the laundry, someone's preparing a bath and, you know, it's kind of like very collective living. And, you know, you know, that whole thing of, of trying to address the question of, of what we are is so central, right? Like to, to humanity at all. It's not unique. It's not, it's not anything new, right? It was always there and it will always be there as long as more humans are coming to this world. Right. And, you know, probably those stories that you used to tell each other sitting around campfire and just staring into fire, you know, for hundreds of thousands of years, sometimes just trying to make sense of it. We would just tell stories about like, why are we here? Where did we come from? And, and how do we proceed? How do we live in a way that is not, you know, feeling kind of incomplete or in suffering? Right. So in our Judeo-Christian tradition, the most foundational myth is that of the paradise. Right. And, you know, Adam and Eve are there and, and, you know, the, the, the God is saying, okay, everything you do, you can do, but just don't eat the fruit from the tree of wisdom of tree of knowledge. Right. And then, you know, snake comes in and of course, you know, probably it's a man written book. So, so Eve is the one who, you know, convinces Adam to eat. But anyway, but humans eat the apple, right? Which means we develop self-consciousness. We develop abstract thinking and we have that kind of self-consciousness, that knowledge of ourselves, how other people view us, how, or maybe I'll die in the future. And therefore, you know, I won't be here. And what was the meaning of being here if I won't be here? You know, all those things that come with that apparatus, right? And that movement of thought that creates this, it's like a magic almost, right? Like it creates this thing called self that we feel like, oh, it's me. I'm the hero of this thing called life at the center of the universe. It's all about me. Like I meet Zubin, he's a nice guy, but it's like, it's not about him. It's about me, right? Main character. Yeah. I'm the protagonist. It is miraculous how it happens. Yeah. Yeah. So, so, so, so, so keep talking about this because this is the central fall from Eden, right? Yeah, exactly. And that's what makes us feel separate. That whole creating this internal world of, of, of that is based in the principle kind of view of myself being the center of the universe, right? And myself being a separate thing from life, right? That is, you know, the whole paradigm in which we find ourselves. And the whole story from here is like, how do we get back to the paradise? We need to just get, I mean, whatever, whatever means we need to get back there, right? And then, you know, some approaches would propose, okay, let's, let's believe that if we are good or we, if we take on this particular God or belief after death, we'll return to the paradise. It will be all fine. And even if here is like this, you know, trials and tribulations, we have faith in that, right? And, and, and therefore, you know, we hope to get there. But, you know, of course there are other approaches and actually it's not one religion versus other. Each religion has this core of true contemplative, mystical or, or esoteric or however you want to call it. All those words are, have, you know, some connotations, but, but this core of, of not religion, but spirituality, right? And, and, and through that investigation, we can right here, right now, find the meaning of that, you know, the, the, the, the kingdom of heaven is spread up on the earth, right? Like right now, right here, what does it mean in my experience? Where is the, where is that feeling of returning to home that we kind of got cast out of or, or, or, or had fallen out from, right? How do we return back to that? So, you know, through the centuries, of course, different, you know, trials and errors and, and, and, and through that, you know, the, the religion started to kind of unfold, right? Like there were some leaders who are like powerful realizers, like the Buddha or, or Jesus. And they're like, okay, you know, this is what I found. If, if you, if you want to test it out, you know, feel free. And, you know, then there's the following and then, you know, it starts this whole movement and, and, you know, it's, it's, it's, it's powerful spiritual movement. Then on the fringes, there starts to be like, oh, I actually, you know, I don't believe that I can do it myself, but I want to support it because I, you know, at least I'll, maybe, maybe I'll get like a, you know, little tickets with them to, to heaven, right? Like that, that mindset is, is, you know, pretty strong in our, as humans, right? Yeah. So through all that, you know, we arrived at all sorts of traditions that to varying degrees, we're preserving those, you know, innermost teachings within the religion that we're actually not speaking about some future, you know, reward, but actually investigating right now, right here. What does it mean? How can I do it? What is paradise? What, what, what is, you know, what is the kind of delusion that prevents us from seeing it? So Zen is just one form of it, but those traditions develop methodologies and develop their own ways in which, you know, over hundreds of years, you know, there are ways in which, you know, we can go a little bit off, right? In this whole path, in this whole process. So there are some rails in place. And again, every single thing has upsides and downsides. You know, if there's shadow, there will be light. If there's light, there will be shadow. So, so of course, you know, with those traditions, they started also to be a little bit like, you know, sectarian, for example, right? They could be like, okay, my way is the right way, right? We have it right. And someone who is saying like, you know, practicing different form, they would say like, oh no, this is not correct. I know this is not Zen. You know, this is not good. I mean, it's just the tribal nature of human beings, right? And hierarchical nature. And they want, like you said, some people just want to kind of ride along. And it's still from a sense of separation. Yeah. Yeah. That's acting. Yeah. So, you know, here we are, 21st century, right? And we have this ancient wisdom that was kind of carried by those vehicles, right? Those traditions that were over hundreds of years, you know, had their, you know, their wisdoms, their collective accumulation of different maps, different pointers, different, you know, ways of looking at it. And yet, you know, it seems they are kind of dying out, right? And, you know, in the 20th century or maybe late 19th century and early 20th century, right? This kind of very narrow thing started to kind of spill over the world, right? Like before it was like, if you wanted to join that whole project, right? You have to shave your head. You have to put on the uniform that we are wearing and you have to follow, you know, and kind of either beg for food and, you know, depending how... How the tradition is formed, right? But still, it is something you kind of completely throw yourself into and forget everything else, right? But, you know, these days, which is probably, you know, one could argue that this is our one chance for survival, right? On this planet, that we will actually collectively embrace this thing. And it's not just for a few people who, you know, are hungry for it so much, thirsty for that truth that they are willing to leave everything behind. But actually, it is possible for everyone. It is accessible to everyone. And this is absolutely wonderful that these days more and more people are able to find out about it. You know, if you were born, you know, in some village, like maybe, you know, like in, I don't know, Mongolia, right? Like maybe you have never heard of any form of spirituality because, you know, maybe there was some llama in 400 miles from you, but you never traveled on your camel that far, right? Like it's not on your map. So maybe you never encountered that. But maybe in that village right now in Mongolia, someone is tuning in and hearing, you know, things about that possibility and being like, wow, you know, that's awesome. Like I might actually try it out. Maybe I can see. Can I do it myself, right? So this is awesome. But yes, you know, as we were speaking, it's like, you know, there are advantages and disadvantages to everything. And traditions, although they became kind of narrow-minded in some way, and they had also this kind of hint of arrogance of we know all suffering. We know how to fix everything, right? And, you know, initially Buddha also himself, right? Like he was kind of comparing himself to a physician, right? He was saying, I am a good doctor and I have 84,000 medicine for a sickness that people have. And, but I can prescribe you the medicine, but I can't take it for you. You have to take it, right? So there is this kind of parallel, you know, to kind of medical world, you could say, right? And the Buddha himself was, you know, was truly a powerful figure and, you know, he made so many tools. But at the same time, these days, you know, we know something more about, let's say, trauma, right? We know something more about different modalities that are kind of really targeted at coming from a place of research or, you know, trial and errors or actually, you know, even accessibility of certain things, right? Like if you have someone who went to war and, you know, maybe actually MDMA-assisted therapy is something that could help him way before, you know, he could actually go for a meditation retreat and get benefit from that. Because, you know, right? Instead of sitting in the meditation retreat and just having all that stuff come up with no container and no support and just the silence to meet it, you know, if you're that traumatized, that's right. So having these modalities, the modern modalities is helpful. But it's also, so to play the counterpoint to that, because we're talking about duality, right? So, you know, my friend Ron Purser, who's been on the show, has written about this. The traditions, like the one you came from, they had a culture, a container, a support network, a group, a community that could reflect back to you, that could provide support, that could put in context when you're having a dark night of the soul sort of adventure. As these things empty out, as the illusion starts to unravel a bit, it can be so turbulent. And so that can be a very powerful container, despite all the downsides of the hierarchy and the discipline and maybe not fit for everyone and not accessible and all the things. But so now you have all this stuff, but it's decontextualized. And so you have people having spiritual emergencies, you have people having psychiatric emergencies, you have people who give up because they had a challenging meditation or retreat and no container to hold it. And they said, you know, even I almost gave up because the more I would meditate, for a while I went through the Theravada sort of mind illuminated, like I will power through this like a machine and I will get through all the stages. And as I got around stage four or five of like, really, that breath was just everything and the distractions weren't there, what happened? The unconscious started to flood. And I found myself reactive and angry. And, you know, my team, Tom Heineberg and Logan back then, they'd be like, hey, did you meditate today? I'm like, why am I totally Zen? Like, no, you're an asshole. And they would just, they could just tell that it was unleashing some kind. And I know, I had no support container teacher, nothing. So there's those extremes. So I think where, where I feel you have so much to offer now being sort of a little bit on the other side of the monastic piece is like, okay, so there's all this, that there is this kind of support. And there's also all this opportunity, like you mentioned MDMA and therapy and psychedelics and energy work and whatever it is, all the different, we talk about the different threads sometimes on the show, you know, emptiness, energy, unity, psyche. Addressing what's arising with the right modality is nice, but it is nice to have a support, a container, a guide. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. I fully agree with that. And it's, it's, you know, it's true when you live in the group of 20 to 25 people. And again, monasteries can be larger or smaller than that. But, you know, that's actually roughly, I think, the group number of people that we used to live as a hunter-gatherers, right? Yeah. For hundreds of thousands of years. So it kind of feels... Tribal. Yeah, it feels natural, like, oh, you know, that feels good to be in that group of people. Like, you know everybody very well. And people do reflect back on you, like your team, right? Like, you know, you think you have this great spiritual experience and then it's like, you know, everybody's a mirror right into your face. Like, oh, actually, you know, I'm acting actually not that compassionate or like kind of self-centered in some way or like self-righteous or, you know, all those things, right? Yeah. So having that container is very helpful. Of course, in our context, we lived with our teachers, right? So that's also like, you have to go there every day, no matter what, right? You go, you hit the bell and you go to this room and you meet face to face. And there's like, you know, no hiding, you know, that person is very perceptive, is very clear. And then whatever you bring to that room, you know, whatever you're carrying around the monastery, you're bringing back to that room, right? And then, you know, you are really encouraged to go beyond those limitations all the time. You know, through, of course, through the forms too, like, you know, monastic life is, it's kind of like you have to give up small freedom to gain great freedom. You know, that's one of the tools. Of course, you don't have to. Like, people do it in their homes and, you know, but this is one of the tools that because you don't choose and pick and all the time have what you want and you are exactly in your comfort zone, you are actually gaining freedom. That simply, there is a freedom of having what you want. It's kind of like when you smoke cigarettes, right? One freedom is, you say like, okay, I won't be smoking right now, right? And then suddenly you get the urge, right? And then, you know, there's a small freedom of like, okay, I'll just get it. And then I smoke it, right? But there's a greater freedom. I will never need to smoke again, right? Like, I'll just drop it. I'll just go beyond that, right? So, in the same way, there's like, there's a greater freedom that comes when for some time, we can pick them up later. It's okay. But for some time, we actually relinquish all ways in which we feel we are in control over everything. Control. Our life, you know, and because we live such individualistic lives these days, you know, we used to live even in like a multi-generational families, right? Like, you know, there are grandparents in the house, there are kids, there are parents, you know, and everybody had to like get along, kind of find some middle ground there. But of course, these days, we don't do it that much. You know, it's, we have our situation that we are really in control of and we really like it. And, you know, there's nothing really wrong with that as long as we are free from attachment to that, right? It's totally fine. But it was fascinating to see, you know, one of the monasteries that I was staying at, which was Toshioji, where Esha was. And it was like a training monastery. And often people who are coming there, sometimes from abroad, were coming because they wanted like a teacher certification, because they needed to do this particular kind of priest training in order to get that certification. So sometimes there will be those people coming from, you know, France or Germany or U.S., you know, to do that little training. And they, in their sangha, in their local community, you know, they would come and give a little talk and, you know, be in a leadership position and everybody's like looking up to them and, you know, and that's great. But then they come to the monastery and one week in sobbing and sort of like, I can't deal with it anymore, right? Because in monastery, you don't have any privacy. You sleep in the meditation hall one by one and you have one tatami width, which is probably, you know, like that. And you sleep on it and the next tatami is someone next, right? And if you happen to be next to a snorer, here you go, you know, it's... And you eat there in the same meditation hall. You meditate there. Everything is in that small container. It almost feels a little bit like embarking on a ship when you go to monastery. Like there's a monastery gate and it's like a contained space that you are kind of constantly together on. And kind of, you know, you don't leave and, you know, you have to simply be in harmony and see where you kind of are those little sticky points that are kind of like pointy and kind of like getting in conflicts with others or like, where are you out of your comfort zone, right? So sometimes those people who can speak with confidence and be like, oh, you know, I know what Zen is about and I'll tell you what this koan means and giving really brilliant talks. But when they come actually, you know, to the monastery, it's like, oh, okay. This is a little bit different, you know, it's testing to some people. So that container is kind of like a mirror. Like it shows you all the time, like, okay, you know, how are you doing? You know, like, oh, you sure you have great experiences. That's wonderful. But let's see how are you when, you know, things get a little bit difficult here. When, you know, we sit in the four layers of robes and it's, you know, 100 degrees and the full humidity, it's not like, you know, California 100 degrees. It's like a, you know, tropical kind of 100 degrees. And you're just like, you know, getting rashes on the skin from it and, you know, or frostbites in the winter. And it's like, you know, it is this like training in equanimity that is, you know, moment after moment. It's testing you, right? And, you know, you have insight. Oh, this is wonderful. That's beautiful. But let's see how you can embody it. To which degree we can live this truth, right? The old saying, to know, but not to be is not yet to fully know. So this is, that's beautifully said. It's, because it's not, insight is funny. It's like, yeah, you know, I've had a fair bit of insight. The embodiment part, that's the trick. It's almost like you're filling a bucket that has a big hole in the bottom. So the insight comes in and out the bottom it goes the minute shit hits the fan or you're challenged. And even the simplest expression, if that might be, of what you're pointing out in monastic life with the forms and the structure and the roles and the community and the reflection in the mirror. Is it your first silent retreat where you go in thinking, okay, I need just the right cushion. What if my neck starts to hurt? What's the food going to be like? Am I going to be able to sleep? Is there somebody else in my room? All that. And by about day three, you're like, oh shit. Like this is, all that has fallen away and you're, you're being faced with you in the deepest sense. And the first time that happens, you realize, oh, you can't learn this in a book. You can't, you, there's only way to do this is through it, through embodying it. And you see how, how you are. Yeah. You see what's there. And, and, and it is a beautiful thing. And so that tradition, that ability to do that is starting to fall away. Now there's residential options now where, yeah, you know, and, and Esho, your, your partner in crime works, works in that space. But, but let's back up for a second because I think there's a couple of questions that I had that I think the audience might have is number one is like, is celibacy a part of this tradition in Zen? Yeah. So in Japanese Zen, which is like this kind of maverick, you know, tradition within the Buddhist world, it's actually not. I see. Sometimes depending on the lineage, some teacher might actually say that this is part of the agreement, but in, it happened in 19th century in 1868, the sort of Meiji era, the big changes in Japan. And then, and they decided to let go of that or like, you know, actually it was a little bit imposed by, by, you know, imperial kind of decrees because they wanted to Buddhist monks kind of come closer to how Shinto priests were, you know? And, and so that was just part of it. So right now, you know, most of the traditions like Thai monks, you know, Korean monks, you know, the Buddhist world is celibate, like monastics are, but Japanese Zen is not. And also it was a little bit like, that was loose to some degree for, for quite a bit. There was this famous teacher, Kukai Kobo Daishi, and, and he had a wife and, and, you know, it was like, you know, that's just what's happening. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So Japan was a little bit like, you know, prone to do that kind of like ambiguity, not in a negative way, but just, they just, you know, they have their own rules. Yeah. They like, you know. Yeah. And then, so the other question I had is, so when, when you're embodying this practice every day in the forms and the rituals and the ceremonies and the daily activities, how, how do the politics and the interpersonal dramas play out in monasteries? Because I've heard quite a bit about this and it can get a little dicey and in itself be a teacher. Yeah. Yeah. Sure. I mean, again, everybody thinks like, oh, you go to monastery, you'll have a peaceful life and all that. It's like, monastery is like a microcosm of, of humanity, right? Like you get all sorts of people. And often like in Buddhism, if you want to like summarize the, the, the kind of pitch for Buddhism is we know answer to suffering. So who will show up at your door? You know, a lot of people who, who experience suffering, you know, in a, in a kind of more overt ways. So of course there's, you know, there tends to be all sorts of people in a monastery and that in itself is also, you know, it's part of it, right? It's that it's kind of cooking pot in which you are. And of course, in daily life, we have similar things. Like you have a boss that you don't like, right? You go, you know, you, you kind of just go by for, for those, you know, eight hours and then go back home. But then you can go back home and you can complain to your wife and say like, hey, you know, this asshole, this and that. But here's like, you know, you live together, you sleep next to the asshole. You know what I mean? You eat, you serve the food to the asshole. Like you have to find a way to kind of live in a harmony, even with people who not necessarily are someone you would ever become friends with outside. Right. So that's part of it. And, and I don't, I don't kind of glorify that in terms of like, oh, you know, that's, that's, is, is just simply what we are as a human beings. We are complicated mammals with, with a lot of strange ideas. And when we come together, of course there'll be conflict and there'll be, you know, and I would say sometimes it's a little bit depending on the teacher. Like something about that, whoever is at the center of that mandala will draw people who kind of just resonate with him or her. Right. Right. And, and then, you know, some monasteries tend to be way smoother. And, and, and with Tangany or she, it was like that. That was my experience. I, I, you know, sure there are like couple troublesome people here and there, but overall I really benefited from my older brothers and sisters and just being around those people and learning from them, observing them, you know, it's, it's beautiful too. Yeah. So, so, so, so, you know, many people would say, oh, you know, running off and becoming a monk is running away from life. Yeah. But it feels to me like that's not what you're saying. You're saying you're actually going into the microcosm of life and facing yourself. Yeah. Yeah. Because, you know, it is so fascinating that the thing, for example, that people who, you know, are in a gang and, and, and, and, and, and, and will, you know, will shoot you like without a blinking eye. And, and they are like, in some ways they're pretty fearless people. Right. And, and then they go to prison and there's one place they're really afraid of and that solitary confinement. Because then there's them in their mind. There's no distraction. Right. And, and, and, and, and, um, in a certain way, monastery is kind of like going into that solitary confinement, kind of confronting yourself head on. Because all the problems with life are not the problems with life. Our problems with, you know, the way you interact with life, the way you resist life. And, of course, it's not to say that, um, you know, when we see injustice, the compassionate, you know, action that prevents that is not, you know, natural response. Of course, it's not like that we have to accept everything and, and, you know, um, but at the same time, you know, all the source of our suffering, our internal created suffering, dissatisfaction and, and, you know, self-hate and a sense of unworthiness, all those things. Of course, you know, we might have been conditioned by other people to, to, to, you know, have that experience. But at the same time, this is what precisely affects the way we relate to life and everybody in it. So I would say, you know, going to a monastery or a retreat, it's not escaping life. It's, it's precisely confronting life head on to the source of problem, the very root of, you know, greed, anger, and ignorance, right? Those, those forces in us, those shadow spaces too, right? That, that we kind of, they are controlling us. And yet, you know, we, we, it's easy to blame, you know, oh, this person, my boss is an asshole, right? And, and, and sure, maybe they actually have toxic behavior, but at the same time, if we can't sleep at night because we are like raging in our mind, how, how horrible this person is, you know, this is a pattern that is kind of down to us, right? Really? It's not, it's not that person's problem. You know, it's, it's, it's one of those things. And again, so how do we, you know, because it might sound like, oh, you know, this monastic life is just like so great. And, you know, it's like an ad, everybody should do it. But at the same time, you know, many people actually don't bloom in that environment necessarily just because of the restriction of it. And also there is in this kind of more traditional classical sense, there's like close mindedness about it. Like this is the way it's done. You know, like some monastries these days, let's say in a Soto school, there's this trend of like, oh, it's just sitting. And they wouldn't even give you instruction about like, you know, even they wouldn't use those phrases of like, just relinquish all, all points of attention and just rest in the open field of consciousness. They would just say, just sit. Because this is, you know, and of course, maybe for someone who is like really karmically very ripe and clean and it's easy, you know, sure. Maybe they will just sit and in that they will, they will see through things that they need to see through. But for most of people, actually, you need some, you need some skillful means. You need some tools. Like it's, it's, it's a, it's a very dynamic process and it's a deconstructive process because we have created so much filters and so much, you know, this whole tower of identity in which we relate to the world. You know, it's, it's, we need to kind of like look at it closely and kind of see through, examine. It's not like trying to create some experience. It's actually examining what is there and being, okay, is it true? Is it true in my experience that I am, you know, horrible person, right? Like where do I find that outside of the thought? There's a thought arising. Okay. Or maybe there's a feeling. Maybe I'm thinking those thoughts because that's easier and more familiar than actually going to the feeling. It feels, you know, it feels sad. It feels like, you know, I was abandoned or something, right? So, okay, instead of, you know, going to that, let's just, let's stay with it, right? And there are ways in which maybe they're not, maybe they're not intuitively obvious to some people, right? So we need to have those tools. And in some monasteries, there are people who could be there like for 30 years and are banging with their head on the wall, metaphorically speaking. And sometimes not. Yeah, sometimes not, right. You know, and, and yet, you know, they may be not getting the exact help they need. Right. So, so, you know, this is also, you know, there, there are some, some limitations to that, but also at the same time, you know, this approach where all the information is everywhere, you know, it will have some amount of, of, of, you know. Collateral damage. Yes. Yeah. Exactly. You know, we were speaking about this young gentleman who, who, who kind of got really freaked out and dissociated. And, and, and, you know, it's, it's one of those things. It's like, like the, you know, the old Chinese story about the. Men who, who love dragons and he was making origami and, and he was, you know, he was buying stage tools and everything. And, and then one day, you know, the real dragon is saying, oh, I hear there's this man who loves dragon. I should fly over and say hi. And, and it's flying. And as soon as, as, as this dragon is appearing, the man is like, you know, and just running away. And, you know, this is like a parable that just speaks to that of like, you know, you might have some interest. And, and, and yet if the, if the pointing is exactly maybe not the right for you, you can get really, you know, freaked out and, and, and kind of spooked out by it because, you know, to the spiritual path or endeavor is, is really to go beyond what we think we know about reality. And, and, and experiencing it kind of in, in more direct way without that whole conceptual overlay. Right. And sometimes, you know, it's scary to let go of the known. Right. It's, it's, it's, that's, you know, that's why humans, right. Like they, you know, fire was so, so, so powerful. Like, because we could enlighten the darkness that was descending upon us. Right. Like we, we, the unknown is, is, is the scary where the danger could hide. Right. That's right. So whatever we can't know, it's, it's, you know, it's, it's unsettling. And, and what, what's key there is that it's, we're, we're weaving an illusion of knowing using things like that. Like we're like, and now I know, but when you really investigate, you realize, oh, there's no, I don't know. And then there's the fear response. And so, so actually let's, let's talk a little more about this because for me, especially, you know, I have, I have this video platform so people can watch me. I'm one of these voices out there that's shouting out into the void and people could, the algorithm could inflict me on you. And at the wrong time, you know, I've said things like you don't exist or, you know, when I'm feeling that emptiness thread arising. And for me, it feels like liberation. For me, it feels like a deep freedom in that moment. So I'll speak of it on a video very directly. There may be people watching who they're sitting on a pile of trauma and that realization is catastrophically destabilizing or causes nihilism to arise or something else. And, and then they're by themselves. And so then there's this feeling of like, as a doctor or as a Zen Roshi, do no harm. So do we not speak of it? You know, for me, this has been an internal struggle. Like sometimes I'll interview someone about threads, you know, like Pierce Elgar about threads of awakening, because it's a model that's so inclusive that people might find solace and say, oh, no, this is showing up for me. So it's okay. But then the downside of that is now they're focusing on another map and they're conceptualizing something that's actually unknowable. So how do you think about this as someone who is deeply, and you, and we'll talk about your different insights over the years, but how do you think about this or embody this is a better way to talk about it? Yeah, it's fascinating. And there is no like a right answer, right? Like, you know, we can have our opinions, but it's, it's, it's one of those very complex problems that each approach will have its, you know, strong side. And, and, you know, as we were speaking, the, in Kabbalah, right, they would give the, the emptiness kind of, you know, no self kind of teachings only to people who are 40 at least and had family. Right. So they have some grounding, they have some rooting in like, okay, you know, there are some things that I'm responsible for here. And, and, and I kind of, it won't let me kind of just spin off, spin off. Yeah. So on one hand, you know, we have that traditional approach, which is a little bit, can be of a gatekeeping, right? Oh, it's only for special few. And, you know, therefore the other extreme is like, okay, it's all open everywhere. And it's kind of like, it's your responsibility, do it at their own risk. Yeah. You know, if it's. Trigger warning. Exactly. Yeah. Or, you know, I mean, I guess the extreme version would be no trigger warning. It's like, it's completely out there. Right. And, and, you know, of course, some people are trying to say like, hey, you know, it's not for everyone and be sure that you are prepared to kind of maybe, you know, it's, it's kind of an often question because the mind tries to prevent us from going into the unknown with the things that we fear the most. Right. So, so for parents, you know, when I talk with some people, often they would say like, oh, because I won't be able to take care of my kids and all that will play out. Right. Right. And, and some other people were like, oh, I have a business. I can't, you know, I can't, I won't be able to operate. So, of course, the mind is producing that. And it's just, you know, in most cases, that's not true. But, you know, if, if we are a hundred percent honest, it might. It might. That's the key. That honesty is actually a kind of truth with a capital T. It's like, we don't know. We don't know. Maybe your life will change. And the question is like, okay, do you feel like it's worth it? Do you feel like that you have that thirst that, you know, otherwise you just can't. And again, it's not for, again, to, to emphasize for the most people, you will be probably better parent for have seen through your own stuff. You know, so it's not, you know, to kind of like make it too spooky and, and discourage people. It's just a matter of like, whenever people are asking me, oh, but, you know, will my life stay the same? It's like, maybe not. Maybe not. You know, maybe not. It's, it's, I mean, life is, is a constant flux. It's just, it's, it's just this fathomless mysterious thing that's unfolding. And the illusion that we can control our life to stay the same is, you know, it's one of those ways we fool ourselves, right? Fundamental roots. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And, and so, so in my, in my feeling as a physician, I feel like, you know, we do a lot of things in medicine. A hundred people you might treat, you might cause harm in five, you might help 50 and the others might be neutral. And we're willing to accept that as a balance of, okay, I can live with that. And I think in this space for me, it feels a little like that. It's like, like I can talk to you and some people will resonate with that. A transmission and that'll be very helpful. And they might even have a shift or an awakening or an insight or an embodiment that they didn't have before. And I hear those stories all the time. Mm-hmm. But then, you know, I might go do a rant about, you know, today I realized nothing is happening at all. Like this is a total mystery. And a person or two might get fundamentally destabilized. Mm-hmm. And that may happen, but there may be another 20 people that they're like, that's just what I needed to hear at that moment. That particular bodhisattva arises. And the bodhisattva is just an appearance of us and reflected back to me what I needed to hear. And the algorithm was the mechanism of that. And it's all a mystery why it all works. Yeah, I would agree to some extent. It's like, you know, I think it's good that the teachings are out there and anybody can access it. Because we need change on a larger scale than just like, you know, a few monks in the mountains. Yeah. Because, you know, it's not like we have necessarily food problem in this world. Right. We have greed problem. Mm-hmm. You know, very few people get a lot of resources. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And meanwhile, half of Africa is not having enough, you know, food in that day to eat. Right. So most, you know, most of our problems come from fundamentally our own minds. Right. And collectively. Mm-hmm. So addressing that is truly, you know, and especially, you know, with AI, right? Like it's wherever the humanity is heading, AI will bring us that faster. Yeah. You know what I mean? Yeah. Because it's- It's an amplification of our own mind. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So in a certain way, it's like this bottleneck kind of place where humanity, you know, we have climate change, we have AI, we have so many, you know, we have- yesterday, you know, the US bombed Iran and, you know, so many uncertainties, right? And, you know, there's this event horizon. We don't know where we are going. But what really feels important is actually find the cure for that greed, anger, and ignorance within ourselves. You know, be the change we want to see in the world. What else? You know, we can get all helpless and all worked up and all angry about all issues in the world. And, you know, there is a place of direct action too. I don't say it's not, you know, valuable. But at the same time, this fundamental way in which we can address those things that we see there in ourselves, because they are there, you know, each of us has some, you know, little greed. We'll choose like, oh, you know, I'll just choose the kind of, let's say, more convenient and less, worse for environment option, because I can't be bothered, right? You know, we can relate to, all of us have that problem. You know, I was trying to, you know, go for retreats to North Carolina, you know, by train and it was like, you know, 16 hours from New York and, and it's, you know, and then a year later I kind of got lazy. I was like, oh, you know, the flight is cheaper and faster, right? And I did, you know, so, so, so we all have that kind of tendencies in ourselves. And of course, some are much more benign and some are, you know, more impactful, but addressing them primarily in ourselves is the way we can move beyond. So the teachings, they can't stay in those chambers. They can't stay in those little, you know, places where, where the old priest with the beard is kind of like telling it to two disciples and, you know, it's simply the world is calling for larger change and, you know, we'll see whether it will happen or not. It's, I'm not necessarily subscribers like, oh, this new earth is emerging right around the corner, you know, you know, that's, I mean, that's awesome. A nice story. I would love that to happen. Absolutely. Right. But so how do we kind of tie those two things together, right? Those, those, this kind of support network and actually having, you know, be able to access someone who walked that path before us and actually has some wisdom, right? And yet try to still make it, you know, fully accessible. And, and, and there, you know, there are some ways, you know, that we can try, you know, this day the culture is of that and, you know, probably pandemic didn't help with that either that everybody's just like scrolling and, and, and, okay, oh, this spiritual video, I'll watch it. And then, you know, okay, this video. And, and, and they think this is being on a spiritual path. Right. And it's kind of like, you know, sure. It's kind of like, as if you want to become a doctor and you're watching videos on medicine and it's like, oh, this guy is saying something good about vaccines. Okay. I'll listen to that. Oh, this person knows something about cream to the skin and, you know, like whatever. But it's kind of like, there is certain fire in which you are forged as a, as a, as a medical professional, but you can't actually get it from the videos. You know, you can get some knowledge, of course you can. Right. But, but at the same time, you know, there's something else that needs to happen. So first of all, I think retreats, this is such a powerful tool. I agree. Yeah. You know, we shared some retreats together and, you know, we agree on that. So, so for someone who actually, oh, you know, I'm, I'm watching those videos and I didn't have that thing that they're talking about yet and getting all frustrated. So, okay. Have you ever been to like a, you know, retreat? That's the first maybe question and, and, and talk to someone who actually, you know, had that kind of whole unfoldment before you. Right. And this is powerful tool and it is accessible these days to everyone. Yes. Everyone. Yeah. Everyone. Yeah. Yeah. I, I, I'm adamant about that actually. If that's calling, if this path is calling in some way, you've watched videos, you're still, you feel stuck. And that's how I was, you know, I, you know, I even had spontaneous, you know, first awakening, whatever that means, and then years of reading books, years of watching videos, years of different meditation strategies at home, mind illuminated, Theravada, everything. And the first retreat I did, it just melted all of that into oblivion. And it was just the heart exploded and Kundalini out of the top of the head and feeling that, you know, that, that unity energy of, of that, that, how would that even have occurred? It could have occurred spontaneously, of course, but having the group of people, this was a small retreat. Angelo was hosting in Monterey with my first retreat, 30 people. Many of them were like fans of my show. So there was all this self-consciousness that had to, I had to sit with those people in silence for so many days. And then in the evenings we would speak. So we would do some group processing. And so it was actually helpful to kind of contextualize what am I experiencing? And it was the most powerful experience and it just dropped me off the cliff. And so, yes, I agree. I think retreat is something accessible in a, in an almost monastic sense for people now. Yeah. And there's a lot of resistance to them. Yeah. I mean, again, and it's so fascinating how coming from a different maybe context and perspective, it's like, sure, if people are in that, let's say that kind of maybe neoadvaita or non-duality. There's nothing to do. Who's doing it? Right, right. And it's kind of like coming from like a Buddhist background, which again has its own, you know, leanings, of course. And I see that, but it's so funny when people like, when you, when you say word practice, it's as if you say word shit. It's like, they get all triggered. You know, why would you practice to get where you already are? Yeah. Right. And it's like, all right. Okay. You know, I mean, it's, it's not that this style of pointing is never valid. That's right. It can be again, like we are speaking about Bodhidharma, vast emptiness, nothing holy. It can be like that. It can take certain sickness. Right. But at the same time, if you're like one trick pony with one size fit all. That's right. It's like, and also, you know, to some degree, I feel like, you know, meeting people like Tangan Roshi. And again, I don't want to limit it to that because for me also meeting Adyashanti had that same flavor of seeing someone profoundly embodied and truly, you know, living embodiment of that truth to, you know, to a high degree. And of course, no, no one of us is perfect. No human being is, you know, human, perfect human being is an oxymoron. Yeah. It's just, but, but yet, you know, there is a spectrum. And when we even our own, you know, putting aside that people can just keep watching videos and getting nowhere, even if you have actually some taste, you know, you get some awakening or some true breakthrough experience, you know, we can say like each single of those experiences for us, right? Like it also had the flavor of like, I know the whole thing. Oh, absolutely. Reveal truth. I know. I'm done. Yeah, exactly. This, you know. It's almost a signature of it. Yeah. Yeah. There is that kind of confidence. And then if you have absolutely no one around you who can be like, all right, that's awesome. But, you know, let's, let's look at that. Yeah. And then you might just kind of be, okay, I'm now the next coming. Start making videos. Start making videos. Start being out there. And you have your, you know, some, some disbalances in your view, right? Like you're either too attached to like the empty aspect. You're almost like nihilistic. Like, oh, it's only a dream. It's all illusion. Right. You know, in a Zen monastery, if you'd bring something like that to the Zen monastery, he would probably take a stick and hit you on the head. And if you'd be like, ouch. Is that an illusion? All right. You know, suddenly the illusion is a little bit more real, huh? You know, there are ways in which you can counteract those disbalances. That's right. So people who have those experiences, you know, my own was the kind of initial opening was 17 years ago. And, you know, and later there was another one and another one. And, you know, it kind of, there is those maps when you read them. And there is a collective body of wisdom sometimes. And, you know, some guides embody it and know it and they are able to point you. And traditions collectively have those things. And, you know, again, one example that just comes to mind was Tulku Urgen Rinpoche. He was this famous Dzogchen master. And, you know, he spent, after, you know, many experiences, he still spent like six years in a cave, just really investigating that and different teachers would come and visit him. And he would, you know, he would talk to them. And just because, you know, he really wanted to clarify that and embody it profoundly. Right. And then when people are around this person, it's like, oh, wow. Like, you know, immediately you see that, you know, this person actually has fully, not fully in terms of like completely, but profoundly clarified those things in themselves and embodied them. And they live them. They are living, you know, example of that. Yeah. Rather than, you know, someone who have some, you know, experience and then kind of like get into arguments online with people because, oh, you know, your approach is not good and it has to be that way. Right. Like it's like, okay, you know. So there's, of course, there's a danger of like putting it the pedestal, those great masters and be like, oh, you know, that's not for me who I am, you know. I mean, that's also another disbalance. But, you know, because as human beings, we have our tendencies. We lean this way or the other. And therefore having a group or having someone to kind of check in with is so helpful. Yeah. Because it can prevent those disbalances of occurring. So, okay. So I'm going to, as always, being a narcissist, I'm going to relate this back to me. All right. You're just a projection of my mind, Kogan. Let's hear it. Everything you just said is absolutely, it's beautiful because like for me, my unfolding has been public. So I can't help. It's part of Zubin's wiring that he flaps his mouth when something is realized. I'll go make a video. So you can see videos where I'm like, all the gurus are bullshit and the truth is this. Or everything is empty is this. Or, oh, no, it's all made out of love. Or, no, no, no. Everything is just consciousness. Oh, no, wait. There's nothing to do. It's just life, lifing. I've said all those things and meant them in all these videos. Every time I make a video like that, I have enough friends now that are very clear, beautiful, compassionate, radiant, embodied beings. I will get a text and it will say, I saw your video. I love how you said this particular aspect. Let's get on a phone call. I'd love to catch up. And they will very compassionately and skillfully point in the way the Zen master would have hit me with a stick if I said everything's an illusion. They would show me that, oh, no, also there's this. Yes, and also this. And it's beautiful. It's absolutely beautiful. So people might even in the comments on my video say, but in the last video you said, and now you're interviewing Kogan and saying. And it's like, yeah, that's how it goes. So it can feel like that, too. You can almost feel like, because like you said, each insight is like, oh, I've got it now. This is it. And I'm going to tell everyone. And there are some people who seem, and again, I don't want to be too judgmental because it is my nature actually to be judgmental. It's like one of Zubin's things. So there are some people who feel very stuck in a certain part of that realization, and they're making video after video after video after video after video. And so it seems like you can get something out of that when the sickness you're trying to help is remedied by that. But then it's okay to let go. It's okay to say that's not everything. It's okay to say yes and to the next thing. Yeah. It's like, you know, sometimes the image uses like, it's like two arrows meeting midair, right? So it's like there is a sickness, there is something, and you shoot an arrow. Yeah. And it's not because you want your arrow to reach the other person. You want both arrows to fall on the ground, right? It's that remedy rather than this is the ultimate truth. And, you know, of course, you know, there's the beauty of having both, you know, those networks of support and friends. And also just having that humility of like, you know. I don't know what's going on. And through that, you know, you're able to navigate that, you know, in a way that is. But even, you know, let's say when you have great masters, like, you know, like legendary realizers, like, you know, Master Dogen, right? From Japan who brought Soto Zen from China to Japan. And, you know, my good friend, he had this saying, if you know a quote from Dogen that you don't know the exact opposite quote for that quote, you don't know Dogen. You know, because this whole thing is paradoxical, right? It's so funny because as you were saying Dogen, I was like, oh, I have a quote for you. And I don't know the opposite to it. You know, like it's a quote. It's the quote, to study the way is to study the self. To study the self is to forget the self. Forget the self is to be actualized by myriad things. To be actualized by myriad things is to what is it is when others' bodies and minds drop away and your own body and mind drops away. No trace of enlightenment remains. And this no trace continues endlessly. Yeah, I mean, you know, this is absolutely beautiful quote also because it encapsulates it so much, right? Like it's so in each line, there's such a powerful teaching that, you know, it's truly, you know, there's a lot of facets that it embraces, right? Very encompassing, yeah. But of course you would find Dogen, let's say like late Dogen, right? Like when he was kind of going back to, you know, kind of more Theravada almost teachings, you know, he got donated like a Pali Canon from some Lord, aristocratic Lord. And he would read them and he, you know, and he was saying things that were like very different from some of the things he said before, right? Ah, beautiful. So it's like even within one person's, you know, of that, you know, sort of teacher, you know, because human beings are a walking paradox. If you put things into language that is kind of like a binary or dualistic thing, you will inevitably just take a side, right? And say something. So, you know, of course, at a different point, absolutely something opposite is called for to be said, right? So that's what I like, you know, about approaches that don't take themselves as a holders of ultimate truth. Because in a certain way, you know, I love that phrase, there is no the way things are. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That I find to be, I don't want to say it's ultimate truth, but I'll say, boy, that resonates. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So it's kind of like each of those things are simply a medicine for a certain disbalance. That's right. So therefore, you know, I mean, it is helpful to have those networks. You know, if you're engaging in something, you know, let's say if you are learning medicine from YouTube, right? Watching just like, oh, well, this person said and then testing it on yourself. There is a chance you might get sick at some point and ruin your health, right? Because there are all sorts of ideas out there. So in the same way, you know, this spiritual endeavor is for everyone. So of course, no one wants to limit that to some special exclusive club. It is possible for everyone, right? But of course, that includes if you have severe trauma, maybe it first work with that. And maybe that's not necessarily answered in Vipassana retreat. Maybe this answer was like a trauma therapist that needs, you know, to really guide you through that, you know, that particular, you know, unfolding. Yeah. And I think that's where like this language, this particular map of the thread model might be helpful for some people because you say, oh, okay, if psyche thread stuff is coming up, trauma, conditioning, finding a specialist in psyche thread to help might be the best approach. Rather than going to the specialist in emptiness, which might be the Theravada monk who will say it's all illusion. Just focus on the breath. And then this unconscious insanity is arising and it's overwhelming your nervous system. It's overwhelming your capacity to cope. Yeah. And they're telling you just sit with that. And, you know, maybe for some people that would work, but for many, it's like, yeah, you got to get that root of like. Yeah. For most people, that will not work. Won't work. Yeah. And you hear stories like the Willoughby's and others have written about spiritual crisis that come from these long Vipassana silent retreats without a lot of support and flooding the unconscious material coming up. And again, it goes back to the monastery. Like there are you, there's support for that. There's holding for that. There's community for that. There's a teacher on site with you. Yeah. And again, if there is something in a spectrum that that teacher, you know, those teachers are also not like trauma specialists. Right. They didn't get that training. That's right. They deal with the bandwidth of suffering that is mostly just based in that kind of primary mind identification identity and so forth. But, you know, again, you get tons of support in that and you get the feedback, you know, about your behavior and everything. But at the same time, you know, sometimes methods that are available, there's, there are also sort of limited. So now it is kind of this question, okay, how do we combine the modalities, those, the good sides of those both worlds? Yeah. How do we have communities and support networks that are, you know, they might be more democratic than the kind of Asian kind of like this is the guru and this is the student, you know. Right. And some teachers are really discouraging that model and are really trying to be more democratic. And, you know, I think there's, there's a great value in that. But how do we create those communities that are not just the sort of consuming things online, but actually with your body and mind, bringing yourself to the table and either doing a retreat or, you know, practicing with group of people. Like, you know, when I, when I was starting, you know, it was still, the internet was kind of very, very preliminary. And if you wanted to hear a Dharma talk, you know, just buy a ticket to Warsaw, you know, four hours on train, go there, go, go to this particular, like, you know, Tibetan, Tibetan center. And there's some llama who will give a talk. And maybe it was, maybe it wasn't great talk, you know, and you have to go for hours on the train back to your hometown and you have, but at least you have to put yourself into it. Like you really had to be there with a, in a physical space with others and, and practice, you know, have some, some support actually, you know, being around people and, and being able to check in with people. And this is, this is, I think important. And that's a little bit of like that, you know, our interest of, you know, kind of like people who came out a little bit of that monastic life feeling that actually that kind of narrow mindedness, you know, has its drawbacks. And, and at the same time, I, I want to say that also, I'm so happy that there are traditional monasteries out there still. Yeah. And they are offering absolutely authentic kind of, as by the book of traditional training, because some people will benefit from that tremendously. They will respond to an archetype of a priest even, right? Like, like, like they just have that connection. And, you know, some people will actually the opposite. They were like, I don't like this whole religious stuff. You know, that's not for me. And that's why we have to have diversity of, of places and methods that, you know, are bringing to life different flavor of it because different people will respond to it differently. So I'm not saying, oh, you know, the old ways are bad and, and the new ways are, you know, better. It's kind of like they both have something to offer. And, you know, if the place, let's say that is very, this in traditional training is doing a training and, and then there's a person coming and, and this is where we need to find some kind of consensus of humility. When the person is coming and it feels like, actually they should, they would benefit from something else. We should be able to communicate that to this person because, you know, there's so much, I have seen it so many groups. It's kind of like, oh, you know, there's a strength in numbers. We want to have a big group and, and therefore whoever is showing up will, will totally take you in. And if you are making no progress, we'll say that you are not making enough effort because our method is great. You know what I mean? And it's like, okay, you know, that's, yeah. Yeah. You know, that's limited. It doesn't fit. So, okay. So as we, cause we've been talking for a bit now. All right. Yeah. Yeah. So, so let me ask you a question because I can't let you escape without putting you on the spot for a few things. We talked about insights and you've had several shifts. You know, I'm going to ask you one question that I, I know is not a great question and ask it anyways, because maybe you have a great answer for it or something arises. And that is, if you could say there's one particular insight that you can communicate in some way, even embodied, that would have the biggest impact on relieving human suffering. What do you think it would be from all your training or all your experience? Yeah, it is, it is a very challenging question just because each insight is showing kind of another layer of actually is seeing through another layer that was piled up in this kind of castle of, of, of, of projection and, and, and internal world. Right. Right. Right. So each of those shifts and, and, you know, just for like a radical simplicity, there is this kind of realization of, of pure presence of, of beingness or, or I am sense of that just, just consciousness that is free. Right. It's not identified with thought. It's just, it feels inherently beautiful and free. Right. Right. That's pure presence. And, and it's, you know, it just feels so complete and it's, it's absolutely wonderful. Right. But then there is also like, you know, natural outgrowth of that. There is this way in which we can clarify that actually in our perception, the sense of there being a subject to it, it's a, it's a construct. It's, it's actually not the case when we look at it very carefully and, and, you know, time after time. And, and it's maybe not as easy to access that if we have not realized that pure presence. Right. Um, you know, some teachers talk about this, you know, up and out movement and then down and in movement of awakening. Right. And then of course there's this kind of falling away of any sense of, um, separation because we can say, you know, that's the whole point. Like sometimes we use those phrases like, oh, I don't exist. Right. But, you know, those words has arisen. Right. So, so, so in a certain way it's, you know, it's, it's almost funny to argue that. It's hilarious. I don't exist as a separate thing from the universe. That's very clear in my experience. Right. But, so I would say if I would have to boil it down, that's just how it's appearing here. And again, if we talk, you know, tomorrow, it might be totally different answer is seeing through separation, seeing through illusion that I am apart from life. Everything else is around me and I am at the center of it. But what is this I? Right. When you, when you ask someone to turn around and be like, okay, you know, I am here is a thought. Okay. So there are thoughts granted. Right. There are sensations. And we say like, oh, because this is my body. Right. But okay. This is my body is another thought. Right. So, so all I have is actually sensations. Right. And if I looked really clearly into them, it's like, oh, you're cloud-like, fire-like, which means there's constant twirl of little points of experience, pixel of experience coming and going, coming and going, arising and dying. Right. So this thing I called body, my body is exactly of a nature of a waterfall. If I look at it from a distance, I'll be like, oh, it's a waterfall. It's a noun. It's a thing. It's out there. I see waterfall. But if you come close, just the rushing current, nothing solid, just this constant points of, when you see it, it's already gone, already gone, already gone. Right. So this my body suddenly becomes nothing else but just this cloud-like, fire-like, open field of points of experience. Right. That's it. And then there are thoughts arising. But it's not like between thoughts. Whatever this truth is, is disappearing in a path of smoke. So it's not like the thoughts are defining anything. They're simply arising. Right. Sounds are arising. You know, the colors are vivid, beautiful. Right. So the sense of apartness from the universe, from everything, from life, from reality, is this fundamental way in which we kick ourselves out of the kingdom of heaven. You know, time after time. Because there are moments, you know, there are some moments when that is kind of, you know, where you're like really passionate about surfing. And you are riding this wave. And in this moment, suddenly it's like, there's just this flow. There's just this magical life. You know, just this breeze. And you don't define any of it. It's like, oh, it's a nice wind today. It's like, no, it's just that one experience. Continuous. Right. Beautiful. Vivid. Luminous. Right. And therefore, people are willing to risk their lives to revisit that. That's why people climb without ropes. Because it's like, I'm so forced to be present that there is nothing between me and this movement of climbing. Right. They're willing to risk their life because they don't know this is possible in each and every moment. Because it's our birthright. It's here for us, for everyone. Right. And we can, through a process of truly, clearly looking at our experience, we can truly live in that way. Living that way all the time. And of course, we will have some challenges. We are not like perfect transcendent beings, of course. But it's like the basis from which life happens is not that mini me at the center of it all, being freaked out, being angry, wanting to manipulate for outcomes. It's life. It's life itself. It's right here. And it's, you know, and therefore, from that perspective, we see, when we see sadness, it's a sadness. It's not my sadness, your sadness. It's a sadness. And the compassionate heart comes online immediately because there's no separation. It's like, oh, he's sad today. It's like, oh, it's experienced vividly. It's, you know, and from this point, we can transcend those boundaries as a humanity. Right. We can go beyond that me versus you, my views, your views. I'm better, you're worse. You know, all that whole thing. To the, you know, not to the perfect degree because this is a mess. Right. And in a certain way, we say, like, it's like a lotus growing from a muddy water. You know, on one hand, our experience can be beyond that. And still our roots are in the mud. And we'll, you know, we'll crawl through it sometimes. And we'll have struggles, of course. But there is a way in which we can go beyond that whole thing that sets us apart and makes us destroy each other in the end. Right. And makes us fight. So, truly, that insight of non-separation, I would say this is the essence. This is birthright and our pathway if we want to continue on this planet, you know, as a thriving species. And not as, like, you know, cockroaches, survivors of nuclear disaster, you know, kind of thing. You know. Ah, Kogan. Wow. I'm glad I asked that stupid question. To you, you, I have to say, like, you, I've never met Tang and Roshi, but, like, I could feel that compassion, that energy in that transmission. That was absolutely beautiful. I hope the audience can feel it, too. Oh, my gosh. There's, I don't think there's anything else we can say today. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's it. Yeah. And, you know, I'll just maybe, like, do a plug that, you know, we are sometimes trying to, like, month-long retreats. Yeah. To bring that kind of component of, you know, a little bit longer, staying together and being. And people actually, you know, we have done that a couple times, the sort of month-long retreats. And people actually really feel the value in, you know, going not just for five days, but actually living in that way together and being together and kind of, you know, reflecting to each other. And we're trying to find the ways to kind of bridge that gap. And, of course, we don't have answers, right? Like, we have questions. And that's the beauty of it. We are exploring it and, you know, finding some ways to kind of take part in this larger community of both kind of spiritual community and humanity. And, you know, check things out. Like, you know, our background is in the monastic kind of training. And, you know, that's what we kind of bring to the table. And we are open to kind of, you know, hear how other people are doing it and trying it. And it is a living exploration. And so far, yeah, we are trying to do a little bit, like, longer retreats and see how that unfolds for people. And people do report finding, you know, tremendous value from it. Okay. So this is the key thing, the takeaway from this video for people who resonate with what you're saying, which I think will be a lot of people. How do they find what you're doing? So I created, like, you know, probably like a month or so ago. Like, you know, until the pandemic, I didn't own my own computer. I didn't have a bank account. I never had a car. You know, I never rented an apartment. You're literally living out of a van when you came here. Rented van, yeah. Rented van, yeah. Yeah. So, but I have a website now, which is See Your Nature, which comes from Bodhidharma, actually. Bodhidharma, when he tried to define Zen in a very short way, he said, direct transmission outside of scriptures, not dependent on words and doctrine, directly pointing to each person's mind. See your nature, become a Buddha. Oh, beautiful. So it's seeyournature.org. I will put it in the show notes. And are there links on that site to where you can join retreats and also the books that you have? I'll put your links to the books as well. Yeah. I don't think I, oh, maybe, maybe in the resources. In the resources. There should be something, you know. But I'll put them in my show notes. Yeah. So people, because you not only throw yourself into the house of Buddha, but your new book with Esho. Yes. Which is called, what is it, In This Body, In This Lifetime? Correct. Yeah. And what's that book about? Those are 30 stories of awakening of women in Japan between, you know, 30s and 50s. Wow. In that kind of, you know, Second World War period. Right. It's a very traditional society. Yeah. Yeah. And practicing under these females and master, which, you know, there's not many accounts cherishing female spirituality in Asia generally. Yeah. There are very few. So she was this powerful teacher and her message was exactly that. It is possible for everyone. You can realize it for yourself. So instead of having it only for monastics, for the rare few, she was taking on anyone. And there were like 73-year-old village women without any education, illiterate, couldn't try. They had to tell someone this story. So they write it down for them. Wow. And, you know, 20-year-old girl from Tokyo who was just really, you know, freaked out by living in World War II Japan. Right. And mother who lost her son in the war. Right. And going through horrible grief and, you know, working through that in that context. So this is like a book that is also like, you know, gospel of this is possible for everyone. This possibility of liberation is not limited to anyone. And those 30 stories are really speaking in their own voices, their own trajectory. How did it happen for them in this very particular narrow context? Which, again, it can look in so many different ways. And, you know, very often I'm bringing up actually our mutual friend's example. She was kind of a triathlonist and she has a PhD in psychology. But she almost never meditated and really just inquired and communicated with some guide. And so it doesn't need to be, you know, like athletic meditation for 14 hours a day in some meditation hall. It can take different forms. But as long as we are kind of humble and open and kind of have some network of support, you know, it's possible for everyone. So this book speaks of that, you know, very traditional kind of very intense way in the Second World War. You know, the airplanes were flying, bombing Tokyo and they were sitting retreats, you know, during that time. So, of course, it's like, you know, there's that flavor of life and death. Yeah. But, you know, that felt like an important publication because, you know, it was a Dharma sister of my own teacher, Tangan Roshi. And she introduced him to Zen practice. Wow, that's right. Oh, beautiful. Good, good, good. So we'll put those links. And, you know, again, we've been mansplaining quite a bit during this, you know, monks and all that. But this is a beautiful book that brings also that feminine aspect of the spiritual awakening process, which is more and more coming online now, but wasn't a traditional part of the monastic life as much, right? Yeah. I mean, you know, there were always nuns. There were always great female realizers. Right. Through the centuries. But their lives were not recorded, not cherished in the same way as the big, you know, male teachers' names. That's right. You know, so it's like a humble sort of contribution to that whole dynamic to, but also primarily because I feel like almost that great female Zen master Nagasaroshi over celebrating her legacy. She would want to have that message of like, because that's why the book came out in Japan, you know. So she, that's why she published it with those stories that she asked all those women to write. Yeah. To prove it's not only for a very few somewhere, you know, in monasteries. It's actually for everyone. It's possible, right? Ah, beautiful. Okay, wonderful. Oh, Kogan. You know, we didn't even know what we were really going to talk about when we sat down and it turned out perfect. Yeah. Absolutely perfect. Yeah, it was great. This was a blast. Thank you. I'm so, I feel like, whoa. I mean, it's energetic sitting with you and hearing you express. It's really beautiful. And I hope the audience, the three people in my audience that remain after I talk about spirituality these days, you know, I get something out of this. I think they will. And so we'll put links to your websites, your books. I'm hoping the next time you swing through, we'll be able to talk again whenever that is. Yeah. And I want people to share this video with people that they think it will help. Go ahead and leave a comment. Subscribe to the channel. All the usual stuff. Leave a review if you're listening on the podcast. And Kogan, until next time. Oh, the piece about the gashow. Oh. Yeah. I'll never forget that. Beautiful. Yeah. Thanks for having me. Thank you, Kogan. That was awesome. See you next time. See you next time. Bye. Thank you.