! H H Try to make your life less fucked up. And the idea here that that seems to be transmitted, and this is not always intentional, but this is what's received by humans because the human mind is always seeking the solution to the problem of me. Why am I not happy? Why am I not enough? Why am I broken? Or I'm so awesome. Why doesn't everyone see it? You know, the narcissistic flavor of that, which is also based in underneath shame and all of these other things. So the mind is always seeking relief. It's seeking happiness. It's seeking something outside. And so now a lot of people come to me and they're like, I've been watching these videos and I don't understand. I just can't seem to wake up. And these guys seem so non-reactive and so happy and so blissful and so content. And I watch, you know, Rupert Spira and he's so mellow and I watch, you know, Muji and he's so chill and, you know, full of bliss. And, you know, Angelo's telling me all these things that I can do to try to like, you know, inquire and all of that's great. It's all absolutely fine. But at some point you, you start to realize, and this is, I'm just telling you my experience. It starts to become clear that those things begin to fall away. Yeah. It's important to have that shift into realizing, oh, I'm not this. There isn't someone I can find here. That self-inquiry to find who I am. The finding is that there's no finding. There's nothing here. Okay, great. And then there's this experiential shift of like, oh, that's wonderful. That there is no path here that liberates you that I can see from being a human. So the spiritual perfectionism that's kind of exuded in this space, that's everywhere in this space, is poisonous to the seeking mind because the seeking mind wants it. It assumes, it puts these people on a pedestal and it says, if I can be like them, my life will be solved. I will be okay. And then they go do all the retreats and they do the meditation and they buy the books and they go to the satsangs and look, all those things can be great. You can have these wonderful experiences. You can actually polish your character's conditioning in a different way. So the conditioning that runs everything, because there's nobody here doing it, can actually be altered so that it's a little less rough around the edges. Maybe you're a little less of a dickhole. Maybe you're more tolerant of different ideas. That's called learning. It's reconditioning. So you can absolutely teach an old dog to do new tricks that way. And a lot of the spiritual shit online is trying to buff this fictional character into a better fictional character. Being awake within the dream, in other words, is another metaphor. These are all just metaphors and words, right? And there's absolutely nothing wrong with that unless, unless it starts to cause you distress. And how can it cause distress? Well, because the seeking mind wants, ultimately it wants happiness and it will never find it. Because the seeking mind, that movement of energy that is the, that generates this illusory sense of the one with a sense of will and control that can do these things, is in fact the energetic cloud over reality itself, which is just this, just the phenomena exactly as they are, including the phenomena of awareness as an appearance, thought. Almost like they're just sensory appearances, but we make them into a me and a that. And so all this spiritual industrial complex just serves for many. And it's, it's sometimes it's unintentional, right? They're very highly realized people that are doing this, but the human mind takes it and then makes it this MacGuffin that they have to chase. And it becomes torturous. And I know this because it happened to me. It happens to a lot of people that come to me now and they're like, I don't understand. I can't wake up. Or this person seems so non-reactive. Like, why does Rupert Spira seem so calm? And why does, you know, Angela seems like he has it all together and all of this. And, you know, Suzanne looks like she's, you know, let go and is dying. And it's like, yeah. And then you hang out with these folks and you realize they're fucking humans, just like I'm a fucking human. You don't escape this manifestation, our conditioning. You can change the conditioning. You can prove it. You can have the realization that the sense of the center, the one that's doing anything can drop. And then there's just this. But even in the just this, this machinery, this movement of energy does its fucking thing, which means for me now how it is is it's just this. There's no one doing it. There's no separation. But that means someone cuts me off in traffic. I'm like, fuck you. And then it falls away. If my kid gets sick or has a problem, anxiety arises in the chest. And you could say, oh, you know, there's this sort of idea of spiritual perfectionism that everything is perfect and exactly as it is. This is true. It is. It's exactly as it is. It couldn't be other. And yet the feeling of non-okayness absolutely arises and it becomes everything. And now you're just everything is worried dad about kid. And if you think you're going to get out of that somehow without dissociating, doing something artificial in a way, creating another mind structure that pushes and pulls on reality, because the reality is anxiety about child. That's what's arising. So you can make distance from that and go, oh, that shouldn't be. And that's the fundamental movement of mind. So that is what can relax in this idea of liberation or, you know, further awakening. It's like, oh, wait, the pushing and pulling. So now everything just as it is, is what it is, including the miserable fucking shit that life will throw your way. Feeling it absolutely fully as it is. Fully as it is. And you really can't say anything about it except for this is what it is. This is pure this. And so this idea that you're going to somehow escape that and you're watching people online who are projecting this intentionally or non-intentionally. And I suspect a lot of it is this unconscious desire to look like an authority, to get validation. And you can be very realized and still have this. Believe me, I know. Because this game arose here, too. Because I have this big YouTube platform. I can say shit and people listen and they write me emails. Oh, everything you said resonated. And, oh, that feels real fucking good for a human. Like it triggers the dopamine release. And now it's just kind of like something just starts to fall away and you realize, oh, yeah, that's what that is. And even that's okay. Like, yeah, Zubin is Zubining. What are you going to do? Right? So it's really hard to say, okay, here's advice for you. Like here's what you can do. It just feels – from here it feels like I don't even know what – I don't even know what this is. But I know what it isn't. It really – it's clear like I can't – there's not a thing here that can push and pull on reality the way that it could. And so there's nothing to perfect. Now, can you polish the character? Yeah. Is that useful? Yeah. Is therapy and spiritual practice and those kind of things, can they be helpful in those instances? Yeah. To make the dream a little less uncomfortable, a little less like a nightmare. But it's still this illusion that you can do something about reality, about this, instead of just being in the flow of all of it as a river that's unfolding in the deepest mystery that you as a separate human will never be able to know. But that is, in a sense, you. And these words mean nothing. And it is perfect, including this feeling of like this is absolutely not okay. Absolutely. And I'm going to do something. That arises and then you go do something. So how can you really detach from the world without an active pushing? How can you try to seek contentment without an active pushing? And ultimately what has been seen here, and it's still kind of evolving because every day is a fucking mystery, is that everything is just as it is. Like that's a cliche until it's not. Like it is what it is, is a cliche until it's not, until it's really literally true, literally true. And then you just do the next thing. And it's seen that you're – the body is almost on autopilot. And there isn't even an awareness of – you can't even now direct attention. It's like it's just everything happening. And it's very mysterious because the mind can't make any sense of it. And so are there people talking about this? Yeah. I mean I think like Angelo will talk about this and what he calls deeper stage realization. But even this idea of stages of realization and he talks about this too can – just falls away. This doesn't even make sense. And the reason I think – why am I even talking about this? Some of this is me processing like in a support group of one here. But some of it is a lot of people come to me and we message back and forth and they are suffering on this path. They started maybe watching some videos we did earlier about awakening and where we're dangling the carrot of like liberation. Like you can be free from suffering in this life. What the fuck does that mean? And here are the things you can do and you have to die or you have to self-inquire or you have to feel everything. Or all this doing and it's driving them nuts and they feel terrible. And the things that are arising are super uncomfortable because all the unconscious conditioning is coming up. You no longer can make distance. There's been an awakening or there hasn't to what this is. But that's only the tip of this whole thing. Then it just starts to unfold and unfold and it's totally out of control. And the more out of control it feels, the more it feels like you are physically and mentally and emotionally and spiritually dying. And then they're continuing to watch YouTube videos. It's making them feel terrible. And they're up in their head or they're down in their body or they're trying to do this or they're trying to do that or they're joining this group or they're joining that group. And it's all fine. It's all fine. Maybe there's something there that works apparently in retrospect. It's seen that that was a gate to something. Who knows? I can't say anything about it. All I know is I feel compelled to say it's okay. There is no spiritual perfectionism. There's nothing the mind will ever get out of this except for different conditioning. It's still going to be conditioned. And yet, and yet, right here, everything is just as it is. And that's it. It's so simple that we overlook it. It's so perfect that we would say it can't be. And that includes all the textures of life, all the feeling of pain and suffering, longing and grief and love and hate and annoyance and irritation and boredom. All of it just unfolding and arising. Isn't that a miracle that even the sense of a separate self who can do something about things arises as a nothing phenomenon with no substance that somehow generates the feeling of me and my story and my life and my problems. That's miraculous. So maybe that's why I made this video. I don't know. I put a nice shirt on for you motherfuckers. I don't usually do that. But it takes it to social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social social is no distinguishing between what we're calling you and what we're calling I. Even when the sense of that separation is there, it's totally perplexing. And honestly, I wouldn't trade it for anything. So for those who are struggling on this path, whatever that path is in time, which is a story, it's okay. However it's showing up for you, that's it. It's it right now. There's nowhere else to go. This is it. All right. Beautiful. Love you guys. Peace.