 and alfalfa. Hi, Simon. Hi, Zubin. So, hi, everyone. I just thought I would introduce my guest for today on his channel. Oh, I see what time it is. I see what's going on. Zubin Demania. Formally ZDog MD, but the subtle PsyOps change to Zubin Demania has happened online. I don't know if you noticed. That's a deep cut. So, yeah, I wanted to kind of introduce Zubin. He's a very dear friend of mine. So, over the last, it's been about three years, isn't it? It's been about, yeah, about three years we have got to know each other, walked to know and walked alongside each other on this path through thick and thin, actually. Even though there's an Atlantic Ocean separating the two of us, we've seen a fair bit of each other's, well, of each other, you know, the depths of each other through the joyous and the most sorrowful, you know, we've been alongside each other for the passing of dear loved ones. And, yeah, and the reason I mention this is because this is a joy, really, to have you in my life as a friend. And it's a joy to have you on your own show with me. Is that something? So, Simon, I think, like, I was going to introduce you. And I think you just did. You just introduced Simon by how you reflected on our relationship. Like, you are one of the dearest people that I turn to when things are getting dark, which is pretty much the entire route. So, we've spoken before on the show. We've had lovely conversations. And I just, the conditions arose that we're to talk again publicly about whatever arises. So, you're just a joy. I was telling people on my show, on a live show recently, that there are people that I talk to that just I have a smile on my face the entire time I'm talking because my heart is just open. And you are that person that I'm really talking about. It's like, oh, my God, every time. So, let's share this big smile in the fabric of reality with all the things. Beautiful. So beautiful. What a gift, eh? And, yeah, I mean, one more thing is that I feel lucky to have you as a friend on the path. And I think it points to something that we all need, actually, is this deep uncompromising spiritual friendship. Not uncompromising is in we don't compromise with each other. But uncompromising in that we show up for each other unconditionally. You know, and you've done that so many times, so many times for me, that I cannot in words express the gratitude that I have. But actually, I can see how important it is not just for me as a human being and a friend, but also as a spiritual practitioner. You know, we need people alongside us as kind of like this loving reflective mirror, don't we? Because I think without that, no matter how awake it seems, delusion is kind of like hiding in the awakeness, you know, we need that relationship in order to show us, oh, and this and this and this, you know, keep seeing, keep seeing, keep relating, let it unfold. And you've been that for me. So yeah, nice. Beautiful. That's exactly what you are here. Like every time I'm spinning off the rails into the void or I'm flirting with nihilism or I'm going in the neo-advite and death spiral of there's nothing happening, nothing to do, morality, compassion. What is that? You know, I'm not going to be like, hey, you fancy a chat and I'll get on the phone and I'm smiling ear to ear and my heart is blown open and I realize it's all just radiant love. Like without that, none of this makes sense. Like I recently was quoting Nisargadatta on a live show and he says, the mind creates the abyss and the heart crosses it. And I think that's a beautiful way to talk about this whole journey is like ultimately it comes back to this, the centerless center that just and when you and I talk, it's like that just kind of manifests naturally. It's like an emergent property of these two apparent beings, you know, and you're all the way in the UK and I'm here in the US and yet it's like there's this absolute spaceless timeless thing that happens when we talk. Yeah. Yeah, this intimacy isn't it? There's this kind of like known felt sense of intimacy that is, I mean, we've discussed this before, there's an usness to it as well, which is more than the sum of its parts. So there's the intimacy in my experience, if there is a my experience, but you know, there's an intimacy felt here. And I know there is there for you, but then there is a relational intimacy that feels what it's particular. It arises in, yeah, like in collaboration with each other. And I think that actually that intimacy is always the case for all beings. However, the degree to which we're able to feel that arise and allow it to blossom is well, it's stymied by different things, normally delusion or fear or like anxiety. But actually, for some reason, we've been able to just really take some risks with our relationship, you know, with our friendship. Just say, well, let's just try stepping into this unknown together. And I think very quickly, that blossoming aspect, it rewards a risk. You know, if we are willing and curious and open, when we take that step, the open, willing, curious heart, it kind of blossoms further and further. There's this beautiful positive feedback that goes on and it's reciprocal between, I think between all beings, but actually like, well, I mean, in our instance, that that seems to be what's happening. So, yeah, but I think that's possible for everybody. And this is why I said it's, it seems really crucial that this deep spiritual friendship, not this deep spiritual friendship, I mean, spiritual friendship across the board is an aspect of people's lives because I don't think there's any way to be free without it. Actually, I think, because what is it? If you're free alone, is that freedom? When are we ever alone? Is there a human experience that isn't in relation? I like, I've never had one. Even when I think I'm having one, there's the infinite swath of conditions of the universe unfolding around me. It's like the, it's like the least alone you could possibly be. Yet we sit in front of our YouTube screens and we tighten on duality and we, we go in, in, in, in, in, and we say, who am I and what is this? And I'm not saying that's wrong, but there can be this insular movement of separation that pulls us away from the world. And it's as much about, I think it's as much about moving into the world as well as kind of letting go of the things of the world. It's, yeah, I mean, it's difficult to talk about actually, isn't it? That, but, but it does, there's a flow and movement of dancing with conditions. Whilst knowing we are not those conditions. Also, that's it. That's it. That's it. Yeah. So, so, man. Okay. This dance of relativity where we are not in a vacuum, we can't be, it's all interdependent happening. And then the, the deep knowing that there's really nothing happening. There's not time and space and relation and all of that simultaneously is inhabited. And so then what happens is you go from hell as other people, which I mean, that is a real, when you're suffering through, find a feeling through the delusive sense of separation that manifests, those relationships can manifest as hell as other people. What does this person think of me? What did I say to this person that now I'm suffering in regret, guilt, shame, unworthiness, all the things in relation to this apparent other being that now is creating a kind of torture chamber, but what's creating it? The delusion, my view that this person is other than myself or other than what they actually are. And so what you're pointing at is when there is this relaxation and insight and seeing delusion when delusions there, the relationship naturally becomes one of this indescribable, not toness where, yeah, no, we're not separate, but also we're totally particular. We're totally different. And that is a joyous thing. And there's no validation seeking. There's no, and yet validation can arise. Like I feel so validated talking to Simon. And yet I'm not, if that wasn't the case, it'd be totally fine. It's just what's showing up. And it's absolutely beautiful. And recently I did a video talking about people were talking about existential loneliness on this path, like how the opposite can be felt where like you're on the only thing in existence or there's nothing in existence. And that collapses ultimately into the, into the interdependent manifestation. Like what you're pointing at where loneliness becomes, I said loneliness becomes loveliness, like it is just made of this thing. Like love. It's such a hippie. I know, you know, I'm like, they call me Baba Z dog. I mean, I guess you've got the look a little bit, haven't you? You just need to kind of grow a very wispy, long beard. I can't do it. I don't have enough testosterone, you know, to listen, listen to the new, you know, RFK junior recommendation to just shoot myself full of testosterone. Well, I'm not going to go down that road. But please. Yeah. I mean, I've really been vibing a little bit about, I've been feeling a little bit about what you've been sharing recently. Because it's just so nice that you're, you're heeding this invitation towards love. There's a lot of like, you're putting things in the world, which seem to be about this heart opening, loving recognition of experience. And that's just nice. It's nice to see, you know, because like you said, with that, there's a relaxation. There's less of a trying to be a certain way and more of allowing the way to to be us, to show, like to manifest, to interact, to engage. And it quite naturally creates connection, I think. And I think that's probably what you're seeing, maybe in the responses to the videos that you're making is that actually when that movement of heart is open and generous, it's less restricted and constrained, then the world kind of vibes and resonates with it just very, very naturally. It's almost like, well, it feels like the default state, actually. It's like, it feels like this is what we are, you know, this loving movement of generous connection. That's actually fundamental. Not like there's this solid foundation. Like, well, it becomes impossible to talk about, doesn't it? But like this, this ground of loving being from which everything can manifest that can be experienced. And I just find it so beautiful that no matter how deluded we are along the path, it doesn't take much for us to resonate with that loving, generous intent, you know, just look at the fact that nearly everybody has a friend, nearly, nearly everybody has one person, at least one person that they naturally would call a friend. There is no reason for that. There's no, like, I mean, you could talk about evolution and connecting, but that's still a movement quite naturally in a world that we see as divided, a world that we're told is at loggerheads or war is a threatening place. This is what the media tells us all of the time. Just walk through a park and you will see families and friends everywhere naturally, just happening, just connection all of the time, all of the time, all of the time. And yet the the mindset of the deluded ego, which is normally rooted in greed, especially if you think about the messages we receive through media, it's like, no, that's not actually what's going on. They're your enemy, hate each other. And even with that, we can't stop connecting. And it's just so beautiful. I think like it was a big change in my life once I was able to actively look for that, you know, I, when I stopped believing that the world was a dangerous place and that everybody was out to get each other and that everybody was a threat, when I started to actively look, well, is there any evidence for connection? Can I see love in the world? And as soon as you start looking, you don't have to look very far. It's like it's really, really apparent. And it's not just human, which is quite interesting as well. You start seeing it saturated. I mean, you could easily say in animals, but I would also say I start seeing it in just the natural interaction of forces. You know, like if you see the way that the wind licks the tree, you get this. I sometimes get the same flavor of love as when a friend waves goodbye, you know, it's, it's so, it's kind of indescribable, that feeling. But yeah, like if we in tune ourselves towards recognizing love and connection, we can be surprised. I think we'll be surprised how much we see in the world. So it's really funny, Simon, like as you were saying that, um, the words were coming out of your mouth and I was feeling what you were pointing at. And I was, it was so strange, like here was predicting what the next word was because it was my word. It was very oddly connected. Like I'm like, now we're going to talk about how it shows up in things. Now we're going to talk about this. And it, that synchronicity, that connection, I really think it is the default natural state that again, the matrix of social stuff conditions us otherwise. No, even altruism is selfish. Even, um, everybody's out, you know, to get you, you need to get yours because the world is a separate and dangerous place. And believe me, I spent good bit of my life, uh, in that mindset. It's almost a paranoia, uh, and, and a kind of safety seeking. And when you've had trauma and things like that too, it's more obvious that there's a feeling of unsafety of not unresource and that sort of thing. And then though, when I feel back to very young, um, there was this like just like I would, I would open, like lift or go into the forest, lift a rock, the teaming life underneath, you couldn't hurt any of it. You were just picking up centipedes and they were singing you and you were loving them and going, Oh, that's okay. I'm putting it back. And like it was my fault. Don't worry about it. And, uh, that starts to come, it starts to come back. And the thing is, like you said, everybody, almost everybody has at least a friend somewhere, like these people, these bodhisattvas, these compassionate beings, they don't see themselves as that, but they show up in your life at just the right time to point you back. So you showed up. Ishwar has been pointing at this unconditional love through, um, who he has connected to through Ram Dass's guru Maharajee. And he feels this presence of this as unconditional love. And so it's so funny, man. I read this. I've really never read a lot of Ram Dass because I thought, I know that cheesy hippie. Us is the shit. He's every, every fucking thing he says in be here now, people act like they've said it for the first time. Ram Dass said it and he was just bringing it from the east and from these traditions, but he talks about Christ in a way that will make you cry like instantly. It is so beautiful. And he radiates love, but he also talks off the void. He talks off no self. He, I mean, and he's like, that's all fine. Like that's all this. It's all love. So, so everything you think you've encountered in this thing as a pitfall. Yeah. It's like, you know, there was an old South Park episode where they were lamenting the fact that the Simpsons already did everything. Like they couldn't, they couldn't do anything. And like Simpsons did it, Simpsons did it. You might as well just say, you know, Ram Dass did it. Anytime you hear Eckhart Tolle, if you hear like any non-dual person on YouTube, you go, no, Ram Dass did it. So yeah, it's a beautiful for people who haven't looked at that stuff, be here now miracles of love, be love now. His later book is just so many talks as well. He's got so many talks that have been recorded. He's that period in like, I think in the fifties and sixties specifically where they started doing tape recordings of like these influential speakers in California. So that's why Alan Watts has got so many of them. So beware of the AI bullshit. Yeah, it's all over. There's a lot of weird AI kind of Alan Watts alike. I mean, it might be all right, but yeah, there's so many beautiful talks that I've listened to to them. And yeah, I think because they're popular, as in like they were very popular and they're easy to get hold of, they get given a bit of a short shrift, maybe by your proper spiritual people. So they're not really spiritual. Like they are, they see clearly. They see really, really clearly. And they put their money where the mouth is, especially Ram Dass, you know, like he spent so many years offering palliative spiritual connection and care for people on their deathbed, guiding them over the threshold. Like he held the hands of countless strangers in a heart of love as they died. He just did it. He wasn't a paid position. He wasn't, you know, that was just it was his service, part of his service to the world. And yeah, sharing is a wake up in heart. And he is a beautiful being, beautiful being and so many wonderful teachings. He and he, what was beautiful about him, and this is me projecting my own life experience a bit, that here's this Harvard professor loses his tenure first embracing psychedelics, opens his mind with the psychedelics, goes to India, surrenders at the feet, is surrendered at the feet of this guru. Neem Gauri Baba. Kareem Narelli Baba, yeah. Yeah, my God. And his stories about Kareem are hilarious. Like Kareem Narelli Baba is just kind of this laughing, impenetrable, joyous presence. That's kind of it. Like he doesn't, he doesn't give like these deep, insightful, slicing tea. I mean, he does, but they're not like these clever things. They're just like these embodied, energetic, like continual guidance towards truth. Yeah, it's beautiful. Yeah, what what Ram Dass says about Neem Karelli, they call him Maharajee, like the affectionate term for like the wise king and honorific. He, he would come back and tell the stories of the miracles that he witnessed because that's all he could put into words, but he knew the miracles didn't mean anything. What was there was this energetic, non-conceptual, this person saw you with unconditional love, love as you and you fell into it. And the, the, the story he tells us when he first met him, like he was dragged there against his will and there's like, oh, I got to go see my guru by this other hippy American guy, this guy, Bhagwan Das. He goes, climbs up this hill because the Indians are like, you have to see this guru. And he's like, I don't want to see any stinking guru. Like I want to go back to America. This India thing's been a bust. Like I was trying to figure out why LSD does what it does and no one's been able to tell me and he goes to the feet of this guru. And, and, and the night before Ram Dass had had this vision of his mom who had passed away six months ago of like a splenic disease. And the guru just looks at him and says, you know, you, you were thinking of your mother last night, you know, she died of what, uh, spleen and he had never told anyone, no one there knew that. And what happened was his mind went on tilt. It was like, how can this be? He, and the way he described it, it was like those old CIA classics, like, who has the files? What do you know? What are you involved in? Like the, all the paranoia, just like, how do you know this? And then his mind realized there's no possible way. Like there's nothing and his heart just exploded. He melted into a puddle of tears and he knew then he's like, this is where I surrender. I was surrendered not because this guy could read my mind, but what he realized is if he can see that, he can see all of me, all my shame, all my brokenness, all my, you know, horrible things that I think. And he still loves me. He's looking at me with this unconditional love. And that was it. So beautiful. Oh, it's even, yeah. It's so, so beautiful. Really moving. And yeah, I mean, that is beautiful. And I think there's a couple of things there, isn't it? When we, like the Westerner hears a story like that, the cynical mind immediately says, that didn't happen. Yes. Just, just immediately goes, no, that didn't happen. Ram Dass has got no reason to lie about that. Doesn't give him anything. Doesn't get him anything. Like he says it affectionately because well, yeah, it was part of his journey, part of his life. But it's so interesting. Like you say, you see that immediate cynicism in the mind to say, it's like this materialist reductionist mindset that says, well, that's outside of the realms of what I think is possible or what I've been told possible. Therefore it's impossible. And the other thing I think that's important to recognize about Ram Dass is that so he can give the impression from stories like that, that he was just surrendered. He sat at the feet of Karim LeRolli Baba and his heart opened and blotted. And though he practiced consistently for decades in a hut, like he, you know, and that isn't to say that it was striving. Actually, it wasn't. The practice was to end the striving ultimately. But he didn't pray for the sudden release by getting the right pointer. What he did was devote himself to the practice and to his guru and to like guru yoga. And he did it. He did the work like he, you know, meditating nine hours a day. Like he was, I'm not saying that everybody needs to do that, but I think it's important to realize that I think it's the case for most nearly all people that have had the reside in this deep open hearted presence. There is a depth of practice, intuition, work, exploration that has gone on. There isn't seen. And I think sometimes it can come across when the likes of you and I might be seen, oh, yeah, just open the heart to love. There's love right here. This is always loving you. And that's true to, let's say to a degree. That's absolutely true. I feel it in my being. And yet that is not true to 99.9% of people. That's not where they're at. That's just not the way it is. So actually it's not that effective for just to say things like that again and again and again, to just go into the world and go, just everything's already awake, you're already awake. It's already love. It's like, whether that's true or not, why are we doing that? If I'm going to say that in the world, what is it that I'm doing that for? And I'm not, I can't answer that's different for each person. But what it, it's a little tone death, I would say. It's a little tone death to the way that suffering is in the world. Cause you know, and I know that there are times when that message would have made me sick, physically sick. I would have been like, no, fuck you. Fuck everybody else saying that. Like this is not, you don't know what it is to feel like this. So yeah, I think it's an interesting thing is it? Cause I often feel that movement of play, joy, surrender, love, openness, kindness, generosity, connection, effulgence, all of these words, radiance, luminance. You know, the words don't touch it. Yeah, that is absolutely the case in my experience. And also it's not that useful most of the time. Maybe, maybe a couple, a couple of times out of a hundred. But most of the time what people are looking for is this is hurting help. That they come into us and saying, this is hurting like help. What practical thing have you got for me? And that's the challenge, isn't it? I think that's the real challenge of being a teacher in the world. And I know you might say that you're not a teacher, but you're not a teacher. And I know you might say that you're not a teacher, yet you are teaching. So like, regardless of whether you want to put a label on yourself or not. And it's the same for me. I might say, oh, no, I'm not a teacher yet. We're we're in the world online. We're talking about this stuff. So yeah, actually, we've got a responsibility to recognize, OK, well, what do people actually need most of the time? And I think, well, that grows and develops and we need to listen. We have to have a keen ear for that, don't we? We can't assume that we know we have to listen in order to let the heart respond to the needs of others. So this is why at the beginning I talked about residing in the heart. It always knows the way. Like that open, loving, connected, awake heart. That's the path that wisdom is impregnable wisdom, the wisdom that's not personal. You know, that which is the universe of wisdom that ripens through the awake heart. Like that is available when we rest here in open, loving, awake presence, you know. But it requires listening. It doesn't manifest through us if we go, oh, I know the way. I know what's wrong. I know what to do for you. It's like, oh, OK. Yeah, we immediately take this world of collaboration and reciprocity and play and dance with others in relation. We just shrink it down to Q&A, basically. It just becomes Q&A, doesn't it? And that's all right, I guess, if you want answers. But no answer I can give will ever actually help you, really, because you don't need answers. What you're looking for is truth. Hmm. It's. I have, you know, on my own unfolding, it's been a public unfolding. So you can. Yeah, you mean you can watch on video me do all these things that you're talking about. It's like, yeah, OK, when you fully realize the, like you said, the effulgence, just this obvious radiance that's right here, you can say things like, guys, just shut the fuck up, stop fucking around, stop doing anything. It's just this, like, what the fuck are you doing? And then you get an email or a message from someone and they're like, but I this thing, I just I'm up in my head and I don't understand what you're talking about. And there's tears coming out and then you sit with them and the heart knows exactly what to do. Yeah, OK, this is take some breaths. Let's sit together like, yeah, it's really hard suffering is the worst. And I think Ram Dass called it unbearable compassion. Like that's what arises. It's unbearable. Like you cannot stay idle when faced with that. Your heart opens into it and the perfect configuration from that prajna wisdom, like you said, that you're not doing it shows up. But here's the trap on like a YouTube. And this is why we we can sit here and argue about different forms of expression, because on YouTube, you're talking at one size fits all to a whole audience of people at every different level of expression. And it may be there's three people in that audience that need to hear that. And that collapses the seeking cycle that needed to collapse in that moment because they've put the work they've done that already. And they're stuck and it just needed to collapse. But then for the person who's still like, man, my mind is just crazy all the time. And I have to have all this trauma and there's nothing like you said, they're thinking, fuck you. And they'll say that in the comments. And I'm like, yeah, I would say that too. I have had that. So yeah, yeah, yeah. So it becomes that's where I say, well, Ram Dass kind of seems to inhabit the entire spectrum. And I know that when he was sitting with people in palliative care, he was right where that person was. He wasn't anywhere other than where that person was. Beautiful. It's magical. It's magical. Yeah, I've got a very dear friend who I won't mention her name here, but she plays music to people as they die. So she is a musical therapist for palliative care for people that are in the dying process. It's just like she's like an actual angel, basically. Like, look, like what? So just this mess in.  ginger of presence, because she's deeply heart-open, awake, present, generous, kind, and she brings all of that to these people that, you know, they are as deluded as the next person, you know, they're not spiritual folk, and yet the experiences that she describes in those moments of recognition of this universal presence seeing itself in each other as life slips away, it's, I mean, it is magical, like what she describes, and heart-breaking, so heart-breaking, you know, it's not for the faint of heart, it takes a lot of courage to do that, but what she describes is so beautiful, it's like there's this, often this recognition of truth, and not just truth is in, I'm not a fixed self, not that, it's like this deeper, experiential truth, or, well, I can't say any more than that, but it's shared in experience, it's brought into life through the shared experience of death, which is, well, yeah, I mean, it's a mystery, and it's so beautiful, so yeah, I mean, I don't know, I mean, I say that, you don't get any answers out of this, I don't offer any answers, I guess it's just pointing to that this is, this experience of life and death is beyond a pale, we cannot, we will never understand it, we will never ever understand it, but we can know it in experience, as in, we can't know what it is, we can infinitely contextualize and have conversations like this, and if we try to rely upon that, we kind of get deluded and we grab and, yeah, we suffer a lot, but in experience, and especially in relationship, with that heart-opening acceptance comes a ripening of knowing, like knowingness almost, like it's a knowing without object, really, there's no subject or object of knowing, there's just the knowing, what's known, and that's where language fails, you can't, but it's, I mean, it's absolutely clear, isn't it, and it's so interesting that's not, it's not just the, yeah, the area of speciality of awakened beings, it's like this is just happening, everyday folk, we all have access to this, hopefully before our deathbed, you know, but yeah, I think it's just, it's available to us, isn't it? Yeah, it's right here, right now, this is it, yeah, yeah, yeah, even when it feels like it really isn't it. Yeah, especially maybe, you know, and it's funny because when we use the terms delusion, we're not using them as some pejorative about people who just don't get it, it is a very specific term, right, delusion, we're seeing incorrectly what's actually here, there's a perception of things as they are not, and that's the normal human operating system, it's not something special, you're not especially deluded in any way, it's just, yeah, that's the delusion, and it's so sticky, it's so subtle, and it goes so deep into our causes and conditions, what the Hindus might call the karma, that sort of karmic conditions that this is where that quote unquote work of purification of development, and you could say, look, I get it, there are people that sort of neo-advice and say, there's no work, there's no development, there's no you, shut up, like it, all that is just seeking and it's keeping the engine of suffering going, and okay, yeah, that, okay, you can see that perspective, and a lot of times that perspective is held by people who were traumatized by spiritual teachers or had some very bad thing happen, and I totally have love and compassion for that view, and I, at times I've inhabited that view, I'm like, oh man, when I just let go of all that, it's obvious right here, okay, great, and yet, and yet it's like, but what is it that prevents us, what is this delusion, what is this that is preventing us from seeing moment to moment, this kingdom of heaven is spread upon the earth, yet men do not see it, it's this, so what is that, ah, that's where the attunement, the discernment, the looking, the work, the struggle, the dark night, all of it, that's where that shows up. Absolutely, and this is why friendship's really important for that, you know, like community, because actually that's a lot to go through on your own, isn't it, you know, like our willingness to face that again and again and again and again and again and again, add in for an item, it diminishes, it's hard, it is, you know, we can lose faith, so to speak, so actually when we have these supportive, caring, connected, open-hearted people, that even just cheerleaders a bit, like why not, there's somebody just says, you have got this, or let's screw all that, let's watch Godzilla on TV, and like, yeah, whatever it is, but you know, like that feeling of community, it shares the load, doesn't it, and we're much more able to face, like you said, the nuance and the challenge of unbinding, and I think, I mean, there's a lot to say about this, maybe we can touch on a little bit, but one of the most prevailing messages, which I think is unhelpful in the world of spirituality at the moment, is this idea that everything is already awake, you're already awake, everything's already fine just as it is, there's nothing to do, I'm not saying that's wrong, what I'm saying is that it's so unhelpful for most people, because if you have just started, you've just stepped, you know, dipped your finger into the pool of awakening, and just gone, oh, I wonder what this is, and you hear that, it's like, oh, well, I'll just continue smoking weed, like, raping people for profit, you know, like, being a jerk to people, mistreating people sexually, but I'm already awake, so it's already fine, it is like, it gives totally the wrong idea of what this path is, this path is a path that's meant to be walked, it's step by step, we take the journey, don't we, but yeah, and like I said, it's not that it's wrong, there's a time and a place for it, but it's almost, it's so universal, I think it's just like lazy, basically, for most spiritual teachers or most spiritual speakers, it's just kind of like, they maybe don't have the flexibility and capacity to listen and adapt and to respond and to meet the needs of others, or maybe they've not done the work themselves, I think that that's probably the case a lot of the time, they've not walked the path sufficiently, so they've maybe had some experiences, they've learned a lot of doctrine, and they've created a spiritual worldview, and they just go, it's fine, everything's fine, it's like, well, yeah, I mean, as both you and I know, these are the hard miles, it is tough, sometimes it is very, very tough, and it isn't one and done, and I think anybody is projecting that you're going to get a one and done situation, well why, why are you doing that other than for clicks, because if you're doing it for clicks and likes, fine, that works, but if it was the case, you only ever need to make one video, just make that one video, because that's it, that's the one and done, no more videos required, but actually it's not one and done, obviously, because people come back the next time, they go, oh that kind of didn't work, have you got something else for me, it's like, yeah, I've kind of got the same message, but with slightly different words, just like propelling this perpetual seeking online, and this craving for this instant eradication of the human experience, you know, it's like, people don't want to awaken to the full spectrum of life when they're going in this mode, they want to eradicate the difficulties of being human, that's not possible, you're going to die, like you go, you're going to die, you cannot eradicate that, you are going to get ill and die, and everyone you know is going to get ill and die, and if you are lucky, you will watch that happen, and if you're, as in like, you will get to be alongside them, and that will happen before you lose your life, you know, that is an important message to realize and sit with as part of the spiritual, you know, the spiritual life, so yeah, there's no get, you don't get out of this alive, essentially, so how do we integrate and incorporate those actual truths of being human into what it is to be free and to live with an open, awake, liberated spirit, what is that, what is being liberated, being free in a body that is definitely going to fail you, what is that, and I don't have, and that's the thing is, I don't have an answer, I don't have a quick answer, it can be found out by exploring this path, you know, step by step, looking at the ways in which we struggle and try to negotiate with life and try to project our images onto the way it should be, you know, we get to explore that, but yeah, it's not like, oh watch my next video and I'll sort it out for you, like watch my next video, I'll give you the answer and all of that goes away, you know, and smash that like button and hit subscribe and make sure to share this video, okay, man, this is something that seems to be... I don't know what cable that got a little bit intense, did it? Well, it's funny, as you were doing that, I was, this righteous, compassionate anger was arising and the anger is at the bypass itself that tends to arise, like the delusive aspect of us that thinks that we can find the hack, the cheat code for this, and I believe me, I've been guilty of this and I've talked to many people who have promoted this to me and I've copromoted it. I think everybody's been guilty of this to some degree, everyone. Absolutely, absolutely, and when it arises, it's like, yeah, okay, first of all, there's no morality in the absolute truth, like you can actually, you can say things like that and then you go out and when you do something to hurt someone, you're up all night. Well, what the fuck is that? Is that the absolute showing up? No, there's something here that I'm not understanding about how reality is. And it's that, and it's like the coming back into the marketplace with open hands, helping hands, like what Ram Dass is sitting with people as they're dying, he doesn't need to do that. Like why would he do that? The guys, as he's done so much fucking work, he's sat in ashrams in India in the winter with no heat, but a charcoal brazier and the windows open. He's bathed in frozen rivers because that's all he could do. He's lost 60 pounds eating vegetarian food and this was a Harvard professor with two rich parents. The whole thing has, they summer in Connecticut and they, you know, he has all that. Just like the Buddha gave up his princely life. He's put himself through the suffering like where he can sit eye to eye and go, okay, yeah, Christ being nailed to the cross, watching the person nail him into the cross and seeing unconditional love and going, yeah, I love you for everything that you've gone through that would make you do this. Like that is never fucking actualized and yeah, nothing's happening. Nothing's ever happened. You're not even there. Like and yet, and so then what shows up Simon, and I know you've seen this, is people come to you and I have been this person and I occasionally still at the flickers of the show where you see these easy answers and you're like, oh, shit, I guess I haven't found it. I haven't gotten it yet. Like this person's figured it out. They had some big explosive mystical experience. Maybe that's a or b. Oh, they just died. Oh, they just died. And so now everything is just, there's nobody here that it's happening to. So of course everything's just fine. It's liberation. Like just realize it's a dream that you never were and everything's fine. And it's like, that sounds great until somebody cuts you off in traffic or your kid gets sick or you know, and some of these people, they don't have kids. They've never had relationships. They've been traumatized. It's like, well, yeah, I could see why that would show up for you. It's almost like a dissociative pattern. And but then people fall into this thing online, you know, because we're social creatures. And then they come to me and they're like, I'm so unhappy. This is not a, why don't I have this yet? I'll never be awake. I'll never be free. And then this unbearable compassion arises because you see in them, you and you and them and there's no difference there. Yeah. Oh yeah, I love it. And I really like what you said about that. That the only, we've had this discussion before about certain aspects of the, you know, the spiritual sphere, the only sensible response is compassion to it. So if I'm seeing or you're seeing this, I mean, you said there's like this right righteous angst, anger, sorry, that there's like, oh, you know, why, why are they doing this? But when we drop a little deeper, it's like, it's kind of sweet, actually. There's a, there's a sweet, yeah, well, there's a sweetness to like, well, of course, we want it all to go away instantly. Of course we do. Of course, like, that's, yeah. And not just, not just because, yeah, that's like a movement of the heart, but also we've been indoctrinated like that. That's what consumerism does. That's the very nature of consumerism. Isn't it? It's like instant satisfaction to your craving. So actually, you could say that the majority of a path really, and the Buddha said this very clearly, is recognizing that craving fuel that propels us into continual becoming and grasping, recognizing that and again and again, meeting that with love, again and again, meeting that with compassion until those clinging grasping hands relax and soften, to be recognized the things that we're grasping at will never, ever, ever satisfy because like I've pointed to before, because these conditions are falling apart. It doesn't matter what you grab onto, call that a Mercedes Benz, a house in California, or awakening. Call it whatever you want. It is falling apart right now. Right now, it is falling apart right now. Yet the delusion is, oh no, no, I can rely upon these things and we all get to see that that is not true. We all get to see that. So then what do you do? That's the question then, isn't it? So it's like, well, knowing that and seeing that, even just a glimpse, what do you do? And this is where the invitation of exploration of that which is not conditioned arises. It's like, I can see the arising and passing of conditioned phenomena, whatever it is, like I said, could call it Mercedes, could call it physical sense desire, you know, like orgasms and smoking and whatever it is, you know, beauty in in sight, you know, but I can see the arising and ceasing of those phenomena. And I know that is not satisfactory. Ultimately, it's not going to satisfy me. So what happens if I let go? What happens if I just one step at a time, one phenomena at a time, where possible, just hold a little more lightly, just let go a little bit, a little bit. And then what becomes apparent is that which cannot be spoken about in conditional terms, which is the unconditioned, unformed, uncompounded nirvana, which is exactly what the Buddha's talking about. This is liberate. You know, that's the liberation is pointed to often. But we're so deeply conditioned to believe that the conditions will satisfy us that it cannot be a one and done. We are conditioned from the moment we have our first sensory input, you know, we inherit this millennia of self centered delusion. It takes a long time for that to unbind, really. So realistically, the work becomes very simple, just this moment to whatever degree possible, hold a little less tightly. That's it. Just do that forever. And then you may find that there's no holding. Wouldn't that be amazing? You may find that after maybe 15, 20 years. I know you found this and I found this is that a situation that was familiar five years ago arises five years later. And there's just no grasping at all. You don't do anything. You just realize, oh, there's freedom now. And I remember when it felt like hell. But now there's just no stickiness, no triggering, no reactivity. And you just put it down to the to the training, the practice doing the work, just a slight letting go, letting go, letting go unbinding. Yeah, the appropriate response to that is total silence. That's the appropriate. I mean, because that's what that is. I mean, that was beautiful. For me, for me that has shown up as a, it can feel like a continual sense of loss. So, you know, you said it perfectly, Memento Mori, remember, you will die. Everyone around you will die. All of it is impermanence. So how can this be satisfactory when it doesn't ever last? So impermanence, lack of satisfactoriness, lack of certainty, predictability, and lack of just any permanent sense of realness to this means that those are the fundamental delusions is we think there are those things moment to moment. We think this will continue. I can have this. This will make me happy. I can make this permanent. I can have a legacy. I will have eternal life. I will be eternally awake and blissful all and then I'll be happy. Then I'll be okay. And it's like that is the fundamental, like the 10th fetter, which is really the primary fetter, which is I think this is permanent, substantial and satisfactory. And it's not. And so when, like you said, so what's the practice then? Well, it's exactly what you said in a million different faces, like all the different Hindu deities looking at you with different practices, different aspects of this truth. And when it shows up, like for me, it's been like, oh, I lost the identity of being Z-dog the performer who is going to make myself feel worthy by making people like him. Or I lost the sense that I'm going to be like fabulously so wealthy that I'm always secure and safe. And I always feel safe because there's certainty that I won't be on the street. Like, you know, or I'm going to find the perfect, you know, romance with my partner and it's just going to be flawless and we'll work out all this stuff. And each of those things starts to die. And then what happens exactly what you said, something arises that would have triggered this feeling in the body and then this cascade of emotions and thoughts like grasping or pushing away. And it just doesn't. It's just seen. And if anything, maybe there's a subtle movement, like you feel this twins that you recognize and you go, there's that twins that would start a cascade. And it just goes into nothing. And that's the work that you're that you're pointing at that we cannot bypass. Which is interesting. That's the very work that you like espouse the very first time I contacted you. I don't know if you remember, I reached out to you because you were like you said, you've kind of gone through this process online. But you were talking exactly about that tendency towards reactivity within the body mind to try and fight with experience and deal with anger and to try and become the one who fixes everything. And you were doing the work, you know, like so it might sound at this point, you know, people might tune in and go, Oh, Zubin saying everything is love and, you know, open radiant presence. But and actually, yeah, like we said, okay, that is a facet to what's going on. But actually, both you and I know that it, you know, this work was not that at that time, it was real kind of intimate, very close, very sinewy, just straightforward. There is this experience, it feels this way. Everything about me wants to react like this, wants to push against, or pull towards it wants to eat this. This is the movement of craving, isn't it? That is the fuel of suffering, the craving for more of something or the craving for less of something. So Tanha or Vibhava Tanha, which is like, give me more thirst or like, get rid, get rid, you know, and it's that constant play of craving that keeps us bound to suffering because we're just wrestling with these conditions that really have no solidity to them. They don't have any permanence. They come and go with their own accord. When we let them, they just arise and cease, arise and cease and rise and cease. But that they're so well, they're not actually sticky, but they can feel so sticky because of our conditioning. But before we know it, we do go, we're dragged down. We kind of like we grab on to whatever it is. Could be the insult. Could be some of the words we've said in this conversation. Might be, oh no, Simon said that thing about neo-adviter and oh my god, I can't believe he said that and blah, blah, blah, you know, and then there we go. That's the grabbing of the mind that wants to wrestle with the thing in a dualistic way is in subject to the object or this over that, right versus wrong. And it gives the illusion that there's safety in that. There's safety in being on the right side of the argument. Like no, the argument, the very aspect that there's an argument at all or any kind of conflict at all, you could say, that's what's unsafe because it's not true in the most, in the truest sense, it's not in line with nature. So nature doesn't have these opposing permanent, conflictual sides. That's just not, I mean, we can see that look around you. I don't see that really anywhere. But when I hear stories about it seems so real, doesn't it? Like if somebody tells me Republicans versus Democrats, you know, like Mexicans versus Americans or, you know, North versus South, whatever it is, like when somebody says that, it feels like there's a real opposition. But it's just the mind playing with mind stuff. Really, it's like the conditioned mind playing with the imagined conditions. It's like, okay, well, what, and again, that's the invitation is that, well, what is there that is not conditioned? Is there an aspect to this experience that does not depend upon conditions? And that's it. It's just a simple invitation, isn't it? Each time, it's like, okay, whatever's here right now, can I sense that which does not depend? Just the slightest sense, just a little, little flavor. And this is where the Buddha, like said in one of his, is a beautiful sutta. I might have been subdued, he actually, but he said, turn towards the deathless, turn towards the unconditioned. If you sense it in experience, yeah, let it let that take you the unconditioned aspect of this, let that become the most interesting part of, you say part of experience, well, actually, we start to realize it's not just part of experience, it is. Well, this is where the words ground come up quite a lot, don't they? But yeah, sorry, this is a bit of a ramble, but it's kind of, it's kind of fun to explore, isn't it? Dude, this is the only thing I care about. So, so, so, okay. Man, all right, so this, this duality, so society, this sort of consensus reality of human conditioning, millennia, like you said, millennia of division and delusion, will, for those that are going through this, will assert itself like Mara, the sort of, you know, pseudo demonic force that hit the Buddha under the Bodhi tree and was like, yeah, it will assert itself. It will say things to me like, why aren't you talking about RFK and the vaccine things that they're doing and Trump and this, you have a platform, you have a voice, you used to talk about this stuff, you're a healthcare professional, we signed up to watch you talk about this. And now you're telling me everything is love and radiance and you should sit and meditate or whatever it is you're telling me in that moment. And for a long time when I met you, that was what was arising, it's like, like, what do I do about this? Like there's a, the pull of this thing, because it, it rewards you with a burst of feeling transient satisfactoriness. Like I did a thing. I helped people. Did you have you when you realize what you pointed out, which is what I was calling the ALT middle, like this, this realization that they're, they're really both sides of the same side of the same no thing, the unconditioned, you, you, you can't increasingly, you just can't. So what you pointed out where you'll go back and you'll say, it's not even like, oh, Simon said this about knee-advidence, it's more like, what did I say about that? Like was that right? Like there's an internal self-correction mechanism that starts to arise where you're like, I took a side transiently, didn't I? Oh, and you see it, maybe it's after the fact. And you're like, ooh, and it creates a little, oh, that's not quite, hmm, yeah. And it just kind of relaxes. And instead of shooting into guilt, into shame and underworthiness, although those can come and they're also welcome. And then you see them, it's more like, oh, okay. Yeah, no, that wasn't really, I guess I, there was a little bit of delusion shown up there that where that wasn't seen. And that's okay. And then it's like, ah, and so it's a continual kind of flux of this. Now, if you want to talk about the real bypass, the bypass that I like that is not bypass, it is looking at 10 bypasses. Okay. Top 10 non-portographic magazines to bypass to okay. Three, two, one. High times. The, the, the, what you pointed at that, which is an experience now that does not depend on conditions, the deathless. So for me, that is not bypass. That is going, okay, I'm caught. There's a cat, a caught in conditions, believing conditions to be permanent, satisfactory, you know, real substantial. Okay. What's here that's not that, that's beyond and not that. And that's what becomes louder and louder and louder and more and more right on the edge of waking awareness because it cannot be thought of. It can't be remembered except in the heart. And, and when it's touched, it's like, oh, and for me, it's a big smile and it's laughter and it's a sense of energy coming through the body seems to happen. Sometimes these are just epiphenomena of that touching and sometimes it's nothing. It's just stillness. It's just silence and that is the pure freedom beyond that is the pervades everything. And these words are stupid. And yet I have to talk because Zubin's body mind loves to do that. Yeah, I mean, that's the tools that we have on the, you know, like this is the beauty. This is where we start to really recognize the beauty of the infinite creativity of the ground as phenomena or the mind as projection or whatever you can say, you know, the emptiness as form, like we get this, once says this opening up and this letting go and this realization of the non fixed nature of that's where words fail from that infinite words can arise, can't they? And they're always playful. If we recognize that the words are never it, the words are never it, they're just never it. But there can be play and dancing experience as experienced that kind of can loop back round and point back towards it. Can't they? They can, they can keep us in the loop. It's like a collaborative experience. It can be really beautiful.  but that takes a long time to learn, actually, or remember. I think a long time to remember. Remember. Because we're born with this inherent capacity for play, like actual play. Not this contrived play but this just like everything is spontaneously, curiously exploring itself, for no end. There's no endpoint or result or gratification. gratification in itself, you know, and we did that all the time when we were young, you know, it was just super easy to do. And we, the condition just kind of like says, no, that's silly, that's pointless, that doesn't get things done, because actually, conditioned existence says that A plus B equals C, you know, like there is, we're putting this thing, which is imagined, together with this thing, which is imagined, and we're getting this new imagined thing, and that's valuable. So it's like, oh, yeah, well, if I'm going to buy into that, I need to let go of play that has no end, no purpose, you know, it's all going to be purposeful. So then learning how to play again, it's really hard, you know, and what comes up, and I'm sure it does for you, is shame. When we start playing again, we start feeling the shameful messages of you're no good, you're worthless, what use are you, you're not doing the thing that you should do, like you said, you're not talking about healthcare, you're not, are you even a doctor anymore, you know, like, and that's just like specific to you, I've got my own shit going on in that regard, you know, like, but you'll feel those messages like, yes, it's so interesting, it's such a beautiful practice to then feel that, and meet that with the same curiosity and playful spirit as well, it's like, okay, well, so this, this deep shameful messaging has aroused in me, as I take my foot off the doing and step more into the being, how can I treat that with curiosity and play also? Sometimes that's possible. Sometimes it's absolutely not, it's just too disgusting to even be near, you have to just kind of like, move away. Sometimes that the play might be, I'm going to call Zubin, I'm just going to say, listen, this is hard, can you help me? And that in itself, that's playful and spontaneous, because that's like, the last thing that the shameful controlling, go get a achiever mindset once is weakness and vulnerability and companionship and collaboration. So just that simple step into, let's call a friend and just say, I'm struggling with this thing, can you help me? That is found to be playful as well. It's like, oh, wow, isn't that amazing? And then we can play together. How exciting is that? That is absolutely gorgeous. And you touched on, you touched on, I mean, this is the dance you and I do, it is play every time. And it could be like, I'm going through living hell, you're going through living hell. Like when you did, it's so funny, sometimes you'll call and we'll both like, start with like, so how are you? It's like, well, you know what, tell me how you are first. And whoever says that is usually the one that's probably suffering more in that moment. And then what'll happen is this very dark, painful stuff will come up and it will, it will turn into this collaborative sort of dance and just the expression of it, just the witnessing of it, just the communion of it is enough to turn it into that. And you know, as you were talking about this idea of play, it brought back this memory of when I was young. And it's interesting because we were talking about how the conditioning tells us this isn't okay. And how much love and forgiveness we have to have for ourselves for forgetting, because sometimes we hold ourselves accountable. Like how could I forget this? Like, well, here's how. So, you know, I'm a kid. I forget how old I was very young, I was still living in New Jersey and I had this goldfish bowl, this glass goldfish bowl. And I remember, I asked my mom, could I take it in the shower? Because I want to play with it in the shower. And she's like, why? You know, it's just a goldfish bowl. I'm like, God, I just want to. So, I took this bowl in the shower and I'm in the shower. I'm taking a shower. I don't know how I want to, I was six years old or something. And I'm filling it with water and I'm just watching the, water sloshing around and pouring it out and the colors and the sights and the play for the sake of play, just this beautiful thing. And at some point, it slips out of my hand because it's slippery and it's heavy and it's glass and it's full of water and it shatters at my feet. And there's blood because I've cut my toe or something, right? And so, I start crying. And so, my dad comes in and he sees this thing, this shattered glass and I'm crying and he gets absolutely furious. Like, and he just, he takes me out of the thing and he just like whoops me and he's like, don't ever do that again. Like, you know, this, this, this and I'm crying and my mom screaming and all this stuff. And the message that they were innocent, like, of course, like you see your kid covered in blood, your first reaction is like this defensive rage and all your conditioning. Nothing wrong with that. But the message to the child is that wasn't okay. It didn't have a purpose. It's unsafe. You know, all this stuff. And I get like the safety of holding glass in the shower. Yes. But the play is what was conditioned out. And so, then later there's all this wall around you that I can't feel that I can't do that. Just sitting and being and just looking at the desk for an hour is not okay. You know, like you're no longer a doctor. You're no longer a husband. You're no longer a provider of the family, all these things that arise. And it's really quite heartbreaking. Yeah. Oh man, you're breaking my heart just to say in these words. I feel it really deeply because actually everything you described was a movement of innocence, wasn't it? Like just this innocent exploration. And an accident happened. So not only is the play kind of conditioned out of you, you're being taught with violence that you need to be perfect. You cannot make mistakes. Like, so at the same time, yes, okay, the parents are innocent and they're conditioned as well. And also it is absolutely okay to be like, no, fuck that, that was not okay. Like, so, and I have that in my own experience is like, yes, there's so much love and respect and care for my parents and everything that they did. And at the same time is those things that you did, they really hurt. There's no, no kind of they hurt, but they hurt, but it was, it was your own conditioning or you're just responding because you were traumatized. And that might be true. But it's important to have that acknowledgement of, yeah, this did really hurt. No buts, no ifs, no maybes, this really hurt. And I love you. You know, we can have those two things. So this is like, when the heart is open and not bound up in dualism. Well, actually, we don't need to find sides, do we? We don't need to have it be a certain way. We notice that the boundless heart is boundless. It has an infinite capacity to feel so you can hold contradict, apparently contradictory truths at the same time. But yeah, so like if you think about that, that's one instance, one instance in your experience as a child. There will probably be thousands more. I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about the universal childhood experience, thousands more of those drip, drip, drip, where we are, we kind of hammered into shape, into the shape of a scared often isolated self like a fixed individual that is not good enough and needs to needs to do better. And it's a view and a belief that we carry with us. Nearly all our lives, most of us, for all our lives, I see people that I love very dearly, you know, friends and family. I can feel it pervading nearly every experience is this deep unworthiness that they inherited that we all inherited. You know, like Tara Brack calls it, the trance of unworthiness is really kind of beautiful. Yeah, it's just because we inherit this lostness that we don't know we've got. Yeah, so I mean, it's, and this is goes back to that aspect about this unbinding awakening, letting go liberation of the heart. It's, it takes time, it takes patience, it takes kindness, it takes consistency. How could this possibly be one and done? How could it possibly, if we think about what we've just talked about, that is foundational, conditional, compounded, often traumatic material for people, we can't just have an insight and it disappears. So insights for the clearly seeing mind, this is the living bio organism that has been conditioned. So we're having to work with that all the time, aren't we? So yeah, I mean, yeah, bit of a ramble, but I feel you so fully with what you're saying because, yeah, I think so many people will resonate with what you've just said. This is where I want to link back to our previous conversation in the, in the description here, because we talked about tools, actual tools for going back, looking at these traumatic conditionings and, and everybody has them, like everybody. And there is, you know, it's like the first noble truth, like life is unsatisfactory, life is suffering, however you want to translate it. There are many, many, many, many, many people who deny that that's true. They don't see the suffering because the trans of unworthiness is so pervasive. It's so, in every cell in the body, that they, it's all you deserve. It's all you deserve. So it's not even suffering. It's just life. It's just that's, no, I'm not suffering. It's like, oh, oh, and that is again, unbearable compassion arises when you, when you see that, because like you said, you feel it now in people. Sometimes you think it's yours because in a sense, it is. Yes. But you're like, why am I, oh, oh, and here's the thing, like having teenage girls. Oh man, Simon, like because they transmit, they, they cannot hide their emotions when they're going through this like high school conditioning and they're having a difficult day or something's happening or they're going through something. Oh my God. It's like, it's shot right into you and you just feel it entirely. And you're, and the, and the first movement of the unexamined mind is to get the fuck out or to do something to distract or to make it stop. Right. And unfortunately, or fortunately, that's no longer possible. So now it's like, okay, I'm going to fill all of this. Yeah. And it leads against it. It's like parent husband 3.0 or something. Isn't it? Like, how do you, how do you actually show up as a living, loving, present parent, you know, without relying upon those kind of, yeah, avoidance, defense mechanisms, because that's really what most of them are, aren't they? Is that like these, yeah, I mean, it's, it's a big conversation, probably not good for a nonparent to talk about parenting because it's a lot for me to learn. But I know in my own experiences that the lack of capacity of the primary caregiver to feel or resonate with the actual feeling of the child just means that they move into their own defensive structures and patterns. So then they impose those defensive structures and patterns onto the child, which then grow into this kind of like maladapted person, which then perpetuates generation after generation after generation. And often it involves like really, really difficult stuff, you know, so like co-dependence or violence, you know, and like you said, when you talked about, you know, you got hit by your dad, you know, I was hit quite a lot when I was a child as well. And what's beautiful in a way is that nowadays that's clearly seen as not okay. I don't know if it is in the States, but in the UK, like this child endangerment, you will get arrested for hitting your child, you know, I mean, if it gets reported, whereas, you know, when we were growing up, that was just like, that was just parenting. Yeah, it's just standard. And it's like the effect that that has on you as a kid. So just like, and often it would be because I felt too much. It's like, oh, I'm having these feelings and they want to be expressed. It's like, shut those feelings down, or else, or else what, or else I'll hit you. It's like, what the fuck, I can't shut them down. What are you going to get hit? It's like, what is that? That is wild. And like, it's not anybody's fault, like you said, but that is painful stuff, you know, painful, like the way in which that shapes and conditions people over time. So I kind of want to give a weird shout out now, because have you seen Kpop Demon Hunters? So it's funny, everyone's been telling me to watch it. My kids watch it, and they're like, it's garbage, dad, don't watch it. But I heard it's something to watch. Okay, I'll check it out. I've watched it three times this week. Oh, that's awesome. So, and the reason I said that is because it gives a message that you never hear, you never hear this message. It's all about unresolved patterns of shame and damage that are hidden through fear, stopping us from being free. And the entire, and they had the demons ultimately, I'm not going to go into it too much. And it's all about like letting these patterns of shame and damage see the light be accepted in community in the world to be liberated. It is sick. Like it's so good. The songs are amazing. They're so beautiful. And like, you can tell it's taken years and years to write because they've been able to code in so many different facets of societal norms that are not spoken about. So like, autistic traits are really beautifully coded into some of the characters. Queer traits have been really like very heavily coded into it. But it's not overtly, like neurodivergent friendly or overtly queer friendly or overtly or preachy. Yeah, no, it's not any, they've got into this universal human experience of shame. They're able to like tap into it in all these different ways. And that's why I think something like three billion people have watched it. Like it's ludicrous how successful it is that it's like this cypher. It's gone right under the radar of content consuming mind. And it's resonating on this level of shared humanity. I don't think people actually know that it's happening consciously, but they're feeling it. They're feeling it. And I felt it so deeply. I watched it the first time. It's like, what was that? Just all of this emotion coming up. I couldn't believe how good it is. So yeah, I mean, some people may think it's trash. I strongly disagree. I think it's incredibly thoughtful, beautifully made piece of art with it's very considered, very, very considered, and it's effortless to watch. Incredible songs, gets you singing, gets you dancing, incredible animation. You've got like cool, very cool, female, empowered, not girlboss, but real people kicking a shit out of demons as well. So like there's that aspect to it, which is just fun. I honestly, I've been blown away by K-pop demon hunters. I because I had a similar view to you. This isn't for me. You know, this is kind of like, just like frozen or whatever, you know, it's just kind of Disney trash. It is not that. It is quite something. Yeah, it's really beautiful. I'm absolutely going to watch it tonight because the way you described it, that is right up my alley. Like I'll absolutely, you know, it's funny. I had that experience with the Barbie movie of all things. You know, I, when I saw that, I was like, this is all about repressed emotion. It's about being able to actually allow safely your feelings and to really grow into your power that way instead of, you know, and all this dichotomy of male, female, patriarchy, all that. That's a side note. It's about that. You know, I want to feel everything. And that's why the song by Billy Eilish, that's the kind of hit from that movie is so perfect. You know, what am I made for? What am I made for? It's beautiful. It points back to kind of where we started about that deep human longing to be seen and connection. You know, it's in all of us. It is the default. And when you get a piece of art or popular culture that strikes that note, and I think like you said, Barbie does it really well. K-pop Demon Hunters does it beautifully. I think everything everywhere all at once does that. Yep. Perfectly. Because he doesn't specifically say this is what it's about. It's just like, no, this is the human experience. It is broad. It is messy. It is tricky. And because of that, we can relate. We can see our own lives in it. And when it does that, this ripple happens. And we just like popular culture would say, well, that's a film being successful. But actually, what I feel is no, that is human nature, that inclination to wake up the open awake loving heart. It's like a bell being struck. It's just this ringing, resonating human facet of compassionate love. It's like, oh, yeah, it's alive in all of us. I just think it's, I don't know, I find it very beautiful that in times like this, when we're told just accept AI slop and just like be given short form content and be given quick answers for everything, when you get like a piece of popular culture that says no, it doesn't have to be like that look. And you get billions of people going, oh, oh, yeah, okay. I mean, that, yeah, I find it very uplifting, as you can probably tell. That's beautiful. I have a similar response to beautiful pop culture like that. And it often is, sometimes it's pop culture like that where billions of people are watching it. Sometimes it's something so subtle like perfect days. I don't know if you've seen this film. It's by a German director starring a Japanese, it's in set in Japan, and it's all in Japanese with subtitles. And it's about a guy who cleans toilets in Tokyo, those fancy toilets, and that's his job. And the guy pretty much, there's hardly any words in the whole movie. There's like five sentences probably in the entire film. And you just watch his life, his perfect days. Like he goes through, he wakes up, he does this, he goes to sleep, he dreams, he wakes up, he does this, he goes to sleep, he dreams. And the way it's set up, it's like, this is liberation, the way this guy lives. He's looking at the trees, then he's doing his work for the sake of doing the work. Like there's no outcome that he's looking for. He's like, but he's so perfect about it. And then the way he interacts with others, and then you get a little glimpse of his past and you realize he's had a difficult time. And yet here he is cleaning toilets and he's as content as anybody. And yeah, so there's these sort of art pieces like this. Perfect days, perfect days. It's on, I don't know if you have Hulu out there in the UK. Yeah, it's like part of Disney. Perfect. Yeah. So you can watch it and tell me what you think. Yeah, I'd like to. I watched in the cinema this Christmas, it's a wonderful life. Oh, the original life. It's been years. Oh man, it's good. It's really good. Oh, it's the original. Just find it's so, I don't know. I mean, we could go into a whole different area, but yeah, it kind of points to the universality of this compassionate human heart. You know, it cannot help but burst into the like everyday life, you know, in spite of all the negative corporate messaging that we receive and receive, you know, like this, they're the human inclination towards liberation. Let's call it that, you know, you could call it a bodhicitta, if you want, whatever it is. It's an active facet of being alive. And the more that we're able to tune into it, the more you start noticing it kind of everywhere, really start noticing it more and more and more. It's wonderful. How much of this, Simon, do you think because our own mind projection apparatus seemingly is reconditioned by the insight and experience of this all this work and unfolding that we are projecting into the world now this and when we share it, it conditions others or do you think it's absolutely exist? I mean, these are dumb questions. They're almost such as intellectual questions that don't make sense. But it is interesting. Yes. Yes and yes. Maybe not. Who knows? I mean, yeah, we could kind of, we could kind of get into that. But yeah, it's so beautiful that you're able to catch that mechanism of mine there. Because actually, it is kind of interesting, isn't it? It's kind of interesting. But does it actually, what does it do? You know, does it help me to reside more in this known experience of open-hearted love? Or does it take me away from that? And I think your response was sort of clear indicator of what that would do for you. So yeah, let's just come back. It's so nice to hang out because we've not actually hung out for a few weeks, I feel maybe a month or so. So it's just been, I do wonder what people might make of this because it's like this only because this is kind of how we jam, isn't it? Like it's how we vibe. And I really like, I don't think there's a lot of that in the online awakening world of just people that are figuring this out together. You know, like walking, like actually, yeah, it's complicated and it's weird and it's joyful and it's sorrowful and it's all of these things. It's like, it's no particular way. So what is it like when two curious friends come together and say, well, let's just take the risk and explore together. We, you know, we get to a stage like now in the conversation, we just go, we don't get anything out of it. There's no thing that I get out of it. And yeah, what has emerged feels so nourishing, like it's, it's not specific, but yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm just grateful. Just grateful. That's beautifully articulated. It's funny. So I've done this for a living in the past, this is what we're doing. And normally when I'm having a conversation, there's a secondary voice layer that's a control aspect that's like, okay, guide it this way because the audience needs to see this or this needs to happen here so that it becomes a piece of content that is useful. Or I wonder what people will think of this, like those things would normally be a secondary audio track in my headphone playing like mentally. And when you and I talk like this, and I think some of it is because a lot of this has fallen away, which this is a gift to me, Simon, because it allows me to self reflect how much has changed. Because sometimes you don't notice on this journey what is gone because it's gone. It's an absence. You don't notice it. You're expecting things to show up, like, oh, love and bliss and presence. And, you know, those are like the mind wants those things. But like what it doesn't recognize sometimes is what isn't there. And you're pointing this out just now is like, Oh, that wasn't there. It was just like this lovely conversation where my heart is opening and we're sharing these intimate things. It's like, Oh, that's gorgeous. And if people like it great, if they don't, that's okay too. But like just that we got to do it. And like you said, because we haven't talked in a few weeks, it actually makes it like our conversation. Totally. You know, it's like this is what we do. Yeah. Yeah, really fantastic. I think we did a thing, man, because I have to pee soon. Yeah, let's go off camera for that. I think. Yeah. Yeah. Well, yeah, it's really, really nice to hang out. And yeah, we can do this again. I think, yeah, please, it'd be really nice to do that. But yeah, sending you and anyone who hears this, lots of love. And yeah, like wherever you are on the path, that includes you, Zubin and anyone out there, I am alongside you. I might sound a little bit preachy or a bit kind of woo, but like, yeah, I know, I know how hard this can be. And you're not alone. You're not alone. And he's not kidding. Yeah, he is with you. Simon, every time I know, because it's almost like Simon is like the voice of the Dharma. Whenever I get a little too much off into some sidetrack, he's like, Hey, you know, not intentionally, but it's just like, Oh, I'm reminded that and it's not, and that it's not easy, you know, that there's no way to bypass it. That's what's beautiful. I think that's what you've really taught me is like, you cannot, you have to go to the places where you really don't want to go. Like the mind doesn't want to go. You want to feel the things that you were shown that you shouldn't be allowed to feel for all the reasons we talked about. Maybe it's conditioning violence, all the things. And that's, but that's where the, you know, as David White says, right, the well of grief, like that's where you go to find the gold coins at the bottom. You have to go there and to have a companion that can go there with you unconditionally. Oh, that's a gift. And, and look in your life. I'm talking to the audience now, look in your life and see if that person or persons don't already exist. And you just haven't seen it. Yeah, it's like, maybe we can kind of end it there. But what like, there's a beautiful term that again, Tara Brock uses is taking the exquisite risk. And that's it, isn't it? That's the risk, because the risk is if I show this vulnerability to the people in my life, I will be rejected. They won't go there with me. So I have to hide it. But what would it be like if we just took the risk once? Yeah, we may get burned. But you might find out that, okay, you get burned, but you're okay. Is another wonderful thing to find out. I didn't need their validation anyway. Or we take the risk and we realize, oh, they are there for me. They love me way more than I thought. And actually, their love isn't dependent on me being this character being a certain way. It's much deeper than that. And I found that out again and again and again, as I've taken that risk. It's like, oh, I thought people would vomit all over me and disgust if they actually saw what it was. Or just like, you know, like, get out, just screaming my face. But I was just hugged often. Oh, that's amazing. Thank you. So yeah, yeah, see if that's possible, maybe. Oh, beautiful. What did you say? The exquisite? The exquisite risk. The exquisite risk. The exquisite risk of unbearable compassion. That's our book, Simon. That's what we're going to do. I love it. Yeah. We'll go safe. P. Well, you know, I was joking with my wife that I wanted to create, or no, with my friend, that I wanted to create a non-dual amusement park. And like, you know, the cave of no self. But the restrooms, we're going to have signs that say P here now. And that's the most. It's a series of dad jokes. Just it's a bit of a rollercoaster. This conversation. It really is. Yeah. I apologize to everyone who has to put up with what just happened. I love you, Simon. Thank you so much. I'll see you soon. This was gorgeous. Thanks. See you guys next time. Bye.