 EAAs, that was that, EAAs, that was special. Yeah, I can't tell you how many times my kids have referred to me as zesty, and I had to have them explain what that meant, because that's new terminology to a Gen X or like me. I was like, maybe I am zesty, okay? Nothing wrong with that. Zesty Z-dog. Happy pre-thanksgiving everyone in the US who knows what that is, and everyone else in the world who is like, fuck thanksgiving. Thought I'd go live. I'm in my little sunroom here, and it just was nice. We got this new chair and it like, it reclines, yo. Oh, man. You know you work hard all your life just so you can buy a Dan Kleiner, like Archie Bunker. Just sit around. Let me be racist and homophobic. That's what the chair is for. Come on down, everyone. Let me just set this up so I can see yo comments. Sue is here in the hospital delivering turkeys. That's pretty much what every human baby is at that point. It's a turkey. So my wife is reading The Bell Jar by Sylvia Plath for no reason, and there's a part in it she was telling me about where some beautiful blonde dude during college or something is trying to get in her pants or whatever and says, would you like to see me naked? And she goes, yeah, whatever. And she takes off his clothes and her internal dialogue is, at that point, all I could see was a turkey neck and turkey gizzards, and I became rather depressed. So happy turkey day. Now that image will stick with you and destroy what vestige of nostalgia you had for this God-awful holiday. Erica Black getting ready for Thanksgiving tomorrow as, I mean, it's not that God-awful because you have baby Ashley. You'll have fun. We have fun too. We're not going to eat. This year we're not cooking at home. We're going to a like hot pot place in the mall. Someone said it was really good. We've been to this other hot pot place and we love it. The kids, we went for Christmas last year and the kids loved it. We're like, this is a tradition. I'm like, all right, I don't like to spend the whole day cooking. Let's do that. And then this year we're going to try this slightly more fancier one that has wagyu beef, which we're not going to order because my LDL doesn't like that. And also, it turns out the regular beef is a better value. Anyways, where are we? Happy pre-day from the rest of the world says, am I in the UK? We understand your meaning. Yes. We give thanks for the, you know, coming to the continental US, destroying the Indians with smallpox guns and steel Indians. And I'm an Indian. Okay, they're not Indians. Oh, by Jennifer, Melanie says, I like to think of it as gratitude day. Well, you know, it'd be nice, Melanie, if like every day were gratitude day. But you know, this is the beautiful thing. Practicing gratitude, all these kind of things that the spiritual people talk about and the self-help people talk about, like the Jay Sheddy's and the Melanie, whatever the hell her name is and the Tony Robbins and all these guys, you know, gratitude. It's like, that's great. Then there's like the gratitude that is beyond any practice of it because it's naturally baked into the realization that everything is perfectly as it is and could easily be nothing. And that it's thing is made of gratitude itself. So then you don't need a turkey day for it. Although it's nice to have the reminder. You just need to stop believing in the story of you for a second. That's it. Just a second. When the story of you no longer holds weight, then there's just what is and that is infinite gratitude by nothing for nothing as everything. As you try to talk about it, it just sounds like word salad. But I think some of you are catching what my turkey gizzards are throwing your way. Turkey neck and gizzards, man. Steve Jobs is God. That's a great handle. Zubin, what do you think about cholesterol, LDL and keto carnivore diet going against AHA guidelines yet people reporting great healthy results? This is now a foray into just storytelling because I have no fucking clue about anything. I'll tell you my story. I used to believe the AHA and for years had a very low saturated fat, high carb, all the things they said to do. It was pudgy. I didn't feel great. But when I did that, my cholesterol was pretty good. LDL was fine. Then when I moved to Vegas, I started doing intermittent fasting, trying keto, high saturated fat, high animal products, like all that. I found I felt better. I lost weight. But my LDL cholesterol went through the roof. Now, I measured a whole panel of things with Peter Atia back in the day when Peter was just a buddy and not the famous motherfucker he is now. He's charging however many hundreds of thousands of dollars to celebrities to do this shit. I got it for free. We ran this battery of the usual inflammatory markers, CRP, LP, little A, all the different LDL parameters including NMR, particle size, all that. What we found is on a high saturated fat diet, my response was to produce a shower of tiny, atherogenic LDL particles, which is not good. Because it's those small particles that tend to lodge in the vessel walls. There was no inflammation. There were no other risk factors, no hypertension, no smoking, no diabetes. Although a tendency to diabetes, like a risk for it, which is why I liked keto. The punchline of that was I went back to a regular Mediterranean diet. LDL went down, HDL went up. The weight kind of still fluctuated because I think the carbs, but most of it was because I would eat to emotionally self sooth. So it was more a root cause that was beyond nutrition. It was more about emotion, repressed emotion, drama, those kind of things. So the punchline there is now I'm on a Mediterranean type diet and I find if I go to high saturated fat, I have all this shower of lipids. Now here's the thing. You could say, well, you can have all those lipids, the high LDL, and some people say this, and they're big, buoyant particles and they're not atherogenic, but mine aren't. They are small. And I did a coronary calcium scan back when I was 44 years old, about eight years ago, and I actually live streamed it from Las Vegas. At that time, my coronary calcium score was zero, but eight years later, I repeated it because I wanted to see. I've been very lax with the diet. I've been eating a lot of saturated fat. My LDL was anywhere between 120 and 160. HDL was in the 50s somewhere. Triglycerides were very, very low. So otherwise fine, no inflammation, same thing, no hypertension. And now I have a calcium score of 12, which is still trivial, but it's in all of it. It's a little tiny bit of calcium, and it just shows that there was some atherosclerosis with healing that shows up as calcium, because all you see are the calcified plaques. You don't see the soft, unstable plaque that might be there. So at that point, I realized saturated fat and me don't get along. I had no other risk factors, except for possibly stress, emotional repression, those kind of things, which had been kind of flaring up over the last eight years as I travel around the world doing talks, raising my blood pressure at the time of the talk, raising my cortisol, all those things. So it's multifactorial, but the ultimate punchline to answer your question is, it's so specific to the person. So my genetics don't get along with high animal saturated fat. They do really well now. I got my APOB, which is the actual, a better measure of the entire amount of atherogenic particles. It's like a fudge of that. The APOB levels got them down from 100 something down to 77, which is really good. And my LDL is now like, what was it, 95 or something? And all I did was eat more sardines, salmon, fish, avocados, pecans, oatmeal, less saturated fat, less cheese, but still fudging here and there, and it seems to work fine. And then of course I exercised mostly by walking and doing weights in the gym. That's it. Nothing really hypererobic, although it does the gym weights tend to get the heart rate up. So it's so tailored for everybody. Somebody else's genetics is totally different. They may do really well with high saturated fat and a keto type carnivore diet without having increased risk of atherogenesis. My big concern more is stroke and dementia. If I'm going to go out with a heart attack, that's fine, but I don't want to be a total gomer in the process, right? As we used to say back in the day, when we turned a patient into a problem because we were stressed out and feeling unworthy. So that's kind of my take on that. So now I'm in that place. Now it may change tomorrow. I may find that my body changes, the metabolism changes. And in the setting of all that, no signs of diabetes or pre-diabetes, everything seems to be good and I've lost a bunch of weight, but that was because the emotional repression, the trauma and stuff started getting processed through the body and the weight just disappeared without me trying, because I stopped randomly using food as comfort. As I've talked about, that started in January. It's kind of crazy. So, yeah, that's kind of how it is. Kathy says she felt great on a keto diet, lost a bunch of weight, except kept getting auras and passing out due to low blood pressure. Now I'm fat and lazy and no longer pass out. I'll take fat and lazy and awake. Let's see. Yeah, if you don't feel good on a diet, what's the point? I agree, JD. You can't sustain it and you only have one life and do it. Let's scroll down. Sylvia says, I had my genes tested and I pretty much knew I shouldn't eat fats and carbs, but genetic testing proved that. I'm curious what genetic testing actually proves that. There may be some suggestive things, different things like if you're ApoE44, it's like, ooh, you probably want to watch the lipids for sure because you're at high risk for Parkinson's, dementia, those kind of things based on that. That's just one example. Sousa's Zen for weight loss. There's your money grab. Yeah, I mean, I could literally, if I wanted to be a self-help guru, I would talk about managing emotional repression, all the stuff around awakening. By the way, listen to the punchline of this one I'm done because I'm telling you this as a story. I would talk about going into trauma. I would talk about energy work. I would talk about all these things in my own case that then led to this natural equilibrium with the body, the body being where it wanted to be ultimately. It could have been it wanted to be heavy. That's fine too. But whatever it was, it was fine and that's where it settled. So I could tell all those stories. It would be a total grifter money grab bullshit because everybody's different. I have no idea what's going on. This is all an epiphenomenon of whatever's happening here. I can't say it's causative. You may hear me and then naturally something may arise with you where you change something you do or look inward or whatever and something is that's great. But I can't say that anything I said was causative or anything I did was causative. So it doesn't make for a very successful YouTube channel pitching shit. You know, like one of these punk ass bitches online of which there are many. Ashley says, what sucks is when you have to avoid something because you get really sick even with small amounts. Oh yeah, because the gluten thing. Yeah, that's that's painful. Melanie says, it's the strangest thing if you want to lose weight, eat less instead of doing something. It's ceasing of something. It's weird and I don't even know that because I certainly don't eat less. I think I eat differently. Maybe it feels like I eat the same. But what's probably subtly happening is I'm not eating less at a meal and I don't even notice it because I'm not self soothing. I'm not using food as a comfort mechanism anymore. Or at least if I do it's very rare and I catch it. I see it. I'm like, oh man, what am I mindlessly eating this stuff? And yeah, it's been pretty magical over here. Mysterious. But the strange thing is when it happens you don't celebrate because part of the aspects of it is the one who would celebrate that final accomplishment and you're working all your life to stay in a weight range that you think is comfortable and I had to buy all new clothes and stuff. It's like, I actually ruled myself out for cancer because I was so perplexed while it was happening. And this has been a year now. And you just don't care. I think part of it is the not caring. Like the whole thing making it some achievement or some ambition or some concern. And then when that concern drops and there's just the natural balance of the body doing the body, again with no center in it, it just seems to just go where it goes. And it could go to that you gain weight. It doesn't matter. You won't care. Dan says, I don't eat much at all to the point. It's almost a problem. Weirdly, I almost always eat more and get hungry right before sleep, which is less healthy, but it is what it is. That's totally what it is. I know people who've gone through a lot of this kind of awakening stuff, whatever that is. And they're like skeletal. It just seems to happen that way. And I know other people who still struggle with kind of weight, meaning they see it as a subtle issue, meaning they're heavier than maybe the BMI would be healthy by doctor standards. But they're perfectly happy with it. It's just exactly fine. That's what it is. It's the end of resistance to whatever is happening. Now, I still have plenty of resistance, but it falls a lot faster than it used to. And the things I used to really fixate on have kind of relaxed a lot. I mean, I don't think I'd recognize myself internally from five years ago, but from here it's hard to say anything because it's all just like, yep, it's just ordinary. This kind of falling away of those things. But there's still so much there. And there are days like yesterday where I was just like, man, I'm such a self right now, like such a contracted. And it feels really bad. It feels intolerable. But it's also kind of accepted as, okay, this is what's happening now. But there's a subtle movement in mind that's like, this has got to stop. Like I'm not looking at something because this contraction feels really uncomfortable because it's impossible to be just like a normal kind of contracted mind identified human for very long. It feels like something's wrong, which to be honest, it felt like that all my life. I just didn't put my finger on what it was. It was like, nothing really makes me happy for long. And I'm always worried about the future and worried about the past. And I'm always up in my head and it's like, yep, yep, that's the mind identification state where you believe you're your thoughts, you believe you're your story, you believe you're you. And that can go. Initially, initially intermittently and then later more permanently it seems. Hi, Jane. Jane Wains. Not good. Jane Waxes and Jane Wains wax on. Wax off. I miss Mr. Miyagi. Aka Arnold from Happy Days. Many people forget that. Emma, my dad always said he planned to enjoy food life and not hang around. Didn't work. Maybe we have less control than we'll ever know. Yeah, I'd say we have no control. So that is less control than we'll ever know because we always think there's some control. Even now I could convince myself that I'm doing a live show and I plan to do it and I'm doing it for this or that reason. And that's all nonsense. Like none of that's true. It's just happening. My wife was upstairs taking a shower and I was like, I'm going to do a live show just because she's like, yep. There's no like why. What are you going to talk about? It's like, nope. I got a new chair. I'm going to do a live show. That's all. I'll lay back in my chair. Whoa, it goes really, whoa, really flat. Wow. This is a live gang. Whoa. I think it actually disconnected from my, hold on. There you go. My little auto gimbal that follows me. Not that I need to be followed. It's not like I'm moving around. Dummy Zoobin. What are your thoughts on ozembic for weight loss? I mean, hey, great. If that works, wonderful. It seems to work for a lot of people. I think it's helped people I know a lot. I would have used it if I was grossly overweight. I think I would have tried it. If I were to try it, I would have tried it. So nothing wrong with that. Just, I don't know. We tend to rely on these pills, but we don't even know what any of this is. So if that seems to work, then go for it, man. Ashley says this control topic is so funny. When I'm right before writing a big exam, I just giggle uncontrollably. I think the universe is doing it again with dark humor. Yeah. There's a lot of giggling that seems to happen when I'm the most stressed. So, yeah, like yesterday I was just so contracted. I had no explanation for it. I was just like, this sucks. Sucks to be alive right now. And then I was like, okay, you know it because you're suffering. So you look inside. You're like, where is this one that's having this drama? And then just laughter because there's nothing there. It's just total emptiness. So radiance. Just dancing itself. And at that moment, the dance thinks that it is a person that's suffering. It's a really hilarious, you know. It's a comedy and a tragedy rolled into one. It's such a great little dance. Kathy says, did you ever do a live show and think, what the fuck was that and regret it? Oh, yeah, all the time. Any time, any time I do a live show and then afterwards I go into thought and try to remember or think about what I said and analyze it from a standpoint of a person, it's miserable. I'm like, I'm going to just delete my whole channel because it's all mine stuff. It's all that unworthiness showing up as like story and that's all conditioning. But if I go back and watch it, I'm usually like, oh, that guy's kind of interesting. Who's that? I can't even recognize what it is and it's fine. It's all fine. And then you just let it go. So it's kind of like that now. Marathon Monk. I like that. A supporter of the channel. Thank you for that. Hey Z-Dog, first time catching the live stream. Welcome. Thoughts on ketamine infusions. I had a glimpse into this emptiness. There was no need to even say anything to the nurse. So this is in the broader conversation of like drugs, psychedelics, et cetera, medications. I've done ketamine infusions. I did two, I did journeys with a clinician at my studio and under medical supervision. And yeah, the first time I did it, it was very much like that. It was like I'd forgotten. I couldn't even realize that I'd taken a drug because there was no body. There was no mind. There was just pure awareness in a sea of no thing. That was the first experience. And then all this unconscious conditioning started coming up in that space where I could hold it. And I had these things from my adolescence came up that I'd totally forgotten. That seemed trivial at the time, but were felt fully like, oh my God, like that was unworthiness showing up. Like an adult had made fun of me or something and it just felt terrible to that child. And I felt it as the child. But the adult kind of vaguely remembers the story. I was like, that wasn't a big deal. The person was a dumbass. But the child didn't think that. The 14-year-old didn't think that. It was like the end of the world for them. And so I was allowing that inner movement to actually fully express as like hurt, sadness, betrayal, all these things. And then as this awareness just hold it in this very loving, compassionate way. Allow it to express tears and all this with the blindfold on and everything. So for me, that first run with the ketamine was really powerful. And then the second one was more, it just showed me like all the tethered connections and beautiful interconnection of life. Like, you know, that my family, the loved ones, they showed up as like a tree that shared a common root. And they were branches on this tree. It was really beautiful. Now, here's the question. Did any of that matter at all? I don't know. I can't say it did anything. I can't say it didn't. All I know is here I am doing this. So I can't say go do ketamine, don't go do ketamine. I just say there's a lot of traps and pitfalls with medicine because we want it. We have a lot of expectation. And often people are disappointed or they're surprised. So if you're going to do those things, do them with a guide and do them with an open heart and mind knowing that you don't know what's going to happen. But going in, leaning into potential darkness, meaning shadow stuff coming up, stuff that's uncomfortable. What's not going to be unicorns and rainbows all the time. It can be really challenging. So yeah, that's my take on that. Iron Twist says, so pleased to join a live session while in hospital. I mean, ketamine effusions for chronic pain. I feel like it's gotten, it's got great neuromodulatory potential. Hope you and the family are well. Oh man, that's beautiful. So this is the thing. I have a mixed love hate for ketamine. I had a great experience, but I only did it twice and I have no desire to ever do it again. I don't have chronic pain in that way that you might. So I have chronic neck pain, but it's not something that I would treat beyond just sitting with it. So everybody's different. But I've had friends who've died of ketamine abuse because it has a euphoric component, has an addictive component. It has a escape component, dissociation component. It can give you these delusions that you've been shown the secrets of the universe. And then when you're back in waking consciousness, they're impossible to grasp, but you know they were real, which is just another experience. That's the knowing that something's real. That's a whole hallmark of the psychedelic mystical experiences. There's an ineffable truth that's shown to you. I don't know. I'm going to say something here. It's going to be controversial, maybe. That's bullshit. Ineffable truth. What the fuck is that? It's another experience. There is no such thing as ineffable truth. Okay, I don't know where the words are coming from. This is just how Zubin wants to express right now. You can do all the drugs in the world. You can have insights, apparent insights, apparent glimpses into the nature of reality, into your own consciousness, into what consciousness is, into everything is love, all these different, everything is energy, everything is empty, all these different things. They don't mean a fucking hill of beans. It's another experience, another radiant appearance. And that appearance can have a valence of realness. It feels totally real, or it feels unreal. You can come out of that doing some stupid shit like, oh man, well, I just saw everything was won, so I'm just going to fucking stop saving for retirement, or whatever the fuck it is. And it doesn't, it's just not like that. So the more of those things I did, the more I realized, it's all just pointing me back to this. It's just this. Just the phenomena. Just life-lifing itself. There's no truth. There's no ineffable truth. That's all fun experience. Beautiful fun. Fantastic. One of the highest experiences humans can have are those mystical states. They don't amount to a fucking hill of beans. It's just vapor. What is, is, and that's what's, that's always psychedelic as fuck. Because you're just looking at it like this. This. This is absolute radiant mystery to the mind. You know, and maybe it shows up as a crazy mystical experience where you download the secrets of the universe and past lives and future lives and what is consciousness and all the interconnections and yay. Fun story. Great times. High fives. Equivalently, you can have an evil, horrible, wretched, paranoid experience that feels as real as that. And be scarred because you think it was real. It's not. Nothing is. Everything is provisional. Everything is impermanent. Everything is just what it is. Dance, dance, dance. Judy says, just curious, have you done any TM recently? I feel like I'm drowning in thought sometime and it does address that, but I just don't go, I just don't do it. Can't seem to get into the habit. So here's a thing with transcendental meditation or any meditation, any practice. They're a practice, which means there's a doer that does them. So typically you can do them different ways. They can just be done. They can just arise. You learn transcendental meditation when you're younger and then suddenly you're just doing a mantra and thought is quieting and there's just a mantra and then there's just what is happening. You can have these profound expansive consciousness states, but do me a favor. Go and watch these TM guys talk. So like there's a guy, he's a doctor and he actually, I think his PR people tried to get him on my show and I just watched how he expresses. And it's all innocent by the way. People don't know that any, it's, and I don't know what I'm talking about, but I like to take a shit on people. So I'm going to take a shit on this guy because I think this is misleading at some point in my experience. I'm just talking for me. You know, he's talking about like, there's a transcendent and they all talk like this. Like there's a transcendent radiant bliss of consciousness. It's all just consciousness and you just, you know, TM is the only way to get there because you transcend transcendental meditation. You transcend thought. You transcend this body. You transcend the manifestation. And then it's all consciousness and it's all happening in that. And that's all lovely and great and totally fucking transient. And another story. I can't find consciousness. I can't find transcendence. There's only this. So those meditation practices can put you in those wonderful states that can be extremely open, empty, magical, relaxing, stress-relieving, blood pressure reducing, all wonderful things. They may even set you up for a kind of deeper insight that can arise in those states where the impermanence and substantiality, the emptiness of everything shows up and the you drops. So that can happen. So in that sense, they make you a little accident prone for that accident to happen. Maybe. I don't even know if that's true. And I've done all these things. And so at some point you realize, well, why am I not doing it? Am I resisting? Am I just not good at it? Is there unworthiness here? I'll never get this awakening thing that I don't meditate because I'm lazy or I'm not good at it. It's like, no.  subjected to subjected to with thought. Like yesterday it seemed there was a problem with thought for me because I was up in my head feeling like a full-on person but I saw I mean it was obvious it was like yeah that's happening and I didn't really make it a big problem. There was a subtle seeking like a subtle like maybe I should do something about this and then there was a realization that that's not how this works that's never how this has worked. This is what's arising right now allow it fully. It's a complete surrender to what's happening. So the surrender for you might be that you don't want to do that shit right now. Then what you might find is something paradoxical when that surrender kind of happens in the acceptance then something arises. It's a different type of meditation or it's that meditation. So yeah so TM McGee doctor whatever the hell's name is just like yeah. But then if you really push them and I've seen him in interviews getting pushed by people you know when when you really get down to no self there's like a defense there's like a no no no no no you are this radiant consciousness. It's like okay buddy good luck with that. See see if that's something that's stable that's permanent that you find it's not it's a state that feeling that you're radiant conscious is a state it arises and falls away so what doesn't arise and fall away this this this this this is well it's all arising and falling away and it's not arising and not falling away it's exactly what it is. Why do we need to come up with these different images of consciousness and big mind and capital S self and all that. I mean it's all fine it's what's arising but it I don't know about truth I don't know what truth is because it's staring at us nothing more true than what this is because it can't be said because it's just what it is. Not very satisfying. Dr. Dan says for me disconnecting from electronic devices and distractions can help with meditation no phones no iPad no laptops unplug that's been my experience because we're distracted into this matrix of societal thought and conditioning and anything you do to stop that to unplug is helpful that's why I like to sit in this wheelchair doing nothing that's why I go to cafes and do nothing I just sip my drink and I look I'm just present I take that back people who say I'm just present I want a fucking throat punch them and a lot of great people a lot of good friends say that shit nice to say that shit there's no fucking present there's no you being present that's a story that we tell what I'm describing is sitting and doing nothing trying to do nothing no movement to do something just sitting so whatever is arising is arising what does that have to do with presence presence is a story presence implies there's not presence when can there not be presence there's only this man there's a lot of great comments here I'm behind okay marathon monk says have you heard of Jodo shinsu Buddhism shinsu Buddhism popular in Japan if you can get past the cultural religious stuff it ends up boiling down to I'm a fool and I can't do anything to make this happen I like the story of that that's a good one I've been to Japan been to Zen temples and been to a esoteric Buddhist monastery where we stayed the night and there was chanting and all that and a nighttime walk through a cemetery I made a video about this it was magical it had a mystical feel I felt like they were past life showing themselves to me that I was formerly a Japanese person like crazy shit all experience all wonderful but pointing at something beautiful I think which is yeah we don't do this so you go be a monk and you do all these things but in the end it's just to realize you never did anything you never could and everything was fine it's a cosmic joke duck duck duck duck duck duck says it's more enjoying the journey than longing for the destination wow beautiful thanks for being a supporter by the way the longing for the destination is part of the seeking energy of the human mind by the way there's no human mind they're just the appearance of thought going to thought going to impulse going to urge going to emotion going to sensation going to story going to believe but that that that pattern of appearance is constantly apparently looking to an apparent future for an apparent solution to apparent problems that it creates that's it that's a whole mind so when we start trying to transcendental meditation in a sense we're taking that seeking energy and we're subverting it to a doing of something and hope is that that doing of something will relax the very seeking mechanism that instigated it and then you'll be fully fucking awake maybe but I don't know my feeling what's even wants to say is good luck with that so what do you do who fucking knows it happens or it doesn't and it but but my suspicion is it tends to happen to people who are drawn to those things who seeking mind wants to seek the end of its own suffering there almost to be a wanting for it to happen not always but often and so sometimes it seems a seeking mind burns itself out and then there you are here where you could never ever have left let's see check this out man I don't work hold on there we go let me turn off the the follow so I got this little thing on a gimbal and there's my light and there's my yard there's my reflection of my light there's the view out the over the bay San Francisco Bay and here is my laptop where I'm looking at your comments and my tootsies as my mother would say the light and this cool fun chair that I love that's brand new alright what that have to do with anything nothing and everything let me center myself here there we go now should follow me by itself cool um alright let's go back oh marathon yeah the egg chair yeah I love that it's a two-person egg chair kind of a kind of fancy pants um oh thanks Jojo yeah we we spent a year remodeling the backyard because what else is there to do at that point you when you've reached my mazlowe's hierarchy and you're you've got food you've got love you've got community then it's like well let's have a backyard that's what I call self-actualization duck duck duck says I hope to try second to expand consciousness or extinguish ego to see if I gain insight alright duck duck oh duck let's talk I've done every second out practically I've made videos about it they don't do shit nothing does anything you'll have experiences they may show you different things traumas etc it may be exactly what's supposed to happen beautiful go do it then if you're called to it go do it do it with a guide or don't just do it if you're called to it but don't expect anything if you you can you're going to anyways but I'm just going to tell you this from my own experience insight forget about it awakening not a chance it's going to be exactly what it is and that's going to be the next thing that happens in your own folding and where you're going you're going anyways you're going there because you have a choice because you're not doing it and you never were this whole thing is a clockwork playing itself out if the clockwork includes psychedelics great but if it includes you saying I'm gonna gain insight or maybe a ego dissolution or whatever that's a story it's a beautiful story and I had the same I tell you this is someone who did that shit who said that those things exactly I'm doing this to have you go dissolution of the gain insight and it's like those things may have arisen but they didn't mean shit it's all an epiphenomenon of this mystery really and I again I'm telling you my experience so I may be totally wrong I have no idea in fact I know I don't know shit that's the one thing I can be sure of so take everything I say with a 20 grains of salt whole bag of salt Carol Dean I tried ketamine a couple times and it was fun but it didn't do much for me probably because I already know I'm one with everything yeah well one of the interesting things like you know five me ODMT which I've done a couple times in a different in different ways that's a most power one of the most powerful psychedelics known to man like it makes ketamine look moronic in terms of experience in terms of just pure like energetic experience it makes ketamine look like you've been hit on the head with a brick and all it showed me is what I already knew it's just like this this just laughter like it's all empty radiance that's it everything else is part of the dance and the story and there's nothing wrong with the story because the story in the dance are the empty radiance is the same thing they're not separate at all there's no separation at all so even the I'm one with everything that's a beautiful way of saying something that you can't say which is there's no separation I mean even that stupid doesn't make sense like of course there's separation look that's that's a thought that's that's an appearance but really there's what's happening so there's no I that's separate from anything because there's no I so you can't even like for me I can't even say I'm one with everything because that makes no sense because there's no I that I can find when I look there's only everything so it's semantics to extent you say why I'm one with everything because there's no I and I'm in me I'm everything that's fine I don't think that's there I think it's just there's everything there's life-living that's how it shows up here your mileage will vary David Jackson says action is the answer to your insight regarding psychedelics I don't quite know what that means maybe you can elaborate let's see all DMT showed me his clowns so many clowns says iron twist it showed me some interesting like deep childhood experience it showed me like a lot of shame around some stuff it showed me energetics that moved through the body it showed me death what death was it's nothing it never was no birth and death they don't that's not a thing that's a story that the mind creates birth and death you know I've seen people die I've lost loved ones this that the other thing okay I'm telling you it's not real I'm not saying it's not real that you live forever I'm saying there's no it's not even the question doesn't even arise anymore as to what death is because I know it's just the mind asking you know bullshit that's how weird it is for the mind it's like what do you mean there's no death there's no death people like well I've heard about near-death experiences where you go to this light and all that yeah that's an experience it's another phenomena what the MEO showed was bro that's all phenomena and they're the same as the no thing from which all this is happening God I the minute I start to try to talk about it it's nonsense it let's just say this it was like this just laughing like come on every time every time I've done it yeah Dan says see now you're saying so I can change your perspective so I'm saying psychedelics were done and they showed me what I already knew for me it was the same display now again because I don't know what causation is I can't say anything did anything that's what I'm kind of speaking to psychedelics don't do anything they show up when they show up and then they're done and the experiences had and then we tell stories about insights and clarity and clarity and bad trips and good trips and my god did this and that and that's all one it's all fine I did it all so I can't say I'm not telling you don't do it I'm saying hey from here I'm gonna stress how it's seen which is it's a fucking clown show statistics help you realize nothing is true that's great dose boy that's a good use of statistics Dan Riddick but they changed your perspective nonetheless whether for better or for worse they did I guess Dan what I'm saying is I I don't think they did because all of that I had had going into the journeys they just reinforced I can't even say they reinforce it because afterwards it was felt like I didn't need to do that it's strange now what was kind of helpful was seeing this sort of static stuff come up it was almost like what you might call shadow work on steroids but I don't know what shadow work is even it's just seeing everything that's there without too much resistance and they did facilitate that but I can do that without that so it's hard to know and I'm not saying don't do them like Zubin did them did all the things so that may be in the cards for you or may not but certainly I don't think it's a must and I certainly can't ascribe causation to anything anymore which is weird you see why not a very good YouTube personality these days because can't advice not trying to get anything from you if you want to like support the channel that's wonderful it allows me to do what I do but if you don't then I'll just stop doing what I do and it will make a difference but it is it's also nice that there's a group of people who like minds they get together and share because it helps me it seems to help me and I can't really scar causation but I do this it just arises and I'm like yeah I was good and it's because I'm selfish selfish meaning like if it wasn't good for Zubin it probably wouldn't happen the character wouldn't do it something something's up PIP I'm just sitting here watching the wheels go round and round John Lennon those motherfuckers knew what was up Ashley says I think what you're trying to point to is psychedelics won't give you the freedom you think they will that's my feeling there are a few people who've had it's claimed they've had these really big shifts permanent shifts from psychedelics and I'm sure that's the case for them I'm sure it is if they say so I'm sure it is because they're describing their experience wasn't the case here but they were I mean I did LSD in college and I think it kind of changed my at that time I there was nothing else that had arisen no meditation I thought everything was concrete and then to see that the mind could do that was kind of a gate it was like oh this is a vast mystery this isn't really explicable with just gates and I on channels there's something else going on so that was kind of interesting Dan Riddick we love it Z I think you're full of shit most of the time but hell you make me think I love it I do I love that that's my favorite comment I love that you think I'm full of shit is not beautiful because that's exactly right for you I am is that great because only Dan knows what's happening with Dan and I love your the way you express it's beautiful and you always have great comments marathon monk something I read is that the more the therapist and the client believe something will work the more effective it will be I find that I don't have the hoots but I really believe in something though yeah so you're actually lucky in a way so let me speak to this this is a great marathon this is a great um a great point I think let me sit up a little because I think this is important we all know in medicine the placebo effect I've seen it work it's worked on me humans are incredibly suggestible because we're all intertwined that's I just want it there's no distinction really this is human consciousness that's it as an appearance so we're influenced by everything everybody every guru every non guru everybody who talks me talking to you you talking to me we're tweaking each other it's true in a therapeutic relationship in psychedelics very much so I've definitely seen that and experienced that suggestibility and when it comes to spiritual awakening and this sort of path my experience now is consistent with the following and again this is a zubin story all of this shit is what other people have said until it stops being so you're still conditioned that every guru you hear every teacher every non-duality speaker on YouTube is saying shit that they've heard in some way tweaking it slightly believing it feeling it experiencing it regurgitating it such that it's all a self-fulfilling fucking cluster circle jerk at some point and at some point you see that you're like oh shit all the teachers are saying this shit that they've been handed down from the Zen masters of old and this and this oh well that's the tradition and that's why it's true because it's ancient wisdom and a shut the fuck up you don't need ancient wisdom you don't need anyone else's story you don't need any suggestion you don't need any other words of what this is this is just a zubin talking so take it with a grain of salt the fuck is that someone ringing the bell I don't know if I'm supposed to go out there or not I better better text my wife and tell her to check that hold on oh just a delivery okay thanks because there was someone spoke I think oh those guys never came okay logistic okay so all these teachers gurus books idea shanti rupert's Byra Muji Ocho any number of the non-duality speakers on YouTube they're all gonna talk because you gotta use words and everywhere they use is borrowed from somewhere else and if you pay close enough attention you will see that is true they're making it from this tradition from this teacher from this book from this lineage from their teacher from this that and that's how humans are because we're all just conditioned machines that way have you ever thought have you ever thought that anything a human says about this is bullshit but can't be what it is because it's not it and it's not an is and it's not a what it's this and you can just trust your experience fully some teachers will say trust your experience they're aping what other people say but the truth is trust your experience meaning this but be careful because every trust your experience every single one of those words is is right with miss on rife with misunderstanding trust means belief to some people and belief is not what this is your means you're having an experience it can you find the you that's having the experience you just say this experience trust this okay but then be careful because this may be an appearance of experience that has a quality of a belief that there is magic in the world and everything is consciousness or something like that well now you trust that and you're like okay I believe there's everything is conscious which is fine that's a beautiful story for your body mind to have what if even that just and you just see it as experience as another experience with a valence so what is it then it's just a radiant appearance exactly what it is it's the appearance that's all you can really say you can't say there's any truth here all I can say is I see these appearances are arising sensations thoughts smells tastes sounds that's it that's all I can say and all the teachers and everybody are giving you a framework for this and it's TM and it's non-duality and it's just sitting and it's shikantaza and it's you know koans and it's Vedic scriptures and it's the Bible and it's this and that's all great all wonderful story it's all suggestible all you're doing is conditioning yourself with new shit and then you're believing it it's all in my feeling now here how it seems that all has to die all of it has to die people will disagree with me and that's beautiful they'll say I'm full of shit and that's great too I probably am doesn't feel like that and that means I can't I'm not sure I can trust that truth because maybe that's not true so that that's my take keep your shrink says love you're not knowing and humility to be careful though I know there's not knowing but I'm not sure there's humility because sometimes the ego can arise and own this thing even the even the realizing you don't know the ego suddenly will own it you like I'm the one who doesn't know I'm the one who's you know the not-know-er and everybody else's condition it's like good luck with that if you can open your mouth about it it's coming from somewhere in a conditioned story the it's nice to somehow that can be seen too as just part of the appearance the radiance duck duck Oduck says I'm still tripping about seeing you like this after seeing you in person in Austin speaking to a bunch of stuff EMDs and telling jokes with crazy slides that were hilarious wanted to join you in Las Vegas that's awesome you were there Austin was fun that was a different life wasn't it that Zubin was somewhere on this journey but he was a character trying to prove that he was worth being amongst us and he believed that he could change medicine and all it took was about doing a bunch of talks but at a deeper level he's like oh I got to do something because otherwise they're gonna all figure out that I don't know what the hell's going on and it turns out no one does so yeah there were there were I don't know that they were stuffy in Austin they were less stuffy than in other places but anytime we talk to physicians it's a clutter fuck because they're these refined now see now I'm aping someone that might someone else Angela Delulo talks about this with he's talked about this with me that physicians have what and he's a physician called refined egos so they they are really good at you know managing intellectually having societal accolades their ego has been reinforced in a million different ways and it's very good it's very good at adapting and being kind of slick but if you really head on attack it if you go straight for the heart they will defend fall apart get aggressive and I've seen it happen again and again and again because they are like they're really opera they're white knuckling their way through it and they don't even know it sometimes Dan Riddick says you are worth it that's really sweet of you Dan but I would actually even discount that and say there is no worth it and not worth it because there's just what's happening so like even the idea of worthiness has to go in that sense it just has to go I don't know where it goes I don't know how to do that but when it relaxes it's like whoa there's only this there's nobody even here marathon says in that ketamine setting I had uncontrollable laughter about how all of the stories teachings were although the Buddha said even the Dharma is empty which made me think ah that it right there that's it right there okay even the Dharma is empty so again the Buddha is full of shit too because he just we don't know what he said but it's all passed down oral tradition it's all been molested by the hierarchy of organized Buddhism and religion but one of the funniest things is like the Diamond Sutra where the Buddha just like you know those things I said this that the other thing five-fold noble path is that that's just a way of speaking right you guys know that there's really nothing going on there's no one to wake up there's no awakening none of this is happening and you're just like damn honey you're the founder of real religion how the hell did that never stick the truth is they didn't that's the part that stuck the part that stuck is I can meditate to more peace and equanimity I can be less selfish and more selfless I can you know just identify for my thoughts a little bit I can feel compassion and practice compassion for others that's what people took from the religion but the true message was bro ah ah nothing happening and then just a huge smile it's like it's a cosmic joke and it's beautiful so then there's all this radiant appearance totally empty it says this shit is good in doses for me I can't dissolve right now but it's good to melt some rough edges yeah you just find that shit's gonna go as it goes yeah little here a little something here a little something there arises start start repeating some of the phrases because that's what happens we get incepted then you let that go then something happens some traumatic memory comes up and emotion and shadow and all that bullshit it just plays itself out the best we can do is get out of the way and I don't even know how to do that so it's a mystery hey Mike the human condition is do do do that's what it does do do do it's do do let's see no thanks we're nihilists Lebowski we believe in nothing nothing Lebowski our girlfriend gave up her toll yeah the nihilists and the big Lebowski is great hard to be an actual nihilist though because you just it's just your conditioning is gonna do what it does I'm not conditioned to actually behave like a nihilist even though this is all empty it's like no I'm conditioned to fucking do shit so that's what's gonna happen with no resistance it's nihilism and it's not it's like there's no ism just exactly what it is Sue says the Bahia the Bahia Sutra was super cool until I realized bro went on to be killed by a cow 30 minutes after realization exactly Bahia Bahia Sutra which I've mentioned on the show before in the scene merely the scene in the herd merely the herd in the felt merely the felt in the cognized merely the cognized notice that there's no you in that you're neither here nor there and just this is the end of suffering so basically it's saying there's  there's only the appearance, there's only what's apparently happening with no consciousness aware of it, no person aware of it, no self, no no self, just what it is. And Bahia of the bark cloth, the monk who Buddha told us to, because he asked three times, you gotta ask three times, otherwise he's not giving you shit. You ask one time, Buddha's like, I'm busy, I'm taking a shit. He asked two times, Buddha's like, hey, I'm begging for food out here, don't ask me right now, you beg, you ask three times, he's like, third time's the charm, here's the secret of the universe, and the scene, merely the scene, and the herd, merely the herd, and the sensed, merely the sensed, and the cognized, merely the cognized. When you see in that way, there's no you here or there or in between, and this just this is the end of suffering. And Bahia's like, whoa, full enlightenment, 30 minutes later, gets killed by a cow protecting her calf. And they go to Buddha and go, hey, Bahia ate a bowl of dick. And Buddha's like, well, that motherfucker was fully liberated off the wheel of samsara, totally bury him as a fully enlightened being. And they were like, but I've been, I've been monkeying for like my whole life, and you didn't say that about me. So funny. Do you have faith that it'll all be okay in the end, regardless of what has happened during your life, or what you have done? Oh, dude, it's already okay. It's totally okay. Even when it's not okay, it's like, that's okay. It's not even faith. It's like, no, that's just a fact. Like, you just, it's known. It is known, Khaleesi. So yeah, I guess, I guess I do. I've been having an issue finding my voice and speaking with confidence, and it's gotten worse since my glimpsing this, because I honestly feel like I don't know shit anymore. It's all garbage, garbage coming out or garbo. Yeah, garbled. Yeah, it's like that. Yay. So what? So what? What voice? That is your voice, the voice that feels like it's all garbled. There it is. That's you right now. Five seconds later, it'll be something different. It's beautiful. It doesn't have to be any way other than that. That's gorgeous. Kathy says, a seven-year-old with oppositional defiance disorder punched me today while I was protecting some six-year-old girls from getting hit. Such a small kid with big feelings, so much adrenaline, my neck still hurts. Wow, man. The human manifestation is crazy. Have you guys seen this horrible show on Hulu called All's Fair, the Kardashian vehicle? It's got like Glyn Close and Naomi Watts and Al Bundy and all these famous actors, and it is so bad that we've watched every single episode. It's just terrible garbage. Like most superficial horrible, these characters don't even seem to have internal lives. It's god-awful. And yet there's something so compelling about it because it's pure human bullshit. Like you're like, yeah, that's how humans are. Yeah, they're bullshit like that. Yep. It's great. It's so entertaining. So this little kid with the oppositional defiance disorder is no different than Kim Kardashian wearing a shit ton of stuff, getting Botox and a vaginal lasering to smooth out her vagina. It's the same shit. It's all fucking crazy. I said vagina. David Jackson jumped on the Wahoo trainer, searched for a vid and then you popped up. I've seen you before, but it's been a while. You bring a smile on my face. How did the algorithm know I needed a bump of Z? Dude, the algorithm's like ready to mainline me right into your brain. I love it. Or not man. I don't. Gender is hard on YouTube. Doc Vick, maybe that is speaking in tongues. It's just garbled. Ah, maybe. Okay. I think I got to go because I think I'm going to help my wife make din din. Let me see. My grab this thing. Oh look, we can get a little halo effect. Kind of cool. All right. There we go. This is a lot of fun. Thanks. Yeah, thanks for hanging out like 80 people. Tomorrow's Thanksgiving in the US, so we'll pretend to show gratitude. We'll deal with our crazy relatives. We'll repress a bunch of emotion and we'll express other emotion inappropriately. It's going to be great. So enjoy, stay safe, murder a turkey or three. Murder some cranberries. Murder some stuffing. Because you know, all stuffing lives matter. That's it. Thanks again, you guys. I'll see you later. Peace out.