 drei drei T drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei drei the response to that episode has been tremendous. And we thought, let's come back and just do a deep dive into each of the main four threads that we talked about last time, emptiness, unity, love, energy, and the psyche or the unconscious. And we'll maybe touch into the life thread and something that you've called sort of spiritual crisis, which is how do you differentiate some of these phenomena that can happen in awakening from like a psychiatric issue that would land you in a 72-hour hold or worse, right? So we're going to dive into it. And I think people who are listening might, in the comments, leave their own experience. Like what was the phenomenology and what does that word mean, Pierce, phenomenology? Can you define it? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, I thought phenomenology would be a good focus for this session since last time we did a lot of theory. Last session, it was kind of like laying out the map and here's, you know, the whole sort of territory and how I think about it as these four different threads that kind of can be thought of separately. And then they start to unify, blend together, and then are eventually released. So that whole model is kind of explained in the first conversation. But then, you know, you and I were talking afterwards, what would be most interesting to do, you know, with the second conversation. And, you know, we were hearing that people wanted to do like a deep dive into these threads and maybe not so much into the theoretical side of it, but actually the lived experience, the what is it like experientially. And so phenomenology, it's a big fancy academic word, and there's a whole sort of like field of philosophy that does phenomenology and so on and so forth. But when I'm saying that, I just mean like, what is it like experientially, as opposed to the ontology, which is what does it, what is reality ultimately, which I think that's a really important distinction that I make in all of my work, is I'm not really interested in ontology. I'm not really interested in what is the ultimate truth about the universe, you know, is everything ultimately consciousness, is everything ultimately material? Is it, you know, quantum this, that or the other? Is it God? Is it, you know, those kinds of ultimate questions, I think are, I feel like they might be entertaining sometimes to talk about, but they're not really what I'm most interested in. So I'm interested in phenomenology, which is what do things seem like? What does it seem like? What is the experience like? How, how are things, you know, how do things unfold within my, your, other people's lived experience of spirituality, awakening, spiritual experiences? So that's kind of where my research is. It's also where my, my engagement with this whole threads model is primarily, you can think of it as a phenomenological map. It's a map of how things seem, how things appear. Yeah. Experiential reality, which is, see, that's beautiful because for me, a lot, for a long time, I was interested in ontology. What is the nature of reality? What is the truth? What, and the more I, the more these threads unfold experientially for me, the more that question drops away itself, because you're sitting in, for me, experientially, you're sitting in the unknown in every moment. And so trying to know the unknown with the mind, it feels like a, like you said, it can be entertaining. We're almost constructing it and letting it go, constructing it and like, oh, it's all consciousness. Oh, it's all material. Oh, it's all quantum flux, whatever. But what's actually where the rubber meets the road is what's the experience in every moment. And, and how can we understand that? So a couple of things I want to say too, to kind of wrap up from last week and point people in a direction, if they don't want to listen to that whole show, they can go to multidharma.net and I'll put that link in where they can read about your model and you can read about it for free on the website, or you can pay and download the PDF. But if you're beginning in, in the sort of whole journey and you don't, you haven't even really done any practices or you're confused by the whole thing, you have a book called A Lamp Unto Yourself, which is fantastic. And that I'll link to that, the show notes as well. So you can get started in that different practices that can open some of these spiritual, some of these experiential threads for you. And then you start having the experiences and go, oh, okay, now I can come back and really dive into, okay, what, where does that fit and, and what might be next? And even that is the unknown, right? So it's just kind of a fun unfolding. Yeah. Yeah. Thanks for mentioning that, Zubin. I'm, I'm, I'm kind of bad at promoting stuff. So I appreciate, I appreciate the reminder to do that. Yeah. So the, the Lamp Unto Yourself, which you, you read an early copy of, and there's a little blurb from ZDoggMD endorsing the book on the back. So thanks for that. That, that book is meant to be sort of like an entry, you know, an on-ramp to spirituality, entry-level kind of overview of spirituality from this kind of zoomed out threads perspective without, without getting wedded into a particular ontology, right? Without being wedded into it with a particular traditional worldview or, or, or dogma, how to, how to sort of see the whole landscape of spirituality as a menu of different items that you can choose from and mix together in ways that make sense, according to this threads model, that will give you the most kind of diverse range of different kinds of practices, different styles of practices to see what opens up for you. So that's what that, that book's about. And then multi-dharma is for more, more in-depth kind of exploration, people who kind of have had a taste of at least one of the threads and want to know more about what they experienced, what's coming next, or what, what, what other threads might be out there. Perfect. Perfect. And I think the theme of all that then to tie that into one sort of thread is a spaciousness, inclusivity, flexibility. Those are the kind of philosophies or container we're talking about with this model. So all these practices might, some might be useful at different times as different threads unfold and show up for you. It might be that you really focus into one, maybe Zen or yoga or Christian mysticism or whatever it is might be the most powerful thing for you as maybe one thread might be most predominant in any given time. So it allows for this broadness. Whereas oftentimes we, in, in the spiritual world, which by the way, I think you and I agree, spirituality stops existing at some point as, as, as a thing. It's like, it just poof. What was that? It was a, it was a raft that got us from here to here. And then the raft goes away, but we'll still speak in this way about spirituality, that sort of realm of experience. You know, it, so much of it is, here's my, here's my approach, here's my way. And if you have a, a phenomenal experience outside of that, it's a side effect or a nothing burger that you should really get back to the main focus at hand. And I think that really can be difficult for a lot of people when that thing is pulling you, that's what you're experiencing and anything else. Now you're trying to conceptualize your way back into a model that doesn't, it's not experientially true for you. Yeah. I mean, the basic premise of the, of the model is that, you know, traditionally people lived in monocultures where there was a limited number of sort of options for spiritual exploration. There was a limited number of, you know, traditions, you know, some places had more than others, but you were, you were largely limited to what was available within your own community. And, and so the basic premise is that spirituality, spiritual experiences, these kind of unusual phenomena are actually natural, naturally occurring possibilities within the human mind, the human brain that we all around the world, many different people have tapped into different kinds of experiences, traditions, uh, traditions coalesce around those, and they value certain kinds of traditions over others. They may not know about others. They may, they may denigrate some, they may value others and different traditions have different, um, calculations as to what we're trying to do here, you know, with these experiences, which ones lead towards progress, uh, and et cetera. And these different traditions, um, get crystallized into dogmas. And then in the modern period, we now have available to us, you know, because of the internet, because of everything else, travel, et cetera, we're able to access all of these different techniques leading to all sorts of different, um, phenomena, all kinds of different experiences. Uh, but the premise of the book is that we kind of need an upgrade in terms of our worldview in order to match the upgrade that we're getting in terms of the accessibility that we have now to the, to this wide range of different experiences so that we're not trying to accommodate or make sense of, or, or, or understand a massive menu of different kinds of experiences through the more limited lens of one particular tradition that perhaps was, you know, the product of a particular time and place and didn't necessarily have all of these different experiences available. So it was just, yeah, it's just kind of zooming out and taking a look at, um, kind of the whole landscape and how different traditions may or may not fit together, how they might be pointing towards the same thing or not. Um, and just allowing us to have a more capacious kind of, um, flexible kind of, um, uh, philosophy as we, as we approach these, these, um, these traditions and the experiences that they can unlock for us. So that's, that's the purpose of the multi-dharma. Um, so I, I think lamp unto yourself is kind of opening up the possibilities for people who are just starting to get them thinking in that way. And then multi-dharma provides the, like the, the map, like here is a, a model and it's just a model. It's just a map. It's not, I'm not making any truth claims in the map, um, about, uh, you know, what's ultimately going on, what's real, what, you know, what's better than the other, uh, it's not, it's not a hierarchical structure. Um, but it's just attempting to sort of draw a map that is broad enough to capture the, you know, the, to hint at or to point at the whole territory and how things fit together. Beautiful. Yeah. It's kind of the raft that will eventually be seen to just be, uh, dissolved into, into meaninglessness. Yeah, exactly. But the raft is still apparently necessary for some. I mean, that may work for some and there are other maps that work for others. Exactly. I mean, that was the point I was just going to say is that, um, you know, the, this map isn't any more right than the other maps. It's just an alternative that might be more helpful or more, you know, more resonant for some people than others. So if you're happy with the maps and the teachings that you're getting from, you know, Tibetan Buddhism or TM or Christian, Christian mysticism or whatever tradition you're part of, if you're happy with the teachings there and they make sense and you see yourself, you know, reflected in the teachings and they're leading to, you know, deeper and deeper experiences, uh, great go, you know, go with the map that's working. Um, this map is for people, the misfits. These are for the people who are kind of, you know, they tried those different traditions and they don't quite fit into it. Things are happening that are a little bit, you know, off the map. Things are happening that are a little bit, you know, strange or difficult, um, to deal with. And where we're at in the moment is like you were saying, you know, if you, if you report certain kinds of experiences to certain kinds of practitioners, teachers, they might, you know, denigrate your experience, they might dismiss your experience, or they might pathologize your experience, telling you your, your, your experiences, the things, you know, the, these openings that you're having are, um, you know, incorrect. They're, they're, you know, ignorant, they're, um, counterproductive, et cetera. Uh, meanwhile, some other tradition might be aiming for exactly the kind of thing that you're experiencing. Right. And, um, so the, the, the, the, the disjuncture, the, the cognitive dissonance between your own experiences and then what your tradition is telling you, um, and this quest to go and find a tradition that's going to validate what, what my, um, experiences are. And, you know, a lot of people turn against themselves, like doubting their experiences, doubting their, um, you know, is it, maybe I'm just going crazy. Maybe this is, you know, maybe something's wrong with me. Um, uh, and, and, and I think a lot of that sort of tension, a lot of that kind of self-doubt might potentially be cleared up by looking at a more capacious map. Um, and so that's what, that's kind of what the purpose was here. Yeah. And you mentioned, um, spiritual emergency. And so, yeah, one, I mean, I don't know if we want to jump right into this right now, but one of the things that the map is kind of in the background of the creation of the map for me was, um, you know, I came both as a practitioner, a very long time practitioner of spiritual traditions, but also a scholar of those traditions. Um, I had been looking recently at spiritual emergency, spiritual crisis, um, and finding that a lot of it had to do with lack of context. A lot of it has to do with people, um, pathologizing or medicalizing something that, that if they had, um, uh, a certain kind of perspective from a particular traditional spiritual approach, they may have seen in a completely different way. And so part, part of what's going on here is just providing this capacious, open, flexible map for people to, to see, oh, I, I'm not having a spiritual emergency. This is a recognized, um, kind of experience that is, you know, I just was working with the emptiness thread and this experience is on the energy thread. Um, there's nothing wrong with me. This is a mapped out territory. This is a, this is a known quantity and there's traditions around the world that have valued this and then have talked about it. Uh, and, and there's resources, there's teachers, there's teachings, there's, there's, you know, there's a place, um, for these kinds of experiences. So yeah, that, that's kind of that orienting context can sometimes make all the difference for somebody in a, in a crisis situation. Honestly, I think if we did nothing else, but reach some of those people, uh, this would be totally, uh, have it, have its intrinsic worth, um, this discussion. My, my, my own wife was telling me yesterday, you know, you know, if I didn't know you Zubin, like some of the experiences I've had in this thing, I would have absolutely thought I was going crazy. Um, I needed to stop this line of whatever's happening, whether it's energy, whether it's unconscious stuff coming up, whether it's this sense of everything is without substance, I would have thought I'm being de-realized or depersonalized or all the pathology that we read about in our psychiatric rotation in medical school. And instead I've leaned into it in a way where it's like, oh, okay, this is a valuable experience. Like this is okay. And it inevitably has proven in some way fruitful. Uh, and the next thing then shows up. And so that's why I think it's so important to dive into the experiential phenomenology of each of these threads. So people can see, yeah, that's okay. And I want to make it interactive. So for the audience, what you can do, if you're on a podcast, you can leave comments on Spotify, or you can leave a review saying, these are my experiences. If you're on YouTube or Facebook and our awakening thread on Facebook, um, you can leave comments on the video and say, okay, here's my experience of emptiness, or here's my experience in the energy thread. Here's my experience in the unity thread. Here's my experience in the unconscious. And not only is that a way to express what you've had, but it shares with others. And you will find that people will respond to your comment and say, I had the exact same thing with a slightly different flavor. It's not just to seek validation. It's to understand that these are actually valued normal phenomena that happen in each of these threads. You're not abnormal, you're not broken, and you're not crazy most of the time. Sometimes I wonder about myself still Pierce, but you know, that's just me. Yeah. Well, um, and, and, and we should say also that, you know, I mean, this isn't to deny that there, that there are things called mental health crises, right? So, so, um, and, and spiritual extreme spiritual experiences can provoke mental health crises. So we're not saying, you know, don't, don't seek help. Yeah. Medical help if you need it. Don't seek, you know, help from therapists, from, from other kinds of, you know, conventional medical and mental health supports, we're, we're definitely not saying don't do that because certainly, um, you know, I, I, if somebody is feeling drawn towards seeking that kind of support, then they should do it. I think. Yeah. However, we don't, we, you know, we're saying, what we are saying is there, there, there are also in addition, um, many other kinds of supports that know a lot about this territory and that you, you, you just maybe should be aware of the whole, the whole gamut of different kinds of help that's out there before, before deciding definitively, you know, I need to go on some kind of antipsychotic medication, right? Right. When, when in fact there's a tradition out there that is the values exactly the experience you're having that may be able to contextualize it for you. And, and I think what you said about the two can coexist. So I've talked to a few people who've reached out, you've said, I've experienced this destabilizing emptiness and no time, no space, this thing. But then the way they express is I'm depressed. I'm anxious. I'm having trouble at work. I, I have trouble with relationships and it's like, okay, so I think a therapist would be incredibly helpful. And they do that and they find huge benefit while they're still having the phenomenology of emptiness thread. So they're not mutually exclusive. They actually might co-support in many ways. So like you said, we're not discouraging people or, or saying, oh, everything is pathologizing and all that. No, no, no, no, no. It's the whole gamut is, is part of this. So that said Pierce with the longest introduction ever, we just, this is a, I get into every moment of this. So I tend to draw it out because I'm just fascinated by it. Let's dive into the, what you call it's the emptiness thread or the deconstruction thread of flavor of awakening. Can you remind us what that thread is like? Yeah, sure. So yeah, so there's, there's four threads and for the purposes of this model, I find it helpful to separate them out and talk about them separately. So a lot of people, particularly after a certain point of depth within the practice, they will arrive at a place where these threads, as some people just start off with the kind of experience and most, most people get to it eventually where there's the kind of intersection of these threads. They start to either intertwine together or, or, or blend together. Um, and so people people will often, um, you know, object to the model saying, well, you separated out these two things that actually, you know, should be put together and that, and, and that's right. You're talking from the perspective of integration, you know, from a later sort of development within the, within the spiritual process, these things do combine together. And, and, and they, and at that point they should be talked about together, but, but for the purposes of this model, I like to separate them out and sort of talk about these as distinct threads. Um, because I think it's helpful. I think it provides some, some clarity, uh, for helping people to orient to which threads they are most, um, resonant with, which threads they perhaps are most familiar with, which threads they know the traditions that are associated with those threads. Um, and I also, I also kind of think that, that people, I mean, I, I, I'm not a scientist. I'm a, you know, I'm a historian and a practitioner. So I, I, I, it's just a speculation, but I, I imagine that there is some kind of like natural proclivity that certain people have. I don't know if it's your brain. I don't know if it's your, you know, your, your upbringing, your culture, your karma, who, who knows why, but I feel like some people are just kind of like naturally inclined towards one thread or another. Um, and so, yeah, so I, I like to separate them out just for, for clarity. So, so with that, with that caveat, um, yeah, we can jump into the emptiness thread. Uh, so I had to choose one name. I chose emptiness. I, I, I also, um, use the term deconstruction. I also use the term dereification. Um, and so this thread is the, um, so this is all of the traditions, all of the practices, all of the kinds of spiritual phenomena that can take place that involve the, uh, deconstruction of concepts, the, um, the seeing through of constructs, the, uh, the dereification or the, the, um, making unreal, uh, or seeing the mirage like nature of, um, experiences and, and, and so forth. Uh, so it's also important here to distinguish between philosophical or thought-based deconstruction versus experiential, you know, phenomenological deconstruction. So thought-based deconstruction is really helpful. It can be extremely supportive, um, to read, you know, I don't know, Buddhist philosophy or, you know, other kinds of forms of philosophy that talk about, you know, how constructs the, the self, for example, is a construct and here's all the ways that it can, you know, that it, it, it can't be, um, a real thing. Uh, it might be helpful to study neuroscience and understand how the self is a product of certain kinds of brain functions, right? That, that kind of conceptual, uh, deconstruction can be supportive. It can be helpful. And even quantum mechanics, which would say the same thing for the physical realm, right? Like this, these are probability waves emerging from a void vacuum. Yeah. A lot of people find that to be supportive, um, or helpful. Um, so, so all of that's great, but what I, what we're talking about here is, uh, awakening experiences. And I, I, I defined what I mean by awakening experiences in the previous conversation, but it's, it's the, the, um, the, the sometimes dramatic, sometimes very immediate and, and, and, um, and, and, and sudden, but also it can be slow and happen over time, but it's the, the, the un, the disentangling of the identity from the narrative self, from the everyday self and that, that identity landing somewhere else, you know, more capacious, more kind of, um, encompassing kind of self or non-self. Um, and, and so in this case, an awakening experience of the emptiness thread would be the seeing through the deconstruction, the derealization of the concept of identity. Um, previously I thought I was peers previously. I thought I was, you know, a father, a professor, this, that, and the other. My whole life was organized around that identity. I got value out of that identity. I really saw that that was who I was. And like my whole world was centered around that version of me. And suddenly I see that that is a fabrication or that that is a, um, just a concept that I've been carrying around or that that is a, um, uh, uh, you know, that, that, that center that I built around that the center falls away. So, so there's a lot of, there's a lot of ways that people experience that and language it, it depends on the tradition. It depends on the practice. Um, you know, so for me coming out of a more of a Buddhist background, um, a lot of Buddhist meditation, I would say the majority of Buddhist meditation is actually focused on provoking this kind of experience by usually by gradually dissolving certain kinds of structures, um, to kind of break through this. Um, uh, so, you know, there's, there's practices like jhana practices and, and, um, you know, be passionate kind of practices that are specifically targeted at, at deconstructing parts of the world, you know, including the self. Um, so I think for the most part, Buddhist styles of practice that I was involved in were more gradual focused. They kind of like peeled away layers of the self little by little. Um, but, uh, in my, my own experience, I had a kind of a, you know, I had been doing lots of Buddhist meditation kind of practices. I was kind of a meditation junkie for like five years and I never got anywhere with it. Uh, I remember this. I did this too. Yeah. So I had a lot of, for me, it generated a lot of striving and a lot of kind of like, um, um, I don't know, a lot of seeking energy and worship and yeah, the opposite of what it's designed to do apparently, which is deconstruct the self instead it's like, here's a self that needs to get this thing. Why am I not getting it? I need to work harder. Right. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. So just, it winds up kind of reinforcing the self. So, so that didn't, that, that style of practice didn't work for me, but it could work. It works for many people and that definitely, you know, um, think people should seek out whatever version of the practices is going to work for them. Um, so what worked more for me are kind of what might be called pointing instructions. Um, you know, more kind of like, um, targeted towards suddenly seeing through the, the self construct. Um, you know, so, so there's lots of different kinds of traditions, you know, there's Zen has koans and other kinds of pointers. Tibetan Buddhism has pointers and so forth. Um, but then there's pointers outside of, there's pointing practices outside of, uh, uh, the Buddhist orbit. There's, um, Advaita style inquiry, inquiring into the self. Who is this that sees, who is this that, uh, you know, who am I? Those kinds of inquiries I think are, you know, are also geared towards a seeing through the concept of the self. Um, headless way is, uh, kind of a more modern quirky sort of version of this pointing instruction. That's actually what worked for me. Yeah, it was fun. It was fun. The first time the headless way kind of clicked, you know, I'm pointing here and then I point back what's here and it's just pop. There it is. The self is gone and you're everything. Um, so it's funny what can click. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think that clicked for me because I, I, you know, as a scholar, I had studied Buddhism. I mean, I had practiced Buddhism, but I was also a scholar. So I, I, I've had this whole apparatus in my head around, you know, all the theories and doctrines and so forth. And so whenever I would hear Buddhist doctrine, I w it would always go through this kind of like mental processor. Right. But, um, yeah. So for me headless way, because it was like, it's this quirky, it's not Buddhist at all. It's this quirky sort of like way of talking, um, in a completely fresh and different way that I had never heard before. And it just like, Oh yeah. And it's purely experiential. Yeah. It's, it's purely like, here's what the experience is like. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But, but anyway, I mean, there's lots of different, um, the point is there's lots of different techniques, lots of different traditions, lots of different language for talking about this sort of like seeing through the self. Um, and then different people, I think experience it differently too. I want to say one thing about that. It's like Sam Harris in his podcast, it really, really dwells on this slow approach, like the slow deconstruction that you talked about initially versus the direct pointing out instructions and just spends hours and hours and hours kind of mentally masturbating between the two, which is fun. But again, I think your point is, Hey man, one or the other might work and it might be that they're sequential. Like you exhaust one and the other pops up. It's really hard to say everybody's different. Yeah, that's right. So, um, so, so speaking from the perspective of the multi Dharma model, right, which, which is the perspective that I'll be, you know, so I just don't have to keep saying that just know that everything I'm saying here is coming from this one particular model's perspective. Um, it, it, it doesn't matter which technique you use or which practice tradition you're in. What matters is getting the actual result to, to take place. Right. So I know from with other, from within traditional models, it really matters that you're within a certain kind of, um, doctrinal framework. Like you have to get the view right before you do the practices in many traditions. Um, but from the multi Dharma perspective, we can just say, um, you know, there are many traditions globally, you know, particularly Asian traditions that are focused on seeing through the self in this way, in this deconstructive dereification kind of way. Um, so, so then that opens a thread, um, so that, uh, we, we go from, um, seeing through the self, there's an opening of a kind of a path of deconstruction, uh, a trajectory of deconstruction where we're going to proceed sort of like deeper and deeper into more and more concepts falling away, more and more things that appear to be real falling away or being seen through or, or, or being deconstructed. Um, and so exactly what Avenue, you know, which concepts, you know, uh, the, the, whether it's supposed to happen quickly or slowly, whether it's, you're being led step by step or kind of spontaneously, all of that is different from tradition to tradition. So, um, so all of that can, can be, you know, quite specific, um, how they guide you through that. But the point is here to gradually, um, work your way through the deconstruction of pretty fundamental, uh, bases of reality, things like time, space, inside, outside self and other subject object, right? Just gradually, um, start collapsing or dissolving. And those dissolutions, um, can happen in a linear feeling way, or they can happen in a chaotic, like everything's gone. Then you back up to, Oh, I'm, I feel like a solid self again. And there's inside and outside and there's time and space to some variant of that. And for me, it showed up over many years, actually, like you would get a solid, like you do a seven day silent retreat where all it is, is just sitting. And you can have those insights that there is nothing happening at all. There's absolute zero. And this is just a foam on zero. Uh, and then it can re reify in a way where, Oh, and then back again to time is not a thing. Like there's always eternally this to, Oh, this is just pure sensation. There's no, it's empty of any substance. And, and ultimately for me, what happened was it thinned out, it thinned out, it thinned out. And it was a little, um, insidious because I kept looking for this big, these big experiences because I would see this tradition would say, you have the great death and Zen, or you have, you know, in Advaita, it's already, you're already enlightened, all this stuff. And I'm like, Oh, that sure doesn't feel like that. And then all, you know, after time for me, what happened was suddenly it's like, Oh yeah. I can't take any of this seriously. I can be sincere about living, but this is empty. If any, any concept I put on it is like a graphical user interface overlaying on something totally empty and unknowable, empty of real substance, just absolutely impermanent and dancing. And, um, so that's how it showed up for me, but it took, you could say it was the meditation. It was maybe some experiences with psychedelics that gave a glimpse. It was maybe, um, uh, a lot of direct pointing from people that showed me that, but I can't say the cause. All I can say is, okay, now it feels like this. And so I think a lot of people feel like it should be a certain way because they see people talking this way. And this is the, again, the multi-dharma approach is like, no, I actually can show up in all these ways. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, so, yeah. So different traditions have this sort of script that it should go like this. It should be like, you know, now, once you see through this, then you see through that. Once you see through that, then you see through the other. Um, and that it should happen in four cycles or that it should happen, you know, in this way or that way. Um, and, and yeah, so the, the, the benefit of the threads model is just, just say, okay, there's a thread there. There's a trajectory there. It goes, it goes from seeing through the self down to seeing through every other fundamental concept down all the way down to nothing whatsoever arising anywhere. Um, and, and, and the, um, the, the way that people move down that trajectory can be determined or influenced by the traditions, by the practices, also maybe by their own kind of orientation or configuration. Uh, some people can move very gradually down and it's this nice smooth ride. Other people can, you know, like, it sounds like you were doing, this is what happened to me too. You kind of hop down to some pretty deep territory and then, and then suddenly yo-yo back up to, you know, to the beginning and then hop down again and then back. And in my case, it was kind of like leapfrogging, like, like down two steps down, 10 steps down, five steps back, you know, sort of like leapfrogging sort of thing. Um, uh, you know, other people just hop right down to the end and sink in there. And I mean, who knows? It just happens. It happens differently for different people for different reasons. Um, that multidharma is not, uh, prescribing certain kinds of practices or certain kinds of methodologies or certain kinds of ways. It's multidharma is descriptive rather than prescriptive. It just sort of like, here's, here's the whole emptiness thread thing. Here's kind of how it works in the long run. Yeah. And, and, you know, it going with that, if you jump suddenly to a deep, um, aspect of emptiness thread, this is where this apparent spiritual crisis or emergency might show up when suddenly there is no sense of center, the center drops and there's just, bro, it can feel like what the psychiatrists describe as derealization, depersonalization, these pathologized things, which do, do happen. Um, but, but there, but there is actually no sense of center or self and people with no context can be very destabilized. They can speak in a way that sound, they sound literally like they're crazy because in the standard human operating system, which you talked about that, that you wake up, say out of, this makes no sense at all. Um, it sounds like crazy talk. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, yeah. And, and, and so particularly with those sort of like long hops all the way down to deep territory on the thread, that's, that is where people, if they don't have the context can get into trouble. Um, even with context, it can be like, wow, I, I read about this, but whoa, I didn't know they meant it literally or, or like, yeah, this is, you know, they weren't kidding. This is too much. Yeah. They weren't kidding. And I, I'd like to sort of like, like, you know, back out, ease back a little bit. And so that, you know, there's good advice to sort of do, you know, to modulate, modify your practice a little bit to sort of back out of something that's too much and then work your way down more, more gradually back into it. Um, you know, that, that, that people, teachers who are familiar with this territory will, will be good at advising, um, individuals are having this kind of experience, right? So if you're, if you're, I don't know, in a yoga class and, you know, or in church and you don't have any context for this kind of thing and you're just doing, you know, you're practicing in some other thread and suddenly, boom, you land in, um, you know, nothing's real and I can't find the myself or or any, or, or any center, any solid center anymore. Um, and, you know, and, and that seems scary and seems disorienting then just know that there's plenty of support and teachings and, and, and advice and, and, and books to read and people to talk to, right? If it was within this thread and what they're doing. That's, that's exactly right. And then the, the sort of an opposite version of this is, is a pitfall on this path, which is the conceptual understanding of no self or dereification or emptiness or no time, no space. You can conceptually, you can learn about it. People can, can talk about it and you can start to replace one belief. I'm a self moving through space and time with another belief. I'm not a self. And you see this show up a lot of times in Advaita circles is my experience with it, where people are commenting, saying, who is asking this question? What is this? And you talk to them and you realize that this is all conceptual. They're not actually having the experience of no self. They're talking themselves into it or believing it as a doctrine. And we're talking about experience, um, not ontology, not a doctrine. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's, I think that's very helpful to keep repeating that. So like for all of these threads, that, that is the only thing that I'm talking about here. I'm not talking about, um, you know, a philosophy of non-self, um, or, uh, uh, an intellectual understanding of non-self. I'm talking about the experiential reality of things breaking apart. So, so it might, it might be helpful. Um, it might be helpful to sort of like talk about some of the, some of the main areas of this thread. And, and I'm not going to say there, they should happen in this order or that, you know, uh, you know, everybody's going to experience everything exactly the same. Um, but there are some kind of like areas of the thread that people can experience. Um, some, some of them are the breakdown of large conceptual objects like self time space, you know, in and out inside, outside, et cetera. The, the, the, the concepts that you had about those, the thoughts that you had about those things suddenly don't make sense anymore. But what I'm talking about is the, the actual experience of those things don't make sense anymore. So, so like the thought, Oh, my body, I can see how, you know, it's, it's just a concept of body. That's, that's, that's a conceptual realization, but the disappearance of the body, right? The body actually like not being a thing anymore that you can find within your experience. That's a, that's a different kind of thing altogether. Um, so, Oh, I can see how time and space are constructs. That's one thing, but then to, to not be able to experience time anymore, um, is, is, is, you know, a different order of, um, yeah, it's a different order of experience, a different order of realization. Yeah. And in a, in a way when that experience actually happens, it's very hard to go leave a comment on someone else's YouTube video about it. So often I find this is my own space is YouTube is people will say, well, why are you talking this way? You realize there's no time. It's like, well, I can just tell by the way you're writing about this, that you're experiencing time. Cause the experience of no time is, of course you can't tell anything about anyone as internal state, but it's like, it's a very different order than any conceptualizing, like you said. And so it's good to raise that distinction. These are experiential phenomena. Um, like when the body, the body is no longer findable and it's just what is, that is a very disorienting and profoundly unconceptualizable experience. Um, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Um, so, so like one, one example, um, maybe I'll just say something from my own experience. One, one example of how this might look is, um, so for me, the initial shift into the initial experience of, of, into the opening of the emptiness thread was like I said, through Headless Way. Um, and Headless Way is, it's a game, it's, it's a silly little thing, but you, you kind of, there's this pointer that points to, um, uh, to, it points you away from the self and to seeing the kind of the, the, the, the mirage or the illusion of the self. Um, but the way that showed up for me wasn't just like, oh, I realize I'm, uh, I'm, I'm not a self. The way that showed up for me was, um, the, like reality that is normally, um, normally had been for me, uh, normally had consisted of objects, right? I look around the world and I see tables and chairs and windows and, um, you know, my body sitting in this chair and so forth. Uh, what happened was somehow how all of the visual data got separated out into little kind of like packets of visual data and all of the sensory data, like body sensations got separated out into little packets of sensory data and the, the auditory data got separated out into little packets of auditory data. They all got disaggregated from each other. So they were no longer sort of like objects that were clusters of sensory data together. It just became like little kind of scattered sensory, um, phenomena kind of like here and there unorganized into objects. And, and in that space sort of like any kind of self or center just turned out to be other packets of information. So it really was like, uh, um, discombobulating, disconcerting experience. Um, I actually was, at the gym when it happened. So I was like, I wasn't in meditation even. Um, and suddenly the whole world just kind of dissolves into little, like little bubbles. Um, so, so that's not how it has to happen. I don't want anybody to think like my experiences are somehow like normative or, or, or the way they should be, but that's just an example of, um, you know, the visceral experiential kind of quality of dissolution that I'm talking about. It's not just like, Oh, I realize I'm not a self. It was just like all of reality kind of like crumbled into little, little particles, um, experientially. And, and, and I just sat there like, Whoa, I can't move. I can't like, I I'm certainly not going to get up and do another set. It's so, it's so funny, Pierce. So, so a couple of things, reflections on this. The first time I headless way clicked for me, I was on a Stairmaster. So I, and I was read, I was listening to some book or something and I did the exercise on the Stairmaster and suddenly that was it. And I was like, I got to get off this thing. Like it was that disorienting. So, so yeah, it can happen. It doesn't have to happen in meditation and it's just anywhere it can happen. The second thing is there's something about even the way you're pointing at the visceral experience, the way you're describing it, that drops concepts and is a pointing out instruction in itself. So as you were speaking it, I could feel that same phenomenology showing up. And so this is one other aspect of the kind of transmission of this that are, is in certain traditions, the pointing out. And, and that's kind of what you were doing just there. You're like, okay, it can kind of be like this and it's pointing at the phenomenology, not the conceptual shit. So I just want to point out if people were listening to that and tripping out, that's not unusual. Yeah. Um, yeah. So, so the, in, in, in the multi Dharma model, what I talk about is there being kind of like a guiding question for each one of these threads. And we talked about this in the last, in the last episode, but the, the guiding question for the emptiness thread is, is well, what still seems real, like what seems real and is, is it actually that way? And so in the model in, or in the, um, experience that I just described with these kinds of phenomena now disaggregated, the objects no longer seem real, but what still seems real. So for me, uh, you know, the next sort of step in the, in this process of kind of, you know, moving down the emptiness trajectory, uh, was to look at the individual packets of phenomena, because those seem to be real. Those seem to be there, right? They, they broke, the objects broke apart, but the phenomena were there. So, so those seem real. Well, is it, is it really that way? Um, and so an investigation into that, uh, wound up sort of, um, um, de-reifying, deconstructing the, the, the, the, the, the sensory, the, um, sensory phenomena, like the little packets of sensory phenomena that seem to be real, seem to be present, kind of became, um, unfindable, became very sort of like, uh, thinner and thinner and more and more sort of, um, um, yeah, more, more, more de-reified, not able to find them, not able to pin them down. Um, and at that point I experienced sort of like what, what a lot of people talk about, um, you know, there's kind of a place on this emptiness thread where the, the senses themselves start to sort of melt, I guess. They, uh, you know, visual, visual phenomena, like the visual phenomena becomes pixelated, becomes very sort of like, um, uh, unstable auditory phenomena become unstable, tactile sensory phenomena. Everything becomes very sort of like, um, um, yeah, mirage-like, um, not, not really there, sort of arising, but not really present. Um, different people have different ways of talking about it. Ah, man, I just love listening. I just, I, this is like, cause it's right there. Right. Um, yeah, keep going. Sorry. I'm just enjoying it. Um, yeah. And just continuing to work down the emptiness thread, there's, there's, uh, a place where many people describe, uh, kind of like a, the lights go out sort of like consciousness itself is collapses. This kind of, um, um, um, the seer or the witness or the, or the awareness that is aware of the fuzziness of the, of the phenomena, right. The, the sort of like implies that there's a stable awareness that is seeing the objects deconstructing and the, and the phenomena kind of fizzling out, but the, um, the stability of that subject, the stability of that awareness also, you know, it seems to be real and you turn towards it and you're like, is, is it actually so? And it turns out that that stability of that awareness is also an illusion and the awareness itself, the consciousness itself can't be found, um, sort of dissolves under your fingers. Um, and, and, and you have, so you have the sort of destabilization of both of the subject and objects and they kind of both collapse into, uh, what, what many traditions talk about, you know, in different ways, but it's sort of like a void where there are no sensory inputs at all. There's no, there's not anything going on at all. Um, so in Buddhism, usually people talk about cessation in English. Um, uh, but there, so there's, there's sort of like a fading out of experience and then a, like a disappearance of experience altogether. Um, so that's another kind of area of the thread. Sorry. I just love, um, I love re-experiencing aspects of this thread because more lately it's when these threads kind of drop a bit, it's hard to, you can't really go back and have some of these phenomenal experiences the way that you used to. It's, it's, it's like a very, um, it's just life. It just becomes all integrated. And so to kind of ride down that thread with your phenomenal descriptions, it, it, it is like a, that's viscerally what it is like. And that's cessation. You can't really talk about it because you're not, there's nothing there. It's seemingly when that happens, when you come back though, you see the mind almost reform reality, reconceptualize it, reify, re-reify it. And you kind of see, oh, this is how the whole manifestation comes about. Wow. Um, and it's felt viscerally. Yeah, that's right. And once you see the, once you see the process of reification of how reality is produced, then, then that process itself, you know, no longer, I, you might have to see it a couple of times, but anyway, once you see how it's working, you no longer are bewitched by the reification because you're just like, oh, I can see, you know, it's like, it's like once you know that virtual reality is being rendered, once you can see it being rendered, then you're no longer believe that, that it's reality. Right. So, um, um, you, you, you still live and operate within the, the VR, you know, um, environment, but you just know everything's being rendered, um, through the, through this process. And I think for me, the, the, yeah, the seeing, seeing things being rendered is, is, is critical, super important. But for me, there was something else that was really critical with the, this kind of, um, cessation experience, which was the, um, the definitive realization that there is no background. So that, so, so that there, you know, because in, in, in your mind, in your mental construct of what emptiness is like, it's like, there's a subject that is seeing that there's nothing happening. And so the subject is the, is a, is still a background of some sort, or, or there's like a ground of being where nothing happens. Right. A knowingness ground, a knowingness that nothing's happened, that's nothing's happening. There's something that's, that's the background for the nothing happening. And so for me, the, the, the real sort of punchline of the cessation for me was the, like the, just the C the clear seeing of like, oh, there is no background. Like nothing means nothing. Um, you know, not nothing happening within, you know, uh, against a, a background. It's just, nothing means, means nothing. It means not, not, not no awareness, no consciousness, no, no background, no experiencing, no presence. It means just gone. Yeah. Absolute zero. Absolute zero. Yeah. And, and, uh, and so, so I want to say one thing about this that occurred to me, this is ontologically meaning like, okay, what is the real nature of reality? This is compatible with almost everything. So this says nothing about the nature of reality, because you can have this experience of absolute zero and then re reify, reconstruct a world, see how it's rendered. And that's completely consistent with a materialist worldview that you're an organism whose brain is creating reality from sensory inputs. And when the sensory inputs stop, there's no reality, there's no creation. The brain waves go to zero and then they spin back up. So this says nothing about the nature of reality. This is pure phenomenal experience. Um, yeah. Yeah. So although, although different religions have made ontologies out of these, that's right. Experiences of the thread. So, so you will have, you know, um, traditions and, and individuals that will subscribe to, you know, Oh, because I experienced this in my spiritual practice. Therefore that's an accurate description of how the universe works. And so, um, yeah, so I just avoid, avoid the, any of that, uh, any of the ontological kind of, um, um, you know, ramifications of these experiences and just say like, this is, this is the way that it's experienced. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, what was like a Brahmin, a Parabrahmin, like Brahmin is that kind of consciousness. So each tradition has its own sort of a spin on this, but the, the, yeah, the actual phenomenal experiences. So can be so profoundly affecting in a way you could see why different cultures would spin stories around it because when the mind comes back, it has nothing to do, but to try to make sense of something that has no sense in that way. Yeah. And, and also like these experiences have in them a certain kind of quality, like all of these experiences really do feel like you have, because especially on the emptiness side, when you're seeing through the concepts and you're, you're, you're, you're seeing this kind of what appears to be like an underlying, um, mental process that's rendering these concepts like, like, like a virtual reality. And you can see how they're being kind of produced. Um, it really does feel like you're getting kind of a peak under the, um, mechanism that, uh, that's producing reality and seeing like the ultimate truth underneath it. It really, it really feels like that. Yeah. It feels like it has a feeling of revealed truth, a feeling of, uh, yeah, exactly. To, to the extent I might even include that in my definition, you know, of like having a phenomenological experiential experience, having a, a, a real sort of embodied visceral awakening experience. I might even say, you know, that, that like really feeling like you've seen the, the ultimate truth might be part of the definition. Like it, like it, it's almost required that you have that sort of reaction to, to be a legitimate awakening experience. It's true. I agree. I agree. And it's, it's how they often will define mystical experiences. You know, this is this feeling of revealed truth of veracity of truth. And it's also a good, uh, a good, uh, ideology or cause for some of the side effects of these different threads, which is the spiritual ego that comes back and says, I have seen truth and I will show you heathens what's up. Uh, you don't, you don't know I do. That's one of the side effects that mind will take from it. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. For sure. Yeah. Good stuff. Emptiness is a trip. It still trips me out. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, so ultimately like each one of these threads kind of goes down to the end. Um, you know, and again, we're just kind of separating this out for, um, for analysis and for talking about it in, in actual practice, I think if people are operating with more than one thread and they're sort of braiding things together, I actually think most people arrive towards the end of the threads in a more blended kind of experience than what I'm describing right now. I've just kind of separated it out just the emptiness aspects in order to talk about them separately for clarity purposes. But, um, yeah, in, in actual practice, like by, by the end, by the depths of the emptiness thread, there probably will be other threads mixed in. Um, but, but all of these threads move towards, you know, this, this subject object kind of duality collapsing. And in this case, it's, it's a collapse into just abject, like complete annihilation. Nothing, nothing is there, um, whatsoever. Um, and then, you know, we, we can talk about this later, but then the, the, the sort of the dropping of this thread, like the, the letting go of this thread or the sort of like, um, the thread is really finished and now can be set down happens when even the distinction between emptiness and non-emptiness kind of ceases to, even that distinction gets hollowed out, right? Even that distinction drops away, is seen through, is dereified. Um, so, you know, that, the emptiness of emptiness or the, the, the letting go of the, the position of seeing things as empty, right? And then you sort of drop this thread and the thread is, is now kind of gone. Um, it's not gone because things stopped being, um, and went back to being non-empty, right? It's just gone because the distinction between whether things are empty or not just sort of like that last kind of distinction falls away and the, and the whole thread just sort of goes in, it just relegated to meaninglessness or to like, who cares? Yeah. Yeah. That's a beautiful way to say it. That, that's why actually I was reflecting in my own experience listening to you talk about this thread because it's very, it's, it's very hard for me to sit and meditate now and feel into empty nature of reality because it's exactly that. It's like, why? Like, why make any distinctions about that? Like, that's just, this is just obviously how, you can't say anything about it. It's very visceral. It viscerally falls away. But then to go down and feel the experiential flashes of that again, it's kind of, it's almost like entertainment. It's like watching a good movie for me, for me. Yeah. I think, I think the going, the going down the thread when, when you're going down the thread and these things kind of empty out there, there, I mean, especially if it's happening rather in these kind of like leaps forward, if it's gradual and just happening more sort of like gradual, gradual thinning, there might, it might, it might not kind of seem like any big deal, but if you're, if you're doing these kind of jumps where suddenly a bunch of stuff falls away and then suddenly a bunch more stuff falls away, it can be pretty dramatic. It can be pretty like, whoa, where did everything go? It can also be, there, there can also be a lot of fascination with what you discover each next layer down. So, so like for me, when, when one experience that was kind of memorable was, you know, I, I would, I would take a walk every day and I, I realized that I sort of wasn't actually seeing the, the visual phenomena around me because I was just kind of like glossing it over mentally with a concept that was just like tree, house, car. Um, the, the, the mind would sort of like label something and it would, it would respond to a world of concepts without actually, without actually experiencing the, the sensory content. And so when, when those concepts fell, tree, house, car kind of fell, I was left with like the, this like amazingly beautiful display of like colorful pixels of light shimmering, you know, what I used to call a tree. I now realize it's just like this explosion of like, you know, the most amazing, uh, visual stimuli. Right. And the thing I used to gloss as house now was just like, boom, this like, you know, uh, explosion of color and everything is just so saturated and rich. And, you know, so, so, so in that moment you could just be like, wow, like, you know, just blown away by this amazingness. Um, what, what I'm saying is anyway, all of this becomes like the new normal as you're, as you're moving down the thread, you know, you sort of, you know, your brain, your mind, I don't know what just acclimates to these kinds of experiences. And, and so, you know, um, eventually it's just not a big deal. Like that's just the way that the vision works is, you know, that there's not these kind of like, um, you know, conceptual kind of overlays. It's just like sort of seemingly more raw sensory input coming in, but there's no need to sort of be amazed by it because it's just the way the eyes work. Right. So, so it's, or the pixelation that for a while was like, whoa, my vision's so pixelated. Wow. This is so like, weird. Um, you know, eventually it's just like, well, you know, it's just the way, that's just the way vision happens. It's, there's no, there's nothing special about it, uh, or notable about it. And so I think that, I think you need that kind of like acclimation, acclimatization to the, um, to the dissolution of the emptiness thread for it to finally let go. Cause, cause part of like letting go of the thread is just like, it's no longer fascinating. It's no longer, it's no longer drawing your interest. It's no longer even worth commenting on or worth noting that things are empty because that's just how they are. And so there's no, there's no, nothing special about that, that, um, sort of way of seeing things. Yeah. And so it can just be, the brain can just like, or the mind can just sort of give up its hands and say, okay, I don't need to pay attention to it anymore. If that's the way things are, then that's the way things are. And I don't need to, don't need to listen to it. Yeah. Um, in the same way that the, the, the, the hum of my refrigerator, when I first step into the room, I can hear it. But after an hour in the room, in the kitchen, I can't hear it anymore. It's the same sort of thing, I think, where it's just sort of these, these previously amazing phenomena just kind of fade into the background and become irrelevant, not even perceived. Yeah. Yeah. It almost feels like in a sense, well, we, that we talked about that last time, like something has been lost, like that, that wonder of the moment has been lost, but it's not that it's exactly what you're saying. It's like, yeah, this is new normal. Yeah. Yeah. So I prefer to say like, it's for me, the, the model has like the, the, the opening of the threads, the deepening of the threads, the braiding of the threads, the integrating of the threads together. And then there's the release of the threads. And so for me, like just in the language that I use, I would say something like, you know, the, it's just become so integrated that it no longer stands, stands out as a separate thing to pay attention to because it's, it's so, it's just so, so much a part of just so much a part of, of the, of it that it's, it's not notable as a separate thing. Yeah. Beautiful. Beautiful. So emptiness, emptiness is no longer notable as a separate thing. And it can just be like, oh, it's the emptiness of emptiness. Like you said, yeah. Yeah. That's a Buddhist quote. So yeah, it is. Yeah. Yeah. But I think I like it. It's very, it applies in this way. Gorgeous. Okay. So that's the emptiness thread. That was a really, that was a really nice discussion because it actually pulled in integration, braiding, some different aspects of this thread release. Which thread would you like to tackle next? Well, we should, we should go to oneness. I actually maybe should have started with oneness because that for me, that was the first thread to open. I don't, I don't know about you, to open. It was, it was emptiness for me. Yeah. Oneness is just, it's caught up later. Yeah. Okay. All right. Yeah. All right. So I was the opposite. Yeah, that's right. Yeah. Um, yeah. So one is, one is thread. Um, yeah. So again, you know, we talked about it in the last, um, in the, in, in the last time we had a conversation. So here we're talking about the, the, the, the traditions, the practices, also the phenomenology, the spiritual experiences that relate to kind of the opposite of what we were just talking about. If, if emptiness is like the, the hollowing out, the negation, the neti neti kind of, um, kind of, uh, direction of things, you know, this is the, is the, is the plus yes. And kind of, um, direction of things. So, um, you know, spiritual traditions, religions, you know, ontologies that kind of, uh, will, um, posit like a, a, a wholeness, a unity. Sometimes they'll call it God. Sometimes they'll, you know, they'll use whatever various, various, you know, um, Asian languages or, or other parts of the world. You know, I think this is where Christian mysticism is pointing. I think this is where, um, from what I know about, uh, Sufi Islam, Islamic mysticism, I think it's pointing in this direction. And I, I'm not really an expert in Western traditions, but, um, you know, certainly in, in, um, in Asia, you have the, um, you know, the, the, the most of the Hindu traditions are, are actually working in this direction. And, and, and actually, um, I think Mahayana Buddhism is also kind of braiding together emptiness with, with this oneness thread. Um, so, um, so here the practices are largely pointing towards kind of expanding the self as opposed to seeing through it and, and, and negating it. So it's, it's, um, seeing the interconnection between, first of all, it's seeing the interconnection between the self and other beings so that they're, they're, they're, they're separate, but they're intimately intertwined in some way. Um, and then, you know, beyond that to kind of the identity of all beings as being part of the same thing. Um, so, you know, part of the same sort of living organism, you know, we're all part of Gaia. We're all, you know, maybe it might be a sort of a neo-pagan way of saying it. Um, you know, or we're, we're all, you know, the same awareness looking out through all of these different beings eyes or the same God, looking out through everybody's eyes, you know, we're all, we're all somehow, um, the same entity. Um, and then beyond that, there is like the whole universe is all somehow the same thing, the same unit, unity, um, the same God, the same divine being, divine entity, but again, different words to use for that, um, for in different traditions. Uh, so, right. So the, the experience, so that's the kind of on the more conceptual theoretical end of thing, but then experientially how that opens up for people, again, totally different from person to person. You can move slowly down the thread or jump around. You can hop down to the end and then yo-yo back and forth. You can experience different aspects of it. You can also language it and think about it in totally different ways, depending on your tradition and so forth. Um, but again, there's some kind of like regions of the thread that might be worth kind of like, you know, talking about phenomenologically, experientially, what they, what they feel like. Um, just interrupt me if you want me to stop. Oh, no, I'm, it's funny cause I'm feeling into, cause you, like you said, there's this conceptual realm. It's like, oh yeah, we're all intertwined. There's one thing happening, whatever. And then there's the experiential realm, which is, uh, again, it's very tactile and it can open in many different ways for some people. Like the first experience I ever had with that kind of thing was using an empathogen MDMA years and years and years ago and realizing that I had an unbounded, um, compassion for all beings. And, uh, that was, felt artificial, but it trailed over days. And I was like, oh, and I think, I think Sam Harris tells a similar story about his own opening was, was a hard opening with that. Um, but it can, it, it can show up in so many different and surprising ways. And it does tend to, in my experience, so many people entwine this with an ontologic explanation. God's love is coming through me or, um, you know, we're all God's children or there's a million different ontologies here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. So again, like, you know, to skip the ontologies and just go right to the phenomenology, um, I, I, uh, I, so I also had a similar experience to what you were just describing, but I should say I've never had, um, any kind of plant medicines or other kinds of, um, entheogens being part of my spiritual practice. Um, so, so it's not to say that they're not amazing. I think, you know, if they, if they're part of what people are doing, then, you know, I would include them within the range of different kinds of spiritual technologies that we have available to us. Everything from, um, you know, meditation, yoga, prayer, chanting, fasting, vision quest, dark retreat, you know, breathwork, name it. Yeah. Breathwork, uh, shamanic journeying, drumming, um, you know, aesthetic experiences, you know, wilderness retreats. I mean, I, I, I, I think all of it is valuable, um, or all of it can be valuable. I think all of it can also be dangerous or, or unskillfully used, uh, you know, in the, in the wrong hands, you know, any one of these techniques can be, can be problematic. Um, so I'm not including, um, including non-pharmacologic techniques like Vipassana meditation, yeah, yeah, yeah. Goanko retreat. Yeah, exactly. And any of these techniques can be, you know, weaponized, they can be, um, you know, overdosed, they can be, uh, uh, you know, engaged with in various kinds of unskillful ways and, or, or, or, or be, you know, abused by, by individuals with, you know, their, their own agendas and so forth. So, um, yeah, maybe, maybe, um, you know, psychedelics has, has its own particular kinds of dangers that, you know, some of these other practices don't, but I think if people are using them, um, skillfully and they're doing something for them, then okay, great. It hasn't been part of my practice, but, but, but, um, I, I did practice quite a bit of metababana meditation, which is loving kindness meditation that is specifically focused on heart, um, sensory, uh, sensations in the heart and, and sort of like using certain kinds of, um, uh, language and repetitive phrases in order to kind of generate a feeling of loving kindness and then to sort of like spread that out. Um, so it's kind of like an intentional step-by-step way of constructing the experience that you said you were, you were, you, you know, you would have maybe more spontaneously. I've experienced that meditation and it feels just like MDMA because it's identical phenomenologically. Yeah. Yeah. And so, and so, so that I just want to say that is actually one of the most common openings for this thread is some kind of heart opening experience where there's a recognition, oh, you know, it's, it's, I'm me and those, those beings are them, right? It's not like a merger, but there's a, there's a sense of compassion. There's a sense of love, a sense of, um, uh, intimacy, a sense of connection between myself and the other. Uh, the others, um, that, that is sort of like generated experientially. So you're actually feeling that connection. You're actually feeling the, the, you're not just, you know, theoretically I'm connected with that, you know, animal because we're both breathing the same oxygen or something like that. It's a, it's an actual, you know, um, an actual felt, uh, intimacy with, with, with other beings, with all beings, with, with all life, with all beings across the universe, with all existence. Um, and, and yeah, again, there's lots of practices, lots of different techniques, um, to do in order to sort of open up that kind of experience and it can open up in hugely dramatic and overwhelming ways, or it can open up in slow, you know, um, really peaceful and gradual ways. Um, lots of different, lots of different language, languaging and, and, and talking about the experience. Um, but, but yeah, so that would be like an opening of the, of the, um, oneness kind. Uh, I used to think I was just peers of my little life and I had, you know, I was centered around my job and my roles and so forth, but now I see that I'm intimately connected with all beings and, and, and I'm like, this love is like flowing through me that connects me with them. And like you said, it's very, it's tactile, it's kinesthetic, it's, it almost feels physical, this sense, it's experiential, it's not conceptual. Cause you can, like you said, just like an emptiness, you can conceptualize all you want about this and actually convince yourself that it's true, uh, logically even. Uh, but the feeling of it, the actual knowing experientially of it is very different. And it does have that feeling, like we said, an emptiness of revealed truth of like, I have seen under the hood and I was wrong about everything. Like we're this one love, like there's only love. There's just this, uh, feeling. And, and that's that feeling that was originally generated here. And it just now is everything. And it's the substance of reality is another way that it's been experienced. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Um, yeah. Yeah. And so if you're, if you have been building ontologies out of your spiritual experiences, um, you know, and you just went the way that, that, that you went, which was emptiness first and now, and now oneness, right? You, you would first have the kind of disappearance of everything. Oh, that means ultimately I see through everything. Everything is, is, is just empty, right? There's nothing is real. Um, and then you have this awakening experience. You're like, Oh no, now I see the real truth is that everything is, is God. Right. Um, and so people will do kinds of mental acrobatics. Yeah. In order to like square these two or, or, you know, they might replace one with the other or they kind of like square the two. And this is where the process of braiding that I talk about in the, in, in the, in the model. Um, if you're, if you're, if you're having emptiness experiences and oneness experiences and the two start to sort of like oscillate between the two and you're, you're sort of like weaving them together. Um, a lot of times people generate a philosophy that sort of supports that kind of, that kind of weaving. I would say Mahayana Buddhism is a great example, right? There's emptiness and full emptiness and compassion. These are the two wings of the bird, the two wheels of the cart, right? You need to, you need to cultivate both equally. Um, you know, that Mahayana Buddhism articulates that. I think that sort of ethos of, of braiding really well or eventually integrating, they become part of the same thing. Samsara is nirvana, right? Um, um, you know, wisdom and compassion are inseparable. Yeah, exactly. Uh, it's a very heart sutra type of vibe and, and the, even like Satchitananda and the Hindu traditions of, you know, being consciousness bliss, like, okay, empty being as potential gives forth through this kind of love, like almost this urge to be, and it feels like love. And so in a way it's funny, I went through this mental gymnastics process, um, when these things started to show up and braid like, okay, but everything's empty. And yet like, why does it feel like total love? Like, like the beingness feels like love and it's like, Oh, emptiness can't be empty because it wants to outpour itself and it feels like love. And so the mind is doing all these things, you know, ontologically trying to make an explanation for it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. And you have, you have people like, um, I'm going to misquote it, but Nisargadatta was said something like, I forget, it's like my, you know, I know that I am everything and I know that I'm nothing and my life flows between the two. Yeah. It's a very, that's a, that's a, that's a, that's a totally a very, very clear expression of braiding, right? There's this and there's this and my life, you know, unites the two together. Totally. Totally. I think it was, yeah. When I look back and I find that I'm nothing, that is wisdom. When I look ahead and I see that I am everything that is love. And in between the two, my life flows. Yeah. That's the perfect expression of that. Yeah. Perfect. Perfect expression of that. My boy Nisargadatta smoking his beaties, um, you know, and a lot of his followers ended up picking up smoking because they were like, well, if my boy smokes and they ended up, you know, getting, getting ill, it's like, wow, wow. Humans are something. But, but that is the, that is the kind of expression of that love. Is there other things to say about the sort of end of the love thread, like the full expression of the love thread? Yeah. Well, let me, before, before that, so this, there's another territory to talk about. So I, so this was like the, the heart based, you know, like emotional opening up to the thread, but there's another kind of opening to this thread that, that happens, um, I think quite frequently with Advaita, at least Neo Advaita, like contemporary Western Advaita. Um, and that, that is, um, when people start out in the same, in the same practices that were, you know, um, we were talking about earlier, the kind of self inquiry practices, the pointing practices, the one that, that the ones that point you pass the self, um, when, when we talked earlier, that was the beginning of a deconstruction process that we then followed the, the kind of the thread of deconstruction down through the layers. But a lot of people will deconstruct the layer of the self and find like, oh, awareness, right? So they've, they've, they, I've seen through Pierce and now I see like, oh, I thought I was just Pierce, but now I see that there's like this awareness that is aware of things. Um, in the emptiness thread, you then turn towards the awareness and you deconstruct that. This Buddhism is very clear about deconstructing awareness right away. Um, but, but, but many forms of Hinduism, because they are on the oneness track instead of on the, or the oneness thread instead of on the emptiness thread, when they, when people in those practice frameworks have that same experience, oh, I used to think I'm Pierce, but now I see that there's this awareness. I am awareness and awareness is everything. So there's a, there's a oneness, there's a, there's an entry point into oneness that comes from seeing through the self and landing on awareness. Yeah. So it does, and the Sufi call it the beloved. Um, they even use the word love in that, that oneness, that God, that awareness. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, so this experience, like, uh, I am awareness, I am consciousness. Um, everything is consciousness. There is nothing that is not consciousness or, or there's nothing that's not awareness. Um, there's nothing that, uh, you know, I am awareness is nothing that's not awareness. Everything's made out of awareness. Uh, everything is, is, is unfolding within this one awareness. Um, you know, and then, and then how can two of us both be, you know, be seeing, seeing through these eyes, you know, we're, so we're, we're, we're all the same awareness, the same consciousness, right. That is, that is seeing out through, um, you know, however many billions of eyes, um, those kinds of experiences now, now, not just intellectually, but actually, actually experientially feeling, you know, I am this omniscient, uh, timeless, spaceless, boundless awareness in which everything unfolds and in which all things are held. Um, you know, that, that would be a oneness thread kind of. And, and yeah, again, to put a point on that, like when I first experienced that, it was the visceral knowing, like you can't even talk about it really, it's the knowing that what's looking through my eyes is looking through all eyes. And I am that like, that's what it feels like. And it's, it's a felt, it's like, no, this is it. Like, cause you can conceptually say, yeah, there's one awareness. It's like, oh no, that's it. And then that, that eventually deconstructed. But like when it's felt, it's like, you really think you're at the end of your understanding. Cause there's nothing else to do. Cause it feels so powerful, so profound, so much like love and acceptance and total perfection. Like, of course, of course, that's looking through my cat's eyes is looking is what's looking through my eyes just from a different view. And, and it's felt, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And, and you know, that maybe that we can add that to our definition of awakening too, which is like awakening experiences, you know, they're, they're not, they're, they're beyond conceptual. They're, they're felt viscerally, they're experienced, you know, full, full bodied, full being, you know, experience. Um, we said earlier there, they have this like incontrovertible quality where it's just like, I have seen the ultimate truth. Right. But now you're adding to it also this other dimension, which is also actually usually there, which is, and I'm enlightened. There's this, there's this feeling that just like, I have seen the ultimate truth and there, there's no more work to be done. Like this is, this is it. Um, this is, you know, this is what all the scriptures we're talking about. And then as, as SpongeBob, the cartoon says, you know, 10 seconds later, you're like, Oh, wait a minute. There's something else or that's gone now. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. So, um, yeah, or, or you can like construct your ontology and really cling to it and sort of like, get like latched onto this kind of experience that sort of, you know, produce a whole, you know, like you were saying, spiritual ego around it and so on and so forth. And that can be, it can be a real sort of like, um, yeah, you said 10 seconds later would be great. Some people it's like 10 years later or never later. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Great point. And, and you see this, I think this is one of the things that you get a little more discernment as you go through this, where you're looking at teachers and you're realizing, Oh, that person is really the flavor of their big awakening was in this thread. This is how they communicate. And they sort of, they haven't really maybe deconstructed all the way down whichever other threads are on thread. Yeah. Let me, let me, let me say something about that. Cause I actually, I want to make sure that I'm not miss being misheard of what I'm saying. Um, because I actually think that, you know, if you think about this whole landscape of, uh, different kinds of experiences and all these different traditions that are sort of like specialists in different kinds of experiences. And then you have within the traditions, you have teachers that are even more like specialized in certain areas of those traditions. I actually think it's a beautiful thing that we have, you know, uh, a wide range of different kinds of experts in different parts of the territory. And so when I'm navigating this particular part of the, the oneness thread, you know, there might be some teachers who spent their whole lives really, really skillfully, um, exploring and mapping and really, really know what they're talking about in this particular location that I happen to be passing through. Um, I don't know if I'll spend my whole life in this location myself, but, but, but having some expertise, reaching out to a teacher who really, really knows this territory would be awesome. Um, to help me to sort of like, you know, navigate whatever challenges or whatever, you know, I, I, I, I'm going through at the moment. Um, and then I land in some other location and I look around and there's other people who know about this location and, and I can feel supported like no matter where I am, because there's all these different people out there. Um, the problem comes, I think, with thinking that any one of those locations is the full whole thing. That's the problem. That's, that's it. So, so I like to say, I, you know, when I, when my wife's motorcycle breaks down, we don't call the plumber, right? We call the plumber when we have a plumbing problem, we call the, you know, we take, call the electrician, we have an electrical problem, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. It's the same thing with this territory. You know, there, there, there, there are teachers who specialize in different problems in different regions of the, of the map. And, um, let's just be smart about who we're, who we're calling upon, you know, when we're having certain kinds of issues. Um, and we'll, and we'll get good advice. Beautiful. Let's put that front and center because I think this model, multi-dharma lends itself to that understanding that you're finding specialists when you need them. So if you're having a kundalini energy awakening, you don't go to your regular old Advaita teacher because they'll say, this is empty of anything and, you know, let it go. Who's experiencing the kundalini? Who's experiencing the kundalini, right? Can you find that? It's like, no, but there's kundalini. Which is, which is fantastic advice for moving down the emptiness thread. Absolutely. If that's, if that's your goal. So like I, you know, I started off in a Theravada Buddhist, uh, framework. Theravada Buddhism, at least like the, the kind of the sort of super, uh, uh, purist form that I was practicing in. Uh, you know, it's the whole practice is deconstruction. It's see, see the, see the impermanence, the non-self and the, and the possibility of getting entangled in suffering over absolutely anything that you experience. And so you start in the meditation and let's say you had a kundalini experience, right? And let's say you start, you, you had this amazing oneness experience. Let's say you had, you know, Jesus came to you and, you know, like put a crown on your head and said, you're now like Lord of the universe. Like no matter what happens, it's just, Oh, this is, this is temporary. This is, um, you know, it's, there's no essence here. And this is, uh, you know, potential snare for, uh, getting me embroiled in suffering. That's what you say to everything, no matter what. That's right. Um, and so that's going to keep you on the emptiness track, right? That, that, that particular model, that particular tradition will keep you focused, hyper-focused on the emptiness track. Um, and there's something to be said, said for that. Like if that works for you, if that, if that, you know, it certainly does work for a lot of people. Um, great. If that's, if that's, you know, getting you where you need to go and where you want to go. Great. Um, there's, you know, they're going to be experts in applying the emptiness tool, right? The, the, the, the teachers in those traditions are going to be great if that's what you want to, uh, if you want to do, but if you want to sink in and explore this new intimacy that you have, you know, with God, I, I wouldn't go there. They're not going to help with that. Right. They're going to tell you it's, it's diluted. They're going to tell you it's, it's ignorance. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Or in Zen, the term makyo, it's, it's more illusion that you let go. So, so my own experience in this has been along these lines. It's like when, you know, the saying, right, when the student's ready, the teacher appears, when I was ready to look at emptiness, it seemed like this, these teachers showed up and that's what they really, or seeing through the self, you know, this kind of dying, oh, the right person shows up and you're just, that's all there is. And they will even speak in a way like that is all there is. Like everything, like you said, everything else is just delusion. Like, why are you watching this guy on YouTube talking about this? That's total nonsense. It's a dead end. It's going nowhere. So, so you could say, well, they're delusional, but I think the better way to say it is they're a specialist. Like you said, they're a specialist. Yeah. And they're a hundred percent right. Yeah. From that location. From that view. From that thread. Right. Yeah. From that location in the thread, from that viewpoint, they are absolutely correct. Yeah. That, that, that, you know, that experience is, is makyo, right? Yeah. Yeah. But, but from a different position on a different thread, you know, this experience might be, it might be, you know, the, the most desirable experience within some other tradition, right? That's right. Um, so yeah. So these traditions, you know, they'll argue with each other, you know, over essentially, you know, uh, ontologies or, you know, um, debates over which part of the territory is better than the others and so forth. Yeah. So multi Dharma will just say, um, how about we just kind of zoom out and not, not argue over which positions better, which, you know, which it's, it's not an attempt to construct a hierarchy. And I, I'm not even saying like moving down the threads is better. Right. Than not. Right. Than not. Because I just think, I just think of it as an ecosystem. Um, and I don't think, you know, giraffes are better than flamingos. Um, I just think all these different creatures are adapted to whatever habitats they, they live in and they, they each know how to eat and, and, and live in that environment. And we don't have to decide, you know, which part of the ecosystem is better than others. We can just kind of enjoy the diversity of the whole thing. That's right. That's so multi Dharma is kind of trying to do a sort of celebrate the diversity of the landscape and don't get hung up on competition between it. Yeah. It seems to me like a descriptive model rather than a proscriptive model. It's not saying this is how you do things. It's saying, Oh, this is what we see. This is the diversity of experience and it is a big container. And, and one thing I think is maybe worth saying at this point, which we said in the last episode, which is all the threads kind of at their conclusion at, at, at, at their apex, uh, are kind of pointing at the same phenomenal, not phenomenal, the same sort of general, I don't know how to say this, that there's, there's, there's a, hmm. How would you say this Pierce? Help me out. Yeah. Um, I, well, I, I think I don't want to guess what you were saying, but I think what you might've been saying is the, like, so I, I call it just for shorthand non-duality, meaning the very, very end of the thread where the subject and the object both collapse. Um, and so people use non-duality in a lot of different ways and a lot of different positions within the thread. So maybe this is a bad word, but, but for me, like the, the ultimate non-duality, the falling away of the, of the, of the self or the, the, the subject and then the object happens at the bottom of all the threads. So we talked about in the first thread, it's where, you know, the, the subject who's, who's aware of the emptiness or aware that nothing is arising, that that subject falls. And then there's just, there's not even, there's not even an experience of nothingness. There's just, it just, all of it disappears, right? So that's one form of kind of the collapse of subject and object. And in the oneness thread where we're going is, um, to a different kind of non-duality, it's a, it's arrived at from a different direction, but the subject and object collapse as well in the, and, and it will happen in all four threads. Um, and then once that collapses, then there's the letting go of the, of the distinction between whether something needs to be, whether something's dual or non-dual, that whole distinction just ceases to matter and it just falls away. And so, yeah, so ultimately at the, at the thread release at the very end of the thread and the thread release, you see like none of this matters anyway, and it all just kind of falls away. And, and so maybe at that point it's sort of winds up in the same place. Yeah. Yeah. They were all provisional, uh, fabrications that get you to this no place. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, exactly. So at the, at the oneness thread, that no place is it's all this love substance. There's no, there's no oneness with anything because there's only that. Is that a way to say it? Yeah. I, yeah, yes. I like to say it like this. I like to say it like, you know, I, you know, where we left off was, was, you know, I am awareness and awareness is everything. Right. So, so I am awareness or, or in the more kind of, um, deistic or devotional kind of version of this, it's like, you know, I am one with God. Like God is everything, this loving field. And I am, I am one with that. If you're, if you're experiencing yourself as being one with that, it's, it's implying, uh, a duality, right? Like I, I am experiencing a unity with this thing, then I'm not actually unit, unit, united with it. If I'm experiencing unity with this thing, then I'm still somehow holding something back from that in order to experience the unity. Um, so there's like a, again, there's like a stable, there's like an, like a very subtle kind of stable experiencer that is, is, is experiencing the oneness, um, as, as a field of oneness or as a phenomena of oneness. Um, so there's, there's a subject object, um, division there. So the, the full, the full absorption into, um, oneness would result in not being able to find oneness anymore because you've actually like totally fully integrated into it. Right. So this, again, it's this sort of, we arrive at the bottom of the thread and the thread seem, turns out to just be meaningless. Right. So, um, I can't find oneness because there's nothing, it's not possible that anything could be other than one. So there's just no meaning to the word oneness anymore. And there's certainly not an experience of being one with anything. Yeah. Yeah. That's beautifully said. Yeah. Yeah. That's about as well as you can say it. Yeah. Makes you giggle sometimes. Yeah. And so the, so the dropping of the thread, it's not like, it's not like we go back to being separate. Um, it's just like the whole question of whether something is one or not, it's just meaningless and it's just, it just falls away. Um, it's just no longer worth, it doesn't stand out as something to notice and it's no longer worth really spending any time thinking about or noticing or trying to notice or trying to find. Yeah. Yeah. Beautiful. Beautiful. So that's the oneness thread. So we've done emptiness, we've done oneness. Now, dare we tackle the energy thread? Yeah, sure. Do you need a break or are you, are you good? Do we want to take a break and have a little? It's, uh, it's totally up to you. All right. Should we, we can edit it out. All right. Well, we're going to take a break and we'll be back after these messages. All right. We're back and, uh, we're going to hit that energy thread. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Energy thread. Okay. Um, okay. So again, it's a whole category, right? It's, it's, it's traditions, it's practices, it's experiences, it's ontologies, it's identities, all sort of like, you know, interwoven together on, on this thread. Um, so energy thread is, um, all of the, the traditions that really focus on kind of the energy of the body or working with the energy of the body as the primary way of opening up to awakening and deepening into awakening. Um, so, um, you know, we talked about in the previous conversation, we talked about certain things can be epiphenomenal. So you can have like epiphenomena related to energy while you're working down the emptiness thread. Let's say I gave the example earlier in Theravada Buddhism, a lot of people experience some energy stuff happening in their meditation, but they're directed towards sort of like see the impermanent nature of the energy. And then it sort of, you know, falls by the wayside and it never really becomes, it never amounts to much of anything. It doesn't become a trajectory of its own. And so in that case, you could say that energy is an epiphenomena. It's not really a thread. Um, and I'm also not talking about energy work, like lots of people get energy work for all sorts of stuff, you know, going to acupuncturist or you're a Reiki practitioner or something, you're working with energy. Um, that's not what we're talking about here. So we're talking about here is awakening experiences, right? Like, like snapping out of the separate self and landing in a, in a new kind of, um, identity, um, a visceral sort of re, um, re, re, reset of reality. And yet you're, and your identity and, and your worldview, um, landing in a place that is all about flows of energy. Um, and then this becomes a sort of a trajectory that leads down deeper and deeper and deeper into energy experiences and culminates in some form of, of, um, non-duality or the, the kind of obliteration of the subject object distinction. Um, so in this case, everything, well, we'll, we'll talk about as we get to the end of the thread, but like, it's all just bubbling energy. There's nothing apart from that. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, uh, a very common opening, uh, for the energy thread is Kundalini type experiences. Um, so a lot of, a lot of people are practicing in practice systems or in communities where they're, that's what they're trying to do is open their Kundalini, um, and, and are, you know, doing various kinds of yogas and other kinds of practices in order to do that. Um, you, you also have within the East Asian, um, spiritual and martial arts world. Do you have practices also that are, um, talking about the, uh, particularly ones that talk about the, the small, uh, microcosmic orbit, the, um, uh, the, the kind of awakening of the body's energy, chi or key in this case, and circulating it up and down the, um, the central, the central channels, uh, it's sort of a different kind of, um, imagination of energy than you have in Indian, um, based chakra system, but it's analogous in some ways, you know, you're working with energies in the, in the core of the body, in the, in the midline of the body, um, in order to sort of create a driver for, uh, an awakening process. Um, so yeah, in either case, I mean, again, it can happen suddenly, it can happen gradually, you can land, you know, far down the thread or, or kind of work your way down in stages. You can yo-yo back and forth. There's all kinds of different languaging, all kinds of different experiencing. Um, this thread is, is pretty brutal for people who, I mean, they all can be, disorienting that they all can have their challenges. Um, but energy threat is pretty brutal for people that have very large openings with not enough context and with, um, you know, a lot of, a lot of, um, strong phenomena that, you know, can, I've, I've seen people have, um, sort of bizarre symptoms, like half the body's paralyzed or, you know, like, uh, physical stuff. Yeah. Migraines. Yeah. It can be migraines and, you know, digestive stuff. Um, you know, a lot of neurological stuff, muscular stuff. Um, you know, a lot of people experience sort of like twitching and writhing and involuntary motion movements and so forth. Um, with these kinds of openings, um, there could, there can be kind of some long-term health issues if, if things aren't addressed, um, that can, that can take place as well. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's, it's funny. So for my experience, um, the first silent retreat I ever did, I was sitting day two, I woke up at 2am, uh, with like this, like an elephant was sitting on my chest sort of like, you know, as a doctor, I'm like, Oh, I'm having a massive heart attack. Cool. All right. Now what do I do? Do I call 9-1-1? And I'm like, something was just telling me, just sit with, just sit with this. And it felt like that. So I got up out of the little bed in my little dorm room and suddenly it was just like, I was sat down. It felt like there was an energetic pull into the chair by the side of the bed. And I sat there and I closed my eyes and there was stillness and this massive shot of Kundalini energy. I didn't know what it was. I had no context for it at all. Came from the ground, through my body, out my chest, out the top of my head, just, and I was holding on for dear life. And there was a subtle resistance component because I had no effing clue what this was. And it just, and, and, but it had that feeling of, Oh, I have witnessed something true. Like it had that, like, this is an awakening. Like there's something there. And for the rest of the retreat, the heart was just blown open. There was energy everywhere. And, and, and no, you know, I had no container for it. And it was a silent retreat. So I didn't really, I couldn't ask anybody. Um, but that's how it showed up. And then another retreat I went, other people were jumping out of their skin, having Kundalini locking themselves in their room because they, they didn't know what this was. They were writhing around. They thought they were having seizures, uh, and, and a very skillful management of the staff said, this is normal Kundalini. You can ground yourself in these ways and so on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, yeah, I think grounding, grounding. So, so when, you know, in my, my introductory book, the lamp unto yourself, maybe I should have mentioned this earlier, but there's, there's sort of some like preliminary practices, like, like, you know, these are good for your health and they're kind of your safety net. If you're going to get deeper into, into any kind of spiritual practices, you should have these under your belt first before you do more. And, um, I, and, and I talk about two different grounding practices just because I think grounding is such an essential, um, such an essential first aid kit for spiritual emergency type stuff that, uh, yeah. So, so just knowing how to ground, knowing what grounding feels like in your body before you start doing any kind of, um, intensive energy thread type stuff would be helpful. But like you were saying, if you're, if you're, if you're going down the emptiness, you know, thread, you, you're not thinking about energy at all, you don't have any kind of context for it. Nobody's talking about it. They're not teaching it in your, in your workshop. And suddenly you have a Kundalini, you know, starts roaring up. Um, you know, it would have been better to have, to have the grounding practice under your belt, but, but okay, now that this is happening, you know, stop everything and go learn grounding. And then, and it would be my, it would be my advice just because I've seen, I've seen, um, this go off the rails pretty, pretty quickly. Yeah. It's physically and mentally disconcerting and, uh, yeah, yeah. So you're the, you're the doctor. I would love, I would love some time to like hear what you think about the sort of neurophysiology of this. Cause I just out of curiosity, because I don't know that I've, um, explored that ontology, uh, in any, in any detail. I mean, it is of course a materialistic ontological explanation, but, um, you know, I think it, I think it might be interesting to, to. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I'll just give you one line of what I think, because it's hard for me to believe in any materialistic ontology, any ontology at all. But I could say that the way that we would measure things and see them, they would be more epiphenomenal correlates of what's going on. And I think in this case, there's a, a, a depolarization across the nervous system of different tracks and it feels a certain way. It has a phenomenal quality and those affect muscles. They affect organs. They affect the vagus sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems. And all of those affect the body, everything from, like you said, digestion to vasoactive migraines to all kinds of immune system. So it's all intertwined. And that's why this particular thread can feel very physically affecting. And so practices, like you said, like grounding and so on can be so important for me, the way, the way it showed up was really funny. There was so much energy going around and I would sit and meditate and I'd be twitching. And anytime I would touch into that empty place, the body would light up with energy and knock me back into the body. And I was like, this is an obstruction. This is an obstruction to emptiness. Like, but really I think what was happening is the body was like energy. You need to, you need to look here. You need to look here. So it just spontaneously showed up that it was happening with my wife too. And we would just kind of do like spontaneous energy practices on each other that we didn't even understand, but we found it. And then we read about chakras and we're like, oh, there's a model. So you can actually, energy can move and ground down through the root and, and oh, and then suddenly it was like, okay, okay. Now we know, in fact, we kind of have a sense, okay, can you do the thing tonight? Because I'm, I can feel this energetic imbalance. Yeah. Physically. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And that's an example of what I was talking about earlier about, like, if you have the map of the whole territory and you know, like, oh, okay, there, there are, you know, these practices that deal with exactly this, you know, um, qigong, um, certain kinds of yoga, certain kinds of, certain kinds of, um, other martial arts and embodied practices, um, you know, deal exactly with this. They, they skillfully, I think what they're doing is there's the first of all, they're teaching you to ground this, but then also there's teaching you to skillfully channel these kinds of experiences. Um, you know, of course there's an ontology of like a, an energy, you know, as a thing that's running through your body, which would be different than, you know, what you were talking about, you know, the, the biomedical kind of interpretation might be, but, but it can be skillful to sort of visualize this as flows of light or flows of vapors or flows of electricity or flows of something, some kind of substance through the body and be able to kind of visualize, um, how to move those flows in certain ways, how to sort of, you know, um, store them in different parts of your body, how to kind of like play with the, the, the, the, the resonance or the, the, the, the color of the light or the tactile sort of like feeling of the, of the energy in different parts of your body, um, how to get skillful at sort of, um, working with it. And that's what, that's what all of these systems are, are doing. They're giving you kind of like a, you know, like a symbolic vocabulary of, and, and, and, and a, and a movement kind of regimen, a movement protocol, um, a visualization protocol in order to sort of, you know, more skillfully and intentionally work with these energies rather than just letting them sort of run, run roughshod all over your body and who knows what having what effects. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, yeah. It was funny because I, I started having at some point doing intensive kind of Vipassana type meditation. I started having neck pain, this sort of chronic neck pain. I thought, is this how I'm sitting a son? And I actually think it was quite energetic. It was an energetic phenomenon because later, you know, it's settled in different ways. And so people do, like you said, they have these physical manifestations and they might impede their practice in some way because they're not, they're not actually, you know, looking at it from that standpoint. Um, yeah, yeah, yeah. So all kinds of, all kinds of like postural stuff, cramps, uh, like, like, you know, little twinges and tingles and things like that. Um, uh, all sorts of sort of chronic, you know, weird stuff happening in the body as a result of meditation. Um, you know, and then there's sort of a spectrum from that sort of like low grade, weird stuff to full on, you know, Kundalini roaring through your body, like you were describing. Um, so I, I had, I had two kind of like major kind of opening Kundalini opening kind of, kind of experiences. And one of them was, one of them was very, very pleasant and one of them was, was pretty scary. So, so, you know, it can, it can, it can manifest at my first one to kind of did manifest in this very, um, kind of textbook, you know, um, energy moving up the spine and out the top of the head, but it was this very sort of like pleasant bubbly champagne bubble kind of like fizzy how, you know, like when you pour hydrogen peroxide on something, it just kind of like fizzes and it feels, it feels kind of like tickly and just kind of moving up the head and out the top of the spine. And out the top of the head and, and, um, you know, very pleasant. Um, and, and, and that one, uh, was, was in stark contrast with the second one, which was much more violent, much more kind of like felt like my insides got ripped out, got ripped up out through the top of my head or through my mouth. Um, and a much more visceral, um, experience of like something like really like taking over my body. It felt very like dark demonic, almost a sort of entity come like ripping through my body and sort of like, um, you know, a lot of, uh, orgasmic feeling, but also like complete terror, you know, it was like, it was like the peak of pleasant and unpleasant at the same time. Um, yeah. And I could just see how somebody without context, you know, certainly that second kind of experience, somebody without context, you know, could very easily have thought that their body was taken over by a demon or something. Yeah. Or medically unwell or having a stroke or, you know, any, any number of ontologies. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Who knows? Yeah. Yeah. So, so, yeah, I, so I'm kind of prone and it sounds like you are too, kind of prone to these more, um, extreme or dramatic or flamboyant kinds of experiences. And, you know, other people will experience this as very, very kind of gradual sort of, you know, um, more, more titrated, controlled kind of like subtle, you know, subtle kind of like opening. Um, yeah. Yeah. So, so yeah, different, different, different kinds of experiences. But, um, so the, the point here is, so the opening happens, um, you know, it can be, it can be like what we've been discussing. It could maybe be, be something different. Um, but the, the trajectory is towards more and more and more of reality becoming, um, being seen, being experienced as energetic. And the guiding question here is what, what still seems solid, right? And, and is it really so? Um, so initially the, uh, you know, the Kundalini is coming, is coming up through my body. Um, and there's like, my body is separate from, you know, the, the world and it's, and the Kundalini is passing through my body. Um, but you know, over time, this kind of separation between, there's kind of boundary between like my body and, and the inside of my body and the outside of my body kind of becomes obliterated, you know, in this energy thread thing. Um, uh, it's sort of all dissolves the, the solidity of the body dissolves into, you know, kind of fizzy sort of pulses or flows of energy. And then kind of, kind of the body sort of like mixes with the rest of the world into this sort of like undifferentiated swirl of, um, I don't know, sparkles or light or stardust or something. Um, you know, different, different, different people use different metaphors, maybe. Um, you know, and, and then, and then, um, you know, the, the, the, the sensory, the senses kind of, uh, uh, sensory objects kind of like dissolving into that same sparkly kind of fizzy, um, sort of, um, yeah, champagne bubble kind of, kind of, um, TV snow kind of thing. Uh, for me, for me, uh, the senses all became very synesthetic, like the, the, the, when the vision and the, and the hearing and the body sensations and everything sort of like became like TV snow. And it all sort of like swirled together. Then it was just like, everything was, everything was mixed together. Sort of there, there are no objects. There's, there's no, there's no separate channels or streams of different kinds of, um, sensory inputs. It just, everything sort of became this buzzing, like different undifferentiated kind of field of TV snow. Um, uh, you know, I don't know what. Yeah. I've experienced exactly that and it wasn't abiding. It was one of those like, Oh yeah. Like I was just, for me, it was funny. I was just sitting in meditation, uh, focusing on the sensations of the breath in the belly. And suddenly it was quite clear that that was just energy. And then this, the visual field behind the eyes was totally impermanent part. Like what you said, like sparkly champagne bubbles. And then all of reality became that there was a merging of all the senses. Um, even thought was just, yeah, yeah. Um, and thought, thought kind of melts into that same synesthesia. Yeah. Yeah. And what's funny is because I'd been intensively kind of working on a particular tradition in the emptiness thread of, uh, Zen and working on Mu, the con, it was funny that this con of, of Mu, like what is Mu, Mu, Mu, all of it became Mu, uh, but it made no sense conceptually. It was all Mu, Muing, Mu. And, uh, but it was all that energetic, just that, and it took on that flavor because that's what I had been working on. Um, and then afterwards I couldn't make any sense of it. I was like, I don't know what that was. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, yeah. So some, some kind of like deeper experiences, um, you know, that you can have like in, in a meditation or in a practice session. And then there's, then there's like, uh, again, maybe we should have said this from the beginning, but there, there are these like deep dives that you take through a practice session and you can like really fall into something really deeply, um, like come out of it and be like, Whoa, you know, what was that? And, and try to make sense of it and so forth. But, but, but through the, through these, the threads, there's also, I, I think it's more important than the, so I'm also prone to these huge experiences like you are, but I think it's a lot more important to pay attention to the baseline experience rather than the bells and whistles of the, of the peak experiences that are happening in the practice. Like the baseline experience, um, throughout the trajectory, it's the baseline experience that keeps deepening down into the thread. Right. So, so you might have a moment like what you talked about where everything just kind of like dissolves, but then you, it kind of like reassembles and now you're back sort of in, in life, but, but things are a little bit less. Yeah. Something's off. Things are a little bit less solid than they used to be. Right. You had, you had this experience, like had this Kundalini experience that I was talking about, you know, and that lasted for, I don't know, 40, 50 minutes and then it was done, but, but, but everything had changed because it's like, um, you know, reality is like a lot less solid than it used to be. Right. There's the baseline has shifted now and I've, I've seen, um, I've seen, you know, the, the, the energetic nature of phenomena, you know, and hadn't before. That's right. And because that experience had what we are calling maybe one of the prerequisites of a thread deepening or a experience in that way, it had a veracity. It had a truth component. Like I have seen revealed truth. Cause it felt like that. It was like all these things. It's like, Oh, some of them less. So some of them, it's more like, Oh, this is epiphenomenal. I can just tell it's just a dance of whatever. But then sometimes it's like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Something was shown. And so you're right. Then you come back to the baseline experience. And you, if you're, if you have some degree of discernment, because I think it can be very, very subtle in the baseline to notice that things are different and this can happen over years. And what would be really cool Pierce is if there were an ability to kind of take a mind shot of what it's like here at the beginning and then what it's like here and then be able to inhabit both and go, Oh, there's no comparison, but we can't do that. Instead. It's like, Oh, I can't even remember how it was. Yeah. I did. I did a lot of, I did a lot of writing, just personal writing, um, what things were happening and, and like, I didn't have the threads model and I didn't have the guiding questions all planned out in this way. This, all, all of this is kind of retrospective for me, like creating this model, but, but some of the same observations and some of the same ideas were, were already percolating, you know, at the time when this was happening. And so, and so, um, you know, I think I did kind of write some things related to the guiding question when it came to the energy thread, which would be, um, you know, I had this, this experience and now I can see that that thing, you know, the, the, the, the visual inputs that I used to think were, were very solid now seem like they're pixelating. And then, and then I described the pixelation of the auditory channel and how that was now sort of like fizzing a little bit. And then I described the body sensations and I described the synesthesia because I was paying attention to what's still, what stands out as being solid, like within this kind of like dissolving, um, you know, field, right? There's, there's still some objects in that field that seem to sort of like have some solidity while everything else is fizzing is, is, is fizzling and, and, um, dynamic like that. So maybe, maybe an inquiry like that, just kind of paying attention to the guiding question and writing things down might, might help doing the kind of tracking that you're talking about. Beautiful, beautiful. So that's just so funny as you were talking about that, I realized I've written things down too. And I just remembered, so this gets to, it's funny, it gets to emptiness, energy threads simultaneously. I wrote something like after an experience in meditation that was quite profound, like that had the feel of revealed truth, like an awakening almost, like it felt like that. I said, forget about consciousness that doesn't exist. Like everything is reality is a foam dancing on a sea of emptiness. And all of our delusions and thoughts and story are an epiphenomenon of the construction of that foam, but it's just a foam. Yeah. And, uh, yeah. And I just remembered writing that. Yeah. Yeah. That's great. Yeah. That, that seems to me like you're, so this is also, I think like, um, like I was doing the same thing, conceptually braiding things together, trying to make sense of these different experiences and somehow sort of braid them together. And it sounds like, um, foam on the top of, over the top of emptiness sounds to me like trying to kind of articulate the relationship between nothing exists, but yet still there's this fizzy kind of like, you know, energetic quality to, to what's unfolding. And I can see both, I can see it both ways. Um, so it sounds like to me, I, I, I hear everything through my model, I guess, but I can hear like the, the integration of those two threads in that, in that sentence. Yeah. See now with this model, I can see that back then I was just like, this is how it seems to me. I don't know if I can put other words to it. It's like this. And it felt like truth. I was like, yeah, hell yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And foam, I, I, that's, that's very similar to my kind of champagne bubble thing, right? The foam is just sort of like, it's not, it's not actually solid. It's, it's all, um, just these little bubbles that are kind of, yeah, popping in and out. They're so transient that you can't even really say they were there and yet they were there or were they, it's, it's beyond like there or not. So, yeah. So that's where this, that's where this thread goes. At least that's the way I talk about this. It's like you, you go from, you know, all of these really like intense energy, like kind of, um, these, these qualitatively heavy sorts of energies that are moving to things becoming more and more light and more and more subtle and, and, and more and more of the field becoming foamy or bubbly. Um, yeah. And then there was a point for, for me very clearly where I, I really, it was like, okay, the whole field is now, the whole field of experience is now bubbles. Are these bubbles really actually arising? Like the bubbles seem like they're solid for just like an instant. And so that was the last remaining seemingly solid thing. Everything was, everything was, was, was dynamic and bubbly, but the bubbles themselves seem to last for like a nanosecond. Nanosecond, right. It seems to be solid before, you know, before it pops. And so like turning towards that, is that really true turning towards that? Then, then, then, you know, for me, it was this kind of a visceral realization. Oh, the bubbles don't actually arise. They pop before they arise. They're like gone before they, before they come into existence. It can be, they're not even bubbles. They're just the potential for bubbles. It's not energy. It's potential energy, right? It's the, it's this potentiality throughout, for things to be manifest, but nothing actually ever actually manifests. It's so funny, Pierce, like my physiologic response to feeling truth in any time or that is laughter. And as you were talking about it, I was laughing because like, that is it. That's it. They pop before they ever were formed and that makes no sense. And yet that's how it is. Like, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And so I, you know, I, different people may, may talk about this differently, have different kind of like languaging for this or whatever. But, but for me, I would say the, so, so that experience of just seeing the bubble pop before, before it forms, um, kind of became like, so hyper-focused, I guess, onto really paying attention to that, that it really became like, like the whole world, the whole universe was like in that moment, in that bubble. And so I'm like seeing the whole universe as a bubble that pops before it actually arises, right? Like all of experience is just this bubble that is never actually arising. Um, and then I realized that, so that we're getting down to the bottom of the thread. Then I realized that there's actually, there's a stable, there's a seemingly stable experiencer that's trying to catch the bubble before it pops. It's trying to find the bubble, right? There's a seemingly stable, uh, subject that's, that's, that's looking for the bubble, uh, that's trying to pin the bubble down, right? And so that's now the solid, the last remaining solid thing is this observer that seems to, to be sort of, you know, somehow present. Um, and seeing that, then the observer also popped. And then, and then I don't really know how to describe it other than just say it was, it's like, it's like all of reality, uh, kind of bursting forth from nothingness, but collapsing in on itself before it actually, before it actually arose and, and, and never being able to see itself, never being able to catch itself, never being able to be pinned down kind of just, just all of reality turns out to be sort of this, this uncapturable somehow dynamic, somehow like, like it's, it's birth and death at the same time, you know, but, but all mixed together and happening at such a speed that it can't even be seen or, or, or pinned down in any way. Um, and, and, and, and, and seeing that, oh, I, I can't make sense of it. I can't, you know, it cannot be made sense of, it cannot be pinned down. It cannot be captured. It cannot be, um, it can't, it can't be, you know, apprehended with the mind or with consciousness or with awareness. It cannot be experienced even. Um, I mean, at first it's like amazing and you try to find it and it's all fun. And, you know, I, it was, it was amazing. It was, it was, you know, um, I'm, I'm witnessing the dance of the goddess giving birth and death every moment. Um, but eventually it's just like, oh, okay. So this is a new normal. There's, or you just acclimate to it and just, okay, reality, it just can't be pinned down. It just cannot be seen. It cannot be witnessed. It cannot be experienced. Um, so let it go. Um, let that thread go. Like that thread has been seen to the end. There's nothing more to do about it. What are we going to do about it? We can't capture it. We can't capture it. We can't keep looking for it. We can't, you know, um, there's just, it just becomes nonsensical. Yeah. It can be dropped. Yeah. Yeah. And it's, and it's not dropped because things stop being energetic. No, it's just dropped because the distinction between is this energetic or not, or what, how can I make the difference? The distinction between that just doesn't make sense anymore. Well, exactly. Once that, that is fully inhabited in a sense. And I don't know what that means, but you really know that's known. It's like, this is how it is. It's like, wow, why, why are we trying to make sense of this? Why are we trying to talk about this? The absurdity of trying to make sense of it, the absurdity of trying to talk about it, the absurdity of trying to even find it. Um, yeah, it just, it just, it can be. And what's even more beautiful is that all that foam that epiphenomenally creates a world can create a world where we can fluidly, you and I do a show about it because what else is there to do? It's, it's fantastic. By the way, when you were talking about that, my, uh, something popped in my head that my friend Angelo DeLullo wrote in his book when he, he has a chapter called stages of awakening, which he says the same thing that there's one map, blah, blah, blah. But he says at the end of it, that last line of the whole thread was birth and death are butterflies dancing around the flower of indeterminacy. I was like, yeah, that's it. Yeah. That's the best. If I read that, like I, I'm always, like I said before, I'm always like seeing things through these threads. If I read that, I would say, yeah, that's, that I would imagine we're talking about the same thing. Now, whether that for him came out of a whole trajectory of energy or what, you know, is a, is a different question. Cause like I was saying before, like the things, by the time we get to the ends of the threads for most people that, that I've, you know, met, that I've talked to myself included, like for most people, by the time you're getting to the end of the threads, these, these, these threads are getting really blended together. And so, you know, the languaging that you're using, you know, can, can mix together different kinds of different threads, different kinds of experiences. Yeah, for sure. For sure. Yeah. Beautiful. Wow. What a ride. That was fun. Woo. It's all bubbly. It's funny when, you know, even when we talk about this stuff, it's not like it all disappears. Like you said, like I can feel the energy in the body. I can feel the dancing aliveness of it. And when we're talking at the end of the thread, it's like, yeah, there's nothing happening in that sense. And you can feel that, but it's so ordinary. It's like, what are you going to, what are you really going to make about it at the end of it? Right. Yeah. Um, okay. Well, I guess we have now, we saved the like most complicated, most misunderstood thread for the very end. Um, I, I don't, I don't, I don't mean to like, you know, overstay my welcome, but, uh, uh, like it's possible we could do a whole show just on the psyche thread because, because this thread is, this thread is, I, I'm doing something different with this thread. I'm, I, I, I recognize that I'm thinking about things or presenting things in a way that's unusual that might need more, that could potentially be interesting to unpack more. Should we? More detail. Okay. I'll tell you what, let's do this Pierce. Cause I feel this truly like this is the central thing. Like this is such an important misunderstood under, under diagnosed and under talked about realm of this that I do want to do. If you're, if you're game to come back, let's do a whole show on the psyche thread, but let's maybe touch on it a little bit. Like today, like we've done the other ones, but exactly, exactly, exactly, exactly. And it, it might include some spiritual crisis stuff. Um, but, but, but if not, maybe that's another episode too, but let's, let's go ahead. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's good. So that, that, then that, I don't have to like try to hit every, every detail with this. Cause it's impossible. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, so people can, I think maybe hopefully listen to the first conversation that we had to get a feel for this thread on the whole, I'm doing, I'm doing a lot of, I'm pulling together a lot of traditions into this thread that actually frame things quite differently from one another. So, so previously I, you know, I was also pulling together different traditions, um, into these threads and a lot of them have very different language, um, from one another, but, but the language tends to be similar. Like in the case of, you know, Christian mysticism, they talk about oneness with God. And then in, you know, Hinduism, they talk about oneness, you know, um, other, other terms like Brahman or whatever, but they're, they're ultimately, they're using the same sort of words like oneness. Um, it, when it comes to the psyche thread, it's like the whole framework, the whole paradigm, the whole ontology is, is radically different between these traditions. And so I'm going to lump things together that on their face might not seem like they go together, but, but in, in, in my model, they do because the psyche thread is about an awakening experience where you realize that previously I thought I was pierce. Now what I realize is that pierce is just part of a, of a larger kind of whole of who I am, you know? So there's, there's a, there's a larger whole, uh, an entity that is pierce. Um, it is not oneness. Everything is, everything is one that pierce is a, is a distinct being a distinct entity, but pierce is more, um, multidimensional than he previously, than I previously thought I was. Um, and actually what I'm with the trajectory of this thread is I realized that more and more and more of who I thought pierce was is actually being controlled by these other parts of the previously unseen, previously unknown parts of, of, of peers. Um, so I'm, I'm saying it in a generic way, trying to capture, you know, a lot of different traditions. So, so, and there's some forms of psychology where, you know, like IFS, for example, where, where, you know, pierce is a part, but there's, you know, or the ego is a part, but then there's all these other parts that hijack the, the, the system and that come forward to speak their truths and so forth. So that, that would be like an example of this kind of thing, but there's also forms of shamanism that talk about different souls or spirits that move to the, you know, to, to the foreground. Like I, I, I am this collection of souls and spirits and different kinds of entities. Um, you know, some people, uh, you know, subscribe to subscribe to a belief system where you, you know, you're an astral being that came, that was, you know, reborn on this earth, you know, to, to play out some kind of mission. Um, and so you're awakening to your true identity as this, you know, you know, I don't know, star being that, and, and, and you're awakening to your mission on earth that you previously was unconscious that now you're bringing into, into consciousness. Um, lots of other examples with lots of different ways that people can have this kind of psyche thread awakening. And again, I'm just choosing one word to call these, these threads. Um, it's just an arbitrary name. Um, but what I'm going for here is like the awakening of the whole, uh, of the unconscious parts of the psyche and the coming forward into awareness and into, uh, being able to express themselves and be recognized and be seen as part of the whole. So, so in a sense, you could say it's, um, in other words for this might be a conditioning thread, an unconscious thread, uh, a causes and conditions thread that are, that are unseen or unwelcomed and eventually get come into awareness. I might, if I'm braiding threads, I might say what I wrote earlier about everything is a foam on emptiness that somehow epiphenomenally spins up a world and a story and a history and a personality. I could say this is that epiphenomenal spinning up and how it's causing conditions that are, that are deep and unseen often that are, that create this sense of me and my behavior and my personality. It just, yeah. Thoughts that popped in my head. Yeah. Yeah. So again, like from, from the integrated standpoint, there's no difference. Like if you're, if you're totally integrated, you, you look at these four threads and you're like, Pierce, there's no difference. Like emptiness is oneness and, and, and it is energetic and it's all being produced by unconsciously through conditioning and by the mind. Right. But that, that's an integrated perspective that's saying that, right. Right. Right. Right. So I'm separating them out to talk about sort of traditions that dedicate themselves to awakening through a particular, um, one particular way of seeing versus another. And so in this, in this, in this particular thread, like, you know, systems like union psychology, like, you know, IFS, like certain forms of shamanism and, and, and so on and so forth. Um, you know, they, they wouldn't subscribe to an emptiness perspective or they may not subscribe to an energy perspective that they see it from this perspective, that entree into awakening is through this perspective, this perspective deepens and deepens and deepens. But then for a lot of people, it's going to wind up, you know, other threads are going to open and they're going to, they're going to wind up kind of intertwining together. Um, you know, and people will wind up seeing some, some connections between these threads and seeing, oh yeah, this is the, this is the, you know, the, yeah, all reality is a virtual reality display. It's a projection. And, and, and now I see that the origin of the projection is all of the, all of the contents of, you know, my unconscious, you know, or something like that. They'll be able to sort of like fit it all together. Um, yeah. So the ultimate, the ultimate realization here on this thread is that, um, you know, every last shred of reality is, uh, is a projection of the unconscious parts of the psyche. Um, so the, so the other threads, all the threads wind up with kind of all of reality being seen as this thread. Um, so all of reality seeing is empty is disappearing or all the reality is seen as being totally unified or all reality seen as being, you know, potential energy that never actually manifests. And here it's all reality seen as projection of the psyche, projection of the unconscious parts of the mind. Um, every moment being co-constructed, um, every moment being, um, yeah, manifested, you know, built on the fly, rendered on the fly, uh, by your conditioning, by your, uh, personal conditioning, psychological conditioning, but then deeper by your ancestral, your, your, your, your, um, genetic, your, um, could be past lives, could be, um, you know, astral, you know, could be all sorts of ontologies that are created to, you know, explain conditioning. Um, I like to get into the kind of the mammalian conditioning, the biological being, the kind of the, the material conditioning, the, the, the ways that our, our realities are constructed by our, um, you know, by our, by our, our animal nature. Um, yeah. The social aspect, the hierarchical aspect, social, cultural, um, yeah. And, and just, just peeling back the onion on more and more and more of these layers of conditioning, um, and just seeing how every last thing that I think, see, do, uh, perceive, et cetera, is, is structured by these things. Like I, you know, even at the most fundamental level, the, the reality that I inhabit just is inhabited differently, um, than it would be if I were a snail, right? I mean, I would have a completely different, you know, experience of reality, right? So it's very, very fundamental. Um, but again, not, not just intellectual, but actually visceral realization of that and, uh, and, uh, and, uh, sort of, um, yeah, experiential phenomenological sort of, uh, uh, you know, like, like we've been saying an, an experience of, Oh, I've seen ultimate reality. I know truth. I know, I know, I know truth. And this is, this is, you know, an enlightened sort of awakened state. And, and, and I have to say like people who discount this thread, which is natural because so many of the traditions, especially in the East don't, this is like a side effect thread that you try to want to push out of the way to get back to the main business of emptiness or energy or oneness. Um, my wife basically had her first awakening through this thread and it was a seeing that she was this collection of personality traits that was conditioned and it was almost predictable using like a dumb model, like the Enneagram. And then to have something catastrophically highlight that cause a collapse of identity down through the threads to realize, Oh, the whole identity is constructed from this unconscious stuff. So, so who the hell am I? And, uh, that was the big shift. And it was experiential. It was visceral. It was emotional. It was physical. It wasn't conceptual. Yeah. Perfect. Yeah. That's a great, a great, like capsule summary of a, of a psyche threat awakening. The language you chose there was more on the psychology end of things. That's right. Like if, if you were to repeat that story, but to insert, you know, um, words like soul and spirit and, you know, underworld and so forth, you know, that, that would also be a way of talking about this. You could repeat that and, and say, you know, astral plane, you know, star beings, et cetera. And that would, that would be another way of languaging the same thing. Um, but the, the core of it is exactly what you said, an awakening to how much of this identity is, um, being produced, uh, by the, these unconscious previously unconscious materials. And then those, as those, as the thread deepens, those unconscious parts come up to be seen, to be recognized, to be welcomed, and also to be kind of like invited to operate autonomously without needing to be controlled or, um, denied or feared. Um, right. So the, the unconscious processes that previously have been sort of like tucked away and, and, and ignored in the shadow, right. Can come out and just like, first of all, to be healed because often there is a healing in the, in the, in the allowing these, um, parts to come out from the shadow and be recognized. They're just, just in the seeing of them, there's often a healing that takes place. Um, so a lot, a lot of it is to be healed. Um, but you're right. I, I, I kind of object to the, um, to the traditional way of talking about karma or talking about, um, you know, the, these, um, Kaleishas and so forth as things that are, um, things that need to be purified, that need to be gotten rid of, because I actually, in, in, in my own opinion, don't, don't feel that, um, becoming a sort of superhuman, non-human, perfected being that never like that has totally transcended its human, its humanity. I don't really take that on as a, as a, as a desirable goal. Um, I think the purpose of the psyche thread anyway, is to fully become human, to fully embody all of these different aspects of our conditioning and to allow them to be free to express themselves, um, rather than deconditioning them out of the being. I think we talked about this last time. We, we, we did to a degree. Yeah, we did to a degree. And, and so one of the pieces of this that I think comes up is when the conditioning is seen fully and welcomed and accepted and allowed to be, there can be a feeling, I think, uh, that, oh, this is an unsafe, this is unsafe because this is a dark part of me, or this is an unwanted part. And it's that feeling of darkness unwanted that is the pushing and the resistance on the part that doesn't welcome. When my experience is when those parts are welcomed fully, there may be an adjustment period where there's a little bit, because the guardrails on the conditioning are taken off, where the conditioning does express itself in ways that might seem a little, Ooh, what's he doing? Like he started drinking when he hasn't drank before, or, you know, something is, you know, some crazy stuff can happen, but it often settles down to where instead of acting unconsciously and controlling behavior in a way that's not clear and comes out in these, whether passive aggressive or aggressive aggressive ways, instead it's like, Oh yeah, yeah. This is a part of Zubin that shows up and it's actually welcome. It's okay. And by being welcome, it actually, it's like, this is a, this is an analogy that came up since the last time we spoke, Pierce, since I know you gave this great analogy about the bionic arm and stuff. So now here's my analogy. So in, in quantum physics, there's this idea of Heisenberg uncertainty and the observer effect. So when you look at something, it actually changes its configuration. So just the act of observing changes it. So just the exact, the act of making conscious and unconscious part of our conditioning actually subtly modifies it. So it's no longer doing things the same way. It actually changes the conditioning. Um, and that in itself can be a kind of healing. It can heal these parts that were acting because they weren't seen. They were in a certain configuration that was very maybe maladaptive to your current way of being in the world. Is that your experience or? Yeah. Yeah. A hundred percent. So yeah, I think, I think, um, I think, yeah, that's well said. So just, just the act of recognizing and allowing the part to be there and welcoming it even, I mean, that's, that's even welcoming and loving it. That's even more powerful. If you can, if you can see, oh, this unconditioned, this, this conditioned part of, you know, myself that I previously was unaware of, um, you know, is, is here because of, you know, whatever past events or past life events or, you know, hereditary features or whatever. Um, and, and, and, you know, it, it is an integral part of who I am and I welcome this part to come forward and be part of the whole, um, you know, and, and I will even love it, um, as a part of the whole, just that alone, I think solves, you know, I don't know, 90%, 99%. I don't know. So it's a high percentage. It's a high percentage. Yeah. And it's kind of, it's kind of what they do in like emotion circling groups, like inside circle. And these things I've had experience with where these parts are fully loved into, into acceptance. Yeah. In a sense, it's almost like an integration with the oneness thread to some degree. It's like, they're all made of this, this love. It can be felt that way sometimes. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, yeah. The difference, the, the, the difference is before, before integration, when, when the threads are separate, the difference here is that what I'm doing is, is uncovering the deeper parts of me, right? I'm not transcending me to connect with everything else. I'm, I'm, it's, it, you know, there's a, there's a kind of interiority to this that I'm finding me here. Eventually, of course, you discover that by trying to find me, you wind up finding everything, right? It's, it's a, it's a dip, instead of going out to find everything you go in, it's all right here, just include more and more and more of this, of this conditioning and ultimately find that you've just included absolutely every last shred of experience of the universe. It's all, you know, who you are. So, so, um, uh, shoot, I was going to say something, but now I just dropped it. Go ahead. Yeah. I was just thinking the word unconditional love comes to mind. Like you find, you look inside and you realize all these parts are there for, because of cause and conditions well intertwined with everything. And then, like you said, the entire universe makes up you. So you look inside and you find everything, everything. Yeah. Yeah. Every single piece. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, so how you're going to work through this is going to look really different depending on how you, you have conceptualized it. Right. So, um, you know, your, it sounds like your wife's version of this kind of psyche threat awakening might have been well supported by some kind of therapy, particular, you know, union therapy, IFS type stuff, other, other forms of therapy that are about like bringing up parts and allowing, giving them the space to be able to speak and interact with them and so forth. Um, but it just, it, you know, through a different framework could have been just as skillful to do shamanic journeying, let's say, um, you know, going down into this, this, this is how a lot of this, how I did a lot of this work was going, you know, down into kind of like an imaginal underworld, um, you know, finding different beings living in the underworld and engaging with them in certain ways, asking them to come up into the body and asking them to speak, you know, through the body and, and, and engaging with them as entities, as separate entities, um, uh, engaging with them, inviting them to speak, inviting them to inhabit the body, inviting them to, you know, speak their truth, um, doing rituals for them, you know, giving offerings to them and so forth in a more sort of like, you know, shamanic or indigenous style, uh, tradition, um, I think is just as effective for some people, right? So that, that'll work better for some people than the, than the psychology kind of framing. Um, but they, they both can be quite, quite powerful, quite effective. And we should say, cause I mean, this is, that's beautiful actually, like, cause that process is, it's really effectively no different. It's just a totally different, but in a sense it's totally different, but it's a, it's the same sort of discovery process. This was in the absence of any psychedelics or plant medicine that these things arose for you, right Pierce? Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, yeah, I, so like I said earlier, I, I never did any, any kind of, um, psychedelics as part of this awakening process. Um, I mean, unless you want to count like, uh, um, heavy dose meditation as a psychedelic, which I think pretty much, yeah, I think you could, um, but yeah, I, I mean at a certain, so yeah, so for me and for, I think, you know, I, I think for many people, um, these, these threads, once they're opened through some kind of whatever, whatever technique, whatever practice you've opened the threads with, they kind of then at a certain point, um, if you're doing that practice with enough intensity, with enough kind of dedication, with enough dosage, right. At a certain point, I think these, if it's a thread and you've actually opened the thread at a certain point, it kind of takes on a life of its own in my experience. And it sort of starts driving you as a, or beckoning you or drawing you in, as opposed to you having to draw out these, these experiences. Um, so, so yeah, so there was, you know, there was a kind of an opening experience and then sort of, I just got sucked down into this, into this whole thing. And it was like, okay, this is, this is, this is what, you know, is being demanded at this point in time. This is the, the main event. This is what I'm focusing on. Um, you know, I still was doing some emptiness, uh, and energy and, and, and oneness type practices just to keep kind of the momentum on all four threads. But this, this thread kind of like came into the foreground and became kind of the main, the main thing for a couple of years, actually. Um, so this is what I, what I, what I call braiding, right? Like one thread at a time coming to the fourth. And, and this, this one came forward and it was like, okay, we put the other stuff on hold. Cause this is the, this is the main event. Um, but then, but then, you know, like I was saying earlier, the threads start started to go from braiding sort of one at a time to then like integrating together. Once I had all four threads open, they started integrating together and these kind of realizations and experiences, um, frameworks, viewpoints started to blend together, um, as they deepened. And, and, and so this, this piece that arose for you over two years where entities are coming and they're being welcomed and you're talking to them, if you didn't have a container for this and you were not somebody who studied indigenous practices or any of that, I mean, like you, in your conditioning, you are, um, you know, Latino, you, you, you're of a South American ancestry. Are you Colombian? Yeah. Yeah. So, so that's kind of how big part, part Colombian. Yeah. Oh, got it, got it. So it's kind of baked in, but at the same time, it's not like you had a, a long tradition of this personally. Did you feel at some point like you were going crazy? Um, yeah, so, so I, my, my heritage is three quarters Latino, like, so it's, it's one quarter Colombian and half Uruguayan. Um, and, and so there, this was interesting to me that this, um, kind of experience that I'm talking about, the psyche thread experience when that opened up, because my whole life, I, I haven't really, I never really explored the spiritual traditions of, you know, the, of my heritage culture. I never was, never was Christian. I, my, my family's, um, you know, atheist or, or, or agnostic, um, never got into, I, I, I might've read a couple of books at some point on, um, you know, South American indigenous religious practices, but never got into any of that practice myself. Um, but, but when this psyche thread stuff started happening, a lot of it had this sort of like, you know, Catholic and indigenous Colombian kind of tinge to it. My, my grandfather was half indigenous. So, um, I think it, I think this was coming from maybe from, uh, um, you know, an ancestral, I mean, it felt like it was coming from an ancestral kind of place. Um, a lot of the symbolism, a lot of the, the kinds of entities, the way they looked and sort of, you know, it had that flavor to it. Um, but yeah, but I had, as you know, somebody who spent my whole life studying religions and reading all kinds of stuff, I had read tons about, um, um, you know, indigenous, uh, spirit practices more generally. I'd had a lot of experience in Thailand with some Asian versions of this type of stuff. I, even when I was, when I was younger, I was into some Native American kind of sweat lodge type practices. And so I, you know, I had enough context that even though the, the, um, the symbolism was new, the kind of the, the underlying idea was familiar enough that I saw that and was like, okay, um, yeah, good chance I'm going crazy. Yes. But, but, um, this, this also scans, right. In terms of what I know about indigenous practices. And, you know, at this point I'd already had a bunch of weird, like Kundalini stuff and a bunch of other weird experiences. I was like, this is probably just like part of the, you know, the next, the next unfolding here. Um, but one, one thing that was important for me that I do feel like is worth mentioning is I had this, um, I, I, I set up for myself like a barometer of like, how will I know if I am going off the rails? And, and what I decided was the, the first person to know would be my wife. And so I recruited her to be kind of like, uh, like the, the, the, the barometer, the, the, the flashing red light alarm. Um, if it's, if I started to seem like I was, you know, losing it, like she, I trusted, I asked her to tell me and I said, I will trust you and I will, you know, and you, you, you, you can intervene. Um, uh, and please do. Uh, but, but what I, what I saw was that in my external life, what was happening, I mean, what was happening downstairs in my practice space, you know, in the dark on my own is one thing that was really weird, but what was happening in, in daily life was just like my relationships were feeling so much like cleaner and so much more connected. And I was feeling so much more present in my, in my, you know, family and my work life and everything that it just seemed like the, the, the results I was seeing in the, you know, in the conventional world were, were showing me that this work was, was a good thing and it wasn't maladaptive. And I think that's actually the line. Um, that's actually, I think it actually is the line that is used in psychiatric diagnostics. I think it is actually an important line, um, you know, between whether these kinds of experiences are leading to, um, you know, more adaptive or maladaptive kinds of behaviors. You know, I, I don't think it's a, I don't think you're going crazy if you're, you know, thinking weird shit in the basement while you're doing your, your, your, your, your meditation practice. Right. Um, it's, it's, it's how you're interacting. Yeah. You know, you're still able to work, you're functional. It's like an alcoholic, you know, when it starts interfering with your actual life and your relationships, then, then it's a pathologic diagnosis. Yeah. Yeah. So again, I'm not a medical professional, so nobody, nobody listening should take any medical advice or me for that matter, even though I am one, I would say this though, like one of my experiences is sometimes doing this work when this work arises, reactivity, um, underlying repressed stuff can show up in relationships and can actually seem like things have gotten worse. But in all honesty, what's happening is there's an authenticity showing up where things that had been hidden or pushed away are now coming to the surface and are being addressed. And that can feel very turbulent. And so my own experiences that does tend to happen and then it tends to settle out and actually get, then you achieve that. Oh, wow. There's much more presence. There's much more acceptance. There's a feeling of love. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There definitely, there definitely was that exactly what you're saying. There definitely was like the kind of the, the grit in the, in the process. Um, I call it the detangling process, you know, uh, the, the, the way it felt was like some, a lot of relationships were, were, were snarled up, had some tangles that need to be detangled. But of course anybody who's ever tried to detangle a shoelace or something knows that like, sometimes you gotta like make more of a mess before you can get all the thing, all the, all the knots out. Right. So, yeah. So, so, so, so it wasn't, it's, it's not pretty. This work is not, psyche thread work is not pretty. It's not, um, it's not, uh, you know, linear in any fashion. It's not, um, you know, it's not, it's not, uh, rainbows and ponies. It's, it's, you know, it's, it's dark and it's messy and it's, um, it's, uh, yeah, it's difficult. It's difficult work. There's a Peter Gabriel song called digging in the dirt and it has a video and it really encapsulates this for me, you know, digging in the dirt, find the places we got hurt and the whole, the whole thing is the, it's like he's diving into a psyche and the imagery in the video is going underground, you know, uh, yeah, it's, um, it is, it is gritty stuff. It felt underground. It felt underworldly to me. Uh, a lot of the, a lot of the imagery, a lot of the kind of the, the sensations, a lot of the, a lot of the work felt, felt very, um, like excavating, excavating stuff in the mud. Yeah. It felt, it felt beautiful. Beautiful. Beautiful. Yeah. It's actually, it becomes very delicious after a point because you see the benefits and you see that you want to welcome, you lean into it more. But at first it's like, I don't want anything to do with this. This is uncomfortable. It can be very scary. Yeah. For some. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No. Yeah. I think, I think so. Um, and you know, and I've talked to people who, um, for them this, so maybe a similar distinction that we made earlier when talking about the energy thread between energy work and energy thread awakenings. And I think there's some, there's, there's something to be said here too, between, um, psyche thread awakening versus just like therapy. Um, so, you know, a lot of people as part of an awakening process hit, you know, this material and they seek help from various types of therapists and, and, and that's more kind of analogous to energy work, right? You have a bunch of weird stuff happened in your awakening process and you go get some acupuncture. Um, and, and that's very, very helpful. And I, I, I think everybody should do that personally. Um, you know, get help with whatever, um, junk is coming up while you're, while you're in an awakening process through, you know, skillful, um, you know, therapy work I think is, is brilliant. I think we should all be doing that. Um, but this is something different. This is, this is, you know, a sustained engagement with a different kind of identity and a different kind of reality, um, that is emerging from the unconscious material in your psyche. And it can, it can be facilitated by a psychologist, by a therapist, you know, from a Western perspective, it can be facilitated by, you know, shamanic work, probably hallucinogenic work, probably, you know, all sorts of other stuff. Um, but it's different because you're not focused on cleaning up the ego to be more functional. You're focused, right. You're focused on, a new, the birth of a new identity, the birth of a new self, the birth of a different kind of self. Yeah. An acceptance of all that. So let me, let me say one thing, because I think this has been my experience. People talk about psychedelics as all kinds of tools for all kinds of stuff and so on and so forth. My limited experience with psychedelics and it's limited and not limited. I've done all the powerful psychedelics. I've, you know, done those things. I've made videos about it. Um, but it's not like it's been going on for all my life. It's only really more recently that that has arisen. My experience with those is they are, yeah, you can get some insights into emptiness. You can get insights into unity thread for sure. Insights into energy thread a little bit for me, but it was the psyche thread where these were the most powerful tools. Because like, for example, 5-MeO-DMT will, will drop me right into the body where I feel past traumas or I feel something held and it will show you in a sense, this is how it feels. Kind of the way you were speaking with entities and they're showing you little parts of you in a sense. It was showing me, okay, yeah, this part of you, you know, has not been accepted. You haven't welcomed this and it's causing havoc and this is what it feels like. And you can feel emotional, energetic, uh, aspects of these entities in that way. And for me, that was the power of those medicines. Even psilocybin would do that. It was like, oh, there was this childhood thing where you were sick and you can feel it again, embodied in that way and, and, and allow it. And it's not with the goal of polishing your ego. I think people sometimes use psychedelics. Like I'm going to take the rough edges off my ego and it doesn't work. Um, it's more like, okay, let's see what needs to be seen. And even setting the attention, I want this thing to show me what I'm not seeing, what I'm not welcoming, what I'm not allowing. Uh, so they can be a powerful tool in my opinion, my experience. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like I said, I don't have that experience, but I, I, I recognize what you're talking about. I hear it. It seems like we're talking about the same thing. Same thing. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So just put that on there. Yeah. Yeah. And then, um, I was going to say one more thing, which is just the, the, the key here, the kind of the guiding question, right. According to my model, there's a guiding question for each one. Um, I, I forget exactly how I put it in the book, but it's essentially like what, what here hasn't been welcomed. What here is being, you know, held at an arm's length. What here is being denied. What, what here within this, you know, reality is not being accepted. Um, and then there's a sort of a turning towards that. And, and really for me that like the verb for this, if, if, if the emptiness thread is to deconstruct and the, and the, um, oneness thread is to unify and the energy thread is to dissolve, like this one is to surrender. Um, that's like super, super clear that, that it's these things, it's the act of pushing them down into the shadows. It's the act of rejecting them. It's the act of, you know, um, denying them that is causing the problems that's causing all of the tensions and all of the, um, all of the, uh, the, the, the, the unskillful maladaptive behavior and so forth. Um, and why are you, why are you pushing it down? Why are you, why are you keeping it at arm's length? Why are you pushing it away? It's always because it, it just, it, it can't be tolerated. It can't be, it can't be, this cannot be welcome. This cannot be true. This cannot be here. Um, it has to, it has to be removed because I reject it. Um, and so there's an, for me, there's like an act of just will surrender to every, everything that comes up. Yes. You too. Yes. Demons. Yes. You too. Um, sadness. Yes. You too. Um, you know, trauma. Yes. You too. Um, you know, all these embarrassing things that I wish weren't true about myself. Yes. You too. Every single, um, every single shadow. Yes. You too. I surrender, surrender, surrender. Yes. You could be here. Yes. You could be here. That, that, that's perfectly said in a sense. It's almost like, again, since all the threads converge on this non-dual sort of substratum that isn't a substratum here for me, it feels like at the core of our, of our assumed identity is a sense of control, is a sense of, I can do something about reality. I have a separate will and I can do it. And when it's realized in this thread that you have been a puppet dancing on the strings of cause and conditions and conditioning, you, the act of surrender almost becomes involuntary. And then it becomes self like a snowball. It's like, yep, this too, this too. And that's where like my, this is where I think psychedelics are interesting because if you go in with a psychedelic and a lot of people do trying to push and pull and have an outcome, that's what will, it will color the experience, but a true surrender, a true attitude of surrender will show you those things. And it just spirals. It's like, okay, I surrender this too. Yeah. I'm an asshole in so many ways because of conditioning and that too is okay. That's welcome. And just the act of seeing that takes the edges and changes it. It like, like we were saying earlier, it's like a Heisenberg uncertainty. I've observed it. Now it's velocity and position are different. And, um, and it just progressive expansion of welcoming drops the sense of control. Um, and once that control drops, it's like, Ooh, then you're in the unknown firmly. You're at the end of the emptiness thread, the end of the one is thread, the end of the energy thread. There's no control in anything there. And it's the same with psyche. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, right. So this is the, I really well said, and this is the end, you know, the non-dual end of this thread, right? Is, is, um, is to realize, uh, so, so having done all of this welcoming, all of this surrendering to one thing after another, after another, after another, I don't actually think you need to get through like every last aspect of conditioning. I don't actually think it's possible. I think there's just like too much of it. You can't see it all. Um, you can't, you can't see it all, but, but, but the more you see, the more you surrender, the more you, the more you accept it. Um, I think you come to the point where you see that, um, that, uh, you know, I feel like I'm here welcoming and accepting these things to be as they are. Right. So there's still like this subject that's kind of like having an attitude or, or, or a relationship with these objects that are coming up. And the important realization at the bottom of the psyche thread is to see that, that this like observing, welcoming, controlling self, the one that thinks it's in control is itself just a conditioned thing, right? It, it, the impulse to welcome the impulse to the impulse to, to have a stance on reality, that impulse to, to, to control reality, to see reality, to relate to reality, to want to judge or, or manage reality, that manager that itself is, is no different than the conditioning. And at that point, then the whole thing collapses and it's like, where is there anything not conditioned here? Like there's nothing that's not conditioning. The whole thing is conditioning. Um, and then at that point, uh, so I, I call this sort of like, you know, the, the, the autopilot sort of kicks in, which is like, okay, well, if there's no, if there's no manager managing all of this conditioning to come up and dictate, you know, control, like what, what, you know, what, what reality is like, then reality experience just kind of unfolds on its own without that pilot. It just kind of like the guardrails come, come off and then just the conditioning can just run freely. You know, everything is conditioning. There is no manager to manage it. You know, it's kind of like just the whole thing just operates autonomously, um, without any center or any, any illusion of there being a center or a controller. Um, and, and then at that point, the distinction between what's conditioned and what's not conditioned, what's welcomed, what's not welcomed, not, none of that really makes any more sense that, you know, the, the, the distinction between what's controlling and what's being controlled no longer makes any sense. And so the, the whole thread can, this thread can also be dropped. Um, it doesn't mean that you're finished with conditioning, the conditioning, the conditioning isn't there. It's the opposite. Conditioning now is like, that's all that there is, right? The whole thing. Um, yeah. So there's, there's no, there's, you know, it's, it's so that the distinction between conditioning and non-conditioning just is meaningless. The whole thing can be dropped and, and, um, um, the thread, you know, the thread's work is done. Um, not to say that there won't be conditioning that comes up later, that some trauma won't, won't resurface or some other, you know, bad habit might, might, might come up. Um, but it just will, will come up and, um, it won't be, it won't be feared and denied and a self created out of it and ontology and a whole sort of worldview and, you know, a whole sort of, um, control mechanism and management mechanism, you know, won't need to arise when conditioning comes up. It'll just be conditioning comes up. It can be seen, it can be acted on, it can be processed, it can be worked with, um, without, without all the convoluted sort of like, um, machinations of self and control. And that, that, that, that's what it is. The pushing and pulling of a, of a one who could do otherwise seems to relax. And there's just the, the play, the play playing it out. And in a sense, you could say there's radical authenticity because you are exactly what your conditioning is making you without this push and pull. But even that it's a strange, it's a strange way of speaking because even the pushing and pulling was the, it was seen as the result of conditioning. Like you said, the one who could do otherwise was a conditioned response. And it may be, it relaxes by seeing what it was. And that itself is enough to make the feel of it much less frictional. Um, yeah, I, you, you said the word authenticity. And so it reminded me, I have a friend who described this, maybe this is a, maybe this is a helpful metaphor, maybe not, but he said, it's imagine, imagine somebody told you, you know, like, um, you should be more authentic or you had the thought, like, I should be more authentic. And so then you started practicing being authentic. You started practicing authenticity in order to improve your authenticity. And you start like, you know, monitoring your behavior to see like, oh, here I was authentic and here I wasn't authentic and so on and so forth. Like you will never achieve authenticity, right? Through that pathway, right? It will always be, um, some kind of convoluted pseudo authenticity. Um, but eventually somewhere you can find where, where the, where by practicing authenticity more and more and more, something improves in the way that the system works, things get more fluid. And eventually the idea that I have to be more authentic falls away and, and the, the organism can just do what it does without thinking about whether or not it's being authentic. Um, I, I don't know if that's helpful, but there's some, there's something, there's something like that going on with the psyche thread. It's like, it's like, I'm, I'm going through and I'm, I'm doing this practice to welcome all these B, all these parts, all these beings, all these entities, all these parts of myself to, to be authentic, to be autonomous, to just, you know, be free to express themselves. But I'm, the whole time I'm managing it like, yes, you are welcome. Yes, you are welcome. Yes, you're welcome too. Like you can come up, you can come up, right? I'm welcoming it. Yeah. Orchestrating it like the orchestra, um, like the, like the, um, um, like the maestro at the orchestra, right? And the, and, and then eventually, you know, this, this, what I call the pilot, you know, sort of like has to step down or the, the maestro has to step down and these, these, these parts can just be free to do their thing without being orchestrated in that way. And only then do you actually have authenticity, right? Only then do you actually have like the full autonomy of all these, all these condition parts to just do their thing. Um, yeah, yeah. So there's, yeah, you know, in a, in a sense, it goes back to what we were saying in the early parts about the other threads, you have this raft that's necessary to get you to, to, from A to B and you need a, you know, like a river sticks guy that like, you know, drives the raft and the raft itself is a construct in that thread of whatever the question is. But ultimately the raft is seen as okay. Now we can sync that. Now we got to the other side, the understandings there, the raft is seen as kind of, why would I have that? And the, the driver of the raft disappears, basically drowned in the, in the journey. And then there's just the realization of like, Oh yeah, Oh yeah. Oh yeah. And some people, some people abandon the raft, like you just said, but some people, it feels, I feel like the raft kind of pops and sort of like sinks out from under their feet. That's more common. If I feel like, I feel like it's like, it's like just the practices stop working and there's spirituality starts falling away. And it's just like, you know, you're left just with, without the raft anymore. And things are just kind of. One of the remarkable, this is my experience. The, the ability to see what's going on at that stage is limited. Like, uh, for me, cause the raft pops out and it's like, why doesn't this work anymore? Why am I not interested in that? Why does this seem silly? Why does all spirituality seem dumb? Like, why are we talking about this? Why are we been using the word spirituality? What are these practices? It almost feels like you've gotten cynical, you've failed in some way, you've fallen back asleep, if that's possible, like all of that. But then the real, the actual lived experience is like, Oh, this is just totally fine. The life-living, uh, I don't understand. And then when it's pointed to you, like, actually you were the one who pointed this out. This is the first time I realized it when you were talking about it. I was like, Oh, that raft just wasn't necessary anymore. Like it, it served its part. It's gone. It's all integrated. It's like, I don't need it. And then that's not to say that shit doesn't arise. Like you said, like in the conditioning thread, especially, Oh my God, like stuff still comes up and I'm like, Oh, I'm a total asshole because of this thing that wasn't seen. And that's fine. I can, I can sit with that now. And it shows up in different aspects of even different punch throughs of different threads still kind of show up. And they're like, Hey, remember this? Like, Oh wait, yeah, this little piece. Um, but it's much more, yeah, it's just kind of very much a part of life. It's very integrated with that fifth thread, which is just the gross reality of taking kids to school and paying your bills and so on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So it's, you know, I said at the end of each one of the thread, it's you drop the thread. It's not like the, it's not like things become unempty. It's not like things become ununified. It's not like things become unenergetic. Right. And, and, and so here it's not like, you know, it's not like conditioning, you know, just totally disappears. It's not like, you know, things become unconditioned. Um, uh, it's just, there isn't so much need to track it all and pay attention to it and work with it and have viewpoints about it and have, you know, identify, identify with it and have ontologies about it and have systems about it and have arguments about it. And, you know, it's just, I mean, yeah. Um, yeah, it just can just, it can just, I, some people don't like, some of my friends don't like me to talk about autopilot. So that, that might be a bad metaphor, but, uh, it, it, it's the one that I usually reach for. It's just like, everything just goes on autopilot and it just kind of like is, it just kind of like works and does its thing. And there isn't really a need to really ruminate about all of this stuff or any of this stuff. Um, yeah, yeah, yeah. So it's, it's a nice sigh of, ah, okay. But then, but you don't escape. This is the thing. Like there's this feeling in spiritual circles that you're somehow transcending, avoiding it or better than nope. You're right back into life, lifing itself. And you don't, you are fully human, fully human. That's what it feels like. And I prefer, I mean, I, some people like to use what I think are rather elevated, uh, elevated language to talk about the, the release of the threads as like, oh, you're liberated or it's this side or the other. I mean, for me, I actually prefer to go the other way around. I don't remember if I said this last time, but I, I prefer to go the other way around and use like unattractive language to talk about this. So I don't mind saying like first you're asleep, then you have this whole awakening experience and then you just go back to sleep. Go back to sleep? It's perfectly fine to, to, to, to, I think it's probably more healthy to think about it that way. Um, so, you know, the, the, the whole awakening process is about extracting yourself out of that, um, identification with the, with the, the, the, the narrative self, the separate self, and you go through all of these other kinds of like processes of realization and so on and so forth. And then at the end, then it's just like, okay, like that whole thing can be let go of. It's not like you go back to being fused with the separate self. I don't mean that by going back to sleep. It's just like the whole kind of like apparatus of awakening and all the kind of experiences and all the kind of energy and attention and focus that you had on that can just be let go of. And you can just, you know, go back to like, like they say in Zen, which is, I guess your tradition, like chop wood, carry water, right? Or mountains are mountains again. Right. Like, like, I think that we have the pointers, um, in Zen, you know, to, to, to this thing that we're talking about here. Um, it's just the whole sort of apparatus of spirituality falls away and it's just like, okay, just get on with it. Yeah. Yep. Right back in, you know, but in many ways, Oh, what were you saying? Sorry. I was going to say, but just to, to reiterate something I said earlier, um, in, in, in my model of multidharma anyway, this is not a hierarchy. I'm not saying that people drop the threads are better than people who are in the threads. I actually think, I actually think it's probably the world would probably be a better place if we had more people that were like deeply embedded into certain positions and the threads than if, you know, like in terms of, you know, the power of certain teachings and certain kinds of, um, certain kinds of experiences to like wake people up and pull them out of the, out of their, you know, their, their, um, deep mind identification, embeddedness and identification with, with suffering and so forth. And I, I just feel like, like people who are in certain positions in the threads have just absolutely critical teachings. Um, and I, in no way think of people who have dropped the threads as being better than people who are holding the threads in any way. It's just a map of the territory and showing another, you know, like the savannahs over here, the mountains are over there, there's a swamp over here. And oh, by the way, there's a forest over here and, and none of them are better than the other. It's just different habitats where different beings live. Yeah. There's, it's, it's nice to have the bodhisattvas scattered everywhere at different stages that can show up for you when you need it. You know, uh, the, the other thing I was just going to say, that's beautifully said. I think, um, in many ways, this is Joseph Campbell's hero's journey. Uh, it can really feel like that. And the classic hero's journey is you're there in your normal mind identification. The call to adventure is called. You often refuse it, but then there's awakening. Then you go through all of these different threads unraveling and the psyche thread and going to the underworld and all of it in many ways is the hero's journey. But the, the atonement with the father, the reconciliation with your conditioning, with everything being empty, there's no self, the end of the hero's journey is you come right back home and you, you know, share the gift that you have. And the way that might share in an integrated way is just simply to, is just to be just to live life, uh, as authentically as is naturally happens. Um, so it feels like that. It feels like Campbell was looking at an archetype there. Um, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Um, yeah. So, so I, I don't know about you, but I get frequently asked, um, well, so if you've dropped all the threads, why are you writing a book about the threads? Why are you talking about? You just said there's nothing to talk about. There's nothing to talk about. Why are you actually talking about this? And, and, you know, part of that, I guess for me is just like the conditioning here is, you know, as a, an author and explainer, I'm a professor, I'm a, I'm a writer, I'm a teacher. Um, you know, that's what I do. Um, and so, you know, part of it's just conditioning to do that. So that's what I'm doing. Um, but another part of it is also, you know, I do think that there's, um, that there's maybe a need at the moment, uh, that I perceive for this kind of model to help to sort of give people, like I was saying earlier, an upgraded kind of sense of a larger territory. It doesn't mean this model is the best one. It doesn't mean this is the only one. It's just, it's just a slightly more capacious model that can kind of like be used in a different way in order to help people orient themselves, um, to where they are, uh, in order to hopefully help people to avoid some of the pitfalls of the, you know, spiritual emergencies and maybe avoid some of the kind of fundamentalist sort of thinking that I think takes place often in spirituality where people get really fixated on certain, uh, positions or certain locations or certain places within the, within the territory. Um, and maybe just offer like a broader menu of options for people to, um, you know, be able to incorporate into their, their own practice and think about, you know, where they want to go. Um, so, you know, so I think there's, I think there, there's nothing wrong with, um, you know, talking about things in ways that are helpful if they're helpful, hopefully they're helpful. Um, and, and, and putting that out there in the world and, and, and we can still do that even if we have dropped the threads, we can still talk about them. So. And, and even if there's no meaning or purpose of it, it's the conditioning that's arising here. It's like Zubin likes to talk about this shit. He gets a kick out of it. He's going to do it. And, uh, even, even if one video prior, he's like, you can't say a word about this. Anyone who talks about this as a con artist and needs to, you know, be exiled. It's just, this is how it is. Um, is, is there anything you want to say as we wrap up? We've got about three hours, man. We are bad. This is a marathon. It's like Rogan level. Um, what you mentioned again, spiritual emergency, spiritual crisis. Is there anything you want to say about that in particular as related to all this? Um, I mean, I think we've, I think we've talked about the kind of the value of context and being able to sort of have a broader context and how valuable that can be. Uh, there's, there's, there is research on spiritual emergency that I've been sort of like following. And that's one of the main takeaways I think from that, from that research is, is just, you know, people having a context for their experiences and not, not, you know, not devolving into panic and pathologization, but having, having options and having information, I think is, is, is, is crucial. Um, so I think we, I think we've talked about that. I think we've talked about what the multi-dharma model might be able to provide in that respect as well, giving people sort of points of orientation, but also pointing you towards like practice communities, right? Like if you're having some weird Kundalini thing, like, you know, there's, there are communities that, that work with that. And if you're having some weird, you know, depersonalization thing, there's communities that work with that and knowing the threads can help you to orient to them. So we talked about that. Um, and then, and then the other thing we talked about was just like, not, not discouraging people from getting help if you need to. Yeah. Right. So, so that might be something that we can, um, maybe, maybe just add some specific recommendations for people. Like if you do, um, you know, if you do find yourself needing, uh, help with a kind of a situation like this, I don't do any, um, spiritual teaching or personalized coaching. Um, um, I don't know if you do, but I don't do any, not really like that. Um, yeah, I, I do have a discussion group for my threads, like people that are interested in kind of thinking about the model and, you know, kind of geeking out about, you know, how, how it might relate to their experience or whatever. Um, so I do have those, those discussion groups that are listed on the website. Um, but I don't, I don't do any personalized kind of like spiritual advice. I think it's, uh, it's too intimate and needs, needs too much of a, um, too much of like, uh, availability that I don't have to do that kind of level of, of coaching. Um, so I wanted to recommend maybe the, um, cheetah house, cheetah, like the, like the cat, like the animal cheetah house, um, which is a, um, an organization that they have a number of different coaches, therapists of different types. It's mostly pure, pure coaching, pure therapy, um, people from different traditions. Um, there's an, there's another similar organization called spiritual emergence network. Um, and so these, these two organizations, they have websites and they have, you know, um, ways that you can reach out to them if you, if you want some kind of coaching or some assistance with spiritual emergency type stuff. Um, so maybe, maybe that's the only thing I would add. Yeah. That, that's super helpful. So the cheetah house and spiritual emergency network, is that what you said? Emergence network. Emergence, emergence. Okay. Okay. I'll, I'll find those and put links in the show notes for those. So people can have some resources because yeah, I, I, people reach out to me and I, there's only so much of me and I don't do personal stuff mainly because I'm not just, you know, it, there's no availability. You're right. And I almost have to sit with someone one-on-one, um, to kind of feel through some of the stuff. And I, I don't, it's very hard to do that. That's just me. Well, it's also, for me, it's also like, it's also like, I don't call the plumber for my wife's, my wife. Exactly. Um, like I'm, I'm not, I have no training whatsoever in therapy or coaching. I'm trained as a historian. I, you know, I trained in languages. I, you know, I've done, I've done plenty of practices. So I have my own experience there, but I don't have, I don't have the, um, the skill or the, or the, uh, the, I don't know the first thing about how to help other people on a one-on-one basis. So I don't have the malpractice insurance for it, honestly. So there's that let's be practical. Um, yeah. Yeah. So perfect. Perfect. So Pierce, this was, um, ridiculous. This was so fantastic. Uh, I think, I think people can pull out of this and I'll, I'll put time codes on it so people can jump to the section they're most interested in the thread they're most interested in. Um, but I, I recommend people listen to the whole thing and, uh, share it with someone who you think is going through something where they don't have a context for it. And this can be so helpful to prevent or recontextualize something before it becomes a spiritual emergency or spiritual crisis, um, that, that lands people in trouble. And, um, again, it's just so validating for so many people who, whose experience didn't fit into the typical context of whatever tradition they were started in, um, or they find themselves in by birth. Uh, so super, super helpful. Um, any last, uh, thoughts, Pierce? Um, no, I don't think so. I mean, I think we had, we had plenty of thoughts in the last, in the last three plus hours. Too many thoughts. Yeah. Too many. Yeah. But no, I think, um, yeah, I think people should listen to the other presentation, uh, because, because this one, we very much separated out these four threads. And in the other one, we talked about braiding and integration more. And I feel like pointing people who are more advanced along the, along their, um, their awakening process, you know, to, to maybe start with that one because they'll get the, sort of the full sense of the model before going to this. Definitely. Breakdown. Yeah. Definitely. Yeah. So we'll link to that. Um, we mentioned it in the beginning. So hopefully people will have that context because otherwise this would be a little bit odd. And, um, now my usual, you know, Hey, you know, if you guys like this content, just simply do a couple of things that help get it out to more, more people, hit the like button, leave a comment, subscribe, turn on your notifications. Those kinds of things just help tell these algorithms for these ridiculous companies that this is useful content and people like it. And that way the people who need to see it will, uh, hopefully see it. Um, of course nobody needs anything, but it just seems to be a kind of an orchestration in that way. That said Pierce, a million thanks, uh, again for sharing your wisdom with us and with me personally, like it's been so helpful. Um, and we'll see you next time when we go dive even deeper into maybe the psyche thread or people can leave in the comments what they want to hear more about too. And, uh, yeah, thanks again, brother. Yeah. Thanks. This was, this was a lot of fun. It's yeah. Time flies when we're, when we're jamming together. So it's crazy, right? Like I could probably go another two hours, but the, I think the audience is already like hanging from the rafters. Um, awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Until next time, peace out. All right. Bye.