 I think we're live. I'm gonna load up your comments here. It's Christmas Eve, son! Oh, it does work. Look at that. So if I click on that, I can see your comments here too. Nice. Is there any reason to actually see them on an iPad as well? Maybe, maybe not. I don't know. Probably just purely out of boredom. Come on down. I got the living room going. Kathleen is the first comment. Merry Christmas Eve. That's right. So it's Christmas Eve, the eve of Christmas. The whole love thing, right? The, the, that Jesus was about. It was that total heart-based amazement. That's, I think, what we're trying to celebrate. Evan, Sunshine, Amber, Kara, Maureen Bruins, Happy Holidays, Love the Tree. Thanks. My wife and kids picked this while I was doing some other errands that day and they came back with this thing and Charlie Brown Christmas treat it into life. So it was kind of nice. And I think, hang on, let me see if I can, yeah, we got a fire going. Yay! Nothing like a gas fireplace to make the spirit real. Let me go back to your comments here. You guys talked about love yesterday and I've been thinking about it since then. That's interesting. Like love is one of those things that when we think about it, we think about the human conception of love. Like it's a very mind-based and emotion-based kind of sense. I think the love we are speaking of is more like the pervasive fabric of reality. And it's also sensed. It's actually realized. It's not thought about. You can reflect on it and thought, but it's not it. It's like a reflection. It's like a hallmark card versus actually being in love. You know? It's an embodied thing too. Like if you're walking on a path and you're feeling that and it's embodying, people will just smile at you. They'll say hi. Whereas when you don't, it's hit or miss whether they'll do that. It's really odd. It's something that I've just kind of noticed. And I may be imagining it because the mind does some funny things and all of life is just one big placebo. So there's that. Hi, Kathy. Happy Ho Ho and all that. Hi, Robin. Jennifer says much love to all this holiday season. Awesome. And Cindy says hi from New Brunswick, Canada. Yeah. All kinds of great people here today. Let's see. So yeah, so tell me what you guys want to talk about. Merry Christmas, Robin. Wow, I got so many little screens going. Hashtag blessed. All the cliches just seem kind of funny. We had a big windstorm here last night and our plants and stuff blew down. That was the excitement of the day and sending out all kinds of positive vibes to people working over the holidays. I found myself, you know, when I was working full time as a hospital doctor, I often worked holidays and it was actually really chill, really good to do that because you saw people in a different state. The whole vibe of the thing was different. You felt like you were kind of being of service just by showing up, even though you complained. And the cafeteria food was dried out, turkey and crappy cranberry sauce out of a can. It was still awesome. Kathy says hallmark love is unattainable and ruins it for all of us. It's a human conception and it's very much marketing. You know, Valentine's Day and all that, like what love ought to be. Who says everything is made of this? It can be realized that way. Whether I'm not making a claim about the nature of reality, I'm saying like inexperience. It can be felt that everything is made of that kind of non-human, non-conceptual, perfect, unconditional love. And that's beyond any words and stuff and that can show up as anger. It can show up as hatred. It can show up as war, that same love. That's the real paradox. So we reduce it to these different platitudes and cliches and things like that. And all that's fine. That's all fine too. That's how what humans are. Hi, Cory. Are you a local, right in the bay? Why am I so itchy? Probably because I haven't really woken up even though I got up at 4 a.m. and it's now almost 10 a.m. Isn't that ironic? I still haven't woken up. Cory says happy holidays may all arise as clear as it actually is. Oh, that's a nice blessing. Yeah, as clear as it actually is. Evelyn says, would you speak to sitting in unknown and uncertainty and adjusting to just being with what is? Oh, that's beautiful. Okay. Okay, if you actually watch your experience, watch your mind, watch what's happening in most of your daily experience for most people. We are living in a constant churn of thought that creates a supposed reality. So it creates expectation in every moment. Like, okay, in the next moment, it's going to be like this or later today, it's going to be like that or it's Christmas Eve, we're going to have a roasted chicken for dinner and it's going to show up like this. And the older we are, the more experienced we are that have the more conditioning we have, the more that engine of fabrication of our reality, the more efficient it is, the more habitual it is, the more ingrained it is. And so we live in this constant fabrication where we have expectations and labels and filters on reality all the time. So we're also thinking about the past. We're thinking about our problems. We're thinking about solutions to problems that we're creating in thought. These problems don't exist in the absolute reality. There's nothing but appearance here, but they exist in thought. So the issue of how do you live in the unknown without that, without expectation, what that's like. So it's the wordless. It's when you allow attention in some way is just allowed to drop out of that bubble. It's seen through instantly in any moment it can be. And then there's just the complete absolute mystery that this is not known at all, that this is just exactly like Cory said earlier, exactly what it is as an appearance. It's exactly what it is, which means you can't say anything about it. You can't pin it down. You can't put a spin or a word on it because words don't capture reality. So then in this now, which isn't even a now because that's another label, there's just absolute thisness. And then thought comes back and it's like, okay, but in five minutes you're going to lose the thisness. In five minutes you're going to need to wake your kids up so they can have breakfast and work on college applications or they're going to, you know, all that stuff will come back. And that's fine. But for that timeless instant and these instance become more frequent and more regular, there's just the unknown, which is reality itself outside of thought, inclusive of thought as an appearance. So thought doesn't go anywhere. It's just no longer believed. It's no longer, you're no longer lost in the sauce of that. Instead, there's just the waterfall of experience just happening to no one because there isn't even a center because the center is a thought. The self is a series of thoughts, beliefs, structures. So then without that, there's no need to even think about, oh, there's no self here or I'm in the unknown or this is so spontaneous. And those thoughts may arise. It's more just freedom for freedom's sake, for nobody. And it is. It's radically unknown. So until like some of our trauma, our emotional repression, some other stuff conditioning that we're sitting on, until that's allowed to express and come through in what people call shadow work and things like that, nobody's doing the shadow work. It's like doing itself. Until that is allowed to kind of play itself out continually, we live on top of that stuff and it becomes something that keeps pulling us like a rubber band energetically back into thought, back into the trying to solve these problems. So that's why that stuff is so important. It's like what prevents you from being in the unknown every moment? What prevents the spirit that Jesus said was the kingdom of heaven since we're talking about Christmas Eve? What prevents us from being in the kingdom of heaven in any moment? Well, it's that. It's all of that conditioning, all that habit, all that thought labyrinth. And as Jesus also said, unless you become like these children, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. Meaning the innocence of the child before it was conditioned, before it was traumatized, when everything was the unknown, everything was wonder. So the question was, how do you stay in that? That's where the words really feel like I could, I could give you platitudes like a million spiritual teachers and non-duality teachers, gurus, but really you know at a deep level it's this, it's what's happening. And even that is saying too much because nothing's really happening. Because to say something's happening, you put a label on it and the labels drop and then it's just pure. You could use words like pure presence, you could use words like God, you could use words like pure love, you could use words like, you could be more existential and nihilistic and say the void or emptiness or the unborn. You could be zen and say the unborn, like this thing that doesn't, was never born and doesn't die and it's not a thing and it's the radiant potential from which everything seems to vibrate and everything I just said is wrong. Because it's words. Robert Gonzalez says, what is all matter was merely energy condensed to a slow vibration and we are all one consciousness experiencing itself subjectively. There is no such thing as death, life is only a dream and we are an imagination of ourselves. Well that is one way to say what is unsayable using terms that mind will understand like consciousness, imagination, energy, vibration and it's fun and it does point at this. But if you take any of what you said literally, I think it becomes another story that we tell ourselves that's another conceptual realm that then not only do we try to live in, we seek. Like why can't I see that everything is condensed energy? Well condensed energy is a way to hack the mind and go okay what if this was all just condensed energy slowed to a vibration that's what matter is and it's coming out of the quantum void and everything we know about ourselves is a story and an imagination that that energy is doing. That's a fun way to talk about it and it can reframe, it can actually kind of put the mind on tilt and then what's left? Just this, you know, it couldn't be anything else. A few minutes ago you added, you asked why am I so itchy and seemed very mildly irritated or frustrated? This was striking to me because my practice right now is partly about sitting with itches not scratching them and feeling the sensations. I'm autistic so this is a huge amount of stimulation, this is Marcus Geduld by the way, huge amount of stimulation from me and it can bring me close to panic though not all the way into panic. What is it like for you to be itchy? What a great question Marcus, wow you're very analytical and precise and I love that. So I have done years of meditation and that kind of mindfulness where you're looking at sensations, so an itch like what is an itch? Like when we call it an itch we're labeling it, we're turning it into something that happens to a me and then anger, frustration, reactivity apply to it. So then you can go, I'm speaking for me now so what I did then was I'd sit in meditation and I would feel an itch and I would go oh what is this and try to deconstruct it into what its primary sense energy is. So what is it really? It's a dancing sense energy that seems to be here. Okay is it really there or is that another overlay of thought putting it in a place? Oh no it actually is happening in a placeless place that I can nail down and it's like an energy, a dancing energy vibration okay. Does it have any good, bad or neutral qualities only that I apply to it but in reality it's just what it is and then it can just be allowed to play itself out and usually it dissolves and if it doesn't dissolve it's no longer a problem. So that's the sort of meditative approach to looking at sensation which I think is what you're implying you're doing now which is great. Then what can happen is like after that starts to integrate and you the shadow starts to come up like all the trauma, emotion, conditioning that you haven't seen, pain, all the stuff starts to get processed. There's a maturity I think of insight that seems to happen and again I'm just speaking for my own experience. I don't know what these words really mean. Where an itch just becomes an itch again. So now itching arises, Zubin expresses, I don't know what words are coming from, scratches it, there may be a sense of a flash of irritation arises and then it falls away and it's gone and none of it is resisted, none of it is turned into a problem, none of it is analyzed, it's just allowed to be exactly what it is through the human filter and it resolves itself and it's quite free. Itching is no longer a problem but it no longer needs to be deconstructed, monitored, fiddled with, it's just allowed to be exactly what it is. So Corey early on said, I hope everything is seen as exactly what it is. I mean that's it. So that's my experience of itching. Great questions. You guys are on fire today. Christmas Eve, magic. Hi Erin, love you too and I don't know you but I love you. Sherry Anderson says, societal constructs prevents our mind from being there. So society, this whole thing, it tells us we're supposed to behave a certain way, there are expectations of us, we pay our taxes, we pay our bills, we go work, we raise children or don't, we have a partner or don't, we do all that. Those are all consensus stories that we tell and it's all fine and that if you don't want to play that game, don't but do notice it's kind of like what we were talking about with Marcus earlier. You can break, deconstruct those things and you can see them for what they are which is total constructions. They have nothing to do with anything in objective reality. Once you do that then you can dance with that. You go okay that's what it is so society expects this, maybe I'll play this game but I won't play that and it's natural what this body-mind organism wants to do is what it's going to do. So maybe it'll play the game of being a YouTuber or doing Facebook but it won't play the game of pretending to care about you know something that it doesn't or trying to be, have an identity as somebody who is ambitious or successful. What are any of those things right? So society starts to deconstruct itself and then it just is allowed to be what it is so it affects you whenever that happens and when it doesn't it doesn't but there's a freedom, there's a knowing of it in its right place that it is just a story and that's the freedom. So you can take it sincerely but you never have to take it seriously. Again that's freedom. Marcus says okay let's scroll forward Ann says I love you are talking how you're talking across religions. It's all words different words and versions trying to talk about the same thing that like you say aren't really able to be put into words right. So this is what I've noticed about religions. They're all pointing I mean the fundamental root of the great religions and the less great religions meaning the smaller versions are pointing at this. Jesus was pointing at this, the Sufis pointed at this, the Hindus were pointing at this, thousands of years ago, the Buddhists, the Confucians, the Jews all pointing at this. Big religions often get hijacked by societal structures, power dynamics, hierarchies, control, rules, all of that and that's all fine too but what I do find is sometimes like if I speak from a Buddhist perspective the Christians in my audience get triggered and they're like Zubin the reason you're so you know you're talking about the void and the emptiness of reality and the insubstantial and impermanent and unreliable and no self-nature is because you haven't found Christ and only he can save your eternal soul and it's like okay so that's I understand where you're coming from because that's your conditioning around that religion but these are all saying the same thing right and if I were better at communicating I would be more inclusive of the various expressions in any moment but sometimes I'm speaking to a more Buddhist flavor sometimes I'm speaking to a Christian flavor sometimes speaking to a like a Vedantic Hindu Advaita non-dual flavor like with the different deities representing different aspects of human expression different aspects of reality the dance Lila there's so many different beautiful expressions of this in humanity and we call them religion religion to link back that's religios I think is the I forget the Latin root that's what it means oh thanks Marcus glad I'm not going to try to pronounce it again because I'll get it wrong hi vicky hi doc vicky across and between religions exactly and then get rid of all let it all go because you don't need any of it but it's beautiful when it shows up like really it's this you trust your own experience this is like God is staring at you in the face if you want to use that language it's like right here Brian Pasalakwa says you helped me get through the difficult COVID times sharing your knowledge and humor thank you yeah Zubin showed up for that this character was designed to do that and now he's let it go and now he's also talking about himself in the third person which is interesting that's odd I'll stop that I'll stop that Roland says Merry Christmas good luck with my last name okay let me see here I'm gonna put my glasses on for this last name okay it's either la liberty or la liberty so you have to help me now or maybe it's yeah la liberty la liberty la liberty oh boy Chris happy holidays get your blue milk eggnog that's right Star Wars baby Chris uh pia font pia font pia font says Jesus gave unconditional love I would think he'd welcome all religions so if you read so Jesus is an absolutely amazing figure amazing enlightened I mean look at the stories and the words in the New Testament that are read that Jesus spoke the transfiguration the trial on the ship with the apostles where everything's hitting the fan and Jesus is like sleeping like there were so many metaphors there for the freedom of this of the kingdom of heaven which is right here and Jesus expressed it all through the lens of unconditional love and so you know what happens the Romans twist it the you know everybody twists it into the societal matrix which is fine you know it's all innocent in that sense we can't do it otherwise but if you look at the core teachings it's like wow wow just gorgeous um Joe Mitchell says it's good to be part of whatever this uh zube whatever this is zube thank you man glad you enjoy it Joe I'm glad you're here Paige says amen Vicki says you can definitely see pointing across and within religions doctrine but words cannot do justice to what is there you go so we try though because we have to talk I have to uh say like um you know there's 50 some odd people right now on this Facebook live on you know Friday Christmas Eve morning and you guys are like you can feel in the comments you can feel in the energy of this thing that this is like reality looking at reality through 54 different eyes and ears but can you feel that crazy Kara says was revolutionary reading parts of the bible in this lens beautiful yes if you really want to go deep on that Adya Shanti has an audiobook called Resurrecting Jesus um and it's amazing it's the Jesus story because Adya was like a hardcore Christian and then Zen and all this and he sees it all through the lens of liberation the kingdom of heaven is spread upon the earth yet men do not see it that's from the gospel of Thomas which is one of the Gnostic gospels I think that isn't accepted by all Christians right because it's newer it was found more recently some consider it like heretical but it was basically the enlightenment angle of Jesus's words Chris says he taught us to see a person's heart not the external coverings right and those and that heart is your heart love thy neighbor as you love thyself oh you read it Kara yeah yeah isn't it amazing yeah Resurrecting Jesus Adya Shanti on Christmas Eve it's a good one to recommend actually Maureen says feeling all these vibes today this has been a great conversation I'm glad you guys are here for it um Chaz says police got my car police got my car now Mamba Santa from Cuba oh man I like that I don't know what it means but I like it maybe that's why I like it because I have no idea what it means um yeah Anna Anna I read that too uh or feeling the vibes yeah um Vicki says less than I are walking in nature and pointed out that we are having church right now thanks yeah this is church for me that's why I used to call it Sunday's end when I do those Sunday things it was like oh yeah because because I've I've never really had that you know grew up as a Zoroastrian there weren't really there's like two churches in the US temples they call them and I didn't really believe in a single god that controlled my destiny or any of that um so it's kind of a agnostic uh so I never had that and now as I get older it's like oh it's nice to have a community where we can feel what these things are pointing at it's funny to my grandfather in India he used to tell me when I was a teenager I went and visited him in Pune India called Puna at that time which is the name I will still know it by and he um I asked him I said you know this place is like very spiritually feeling like India but like what's your deal with that like do you believe in god because I'm an atheist that's what I told him when I was 14 or whatever and uh he looked at me and he was like oh yeah I was like you I was an atheist like didn't believe in any of this nonsense and I was like okay so cool so we're we're the same he goes no but now I'm it's absolutely all of it true he's like god this is it's un without a doubt and he used to read me Rumi and Khalil Jabri or Jabri I forget you know I say his last name the Persian poets and um he was like no god is absolutely real like and I didn't get it at all I'm like how can this like guy that I admire so much that's that's so clear otherwise and cynical and kind of sarcastic believe in magic and now I totally get it not like yeah that's that's magic it's all magic it's all it's all uh it can be anything anything it can be anything this potentiality it is all like kind of like a sheen of god is a one way to say it uh clunky way let me grab your comments here Tom Reach this is church for me as well but wait a minute this yeah this this this is the church Vicky says hard to see the monotheistic perspective but I am I'm not even convinced that the bible points to that that's the thing it's all interpretation right they'll say things that were appropriate for the time like you shall not have false idols before me and so on right because there were all these multi pagan uh type sex at the time and the religions were competing for each other with each other I should say Gibran thank you Suzanne that's right Khalil Gibran Chris says we were given freedom of will we are shown different paths and it's up to us to choose so we were given the um it seems like there's a sense of choice and free will and that's enough is there actually choice and free will is there something determining our fate or is it all just mysteriously beyond that I'm in the latter camp now that um I used to argue for free will then I argued against free will  and so on. Now, I think it's neither free will or not free will, and it's both free will and not free will. It can be anything. There's no way that things are until we fabricate them. So we fabricate free will, we fabricate determinism, like there's a God that determines our path or fate, or scientific nihilistic determinism, where it's just like, no, it's the causative conditions of all the matter in the universe interacting with an element of chance thrown in from quantum uncertainty. It's also a kind of determinism with randomness in it. None of that and all of that can be true, and it doesn't matter. Moment to moment, it feels like I make choices. Moment to moment, I take responsibility for my choices, even though I know at a deeper level that there's no responsibility, no choice, and everything's just happening. But I don't need anybody to tell me that I'm held accountable. It just is natural, because it's very difficult to do something that's going to hurt. Or create suffering these days. But when you're stuck in mind all the time and you think things are supposed to be a certain way, it's easy to create suffering. It's in fact, I think the default. We just don't know it. We call it doing good and we're doing harm and we don't know it. Jojo grew up in the Philippines, nine mornings to five a.m. Oh, nine mornings, five a.m. to church, just thankful to that tradition. Yeah, the tradition can be powerful in the community around it. Yeah, Vicki, who knows about the free will question? We don't know anything. Nine days before Christmas, I see Jojo. Yeah, Tom Reach says, Jesus himself said, you are gods. That would kind of point things away from monotheism. Yeah, I mean, and I don't know enough about the details of that deconstruction. Whether there's God or gods or no gods or your God or any of it, it doesn't really matter because the realization is here now, right? Like of this, if there's God, he or she or it is here now. If there's no God, then there's only this here now. So it all comes down to this. The kingdom of heaven is spread upon the earth yet men do not see it. Chaz says, one in the past, one in the future, where is the presence? The presence are under the tree. Sorry, dad joke. Presence is a thought, too. There's no presence when you really look. There's just what is. You call that presence. But then now we're just playing with words, right? Oh, I'm glad, Paul. I'm glad you're comfy. Yeah, it is nice. You guys are going to think the video is frozen. But man, that is. That is nice, huh? Oh, thank you, Anna, for being here. Thank you, Jojo. All right. I think maybe we did a thing, huh? Oh, I will tell them. Yeah, yesterday was my daughter Nina's 18th birthday. So she's an adult. Christmas Eve Eve. That's when she was born 18 years ago. Isn't that crazy? So we went out to dinner yesterday at this Japanese restaurant we like, and it was really nice. Yeah. Oh, thanks, Gloria, for being here. I'm glad you're here. Oh, thanks, Gloria, for being here. All right. Time to bounce. Have a wonderful holiday. And I hope you're surrounded by people you love. And if not, then you're surrounded by pure love, which is all of the manifestation. To continue our Christian metaphors, the Holy Spirit. Everywhere. All right, gang, stay in the presence. Until next time. Peace.