 sidelan. sidelidelan, sidelanan, sidelan, sidelanan, sidelan, sidelanan, sidelanan, sidelanan, sidelanan, sidelanan, sidelanan, sidelanan, sidelanan, sidelanan, sidelanan, sidelanan, sidelanan, sidelanan, sidelanan, sidelanan, sidelanan, sidelanan, sidelanan, sidelanan, sidelanan sidelanan, sidelanan sidelanan sidelanan sidelanan sidelan sidelanan sidelan sidelan sidelan sidelan sidelan sidelan sidelan sidelan sidelan sidelan sidelan sidelan sidelan sidelan sidelan sidelan sidelan sidelan sidelan sidelan sidelan sidelan s in healthcare, and there's good things that we back that we want them to do. But then this RFK thing, you and I kind of have this understanding of RFK Jr. that I think the public may not. And I think it's important that we kind of draw a line somewhere. We can say, okay, what is correct and what is really not a great thing? I mean, I'm understating the issue here, as far as my understanding, especially with RFK and vaccines. And so I thought of you, and I remembered how sane, rational, balanced, and humble you were during COVID and how my audience really, really appreciated that. And I appreciated that. And I thought, boy, another chance to deploy the Paul-seeking truth missile is just brilliant. So welcome back. Thanks. Thanks for having me. Let's start with this. I recently did a show with Dr. Prasad where I predicted that Trump would appoint Dr. Oz to a high-ranking position in healthcare government. And he did. What are your thoughts on our good friend, Mehmet? Actually, I like him. I mean, I've been on his show a couple of times. He calls me periodically when he has questions about things. He's a little bit all over the place. I mean, on the one hand, for example, he was very much against the H1N1 swine flu vaccine when it came out. But then since then, he's promoted influenza vaccines, he has said that he's not sure, he's ambivalent about whether the measles, mumps, rubella vaccine causes autism. But then when there was a huge measles epidemic in this country around 2019, when we had like 1,000 cases, he was a big proponent of measles vaccine because, you know, children were getting hospitalized. He promoted hydroxychloroquine for an anti-malarial drug for the treatment of COVID, which clearly didn't work. And he's endorsed RFK Jr. and Joe Mercola, which has been hard to watch. And he's also argued for spacing vaccines out, the notion being that they're just too many too soon, and that's somehow overwhelming our immune system. So he's kind of all over the place. Yeah. You know, it's interesting. People have, since he was appointed, I've gotten dozens of text messages from people who've known me for years who are like, oh my God, your arch nemesis, the guy you've been crapping on for, you know, over a decade is now in this position of power. And you know what's funny? When it happened, because I'd been primed with RFK being appointed, it actually didn't bother me. Because like you said, Oz can be reasonable. Oz is medically trained. Oz has an academic background. Oz may be an opportunist and have a lot of ambition and all of that, but he's actually a clear thinker. So someone like that in a position of power doesn't frighten me. Now let's contrast that. And people will be shocked to hear that, but I'm actually, I'm willing to talk to Dr. Oz. I think it's great that at least they've got a well-trained physician in a position like, I think there's a hundred other people I would have appointed sooner, but it's totally fine. But now how do we contrast this? And I want to say like, my audience in particular is very sympathetic to a lot of the things Bobby Kennedy says around ultra-processed foods, around conflict of interest in the pharmaceutical industry, around prevention of disease. So where are we, what are they missing here with this particular appointment? All right. Well, I'll start with the good news. I certainly agree that we can eat better, that we can eat better foods, that we can diet, exercise far better than we do. Not that I do any of those things, but I think it's a really good idea. Because we do have, you would argue, an epidemic of obesity and type two diabetes and the consequences of those disorders like strokes and heart attacks, we can be healthier. And if that's what he means by making America healthy again, I'm all for it. Well, on the other hand, he's not going to be the guy to do this, I think, because he's a science denialist. And that's the nicest way I can say it. I mean, he, I first came in contact with him when he called me about 20 years ago, I think it was around 2004. And he said there were, and I wrote a sub stack about this, which I posted a long time ago and then posted again recently, just because he became this guy again, where he said, you know, there are parents who would come to my office, they're worried about this ethyl mercury containing preservative thimerosal that's in vaccines. As children were getting more and more vaccines, and some of those vaccines contained thimerosal, that he was worried that that could do harm. And the parents were worried. And when, what could I tell him? So this was around 2004. Now, thimerosal had largely been taken out of vaccines by around 2000, 2001, because I was on the, the advisory committee for immunization practice to the CDC around that time. So I remember that whole episode. And I think it was really an example of how not to communicate theoretical risks. That's what that was. I mean, you know, the public health service and the American Academy pediatrics took, put out a statement, which was, was true, but told you everything you needed to know. They said, you know, all the evidence to date is that thimerosal at the level containing vaccines is safe, but to make safe vaccines even safer, we're going to take it out. Well, if it's safe, make it safer. It just makes it perceived to be safer, which is different. I mean, mercury is never going to sound good, right? It's not like there's the national center for the appreciation of heavy metal standing up in defense of mercury. There's, there's no recommended daily allowance of mercury on our cereal boxes, right? But you, if you live on the earth's crust, which we pretty much all do, um, mercury is in the, it's in the earth's crust in an inorganic form. It comes to the surface via volcanoes, rock or rock erosions. And then it's, it's methylated, meaning it's taken up by bacteria on the, in the soil or on the seas and methylate. So now it's organic mercury. It's not inorganic mercury anymore. And, and, and organic mercury can cross cell membranes and certainly mercury at high levels can, can clearly do harm. I mean, there was an Iraqi fumigated grain disaster. There was a Minabon at Bay disaster, these sort of, um, corporate associated, um, harm. So which can harm people as well as certainly the unborn, uh, child. So that's not a question. The question is, is, is there is no, the point is, there's no avoiding mercury. Mercury is in anything that you drink that's made from water, which is everything. So mercury is in breast milk. It's in infant formulas. It's in everything you drink. So then the question becomes, is the, is the quantity of mercury that was in vaccines? I mean, really prior to around 2000, 2001, was that harmful? This was actually easily studied. I mean, there were, there were Western Europe basically took thimerosal preservatives out of vaccines and went to single dose phallus in the early nineties. There were Canadian provinces that used, uh, thimerosal containing vaccines right next to provinces that use the same vaccines that didn't contain thimerosal. And then we took it out by 2000, 2001. So when he called me in 2004, there were a lot of studies to answer that question. I thought I'd answered them. I, I thought it was a really good conversation. I remember coming back to my wife that night and saying, this was great. I had a great conversation with RFK Jr. We're going to be throwing around the football at that compound anytime soon. Actually, I didn't think that, but you know, you're going to be at Hyannis port, just like chumming up with the blue bloods. Oh, like the Kennedy's is dead right now. Just kidding. So in any case, I thought it was then, like in July of 2005, there was an article published in Rolling Stone called deadly immunity, right? Where he basically, this was really his entrance into the anti-vaccine world, RFK Jr. Claiming that, um, that mercury and vaccines caused harm, that it was, it's present in vaccines at 187 times the actual level that I was evil because I was associated with a pharmaceutical company. Although I actually was, have never been associated with a pharmaceutical company. It's current with any contract. I mean, I've always been funded by NIH or my hospital or the Wistar Institute. I'm not, I've, I've never been funded by the pharmaceutical industry in any case, but I did work on a vaccine. I am the co-inventor of the rotavirus vaccine, the rototech, uh, accomplishment of which I am proud. Um, but so what he wrote in that article was that the reason that I defended, um, uh, thimerosal was because our vaccine was quote unquote, laced with thimerosal, which of course is true of no live attenuated viral vaccine contains preservatives. So, so I called up the editor of, uh, of Rolling Stone and said, you know, this is all wrong. This article is all wrong. And he sort of did that, um, that Ben Bradley, we stand by our reporter kind of thing. And it was really depressing. Ultimately they did withdraw the article because it was so inaccurate. Um, but it was, it was that, and I, I sort of became part of his stump speech. He would say, you know, um, when he would go speak to, you know, groups, parent groups, he would say, you know, I called the CDC and, and I said, you know, who can I talk to about this? And they said, um, that you can call Paul Offit. And I called this guy and he lied to me. I'm thinking he told me he would send me articles and he didn't. And, and I, people ask me for articles all the time. Of course I would have sent it to him. So I don't get that. In any case, he said, he taped the conversation. Great. Release the tape. Let's hear it. Cause this is not the way I remember the conversation. In any case, it was all very demoralized because he sandbagged me. He lied. And, and I was, I was very open hearted to him. I believed him and I was wrong. You know, I don't know why this makes me like, it actually hits the emotion button for me because I know you, Paul, like I know what kind of human you are. And I know that you're telling the truth and you're earnest and you care about children. You care about adults. You care about truth. You care about communication. And my only, my, I believe what you're saying. And you're right. If he had the tapes, we'd hear it. So what, so what's going on with this particular human? Like what, what trauma has he had that he's, this is how he operates and everything that I've dug into. So in his book, you know, the Fauci book that he put out recently, which is also full of nonsense, right? Which we can talk about. I, this is how I know he's a liar because I know who I am. And he referred to me in the book because vis-a-vis you, right? As a pharma troll. So first of all, I don't know what that means. Second of all, I'd love to be a pharma troll for money, but I've never been paid by pharma to troll anyone. So he just makes this ish up and puts it down like it's fact. And I don't know whether it's because he's unstable. He has an other agenda. He's trying for prominence, but from reading articles about how he was in college, when admittedly he was using a lot of substances and so on, this mindset of paranoia, people are trying to deceive me, conspiracy thinking is not new for him. And if you listen to Carolyn Kennedy, his cousin talk about him, the Australian ambassador, she said, listen, you know, whatever he's saying now, we know his views for a long time and they're dangerous with regards to vaccines. So this is not new. So that said, Paul, that was your initial thing. And then since then with the Children's Defense Fund, which is his not for profit, he's gone around continuing to promote this idea that that mercury is in the vaccines, that they cause autism, that there's too many, too quick, too much at once, all of that. What else has he said through that organization? Right. So he he recently he was on a Lex Friedman's podcast and was asked the question, is there any vaccine this recently, any vaccine that you think is a value? And he said, no. So so that surprised Friedman. So Friedman followed it up with the the question, well, how about the polio vaccine? You know, fair enough. I mean, RFK Jr. was born in the early 1950s, same time I was born. And certainly he got to watch polio in this country. We all did. And he said, no, regarding the polio vaccine, that vaccine killed more people than it saved. What is he talking about? I mean, and you're right, he still says vaccines cause autism when many studies have shown that it has. And he's he's an AIDS denialist. He doesn't think that HIV was the cause of AIDS. So and more recently, he said this was at a dinner in New York. He said that SARS-CoV-2 virus was created, engineered. So which also, by the way, is not true. This was an animal to human spillover event that occurred in stall A of the southwestern section of the Hunan wholesale seafood market. They created two lineages of that virus that was either associated with bamboo rats or uh, pomp civets or raccoon dogs, because that, that was the DNA that was detected right there in the, on the, in the cages and the, uh, the stuff used to kill the animals, to brush the animals, the carts all there. And so the problem was, well, in any case, China killed all the animals in January 1st. That was the problem. They didn't do that with SARS-1. They let, they still salt the animals. And it was very easy to go find those animals then and see that that was a problem. But in any case, the, so it was engineered to, um, to specifically attack blacks and whites, but to spare Jew, Ashkenazi Jews and Chinese. I always thought I was white, but you know, maybe I'm wrong. Um, so, so this is, okay. This is really interesting because this is where this, this, okay. There's, there's, there's, there's several things here. One is the HIV denialism. That is, um, an aberrancy in science denialism that we thought was gone, right? We now have somebody who's being proposed for health and human services, uh, director who would deny that the virus that is targeted by antiretrovirals that have saved and that have turned HIV from a death sentence into a chronic disease, a chronic illness that's managed, uh, in mostly often in marginalized populations or populations that don't have a lot of power or resource. Now the person who's being proposed to be in charge of this says, oh no, that's not even the cause of AIDS and all of this science is wrong. That's basically what he's saying. Not a scientist. He's an environmental lawyer with the last name of Kennedy. So now, now why would people believe, okay, why would people believe him and believe also the lab leak theory, right? Because, uh, I think, and this is the root of this misunderstanding, like where things have shifted, right? And you understand this too, because we were talking about this during COVID. The fact that during COVID, the elite scientific community appeared to be deaf to common human sense means that there must be some collusive effort of them to control us in some way. And that's the RFK pitch. Fauci is trying to, you know, create a depopulation or whatever it is that he's, that he's saying, instead of just saying scientists are scientists, they're not often great communicators. They may understand science, but they don't always understand policy or how actual human beings work. And so maybe we should look at that instead of throwing all of that out and saying, it's all been a conspiracy to bioengineer this Chinese virus and kill everybody, but Jews. And Chinese. Oh, and Chinese, right. Because of course, because the Chinese engineered it. So you have to spare. Yeah. Yeah. We didn't see. It's the lore of conspiracy. It's, I think when a horrible thing happens, it's very, um, it's very seductive to, to go to a conspiracy. It is. I mean, when princess Diana, you know, died or something, I mean, it's, it's the same thing that you're always looking for that conspiracy. Frankly, when, when, uh, Donald Trump was shot at, you know, in, uh, in Butler, Pennsylvania, you immediately think that there's something going on behind the scenes. And, you know, when Kennedy, uh, John F. Kennedy was killed, you know, it's just, you're always looking for that conspiracy. And, um, because first of all, you're not always wrong. I mean, sometimes, yeah, that's right. But, but you're usually wrong. And that was certainly true. And it's the same thing. What he says regarding vaccines, he says, he's going to get you the real information. He's going to find the real data because he's going to get to the real data. And then he'll, then you'll, you'll understand. And he's going to interpret that data for you because you should trust him and no one else. And I mean, it's as if data are being hidden. I mean, when we, we, the FDA vaccine advisory committee sat down in December of, um, 2020 to review Pfizer's vaccine and Moderna's vaccine, you know, the way that works is that you get 200 pages from the company, their emergency use authorization. You get about 200 pages also from the FDA, which has reviewed all the data to make sure there's no omissions or, um, misrepresentations. So you get 400 pages to read basically a week before you meet to discuss each of those vaccines. So in that two week period, you read 800 pages of data. Those were all open to the public. You could, you could read those, those, those studies. The problem, and I'm trying to figure out a nice way to say this, you wouldn't need some expertise to understand it. You would, you would need to have some background in virology, immunology, statistics, epidemiology, which most people don't have. And frankly, most doctors don't have. I mean, that's why they look to expert advisory committees for, for advice. And I, I would argue we've done a pretty good job. I mean, you know, what have, what have vaccines done? They've caused us to live 30 years longer than we used to. Now they're not perfect. I mean, anything that has a positive effect can have a negative effect. And sometimes you learn about it later. You know, it's, there is no hiding. Here's what I would say. If pharmaceutical companies were going to lie about vaccine safety, they're not going to be able to hide for long because look at, look at the COVID vaccine. I mean, the mRNA vaccines were tested in 40,000 people, meaning one-to-one placebo. So really 20,000 got the vaccine. For the Pfizer vaccine, 15,000 got the vaccine. For the Moderna vaccine, that's 35,000 people. Now that's, that's not a lot. I mean, I can tell you when, when we read those, those data, your heart is in your throat because you know, you're making a recommendation for tens to hundreds of millions of people. And you know, the other shoe is going to drop because it always does. You're going to find something that's rare. And you did with myocarditis, the roughest estimate was about one in 50,000 for, for the mRNA vaccine, but for J&J's vaccine, you know, the adenovirus vector vaccine, again, a rare side effect, one in 200,000 roughly with clotting, but severe clotting, including clotting in the brain, including fatal clotting in the brain that ultimately drove that vaccine off the market by, by May of 2023. So maybe March of 2020, early 2023. So, and people look at that and they say, see, they don't know what they're doing. They're hiding data, but the opposite is true. I mean, I think we are open to the notion that, that there's more to learn here and that you learn as you go. And I got to say, you were saying this from the very effing beginning, Paul, like when we were going through that data in real time during the pandemic, you know, prior to it coming out, after it came out, you went through all this, you're like, we're our hearts and our, you know, this is how it goes with vaccines. There's no subterfuge here. And you're working with FDA. You're not like, you're not a total insider, but you're not an outsider. So you understand this stuff directly. So why would an American believe otherwise? What's the allure of conspiracy? And I'll tell you my thinking and you, you tell me what you think, because what I think is happening, first of all, is there's politicization. Like it just so happened that Republicans took up this thing. Democrats took up this thing. And after the vaccine came out, now you have Democrats in power. So there's a political spin always. But then on top of that, what you have is the failures of the pandemic, communication, and maybe some mistakes that were made that were never acknowledged properly at the time. So masking toddlers, closing schools for too long, locking down everything, ignoring sort of people who've already been infected as somebody who might have immunity, vaccine mandates for boosters. And this, and this came with a kind of, since there was politicization, and we had social media that created echo chambers, you have normally rational, sort of objective scientists who've now kind of weaponized their objectivity to make it subjective and say, tsk, tsk, tsk, you bad conspiracy minded, you know, right wing people. You're not, you're not, you're killing grandma, and you're not doing the right thing. And you're anti-science and trust the science and so on. And this group of people that are actually quite good people are now kind of traumatized because their livelihood is affected. They're being called stupid. Their political affiliation, which is part of a moral sort of tendency everybody has, is being questioned. And so what do they do? They go, well, in a way to kind of understand this, they drift to, well, this is somebody trying to control me. And the conspiracy becomes much more attractive. Plus in the setting of not a lack of understanding, because we can't, like you said, you need an expertise to understand these studies. People will go to conspiracies because I can understand a Chinese made super virus that was engineered by Fauci to depopulate the planet or whatever the conspiracy of the choice is, plandemic, all that stuff. Judy Michalowicz and all these guys. But they can't understand a 10 year PhD course that would be required to really dig into the nuance of the data. So to me, this is like a, it's like a Greek tragedy for science, where science has hubris. They're confident that they know everything because they actually have a lot of knowledge. And then ate, which is the Greek for blindness, they don't see how to communicate it. And then nemesis, which is what I consider RFK Jr., the downfall of our clarity around science. So I'm just curious if you want to reflect on any of that or have your own opinions. I think having lived through it, I think there were, there were pressures that were not handled the right way. So, so, so, so for example, in 2020, when that virus came into the sky, I think the first reported death was at the end of May of 2020, but it may well occurred sort of the entrance of the virus before that. You, we had nothing, right? We didn't have antivirals till October. We didn't have monoclonals till November. We didn't have vaccines till December. You had nothing. All you had for a virus that had unusual biological and clinical characteristics, all you had was avoid human to human contact for a virus that transmitted asymptomatically. And that was the big difference. That was the surprise. I mean, SARS-1 and MERS were fairly easily contained and really never caused a problem in this country because you were, you transmitted that virus when you were sick. Here, you could transmit the virus when you were asymptomatic. So anybody you came in contact with on the street could kill you theoretically. So that was number one. Number two is that, that when the vaccine came out, we did a pretty good job of immunizing roughly 70% of the population within seven months. By July of 2021, we did immunize 70% of the population, but, but we were overwhelmed by that virus. I mean, as, and I work at a children's hospital, I mean, which is, which is going to be less fraught than an adult, a hospital takes care of adults. Um, we had three floors of COVID and the big thing was Miss C, you know, this multi-system inflammatory disease, which is something I'd never seen before. Meaning child gets, gets COVID has a relatively mild illness, three or four weeks goes by and then they, they're fine. And then they come back with this recrudescence that's much worse. I mean, myocarditis occurred 50 to 75% of the times those kids were in the ICU. It was, and our ICU was overwhelmed. And so, so what was, was what happened then is, um, it was, it was, I'm trying to find a nice one. It was galling that, that people would come into our house because by, by May of 2021, the vaccine was recommended for anybody over 12. So there would be adolescents who would come into our hospital sick, you know, initially in the floor, face mask, oxygen, go up to the ICU and possibly be ventilated who weren't vaccinated. And, and so it was upsetting that, that they were perfectly willing to let us take care of them to burden us, but not do their part of getting a vaccine because you were 12 times more likely to be hospitalized if you weren't vaccinated than vaccinated. So the public health community handled this by basically over-promising, I think overselling the vaccine a little bit, because we should have very early on said, because you knew it had to be true. This is a short incubation period of mucosal infection, like the virus I worked on, rotavirus, which, which can keep you out of the hospital, that vaccine, but it's not going to prevent you from having mild illness for long. So you knew that was true here, right? And, and that, that early trial that was done in December of 2020, which had like 95% efficacy against all manner of symptomatic illness, mild, moderate, or severe, looked amazingly good, but you knew at the time that six months later, that wasn't going to be true for mild disease because antibodies in the circulation mediate protection against mild disease and antibodies fade. So six months later, that's what you had. You had, you had a lot of mild disease and people thought, wait a second, I thought this was supposed to protect me. And, and worse, I was mandated to get it. And now I have a mild to moderate disease, which isn't trivial. I mean, it's not fun having mild to moderate illness. And, and so I think that probably the worst moment for me was when the CDC said, um, they called those, those, those illnesses, asymptomatic or mild illnesses, breakthrough infection, bad word implies, this wasn't a failure. And it was a success that should have been, uh, acknowledged as a success. I mean, the, the goals to keep people out of the hospital, we were so upset that people weren't getting vaccinated. I think we tended to over promise the vaccine. And then to me, the biggest mistake, I want to ask you a question actually about, about the notion of transparency, because the notion that the, the, the, the statement that's always made is that just have to be transparent. You want to gain trust, be transparent. I'm not so sure that's true. So early on, if you say at the beginning, look, we're going to mandate, we're going to mandate this vaccine because, because the degree to which, because, because the hospital is being overwhelmed and you're less likely to overwhelm the hospital. If you got the vaccine, you shouldn't have to mandate. You shouldn't. I mean, I, I was an informed consumer. I mean, I read those 800 pages. You didn't have to mandate the vaccine for me. I couldn't wait to get that vaccine. I think if everybody read those 800 pages and understood that they all would have gotten the vaccine, but nonetheless, you know, the people, when people say they did their research and they didn't, they decided not to get the vaccine, which was what I heard a lot. What did doing your research mean? It meant looking on the internet and finding other people's about the back, people's opinions about the vaccines. That's what that meant, which isn't doing your research, do the research, read all, read all the studies that were out there. But in any case, I mean, the 5-0 vaccine was another example of sort of over promising. And I think, um, so let me ask you this question then because this, this bothered me more than anything else during the whole pain. So Omicron comes into the U S in December of 2021, right? A very different virus. I mean, 35 mutations in the, in the spike protein, 15 in the receptor binding domain, which is the part of the virus that attaches itself. Um, it didn't matter whether you were naturally infected or vaccinated, you were going to get Omicron because it was that different, but you were still protected against severe disease because T cells matter and T cells recognize confirmed, conformed, uh, confirmationally, a similar epitopes. Okay. So the, okay, let's do this. Why are we still giving Wuhan one? Let's include an Omicron variant. So that's, we did half dose Wuhan one, half dose of, uh, the, one of the Omicron variants, BA4, BA5. That was not anything we were involved in. That was something that the FDA did in collaboration with the pharmaceutical industry. When we looked at those data, those immunological data, they were not impressive. So I was in nolva. No, I don't think this is any better than what we had. And, um, and then the, um, data came out on immunogenicity, no better. Then the data came out on clinical data, no better and no worse, but no better. And yet there we were, I mean, Ashish Jha and Rochelle Walensky and Tony Fauci saying, you know, this is better. You need to get it includes the Omicron variants. Um, and I called them each up and said, stop saying it's better, not better. It's not worse. It's not better. You know, you lose credibility with scientists here at some level when you, when you say it that way, when you say it's better, when it's not better. And, but what if we'd been transparent? What if we'd said, look, um, we thought this was a good idea. This two half dose thing, which we obviously don't do anymore. We thought this was a good idea. Um, but we were wrong. And so we're not going to do this anymore. Does that make people think, but thank you for being transparent with me, or does it make them think these people don't know what the hell they're doing? What, which? What a great question. And I'll, I'll be honest. It's all in how that conversation is had, like how, how, and with who, right? So at this time, like Rogan was having conversations with kooks like Malone and Peter McCullough, three hour in-depth conversations where they were allowed to spew total garbage nonsense that's been looked at bit by bit. Right. But did they have a conversation with Paul Offit who was transparent throughout the pandemic with everything that you were saying? You would say, I'm telling these guys this, this is what I think about Omicron. I remember we had the conversation, Paul, like, yeah, they're doing 50% Omicron, 50% Wuhan. Why? Because the pharmaceutical company is doing it. There's no good reason to do that. And that, that degree of openness. So I, I, all I can say, Paul, I don't know the answer. I don't know anything, but I will say this. When we would have our conversations the way we do now, which is transparent and honest and kind of fun, the people who watched would say, you know, I didn't quite understand this. And I was afraid of this until you guys had the conversation. Now I'm comfortable that at least smart people don't know everything, but they're making a recommendation for themselves. They're walking the walk themselves. And I think I can, I'm comfortable doing it. So I heard so much of that, which is, which is strange, Paul, because there's a, there's a militantism, right. On, on, in the science community, sometimes about don't, don't brook any dissent. And I'm talking about like these science-based medicine guys and these guys. So they were at the time criticizing me for even talking to someone like a Vinay Prasad or someone because they, it wasn't an absolutist sort of stance. Right. And now they're talking about like sane washing RFK, which I think is like, not, not a good thing. Right. But the idea then that, that we can't be transparent in that way that we have to speak in a certain way in order to make sure people go along with it. I just don't know that. I think people are smarter than that if given the opportunity. So it depends on who and how, and I think those people are few and far between. That's the problem. They're far between on the, they're not, they're, they're, they're more common in the, in the anti-science sort of space than they are in the science space. But I think, you know, like all these guys had really good intention too. And when you talk about it this way, when you're talking about seeing people die and on ventilators, kids in the, in the ICU, people need to feel that emotionally. And when you talk about it, they feel it emotionally. But I think so much of this was just, again, it's that Greek tragedy of they're right scientifically and, and they, they, they, they wreck it through how they communicate it. But again, that's because I'm in this space and this is like a passion of mine. I don't know. It's been traumatic. I think for so many people, it's been traumatic for me to see this. I know it's been traumatic for you. This is why you spend so much of your time going on the news and saying, I need, I need to talk about this. This is why I wanted to talk to you about RFK because honestly it was a little, and people will say, oh, the pearl clutching when Trump makes a recommendation. That's all fine. Like Oz, if I'm fine with Dr. Oz, like that says that I'm not clutching my pearls, I'm clutching my pearls about RFK because he's, he's just a different level of denialist and, and, and dangerous, honestly, because it will erode the public's trust and faith in the actual process of science. Forget about the communicators, forget about you and me, the process of science. Well, I couldn't agree more. I was, I think I've been interviewed by every major news source over the last two years, two weeks since he's been mentioned for this, this post, but one, one reporter, I think it was a Rolling Stone reporter said to me, don't you think that if RFK Jr. is, is given the position of, of a secretary of health and human services, that people will lose trust. And, and my answer to that was, I think the opposite's true. I think because people have lost trust, he becomes more viable because that's what he says. He says, we can't trust these people. We can't trust the public health people because they've been lying to us and I'm going to get to the bottom of this. And it just really, really upsets me. I, I think that this is going to be a major hit for, for the public health service. And, and as invariably true, when that happens, it's going to be the most vulnerable among us who suffer and that will be children. I mean, you're already seeing it. I get an emails now from pediatricians saying, I've had parents come into my office and say, they're not getting any vaccines. I've never seen this before. And there's, they're pointing to Robert F. Kennedy Jr. Now he's always had a platform because he's a famous name, but he, he's, he's, now that he's even being considered for something like that, I think validates his, his false concerns about vaccines. And it really worries me because, and measles, measles is what worries me because measles is the most contagious disease, kind of kind of roaring back and, and it's going to be. So tell us, make it, make this tangible for us. Tell us about the Samoan measles outbreak and, and RFK's role in that, because this to me brings it home, the danger that's involved here. Right. So Samoa, the, the measles, mumps, rubella vaccine that goes to Samoa is in powdered form. So unlike here, so it needs to be reconstituted in like sterile distilled water. Two separate nurses, each made the same mistake. Instead of reconstituting it in sterile water, they reconstituted it in a muscle relaxant. They gave it to children who were roughly 12 months of age who immediately stopped breathing and died. It was a nursing error, a terrible, terrible nursing error. But RFK Jr. and his children's health defense seized on this. And in his Facebook posts over and over again, he said, measles vaccine is killing children in Samoa. He went to Samoa. He met with anti-vaccine activists. I think her name was Wintergreen or Wintergarden, something like that. Karen Wintergarden, I think, who was an anti-vaccine activist. There's another anti-vaccine activist in Samoa. He met with the president of Samoa, premier, or president of Samoa. And he, because of his lobbying effort, immunization rates dropped to about 30%. Wow. So that was 2018. So 2019, massive epidemic, 5,600 cases, 83 deaths. Most of those deaths occurred in children, healthy children, less than four years of age. He was directly responsible for that. I'm sorry. And the thing that tells you everything you need to know about RFK Jr. was how he responded to that. The way he responded to that was to say, first of all, he said, I didn't say don't get a vaccine. No, you just said the vaccine was killing people, which I think is a way of saying they shouldn't get the vaccine. And then he said that those children didn't die from measles. They died from measles vaccine. What are you talking about? We can never admit that he's wrong. There's actually, there's a movie called A Shot in the Arm by Scott Kennedy. He interviews RFK Jr. in that. You can see him sort of, you know, trying to worm his way out of it. So he never admits he's wrong, which is not somebody you want in a position where you're supervising science-based agencies. I mean, you learn as you go. We make mistakes. We learn as we go. But God knows you have to be open-minded to it. That's the beauty of science, which is that it's invariably self-correcting, that you can take a textbook and throw it over your shoulder without a backward glance as you learn more information. I learned things as a pediatric resident that were wrong about like that after a child, you know, baby ingests food that, you know, that you lie them on their stomach so that they won't, you know, vomit the food back into the windpipe. But, you know, then that increased the risk of sudden infant death syndrome. So in the early 90s, after I trained, you came to the pediatric AAPs back to sleep program, right, to put kids on their back. And that dramatically lowered the incidence of sudden infant death syndrome. But, you know, that was taught to me as if it was gospel and it was wrong. And taught to me was that opioids are essential for pain and that we're under-treating pain and so on. And now we have an opioid epidemic. So, yes, and it's self-correcting because now it's being corrected. Okay, what you said about the Samoan thing, this is the danger of a guy like this. People have said, I've talked to a lot of people, they're like, nah, you know, he says now he's okay with vaccines. He's a liar. And when he says, he's a liar, when he says I'm not anti-vaccine, he's lying. He just said on the, and on shot in the arm, or dark, that particular documentary, shot in the arm, he's saying there's no vaccine that I think is okay. And you said he said that. So how is that not anti-vaccine? Like, I think you said, told me off camera, if he's not anti-vaccine, no one is anti-vaccine. So it's absurd. Now, here's the thing. I want to just say this because I know a lot of good, smart, intelligent, caring people are really compelled by him. He's a Kennedy, he's saying good things about other stuff, and he's a fucking liar and a manipulator. So it's not your fault if you believe this, if you're drawn to him, if you think you're being a good person by listening to him, right? It is your fault if when doing the due diligence and you're listening to other people you trust, you don't shift your opinion on him, then you're culpable for this because he is going to wreck. Look at HIV population. Are we not going to promote prophylactic treatment for HIV now? Like, how many people will die because he is pulling the strings of HHS? So this is why it's so important. This is why we get passionate about it. And I'll say another thing, like, I'm a skeptic of some of the science now. I think, like you said, Paul, some of the stuff we do is still yet to be proven wrong and will be. But that's why you do the science. You don't throw it all away. The other thing he argues for is raw milk. He thinks we should drink raw milk. And my attitude on that is, if an adult wants to drink raw milk and going in with their eyes open, that there is an advantage to pasteurization, which was done in like 1860, because that's fine. But know that by not pasteurizing it, you are putting yourself at some risk for salmonella, campylobacter, E. coli, listeria. But don't give it to children because they can't make that choice. You're making that choice for them. And we certainly see children come into our emergency department who suffer those diseases because of that choice. Yes. And this idea that, first of all, it's not as safe as pasteurized milk. That's 100% true. I've taken care of a patient, I remember, who had an endocarditis due to raw milk ingestion. It was a particular bacteria, which I don't remember, was back in residency. But it was so clear. He was one of these crunchy granola people who would listen to guys like RFK Jr. saying that there are health benefits to raw milk, right? And would end up in the ICU with an, had to have a valve replacement. So this is not innocuous. And you're right, the children are most vulnerable are the ones who are going to suffer somewhat of the immune compromise, et cetera. What do you think about the, something more potentially benign, like fluoridation and water, where he's talking about removing fluoridation and systems of water? Right. So, so fluoridation certainly did decrease the incidence of cavities, no doubt about it. I mean, in that it was a public health treatment. There are sort of levels, see, you shouldn't ask me if I'm not a toxicologist, but, but I'll just tell you what I've read. It's not really, but, but there's, there are levels above which you shouldn't try and that you shouldn't exceed. And then you could argue there's other sources of fluoride, but in any case, that's certainly worked. It certainly worked. And the, the, what I say sometimes is when Donald Trump said, drill, drill, drill, everybody thought he was talking about oil. He was really talking about children's teeth. He's paid off by the American Dental Association. Yeah. But you're in big, big tooth's pocket, Paul. Yeah. Again, so he sort of points to this one study, which was, was not a great study looking at how like there was a change in IQ of two to three points based on a certain level that's generally higher than what we have. And I just, I mean, if that's the reason we're taking it, but see my theory on these things, fine. You want to reevaluate fluoride in, in water, fine, but let's do it with, with good science, accurate science, instead of his, instead of him doing it, because I don't trust him to get the science, right? Because he, so gets the science wrong. Yeah. There's one thing he does, by the way, that particularly bothers me. He did this on Rogan's show. He was talking about dimerisil. He says, you know, there was a study done in monkeys by Thomas Burbach. And what, what Burbacher did was he inoculated infant monkeys with the same level based on weight that a child would get, these dimerisil containing vaccines. And what you found was that, that you could detect ethyl mercury in the brain, which is not surprising because it's organic and can cross cell membranes and that they saw, you know, quote, the greatest level of inflammation that they've ever seen. Cause it's always has to be described that way. Right. I've never seen inflammation like that. Usually scientists don't talk like that, but that's what he said. Right. Read the paper. It doesn't say that at all. It says there was no information. So, so it just, because he knows you're not going to read the paper. He knows no one, that paper is probably obscure paper. You have trouble finding it. And that's what bothers me the most. It just, so, so this is where, this is where I, you know, people will say, debate him, debate him, debate him. But what he'll do in a debate is he will snow you with all this bullshit. That's a great example. He'll say this, and then it will take you, you don't even have time in real time to respond to the thousands of terrible studies that he's citing with all kinds of misrepresentation of even what the study says, even though the study itself is in some pay to publish a journal. So this, this is why scientists are on the back foot always when it comes to folks like this. And, you know, another thing I want to say, and I think this is something that's come to me recently and I could be wrong, but I'm curious what you think. So there was recently an article in the Atlantic by David Brooks, and it was about, I think the title was how the Ivy league broke America. And I think there's a lot of truth here. It's a long article, but I'll give you the punchline. The punchline was that, you know, in the old, in the early 20th century, the big Ivy league schools, Princeton, Yale, Harvard, et cetera, they only accepted people based on lineage, on breeding the sort of blue bloods, the well-bred man, white man from a Mayflower family who was selected for athleticism, looks, poise, social grace, these kinds of things. And the big competitive things in those schools were getting into skull and bones and the, and the social societies. And they would look down on the nerds, right? Like you and me, they would be like, Oh, that's the grind Buffy. We don't want anything to do with the grind. And those were the people that became president up until the 1950s. And so there was this feeling then around the 1950s that, Hmm, maybe this should be more in the service of society and the service of a meritocracy. So one of the presidents of the Ivy league school said, we're going to start screening on IQ and merit. So we're going to have standardized testing grades. We're going to screen on academics and we're going to let go of legacy some more, let go of this sort of breeding idea. And that way we'll have an elite class of, that runs the country that's actually based on their ability, heaven forbid. So now you start having this intellectual class that's screened based on innate intelligence, but the kind of intelligence you can test for, not the kind of intelligence that actually leads to great leadership and so on. So now you have these low EQ, high IQ people that are screened for, and their parents who are also screened for that, that are perpetuating a system of torture for the kids where they're not allowed to be creative. They have to teach the test, get into school, pay all this money for violin lessons and tennis lessons and private tutors so they can go to an Ivy league school and continue to have a chance in a job market that will only take people from the best schools. So you perpetuate an elite class that is increasingly dismissive of others who don't have that education or weren't born with IQ. And it creates a kind of social disparity. And the thing is, they didn't do a great job. So we get into Vietnam, we get into, you know, the communication around COVID and all of that. And so then the rest of the population that doesn't have this advantage or is feeling onerously pushed by it, start to push back and go, we're going to elect a guy like Trump who speaks anti-intellectually, who has an open disdain for science as it's practiced currently, and is kind of one of the old school blue bloods came from money and so on. We want to go back to that. And I totally get it as one of the elites. I totally get it. I don't sometimes I don't trust myself. I look at my poor children that I've got to, I've got, I'm trying, they're trying to get into college, and it breaks my heart, because all she wants to do is play music and paint art. And we're like, but what about your grades in science? And it's, it's so I don't know, Paul, hopefully, there's some shift coming where we can come to a balance. But I'm curious what you think as a father, too. Yeah, I am stunned by the way things are going now. I just feel sort of this sense of hopelessness that we have created such distrust in the system that was trying to do a good job. And I think did, I can understand how people felt we were overreaching that we were there was a real government overreach there. This isn't exactly your question. But I'm just just lamenting where we currently are. But let me give you another example, just because I want to see how you would have handled this. In February of 2022, I was asked with three other immunology, virology types to participate in a conference call about whether or not natural infection should count as a vaccine. In other words, for those areas that were still mandating vaccine, which was many in early 2022, whether they should be able to say, look, here, I was naturally infected here, this should serve as my vaccine card. And that meeting was held with Rochelle Walensky, Tony Fauci, Vivek Murthy from Surgeon General's office, and Francis Collins. And then me and three other immunology, virology types. And what was funny about that meeting was Vivek Murthy, who could not be a nicer guy, sort of started off. He's a sweetie. He's a friend of mine. I can't say a bad word about him, even if I disagree with something he's done. He's such a sweetie. Yeah. So he started off, he said, let's introduce ourselves. So, you know, Tony Fauci says, you know, I'm Dr. Tony Fauci from NIAID. And then Rochelle Walensky says, I'm Rochelle Walensky from CDC. I said, we know.