 aromasin, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, auric, aur So where do you see yourself in 10 years? It's like nobody really cares where you see yourself. Maybe that person does. Having no job. What the stigma? Yeah, really though. That's actually a good question. Where are you going to be in 10 years? Because you're not going to be in my house. Usually when people ask me that question, I say, well, probably in 10 years I'll be dead because I'll have died on the streets in a cardboard box on the side of the highway. That's actually what I tell them. Why would you consider yourself to be unhoused in that way with a death wish? Well, I'd be a hobo because... Hobo? That's good. That's a good old school word. I'd be a hobo probably because I have no prospects, no future, no career paths, and no colleges lined up. But you're entering your junior year, you're 16. Why would you have any of those things happening? Because everyone else does. Okay, tell me about friends of yours that think they know what they're going to do with their lives. A lot of them think they want to be doctors or engineers or architects. Whatever, bro. I don't know. I don't know how you know what you want to do. I don't know. I didn't know. I wanted to be an orthodontist. Yeah. And look, now you've got braces. Show us your braces. I'm ironic. With my underbite. You don't have an underbite anymore. Look, what color rubber bands do you have? They used to be pink, but now they're orange because I eat a lot of tomato sauce. Curry. Curry? Are you brown shaming her? I'm pretty racist of you. Wait, so. I don't like brown people. Because your friends, a lot of your friends. You are a brown person. That is self-hate of the highest kind. Do you, I have no idea what you guys are going to do. You don't even, you both play music. You just toured Europe, right? Yeah, that was crazy. Yeah, where did you go? And then I got the flu. We went to Prague. And then. It's pronounced Prague-y, by the way. What? No, it's not. Yeah. And Hungary. And Austria. And how was it? What did you think? I don't like Europe. Really? It's just like boring. What? I don't know. It's because we were in the, like. I like Japan better. Japan was pretty awesome. So what is it that you don't like about Europe? I felt judged by the Europeans. Really? Yes. But you didn't feel judged by the Japanese? Oh, I felt judged by the Japanese, but they were nice about it. I feel like anyone would judge you. Like side-eye. Like we were getting. Oh, yeah. And I heard the whispers of shame. Of us being American. Oh, so you got American shamed. Right. So it wasn't anything personal. It was national. No. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I mean, we're a terrible mess of a country. And also the best country on earth. Obviously. So, yeah, we were talking about college applications and like clubs and stuff. You're in some, you're doing some kind of club, aren't you? Yes, I am. But it's all for music. So like it doesn't really count for anything because it's not important. So you guys, but you guys both play violin, but like you don't think you're going to be musicians when you grow up? No, because I don't want to be poor. Oh. Okay. Well, I mean, here's the thing. Like you can be rich as a musician, but you have to be really good. And I'm, I don't want to do that. So it's just too much work. I will say this, like these kids practice almost not at all. And they're still quite good if they actually put their mind to it and worked hard. But you know, I realized this about me. I was kind of that way about certain things too. And I was like, oh, if I just, if I could just work, I would be able to do it. But here's the thing. You can't, it's not in your genes to actually put in the work. That's what differentiates like, I think the Olympic athletes are the world-class musicians. They have talent, but they also have a drive to actually bust their ass. Yeah. And we don't. And you don't. For those things. But there's other things that you'll spend hours doing, like playing Project Makeover. Project. I knew you were going to go to that. Okay. What is this game? Sponsored. Not sponsored. Project Makeover sponsor us. Maybe they will. It's just you make. It's like you, it's like Candy Crush, but you make over ugly people in the process. Okay. So they're teaching you ugly. Is that it? Yeah. Pretty much. So are you. She should know. You should know. You're one of the people they're making over. Okay. You gave me COVID. Where did you get COVID? At the liberal capital of the free world. That wasn't my fault. My alma mater, UC Berkeley. Yeah. So you were there for a summer. For four weeks. Yeah. College credit program. In Bark. What was it called? Architecture and urban planning. Oh. So what did you think of that? You spent a month with a bunch of kids from all around the world. Oh, everyone was so insane. Okay. Most people were really insane. And then there's just like the bottom of the bucket, like me, you know, it was like, it was good. But here's the thing. Everyone who went there had an actual interest in architecture and urban planning. And I just went there for the vibes. I think I wanted to be an architect at some point. No, you didn't. I did. Remember? You just turned 13. So you just became a teenager. And you before. Yeah, you did. Remember? Because you saw like you were building Legos or something. No, I saw that like documentary. On what? I don't know. Architecture. I was like six. Star Wars isn't a documentary. So wait, you went to Berkeley. You called me up. I'm sick, dad. I need to come home. And it was an ordeal getting you out of there because you have to like sign all these things to say, oh, it's, you know, it's a, it's a residential program. I had to get, go there on Friday. You're coughing everywhere. I made you wear a mask in the car because I didn't, I knew whatever you had, I didn't want it. Come home. The first thing that happens to you, test positive for COVID. Whoops. Never seen that happen before. I thought it was like a myth. And Maya still hasn't tested positive. And you damn near killed me because I got sick like two days later and I was fine for, you know, I was sick for a few days. I felt better. And then I just did a video about how I was like, what am I dying? Well, also I felt like I was dying too, bud. Yeah. You were really, you were really sick. And even when I picked you back up, you were like, eh, but at least, you know, you were negative and everything. And you weren't, you know, everybody, everybody in your program had COVID. Everyone. When I went to the graduation, everyone was wearing a mask. Because there's an outbreak. That's ridiculous. But here's the thing. So what would you do? Would you shut down the program? Would you close the school? I would, I would ask the question to look at like how many people actually were hospitalized or died from that? Or was it like. About everyone who got it. They didn't get hospitalized and die. They're young, generally healthy people. So it's fine. Now dad got it. And he also is generally healthy, but has a few risk factors and still ultimately did fine. I almost died in my dorm. Wasn't there like an outbreak at Europe too? Yeah, there was. And Europe. When you guys were in Europe. And then I got the flu. And then people couldn't perform because they were sick. Yeah. So. Oh, and the maestro couldn't either. Yeah. But so now this is day, year four of this thing. It's like everywhere. It comes back every summer, every winter. It's always here. What are you going to do? You got to adapt. Find, you know, we have reasonable treatments. There's vaccine that keeps you from severe illness, but it's not going to prevent infection. What are you going to do? Whatever. Just got to roll with it, dog. I guess that's what I'm saying. That's all I'm saying, people. That you think you suffered? I got the flu and then I got COVID. That's true. You do. I have the immune system of a sickly Victorian boy. Dying on his deathbed. Begging for his father to put more logs in the fire. Mother, my. Take me to the garden when I'm last time. Can you put more logs in the fire? I'm cold. He said, let's go to some questions from the audience. How about Emma Dickinson, who's a supporter of the show? Emma says, describe your ultimate favorite pizza toppings and then add one ingredient that would totally ruin it from David, age nine. This is going to be controversial, but pineapple. Hawaiian pizza. And to ruin it, anchovies. Yeah. Anchovies. You both agree? Because you like to put anchovies. So I would actually agree. Pineapple and ham, like Hawaiian, is my favorite. And I would add anchovies to it to make it even better. And jalapenos. That's disgusting. I'm just as God made me. Oh. Oh. I would add also chocolate pudding. Because one of my friends in fifth grade did that, dropped it on the ground pudding down, and then picked it up, there were hairs on it, and ate it. So I feel like that would also ruin the Hawaiian pizza. Pudding. Yes. Chocolate pudding. But that's not a typical topping. Who says? I don't know. No labels. We had some pretty good. Drake's the type of guy who. Would say, we've got company when the cops show up. Risa says, what's the hardest thing you've ever done? It's probably the hardest thing I ever will do, which will be junior year that's coming up, that I haven't done my summer homework for, and school starts in a week. Oh, good. So you've added yourself as lazy, churlish, insubordinate. Balake. Be nice. Pamela says, do you feel like your teachers truly care about you and your well-being, or just grades, test scores, and attendance? Some of them. Some of them. But, you know. I'd say my last year history teacher. I think he's a real one. I could. He was my bro. And I'll never forget him. Because he got me a five on the AP test. Oh, yeah. You got a five on the AP. Not to flex. AP. They call it AP World History now. He used to be AP European History. No, it's still a thing. They just, like, stopped doing it at my school. So it's still a thing. Oh, so AP Euro is still a thing? Yeah. Oh, okay. We just do AP World instead of AP Euro. Because we're especially woke. Okay. Well, that's fair. Shalina says, do your friends know who ZDoggMD is? And if so, what do they think about the show? See, I told a couple of them. And then they found some videos. So I learned from that. And I don't tell them anymore. Because I don't want to be embarrassed. What did they say? Actually, they didn't care. But, like, still. But what do you mean they didn't care? What did they say? Because people are asking, like, what are your friends when they watch it? Are they like, eh? Well, they didn't get it. Of course not. Because they found, like, your doctory videos. I don't get it either. Anything. I'm very embarrassed to be correlated with anything related to this show. So I usually don't tell people or I just tell the very closest of friends. And then they even are just like, mm. Mm. Mm. Mm. So you're a Z pup, huh? I was like, ta-ha-ha. Oh. Ask ZDogg to do a parody of the Barbie song. I'm like, no. Oh, I would. No. I would. I'm just Ken? No. We could do that. What would it be? I'm just Zen. No. About meditation? No. I'm just Zen. That would be actually, like, horrific. It would be terrible. I feel like. I'd gouge my eyes out and then. I would leave this family forever. I would leave. I would emancipate. And where exactly? Is that how you die on the street in a box? Because I'm thinking that that may be it. Cindy Marie says, if you could tell your future self one thing, what would it be? Like, how far into the future? Let's say you're my age now. So old? Oh. How did this? No. It would be like, how did this happen? How far we have fallen? Imagine being that age. Hmm. I don't agree. One day you're going to blink and you're going to be my age or older. That's all I'm saying. So a pile of ashes? No, that's. A pile of dust and ash. That's what you guys called Joe Biden after the first debate. No, it's either. Do we want. It was. It was. Do we want a. Demented pile of ashes or a convicted felon. A convicted felon pile of ashes. And now it's either. Do we want a woman or do we want a racist felon? Pile of ashes. And why do I think the racist pile of ashes is going to win over a woman? Hmm. Maybe because he just fell out of a coconut tree. Coconut tree. Oh, man. Politics at your age is just like, you know, just anything but the racist pile of ashes. I feel like all of Gen Z will vote for the coconut tree woman. Probably. After they see all the remixes. After they see all the remixes. Because she's memeable. Yeah. Trump has already been through the memes in 2016. Yeah. They've all been memed. JD Vance could get memed. Who's that? Exactly. That's the problem. I only know the memeable ones. Gen Z and Jen Alba don't know of JD Vance. All I know is Walls. What do you know about Walls? Who's Walls? He's a dude who's white. That will clutch up for Kamala because she's a woman and not white. No, I don't have a single clue about geography. Yeah. Maya thought Africa was a country. And didn't you think like Rhode Island was also a country? I don't know. I don't know what Rhode Island is. Exactly. Where's that? Oh, my. Got to get in that Providence, you know? Nanny on Instagram says, what's it like to have such a smart, good-looking, weird dad? I feel like only one of those is true and that's weird. How could you say that about our father? To us. I don't like it. What the stigma? Kimberly says, does your dad ever embarrass you? Only like every second of the day. That's not true. That's not true. When was the last time I embarrassed you that you can remember? Wait, wait, wait. Didn't he like fart and then blamed it on your friend that was here? No, she blamed it on me. She blamed it on me. But you tell the story. No. I didn't witness it. I was climbing the stairs and accidentally might have. Let one rip. No, actually, no. I deny it. It didn't happen. And then I turned around and said, which one of you two farted? So embarrassed. I'm trying to block that memory. Oh, my mind. Both had turned bright red. And see, you've got to understand, people. I don't give two craps about anything anymore. So, I mean, I'm not. I'm like you're old and you have nothing to live for. I have nothing to lose because I've gained everything. I've already won the universe. What else is there? Now you just have to win the fountain of youth so you can go back. Rishi MD says, what's the most important lesson you learned from your parents? Rishi MD says, what's the most important lesson you learned from your parents? My first wife. We are always saying stuff like that. Just to kind of mess with them because we pretty much know we're not getting divorced. And so it's fun to make them think that that's a possibility just to torture them and give them therapy bills for the future. No, but you've been saying it for so long that we've accepted it as reality. Oh. And you guys do sleep in separate beds, so. Oh, yeah, we do. But not separate bedrooms. Halfway there. That's right. Because I sleep in a – I sleep in a – A tatami mattress. On a Japanese tatami mat at the foot of our bed. Like a dog. Like a dog. Like in the actual dog house. Because mom likes – we have a king bed where I slept for a long time, but my neck and my back were like – and finally when we went to Japan, I was like, these futons are amazing. These tatami mats are to die for. My back. It's never felt so elevated. So mom's the one who was like, well, how about we try – we'll put one up and you can try it and maybe you can put it on top of the bed. And I tried putting it on top of the bed and it was too soft because the bed was all squishy. So I was like, how about I just put it at the foot of the bed on the ground? And she's like, you're not sleeping on the ground. So she bought that little platform. And so now, like, I basically sleep at her feet like a – like a – like a servant. Like a house animal. Yes, like a house elf. A house elf. Like I haven't been given an article of clothing. Dove has given me a sock. Dove has given me a sock. Dove is free. Wait, and I have the specs to match. Oh, yeah. The Harry Potter specs. The first thing that people said to me when I went back to school today, but I'm not like not for school school for like a club thing, was, you look like Harry Potter. I was like It's time to match the academic Vibe of this year Because I have to lock in Otherwise I'm cooked My future cooked No prospects, no career paths, no colleges lined up Do you think you could go to Berkeley? Yeah Probably only because you went there And maybe they'll do some Legacy I'm not saying could you get into Berkeley I'm saying could you go there as a school Would you enjoy it? I'd probably be half miserable, half ecstatic That's how I was I don't know, I feel like it would be so hard But then again, fun It was fun You went to all the places that I used to go I went to Blondie's, pizza Laval's, we ate at Laval's Everything we ate there was Stratta, cafe La Strata It gave you both diarrhea Well, actually The lactose intolerance did not act up that much Except for like Except for that time I had to emergency use the staff bathroom Because it was a little bit of an emergency You had co-ed bathrooms Yeah Yeah Oh, but then someone peeked under the stall To see a dude And then we got him switched To gender Specific bathroom Crazy Holly says for the kids What's it like to have a famous dad And how do you deal with the extremely competitive environment of the Bay Area? He's not famous That's how they deal with it Well, actually Whenever he is Quote famous And like people come up to him in public We're just like We're just standing there to the side Like You know this guy? This guy? It's funny Because they never They never talk to you guys I know They're always just like See dog Is that you? Oh my god Can I get a picture? And they were just like Okay So what I'm feeling I'm feeling into this You're just jealous of my beauty and my figure And your figure There's not much to be jealous of there That's right I'm so thin Are you a speck of dust? If you see a speck of dust floating around me Good luck finding my waist, guys Good luck finding my waist Oh, there you're a generation What are three things your kids would want to see in the world That would have them feel that the adults have their ish together And are not totally clueless? I can really tell that the people who ask these questions are your age Why are you asking us fun things? I agree with you I don't know how to answer that What was your glow up for the summer? If anything, I got more pimples What glow up? You guys walk around with overt pimple patches on That's not me That's her I have two on in my driver's license photo It's crazy If you could invent something to make life easier What would it be and why? What in the chat GPT generated response? Like what am I supposed to say? Wait Wait, wait, wait Chat GPT always restates the question first It says If I were to invent something Something to make life easier And then it would spray out some nonsense Half of it hallucinatory Yeah, what would you do? What would you know? I don't even know A pimple patch? A better pimple patch? Oh, when I'm in bed and scrolling on my phone I want a face guard So whenever I drop my phone on my face It doesn't hit me That is the most That's a joke I'm not a screen agent You are a total screen agent Only for Project Makeover And that's it She In In Prague She was in some church And it was crowded She drops her phone No, no, no, no, no Someone Because it was super crowded Someone Someone like Bumps into me I drop my phone It falls on the floor Try to pick it up Someone steps on it And scrapes it Against the ground Which is bumpy And it completely and utterly shatters And now I just have a measly screen protector Holding it together She It was like the worst It was like the end of the world We got the text and the call That's what it was like It was like What do you have built in auto-tune? Drake's the type of guy who has built in auto-tune The silence is so loud The silence spoke volumes See these questions No way Look at this Yeah, GPT Surf girl says Would each pup name one thing about each one of your parents That makes you proud to be their kid? You guys are not going to answer that In any way, shape, or form Okay What's one thing that makes you proud to be my kid? I'd say stuff about mom But probably not you What would you say about mom? Yeah, uh-huh I thought so That's rude Do you know your dad is cool? Says Cassie What are these questions? Like, I thought they were going to cook But in fact They did not cook Wait Put a poll in the chat If you want the Zpups to make their own channel No one cares What are we even going to say? Literally nothing Skibbity toilet riz? Probably No That's disgusting Disgusting Palace123456 Which is clearly a bot Says You're to be stuck on a desert island Oh my god For three months What are the three musical artists you would stream? You can only pick three What? Is this just Did we bring a speaker? Is this just a funny way of me asking Or them asking what my favorite three artists are? It is Okay Um I don't really I kind of listen to a lot of stuff So I don't really have favorites I don't know I'd probably listen to white noise Probably Yeah, you'd bring a noise I'd bring a white noise machine Okay, first of all, that's racist Oh Oh man Because it's white supremacy Also actually No, actually I listen to brown noise I listen to brown noise I like brown noise Yeah But they don't have black noise I think black noise would be the next thing Mm Mm-hmm I wonder what that would sound like It'd probably have more soul and rhythm than the white noise You like how I'm just basically using this as a proxy to stereotype all kinds of races? You're welcome Any of my friends who are watching this These are not my political, um, social opinions These are not me Send help So how, how, um, you were at Berkeley So how liberally was it? Um, don't even ask These blue-haired liberals running rampant about that place Looks like I'm voting for Donald If I can't vote You have to say the Donald The Donald Yes, yes The Trumpo El Trumpito El Trumpito Don't you guys both speak Spanish? And like I walk around pretending to speak Spanish Mi guancho es muy You're cutting that out Bailado No You're cutting that out Why? You're cutting that out We can't be speaking Anyone that I know watches this You can, you can just Pull me out of school As if they're gonna be as Like, as if they're gonna watch the whole thing I just make up words and say them What's wrong with that? Is that racist? Racist, racist, and racist Really? Gosh, it must just be old You're cutting that out No guancho-ing I'm having to cut everything out Except for me saying that And then everyone's gonna think I'm the racist one I can, uh Okay, wait I can't change the concept This is the end of the cut So we have to We start Well, there's no cut Let me see It probably means something somewhere So maybe it's not racist No, it literally means nothing No, it means nothing We googled it Yeah Because I was saying it Because I thought it was a real Spanish word But it's not Yeah, it's really odd I was thinking of gaucho Which is the Argentinian cowboy I was thinking of guantes These are gloves Guantes? Yeah, I think so Well, I actually don't You guys are both in Spanish, right? Yeah Well, like, singularly Aiden Carol asked Do Nina How do Nina and Maya feel About social media health advice And how do their friends Fake It's fake? You know it already? What? Oh, I don't know What? What health advice? What do you mean health advice? Don't, you know Take body standards Or whatever To heart Let me just say If anything It's very different On, like YouTube And then To Instagram Let me just say that All the comments Comments wise Oh, yeah Oh, yeah YouTube is so, like Oh, I love it Like, nice Like, if you say anything Like, body positivity Or whatever YouTube is like Yes And Instagram is like Like Instagram's ruthless I don't know how or why But, like, it's horrific Like, they'll fat shame you and stuff? Or, like, in the comments It was a trend to say, like, the N-word For a bit In the comments Mm-hmm On Instagram? Mm-hmm Wow Just, like, you know Every, any Every white dude Or, you know I actually Did I ever tell you this story? When I was in college We went up to Reno Me and my buddy We drove up from Berkeley And, uh We went And we were walking downtown somewhere And this white dude comes up to us And he's like Yo, N-word You guys seeing Silks playing right now, N-word? Like this And me and Me and my buddy were just And my buddy was half black And, uh And he was just like He's like Me guanjo What? We are cutting that Cutting Tina says What's it like to have two brainiac parents? Bruh Bruh Um Well, one One brainiac parent Wow Oh, no And one fake He's a fake Uh You misgendered mom Bro I just Oh, that's crazy That's crazy Uh How does it feel to have smart parents? Because you have two smart parents Maybe one and a half Well, mom went to Harvard Uh-huh Like, what are we even about Like, what are we even gonna do about that? It's not like we're gonna go to Harvard Yeah Look at us Most of you can probably do it in Berkeley I can't even do subtraction That's true, you can't I don't know what five plus seven is Right But I actually don't know what five is Twelve Good work Now, how about twelve minus five? Bruh Six Two Five What is one thing you think everyone should try at least once in their life? Vaping I don't think Oh, if anything, I've already tried so much secondhand of that from just in the bathroom At school every day That's true Oh my god That's true But you've never actually vaped? Good I'm not a delinquent Not yet Give it time Why do Gen Alpha Kids Behave in such an illiterate Feral Feral way Rabid Probably because they're all spoiled Stanley kids Are they spoiled? I think So I'll ask a question You're You, Maya, are on the cusp of Gen Alpha You're like the edge of Gen Alpha Nina is like solid Gen Z Most parents of Gen Alphas are what generation? Millennials The worst generation That makes sense Because they were raised by boomers who are the worst generation And we've said this before Gen X raises the best Gen Z Gen X, Gen Z And a little Alpha A little Although You two, I'll say this You're different Like there is a generation gap between you Because things have accelerated Like she grew up with devices so ingrained And you actually had periods without So And then Project Makeover came into my life And everything was complete And now you're both just screenagers Oh I don't know What do you think Mimi? What's so wrong with that, huh? What? I don't see the problem with being a screenager Uh That's technically being present Because I'm present On my screen I'm falling asleep listening to your lies Because Also because it's your bedtime Because you're senile Tell me Tell me Tell me You What are you talking about? Before we started Maya was like I'm so tired I'm tired I don't know You're senile And she's fetal Fetal Is that not a word? Like a fetus? Like a fetus You thought the word ovular referred to something Well like as a joke I didn't know No it wasn't a joke Ovoid was a real word You're walking around calling things ovular Because it's funny It means like egg-like Egg-like It's like ovular So tell me about your generation's Levels of anxiety Depression Suicidality Drug abuse It's also because you've killed our planet This is And we're gonna die Okay This That was a joke by the way Yeah I know But we're gonna die but like But Whatever But this is actually a real argument that people make On behalf of your generation Well of course they're depressed and anxious Our planet Look Look what you did to the planet And it's like Did you Okay Can I rant for a second? Did you effing grow up in the 70s Like I did Where they had lead in gas Everybody's IQ dropped 20 points Just by being born into the United States There were super fun toxic sites Three Mile Island was a nuclear plant That had a near meltdown in the United States There was air pollution, water pollution levels You couldn't even comprehend And they're like But these kids have it really hard That's not it What it is is You guys don't go out and play You don't actually touch grass You don't see each other in person I touch grass You stare at a screen You compare yourselves to people on the screen You read comments of people saying the N word That are white About everybody else And I'm not saying you guys Because I think you guys are actually pretty reasonably balanced But I think this is a problem And it's our fault Because we've done that But yeah we screwed up the planet Definitely Climate change is a big deal Whatever There's all kinds of injustice There's terrible stuff But that's always been It's always been the case Yeah The world's always bad No matter what generation you're in And it's also always great No matter what generation you are in And I think Maybe you guys did have depression But it just wasn't diagnosed Oh we diagnosed it Oh We're like god I'm depressed I'm going to go out into the ditch With my friends Into the fields And go drink Oh Or you know That Everybody handles their stuff in different ways But you guys have these proxy ways of doing it Where it's no longer in person Which hey look It's fine It's your generation's way of doing it But It has consequences Just like ours did You know how we used to get in trouble We would die or get arrested Me guancho We are cutting that I don't care what you say Or it's going to your private one Because Yeah Oh you mean the subscribers Yeah Because none of my friends are rich enough Maybe we just release it for supporters We're tired We got to go to bed It's late It's like 9.30 That's like one hour past your bedtime Oh my god She's not long She's not wrong I go to bed at like 9 And I wake up at 4 This morning I woke up at 4 I'm like Nursing That's when I go to bed My sleep schedule is cooked Oh yeah I start school next week School starts next week Yeah You guys are totally toast Bro I'm toast for the year Like the class is I have to drop something But like I know I won't Because I'm stubborn Like that Alright we're out That's our Peace Adios Impflowing Impflowing Impflowing Impflowing Impflowing Impflowing