 learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning everybody's favorite thing in the world to do. But I just got this new crown and I feel like it's making me talk a little funny. So if it seems like I'm talking a little bit weird, that's why. Aside from the dentist appointment, which was not the highlight of my morning, I actually had a really good morning because I just got off a call with Abby Sharp. I'm good, how are you? And Abby Sharp is a fellow YouTuber. What's up, Abby? So we just did a video for her channel. She basically just had a few questions for me and we did a kind of interview style. That's a really good question because so much has actually changed. Other updates. So the biggest update of everything since I've really had like a time to chat with you that I actually had surgery. So I did put on my story this morning that I was having this done and so many of you guys were like, it sucks and that it hurts. Gotta love that for me. So I had a vein leg ablation procedure done on both of my legs on the greater saphenous vein. It's like the inner part of my leg on both legs. And I wanted to tell you guys about this because I can't train for two weeks. I can't train lower body for two weeks. I've been able to train upper body. It's been one week so far since I've had the procedure done and it's been hard. Let me tell you, I love training lower body. It's my favorite thing to train. The ablation procedure is basically, they insert a catheter into the vein. I think it emits like a radio frequency and it collapses the vein. The reason that I had it done was because I was experiencing blood reflux or blood backflow. So I wanted to make it very clear, very, very, very, very clear that this has nothing to do with going all in. I developed this problem in both of my legs because of previous injuries that I've had. So I played sports when I was younger. I was very active and I played softball. I had a very bad hematoma on my left shin and then I also fractured my right knee skiing. But the reason that I found out that I had it was because of going all in. I found out I had it because I was experiencing a lot of swelling. A lot of my spider veins were becoming a lot more noticeable and I probably wouldn't have ever gotten a checked out if I didn't go all in. Even when I was really lean, I've always experienced really bad swelling in my legs, especially when I would fly, regardless of my weight. And I just experienced swelling when I went all in just all the time. It just took going all in for me to like discover it. In a way, it like helped me. It looked pretty gnarly the day after I had it done to be honest with you. But it should like correct, hopefully, some of the swelling I experienced. I also experienced some like tingling in my feet. Another update that I wanted to give you guys was that today's Friday, I plan on getting new blood work done on Monday. Okay, so future Stephanie here. It's Monday, I just got my blood work done. And even though I've gotten this done, now this is like my fourth time, I don't remember how long it takes to get the results back. So I'm excited to see them and hopefully soon. So I will have new updated blood work for a future video. Another update is that Jeff and I have been apart. So I've been in Florida now for a couple of weeks. Jeff will be here this coming Tuesday. So I'm so excited for him to be here. It's definitely hard, but the reason why him not being here is at all relevant to you guys is because since I've gone all in, not having Jeff around has been probably like the hardest thing about being all in when I don't have like my big, like he's honestly like my biggest cheerleader, like in the whole world. And I would have like, I would kind of suffer from bad body image when he wasn't around constantly telling me that I was beautiful and that I was great and everything. Like he's so good about doing that. He just does it all the time. He's very loving that way. This is the first time that we've been apart that I didn't suffer from bad body image at all while we were apart. Like every single other time that we've been apart, I've always like had really bad body image days. I haven't had any since we've been apart this time. So it just kind of shows me that I've gotten so much better with my body positivity. I've been feeling really good about everything. And something that I've noticed was that my underwear was feeling a lot looser on me and my clothes were feeling a lot looser. So I did weigh myself. It was like two days ago. And yes, I have been losing some weight. Now I don't know if I'm gonna continue to lose weight. Like the rate at which I would lose any more weight. I don't wanna like be motivated by that in any way. I'm letting my body do its thing. It just indicates to me that my body feels happy right now. And I know that sounds really like maybe hippie, but like I feel like my body feels safe right now and it feels healthy. So it just feels good and I've been really good. My energy's been really good. As you can probably tell, I feel like I have way too much energy for this video. The only thing I've been bummed about lately is not being able to train more body. But something I'd like to note is that in the past, I probably would be way more like sensitive to not training because you know when you're like, oh, I miss one workout and all my muscles are gone kind of thing or my legs are gonna turn into mashed potatoes. And I had like one day of feeling that way. Like, oh dang, like two weeks is a long time. Like what's gonna happen kind of thing. But I've been good. Like I feel like my muscles not gonna go anywhere after two weeks. I'm a little bit worried about my strength gains. I've been doing so good with my strength, but my strength will probably come back really quickly. Like, you know, fingers crossed. I was getting up to 185 pounds for six on the squat for six reps. And then I was getting up to 205 pounds on my deadlift for five reps. So it's feeling really good about my strength. So I do find that that is like the one thing I'm a little bit struggling with, but I'm not struggling with like my legs are gonna, you know, deflate or they're gonna get like all mushy because I'm not training lower body, which I might've been more like that in the past, but I feel like I'm way better now. I'm way more positive about my body than rocking full length compression socks. If you watch my story, I basically show them like every single day, I have to wear compression socks every single day for those two weeks. I have one more week to go because it's been one week and they go from my foot to my groin. Like they're full length compression socks. And let me tell you, let me just tell you, I make compression socks look good. Listen, oh, speaking of my compression socks, do you guys see this thing right here? That helps me get my compression socks on. I'll have to show you how that works. Get your mind out of the gutter. That thing right there is magical. They're really hard to get on because they're like medical grade compression socks. I bought them at the doctor's office. They're really, really, really, really tight. And I felt like I was gonna break all my nails, pulling them on. So these are my natural nails. This video is all over the place, by the way. I don't even know where this video is going, but these are my natural nails. You guys ask me all the time, how the heck do you lift weights with these nails? I can lift just fine. Putting on socks, apparently I can't do it with long nails. So that's like the one inhibitor of my life with the nails is the socks. So I'm also gonna throw up some footage of what I'm currently looking like. So you guys have not seen this room yet. It's like my upstairs office slash makeup vanity area. Like I have like my computer and makeup vanity area that has not been unpacked yet. So please excuse that I should, I need to get this out of here, but you can still get an idea of what I'm looking like. You can see my bruises here. And this body suit, I'm like tucking it under because there's so much extra fabric here. I have been getting this requested a lot because, I don't know, like I just feel like a lot of you guys are like, oh, you haven't been doing your normal physique updates like you used to. Just because I kind of took a step back from like being so fizzy driven. This is what I look like. Don't mind the bruises on my legs, but yeah, this is kind of what I'm looking like. Okay, last update, last announcement kind of thing. First of all, I think this video is gonna go up either on Valentine's Day or the day after Valentine's Day. So I decided for Valentine's Day because I love you that I'm gonna do a quick sale on all of my programs. So all my programs, including the bundles are gonna be 50% off for like 24 hours, maybe 48 hours. I'll link it down below so you guys know, but I wanted to just show you guys that I appreciate you. I love you. So have a Valentine's Day. The update that I wanted to give you is that I'm currently working on an at home program. You guys definitely want it. You've been requesting it. I mentioned it like two videos ago. You guys were like, yes, at home program, love it. I wanna make it really good though. So I'm like, it's gonna be like five programs in one. I don't know why I do this to myself, but whenever I put out a product, I just really want it to be good. So it's gonna have a no equipment program within the program. There's gonna be a bands only program, a dumbbell only program, and then a dumbbell and bands only program. And then there's gonna be like minimal gym equipment kind of program. So that's five, because I love giving myself lots of work. But no, I want it to be really good. The reason that my more advanced programs don't have multiple programs is because they're super advanced and you need to just run that one at a time. Stay tuned for that. I'm so, so, so excited about that one. This is what happens when I haven't talked to you guys in a while, because I feel like I have so many updates and it's just way too much, but you're gonna hear me talk a lot. I don't know, I feel like these videos are really good because I feel like I can reconnect with you guys. I'm just a girl living her life, gaining weight on the internet. I'll probably throw in anything else at the end of this video, maybe just rival. All right, outro clip. Take one. Okay, he's back. Jeff is behind the camera, he's gonna help me film. Filming a little outro for you guys because I think I've updated you guys on plenty. I know it was a lot of updates, but I really hope you enjoyed the video. It was super off the cusp. I just wanted to catch you up on everything that's going on in my life. Like the video if you enjoyed it and subscribe if you happen to be new and I'll catch you in the next one. Bye. 🎵 You do it, I leave me turning on the traffic 🎵 🎵 Girl, you call YV, yeah 🎵