 Hello! How are you? I'm vlogging. Oh my god. Yes, I know. It's me. If you forgot, I'm Stephanie. Happy New Year, Merry Christmas, all the platitudes that I've missed. I really wanted to make a video to just, like, catch you guys up on what I've been up to. I've missed you guys as I always say it every video because I don't make enough videos. I know, I know, I know, I know. I saw the comments in the last video. You guys noticed? Yes, Jeff and I, we are engaged. You'll probably see me wave my hand a lot because it's very exciting for me. If you didn't know, Jeff and I have been together for, like, almost seven years. We've been together before I started my YouTube channel. We've been together way back in the day when I was still in grad school, still doing my PhD. It's a beautiful time to be alive. In this video, a little couple's action, we're gonna be doing a video together. I'm so excited about it because he's really smart about fitness and nutrition, so we're gonna be talking about a few myths, commonly held myths. I'm also gonna do a really quick, like, house renovations update, and then we're gonna do a workout. So it's gonna be a fun video. Let's do the fitness myths. I'm excited. I'm excited. Featuring Jeff Nippard. Okay, first one. We're just gonna jump right in. Let's do it. Let's do it. A lot of people think, a lot of people think, carbs, you cannot have them at bedtime or late at night. So carbs after dark is the myth. Do you want to start or do you want me to say something? You say what you think. Okay. Are you allowed to have carbs after dark? Yes. I don't know really know where it began, the idea. One, I think it started with people thinking that if you go to bed after eating a bunch of carbs, you don't have any way of burning those carbs off while you're sleeping. So it's just like automatic calories that turn into fat. And then like something happened in science that like one little hint about insulin and then like the whole world freaked out and now everyone believes this one thing. But it's been disproven by like 17 studies or something crazy. That's probably a made up number. Don't quote me on that. But a lot of studies that like carbs late at night doesn't matter. It's like it's all about total calories for the day. Because in theory, if carbs make you fat, then somebody on a low carb diet would technically lose more weight than somebody on a low fat diet. And they found that that doesn't matter. It's just total calories. So yeah, carbs, whatever time of day are wonderful and carbs do just make me happy. I think the carbs before night thing largely comes from the fact that like you mentioned you're lying down, you're asleep. And so your metabolism is going to be lower. People think that your metabolism is slower at night. So if you just eat, break before you go to bed, you're not going to be burning through those calories or through those carbs. And so what's going to happen? You're going to store it as fat. That's not true. Your metabolism when you sleep is about exactly the same as it is during the day at rest. In healthy people, it very slightly goes up in people who are overweight or obese. It's roughly the same or slightly lower. So it's basically a wash unless every time you eat, you're going to get up and work it off, which is ridiculous. There actually isn't much of a difference between just eating a meal and then getting back to work or sitting at your desk and eating a meal and then going to bed. And the key thing is not to zoom in on specific times throughout the day that you're eating, but to instead look at the day as a 24 hour period and what will dictate whether you gain fat or lose fat over the long term is going to be what that energy balance looks like over the long term. And you can even select a wider time range than just 24 hours. Like you could, yeah, it could be over the course of the week, but it's that long term energy balance that you want to be concerned with, not what is my body doing at different times of the day. The next kind of myth is that carbs in general are bad. Yeah, so that would go back to the the idea of insulin being a storage hormone. So when you eat carbohydrate, you trigger insulin release. That then causes that carbohydrate to either be stored in glycogen in the muscle, which is actually a good thing, especially for your bodybuilder. Or it could be through this like long process or whatever be converted to fat, which is actually pretty rare in humans. But essentially, like it can increase fat deposition and then decrease fat mobilization. That has caused a lot of people to label insulin as the bad thing. But just think about it this way. You look at cultures, you know, in Asia who've eaten tons of rice and noodles over years. And a lot of them remain underweight or at a healthy weight. And so if it really were the fact that insulin will cause anything you eat to go into fat, regardless of calorie content, that just wouldn't be possible. So like that defeats it on the face. And then they can kind of like get around it to be like, well, you know, Chloric intake matters, but there needs to be insulin in order for fat to be stored. So if you do keto, then you can't store fat. But that's also not true because they're the body is massively complex. And if it wants to store fat because you're in a chloric surplus, then there are other hormones and other pathways that can make that happen. Lastly, the other thing about insulin is again, it gets back to the idea of narrowing in on specific eating windows rather than looking at the long term 24 hour period or even long. If insulin is high, yes, you'll be storing nutrients while that's high. You'll be storing fat. You'll be storing glycogen. Then when it comes back down, you'll be releasing that fat. You'll be releasing that glycogen. So again, it's the balance of insulin over that 24 hour period. Ultimately comes back to calories. So Jeff is mostly speaking of from the context of somebody who's trying to lose weight. But for people maybe who are not as concerned with weight loss or maintaining or they're just like, I'm just intuitively eating carbs are really important for sustaining a good relationship with food because any sort of elimination diet or any vilification of any type of food in the long run just like creates such a bad relationship with food that like, do you want to live like that forever? Do you want to vilify a food group forever or a macro industry? Like some people might be thinking of it in the terms of weight loss, fat loss, and I know that's a goal for a lot of people. But for me, the idea of the elimination of it just creates like it creates fear foods and then that's really bad. So there's not only the people that can't vilify carbs that are just trying to lose weight. It's not just them that need to like realize that they're not bad. It's everybody. What else you got? Okay, we're going to switch over to more fitnessy stuff training. Women believe weightlifting makes you bulky. I'm going to let you start this one. I think people who have been lifting for a while realize that this is probably not true because it's extremely hard to build muscle. I think it's women who are new to lifting that fear they're going to all of a sudden look like someone on a bodybuilding stage. And what they need to realize is that muscle is not built very easily. It takes a lot of work. Those people who are competing in bodybuilding competitions, most of them have some combination of really good genetics. Extremely disciplined training over years and years and years where they're intentionally trying to build as much muscle as possible. That is their explicit goal and a lot of them are on anabolic steroids. If those three things don't apply to you, then you're not just going to wake up one morning looking like that. And then I think it's important to realize that like there are so many like even if it did say make you a little bulky, which I don't think it does. I think that's mostly caloric surplus and those other factors I mentioned. Even if it did, there are so many other positive benefits from resistance training that it would probably even be worth it. Like focus on those good things rather than like rather than like, oh no, am I going to like look bulky, which is like not realistic anyway for most women. The train of thought kind of makes sense. You look at women who are bulky. What do they do? They lift weights. So you're like, oh, I don't want to look like that. So I'm not going to do what they do without realizing what it took for them to get there, whether or not they are on performance enhancing drugs and whether or not their genetics are just prone for it. So if you have a desired look and you start lifting weights because this is what you want, you want like a certain definition in your arms and legs and grow your glutes and things like that, you weight lift, but you don't overnight become bulky. It would take years. So it's not like you can't pull it back if you're a it's not going to happen overnight. It's not like you're going to start training and like one morning you're going to wake up and you're going to be like, oh my god, I'm bulky now. So now what do I do? How do I get rid of it? It's it's that's not how this works. It takes so many many many years. If you get your desired effect, then you maintain your physique. It's not like you just keep going because you can't help yourself. Like it's not an addiction. You don't get addicted to it and you're like, oh my god, I keep getting bulky, but I can't stop. I can't stop. The people who do become bulky is because they're trying to and they might take drugs to get there. Yeah, I mean there are rare instances with people who say like have good genetics where there's like a certain body part that they don't want to develop further because it's like already developed enough for their liking or whatever. But in that case you could just train that body part for maintenance, which just means like train it less frequently, train it with less intensity. Don't push it quite so hard. Like just do the minimum required to like maintain what you have, which is probably something in the range of like 20 to 30 percent of the work you would do is trying to grow it. Like it's it's quite easy to maintain muscle that you already have. Yes. That would be the only. It's hard to grow it. It's easy to maintain it once you already have it. If you're worried about like gaining weight, which is generally like how you gain bulk is by bulking, then you can just maintain it. Like aim to maintain your weight and just focus on getting stronger in the gym. And then what you'll experience is called body recomposition, where you'll lose body fat as you build muscle and maintain your weight. That will not cause you to look bulkier. If anything, it'll cause you to look more tone defined, whatever, you know, word you want to use. The next myth ties in really well to this. So the idea of toning, I know a lot of people say toning is like a myth because it's like it doesn't really exist. Or if you've never heard that, it doesn't. But I think that the reason why this word is so popular, the reason why this word is so popular, I'm actually not, you might disagree with me. I actually think toning does exist. But hear me out. It's because we don't have a better word for it. It's just the lack of vocabulary. When people say toning, what they want is the muscle to show with less fat. So it shows definition and there's no jiggle more or less. Toning is a synonymous with like tightening up. But the thing is the way that people think that it happens is what is really wrong. I think women think toning is like a thousand arm circles to get rid of the jiggle on their arms. That is what is wrong with this word. It's like the idea of doing lots of reps on a muscle and that's going to tone it. That's actually not true. You have to build the muscle for the muscle to show and it'll appear more defined. From the science-based fitness side, we tend to cringe at the word toning because as you've said, it's associated with these pseudoscientific ideas. So what are they called? Sweat creams and body wraps and all this. That's a whole other side to the toning thing. It's basically like you said, just used as a buzzword that is highly marketable and will catch people's attention. Like, oh, toning, that's what I want. But I think when people say toning, all they really mean is fat loss, probably plus a little bit of muscle growth. So if someone came to me and was like, oh, I'm interested in toning, a lot of trainers would say, okay, well, we're going to get you to do high reps. Lots of, you know, these like, what area you want to tone your abs? Okay, then we're going to do lots of like, you know, crunches and core exercises and this sort of thing. But it's like, no, spot reduction isn't real. So if I was going to help someone who's like, oh, I want to tone, I'd be like, okay, well, what you really want to do is lose fat and build muscle. And so for the losing fat part, you need a caloric deficit, ideally a moderate caloric deficit, especially if you're going to be trying to build muscle at the same time. So something around like 10 to 20% below your caloric maintenance. Make sure you're eating enough protein and weight training with a focus on progressively increasing the reps or increasing the weight that you're using over time. That's going to build muscle. That's going to create a toned appearance so much better than all these other, you know, things we talked about. To be on the other side of this, the non weight loss side of this, just eating sufficient protein and weight training will also give you that effect. I don't think it's necessarily worth preaching that you have to lose fat to be toned. If you were to build muscle and like body recomb, then you would achieve a more quote unquote toned look. So that's it. That was easy. Give me a hard one. The earth flat. I'm getting the wrong side of you too, man. Something that'll get me in trouble. Is it possible to look like liver king, natty? No. I'm not no. All right. Good job. That was fun. Yeah. Okay. So I just got dressed, but before we go to the gym, I quickly want to show you a few of the updates we've made to my house here. I love my house. I loved it when I bought it, but there were a few things that I wasn't crazy about, namely the wall color and the floor here. So I will show you before clips of what everything looked like before and everything that has been done has been done by my own dad. So thank you daddy so much. I tried to help, but I am just not that talented. My dad is extremely talented. He used to work in construction for many years. I'll quickly go through and show you a few of the changes. Big change. We changed this tile. I wanted to do a light checker type vibe. Huge, huge difference. I mean like come on. The other obvious change is the wall color. Chandelier, new chandelier. Oh my god, the amount of work that this chandelier and this new chandelier. Oh my god. My dad also did this wane scotting, which is the trim. So in the dining room, we just decided to do half a wall to Distinguish the dining room from the foyer, which you can see is the bottom half and the top half. So he added the boxes, did the paint, repainted. Wane scotting over here. We added a bit of trim on this wall too to make it look more cohesive. And then we also added it to the living room, which it looks so good. The tv is going to be mounted there. Yes, what a difference, right? We also changed this chandelier. We also changed these pendant lights right here. I'm not Sure how I feel about them. They're almost too small for this space, but I like the vibe. They kind of they go with the vibe of this guy. Oh, yeah, we also added the medallion and we've added a medallion for this chandelier too. Master bedroom, we obviously painted, but we also added trim in the master. So you can see the boxes or the trim. It's kind of subtle, but it makes such an impact in my opinion. He also added trim below the windows, which are so cute. And then obviously we're going to mount a tv there. I'll only say this once because it's obvious. I'm not done. A lot of things are incomplete. Yada, yada, yada, you get the idea. And now I'm going to go to the gym and we're going to do a full body quick workout. I'll see you there. Let me mess it up on you first so I know you didn't cheat. Just rotated it. This is just... Okay, let's see the big finish. Hey, let's go. Photo shop added. It hit somebody. All right, let me get some B-roll you walking on this stupid thing. What's it once this called again? It's... Yeah, the machine. Starts with a T. What the hell? A lot of smith machines are a little bit difficult because they don't go all the way down. So you might have to get a box and stack it to increase the height of you to be able to get the full range of motion. The problem with that is the whole point of this program is for things to be quick and not have a lot of setup. Because at that point it might even just be faster to set up on a regular barbell or just use dumbbells. So I wanted to show you this that it's possible. A lot of smith machines allow you to get the full range of motion. So if you're lucky enough to have one of those machines then use it. But if not, this is an option. But it's also an option just to set up on a regular barbell or just to use dumbbells. Look at us. Who would have thought all these years later? I know right? Who would have thought I would have put up a machine all these years? With the assistive pull-up the idea is to use less resistance over time. Obviously not more because you need less assistance with the machine over time. I can do a regular pull-up but I find that I get a better mind-washing connection when I have assistance. When I'm just working like focusing on my lats and pulling down pulling my elbow in and really focusing on my lats. I personally don't think that you should focus on your ego. Do whatever feels better for the muscle that you're trying to exercise basically. I've said this before on my channel but if you don't know when you're doing dumbbell walking lunges, the longer your stride, the more it'll target your lutes. So if that's what you're going for, increase your stride length. If you want to target your quads more, you just do a shorter stride. Generally speaking, most people really try to feel the lats. A problem with a lot of people is that they feel their biceps way too much on a cable row. Just making sure you're driving with your elbows down and back because your biceps will end up taking over. I know some people opt not to use their thumbs. Instead of doing this, they go like this to avoid using your biceps. So if you want to do that. Then press and press it. I'm going to be very honest. I was kind of dying but I didn't want my dad to think I was a pansy. So I was sucking it up but my upper body is a little bit smoked. So I'm going to try not to kill myself. But for this we're doing a superset. Two dumbbell exercises but not the same muscle. So you should be able to recover quite quickly in between. Dumbbell hammer curl and constant tension dumbbell lateraries. But the thing is with the constant tension, we're doing 20 reps. So you have to use a very light weight. I'm going to use a 5 pound dumbbell because it's constant tension. You never get a break at the bottom. You have to stop shy and you have to keep. It's like use a lower weight than normal. And for the hammer curl we're doing RP 8 but 12 reps. So more normally. I'm going to be vlogging. Bruh I haven't been on camera holding a vlog camera in so long. My last video was a sit down video. If you missed it you should check it out. It's pretty good. That is it for this video. I hope you liked it. I hope you liked the workout. I hope you love my house as much as I do. I love my house. Thank you so much for catching up with me. Thank you to Jeff. It was so fun doing all the myths with him. I hope you learned something. I hope you learned. Hope you learned something. Hope you thought it was funny as always. I love you and I'll see you in the next one. Bye. Good job. He's my unofficial height man.