 shakey start, that's okay. I'm a professional. Have I got to here? Oh yeah! Let's see the moomoo, come closer. Say something. Test, test, test, this is a test. What do you guys think of my new hair? You should do like a little twirl so you can see it, because it's against your black shirt. I know, I always wear black when I'm trying to show my hair. Good job. I'm about to eat something and drink an energy drink because I'm gonna go for a workout. I'm gonna have this wrap that I made, it has turkey, there's avocado, some kale salad with poppy seed dressing, looks really good, I've been eating this, like I've had this the last two days in a row, so I figured that since I knew how to make it really quick, I would just make it again. Early in the morning, I usually have oatmeal, but you've seen me eat oatmeal so many times that I didn't put it in a video. I actually just read a Jeff, a portion of my book as to why I think I like oatmeal so much. The part where I eat raw oats. Yeah, you see raw oatmeal. When I was prepping for a bikini competition, when I wasn't so old, I actually ate raw oats and I ate two spoonfuls of raw oats and those were the only carbohydrates I was allowed for the entire day and it was the best part of my whole day. For the record, you would eat it dry, like spoon to mouth, like no dip in water. Nothing, sometimes I would eat it straight out of the container, but most of the time, I had to have it right before I worked out. I put it in a little Ziploc bag and it would just be like this half inch layer of oatmeal and I would eat it in my car outside the gym with a spoon, like a plastic spoon and a Ziploc. I ate like 600 calories a day during my prep, which I think is really extreme for prep. Controversial question out the gate. Do you think that there's a better way to do bikini competition? There's definitely a better way to do it. Like I think that there are a few people who are very anti-diet, which I feel like I fall into that category as well, but they disparage any sort of fizzy competition, which I don't think is necessarily fair because any elite sport, whether it's someone who runs track or swimming, like I think it's just another sport that requires a certain level of body fat that may have a optimal way of achieving and a less optimal way of achieving. Like I don't think that it's a good sport or a healthy sport because I think that there has been so many people who have been like mentally food damaged from it. Like a lot of people really suffer from having a bad relationship with food as a result of it, but so do ballerinas. I don't think it's fair to just say it's just that sport. I think it's a lot of sports. Do I condone like super low levels of caloric intake to achieve a low body fat? No, but every woman has a choice to do with their body whatever they want to. And if they decide to compete in a competition, that's totally up to them. I don't know. I'm not one to judge on that. Okay, I'm gonna eat. Do we need space for your friend? You guys like the last video? I'm gonna get my food ready. Maybe you're not even gonna be interested in what I have with my food work at the mall. Maybe. Maybe. I don't know. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. Okay. Make all plays and I'll get my bangs. That's better. So this is the pre-workout meal of champions. Rice, ground turkey, cheese, sour cream, and sriracha. And then we've got one single kiwi. And then we've got half a cup of black cherries. Delicious. What do you guys think of this little breakfast table? It's obviously not our formal dining table. It's from CB2 and these chairs. These are also from CB2. Have I docked up here? Oh yeah. This house is really nice though. This is Jeff's house. My Honda Blue, polo the shoes, fell out of the room. All of my friends used to be close. Now where they go, God only knows. I'll get in stone, out of neon. We only talk when they're going far. Huh. All of my friends, one and a week's time. This picture is so old. I think I was still doing my PhD in this photo. All of my friends, all of my, all of my friends. All of my, all of my friends, one and only 10. Oh, save by the bell, I'm about to make these moves. I explain. I actually don't know. So I designed this program for me, to be honest with you. I made it because I was busy. And I wrote this program because I was super busy. Didn't have a lot of time to train. I only had like three days a week to train. And I needed to get in and out of the gym in like an hour, or like 45 minutes to an hour. I decided to make it a little bit better and release it. So yeah, for anyone who's like super busy, doesn't have like a ton of time to be in the gym, three days a week with an optional fourth day. This program is for you. Lots of good like training information. All the good stuff that I usually supply in my programs. If you purchase any of my other programs, you'll know the quality is going to be there, the price. I think you're going to like it. I'm excited. I'm so excited for you guys to try it. I should time myself. We've got an hour to knock this out. I'm going to do a quick warm up on the treadmill. Then we're going to hop into our first primary exercise. This is not mine. This is Jeff. This looks like- Sunny delight. Sunny. You guys have Sunny D? Looks like Sunny D. Oh. It's going to turn into a smoothie. Hey, what? No, hold on. I got it. What is wrong with you? Yeah, yeah. Wait. First exercise is leg press. This gym has an insane amount of leg equipment. So I'm also going to show you guys a different pendulum squat machine that I really like using. So I'll show you that after. If you kind of want to target more of your glutes, high and wide, if your toes pointed out, if you want to target your quads more, closer together with your toes facing up. So it's really just based on your own personal preference. I'm personally going to go high and wide. And I like to drive, make sure I'm driving with my heels. They claim they want beef like I ain't in a teatup. I turned them to vegan. I'm really a creature. She sent me to vegan. I beat it and plead it. It's all of these boogers won't be me, they can't. I'm someone tucked up. I'm late in the shade and I'm counting mine. Still ain't made it. I'm jaded, my latest, my greatest. I ain't ever cave in a city. I'm him, I'm a gym and the soil is by the time. I've been after mine. Okay, I'm a little bit out of breath. So for this first exercise, we're working on an RP8, which means that if you really had to, you could do two more reps, eight reps, RP8. So I'm leaving the kids running on me that I want me a boy and I need them to see me. Yeah, I know it's my season, my family to read. A lot of the exercises are either machines, dumbbells or cables, because there's just no setup involved. So it's a lot faster. So a machine that's not plate loaded like this for the machine shoulder press, which is the next exercise, it's just gonna be faster if you are in a rush. So try like using a pin loaded machine that's gonna be helpful instead of a plate loaded one. The main thing that I would say on this exercise is just to make sure that you have the seat height right. Make sure that the seat height is appropriate for you. We're working on an RP8. So this one is another primary movement of the workout. I really went from where it rags on me to its racks on me first class. They ain't got a pat on me like a tang. Dang, oh bitch, I'm rating the main frame. Turn my pain in the pain on the canvas. I've been a head case. Been frank on the right, I get been frank. They're burnt to wins in the candle. Won't be the first one get rich in my family. They don't understand me. I used to be a nice guy to the world. Tell me, come on. To make the workout more efficient, the next six exercises are three groups of supersets. So we're gonna do exercises back to back with very little rest in between just to make it as fast as possible. I'm gonna be doing an eccentric, accentuated Romanian deadlift. And I'm gonna go a little bit lighter because we're going to take the eccentric very slowly. You're gonna probably need to use a lighter weight than you're used to on a Romanian deadlift. So for dumbbell, RDLs, I'm gonna go a bit lighter because we're gonna do about three to four seconds on the eccentric. It's gonna burn. In between, while you're resting, after you do the RDL, the next exercise is a single arm dumbbell row. So while your hamstrings are resting, you're gonna train back. You guys are very familiar with this machine and this exercise, but we're gonna do another intensity technique, kind of like the eccentric accentuated, but this one we're gonna do a pause. So while your legs are open, we're gonna do a three second pause. We're just gonna make it a little bit more difficult and you're gonna squeeze your glutes really hard during that pause. And then we're gonna superset that with an ab exercise. Because we're using an intensity technique, you might need to go a little bit lower with the weight as with the other exercise. So a little bit of an ego test. We're supersetting right after this one. So you need to probably bring a weight with you unless there's a machine that has a weight nearby. So I just brought a dumbbell. We're supersetting right after this one. So you need to probably bring a weight with you unless there's a machine that has a weight nearby. So I just brought a dumbbell. We're supersetting right after this one. So you need to probably bring a weight with you unless there's a machine that has a weight nearby. So I just brought a dumbbell. It's a fun like fast moving workout. So it's like it's not really if you like to socialize at the gym it's tough to do that. You gotta you gotta move. No chat no chatting up the local bodybuilder. Well if you're trying to like sweet talk a little sweetheart make a little bit of time worth the gain sacrifice worth maybe sacrificing a little bit of your rest time. The exercises aren't super complex but how fast pace you need to be moving makes it more challenging so it does present an extra challenge to the more or less simple workouts but they're fun because you gotta move. So last but not least are two upper body exercises so we're gonna do with dumbbell lateral raises and rear delt lies. We're gonna be doing the exercise back to back with just rest after the second exercise then hop back into the first exercise which starts the new set. That sounds like a lot of gibberish. Oh my gosh. So we're gonna do rear delt lie so generally you can stop right at parallel which is gonna really focus on your rear delt. If you go above that it's not necessarily I think a bad thing I think it just works more of like your traps in back so it's also I think it's personal preference like personally I would just want to work on my rear delt so I'm gonna stop at parallel but if you go a little bit above that you're gonna work more of your traps in back. Okay so we needed to get in and out in an hour. It actually took us an hour and 15 minutes because we had a couple of people who are big fans of Jeff and they wanted to take some pictures with him so we did chat with a few people we have some friends at the gym as well so chatted with them that was the main reason but honestly like I thought that was super efficient really good got in out done now I'm hungry we're gonna go to a place called Swiss L.A. which is I think just in Canada and I was trying to think of like what it would be in the US but I can't really think of like a comparison so you're just gonna have to find out. This feels like my last video. I'm a professional eater on camera. This place sells chicken and it's very very good so you get like chicken with sides. What can you get? I'll probably get the chicken it's a chicken. Okay so I don't think I've mentioned it yet but in two days Jeff and I are leaving for Europe which is so exciting we've been planning this trip now for I don't know it's been like months we're gonna be gone for almost two weeks with our really good friends John and Lonnie and I'm planning on filming a video in Italy in addition to the fact that we're going to Florence and the Amalfi Coast we're also going to Paris you know like no stress just enjoy myself on vacation and it's gonna be a really good time so everything I eat in Italy video yeah it's so hearty young how many times do you do that on camera oh my gosh so Jeff and I are watching this show Severance if you have watched it or if you're currently watching it comment down below we're about to watch the finale tonight it's really good the soup is really good but the show is really good too. Good meal? Delicious yeah okay that was super good delicious really good post-workout delicious loved it if you're in Canada highly recommend is that it for this video oh my god I hope you guys enjoyed the workout my program is officially live it's gonna be on sale for the first week of launch so if you want to check it out you can get it for a discount down below all the information and all like the details about the program everything that it comes with will be in the description box obviously you can check out my website really excited about this one I just feel like this program makes training really accessible to people and people who are really tight on time I think that's why I like this program so much because I feel like it's for everybody beginner to advanced busy people who are just like and trying to work in a fitness regimen with their busy life so I hope you guys check it out let me know what you think but that's gonna be it for this video I hope you enjoyed it I will see you in Italy I love you guys so much see you soon bye oh my god what oh my god oh my god that was wild