 What is going on guys? Welcome to Miami! What is going on guys? Welcome to the video! So I am here in Miami, Florida, and I'm here with my sister and my very good friend Nadine, and we're just planning to sightsee, get some food, just have some fun and hang out, so I hope that you enjoy the video. We have some plans to go to one of like the most popular places in Miami, so I'll see you there! Okay guys, I don't know if you can hear me at all, but we're in a place called Morgan's Restaurant, and it's poppin', so it must be really really good. Kind of like a breakfast, brunch, kind of place, and like lunch, so we're gonna get hopefully something good. The menu looks amazing. So what's it with? Coming with the freshness. Yeah. Light green, sticky clean, so he buy me nice things. I've seen this before. That is so good. Okay, so I got some veggie burger, it's like a sprout green burger, it looks so good. It's a french fries, and then I also got a salad. Burger. It's really good, it tastes a little healthy. It tastes a little bit like health. I think the fries are really good. We are at the famous Salty Donut. This is probably the most highly recommended place in Miami, so we have three different donuts that we're gonna give a try. Guava and cheese, which I think they're famous for. Strawberry shortcake, and the peanut butter and jelly, and then my sister also got one of the glazed donut holes just so we could see how the glazed is. We are gonna start with the guava and cheese. Oh my god. That is like a 10 out of 10, so good. I love guava. The guava with the frosting is absolutely delicious. So far I'm super impressed. Next up we're gonna do the strawberry shortcake. It's so pretty that I don't even want to take a bite of it. The dough is actually really soft. It looks really dense, but it's actually super soft. It's delicious. It's like brush made strawberries. Last is the PB&J. It looks like it is filled here. Jelly right here. That's so good. It tastes like the best version of a peanut butter and jelly sandwich I've ever had, so of course you have to try the original glaze. Very good. Like I said, the dough is surprisingly soft. It's so good. I'm super impressed. This place was amazing. Kind of like in a super packed room. So we're feeling a little bit claustrophobic, so we're gonna eat the rest of these somewhere else, but absolutely love them. 10 out of 10. Salty donuts did not disappoint. Oh my gosh. Okay, so I am pretty tired. We just got back from walking all over Miami, but we just got back from dinner and we went to where do we go with the hell is that place called? We went to Coyo Taco and I had a chicken taco with roasted pineapple. It had cheese and onion on it, and then I also got a shrimp taco that had like pickled coleslaw. So good. Those are some of the best tacos I think I've ever had. We also got their like handmade guac and chips. Also delicious. Earlier today, we actually went to Lincoln Road and we just walked around. We didn't really shop or anything like that, but we just walked around and it was really fun. So we've walked all over Miami today and we're pretty tired, but that's not gonna stop us from getting some good food tomorrow. So I think we're gonna get up early in the morning and get more donuts. Should be fun. Are there rollies? Yeah. Okay, okay, okay. So this is... What do you say? Watch for the natures with dosa de natures. Okay, here we go. So many milk. Lots of milk and lots of dosa de natures. That's good. That's really sweet. It's really good. What was that? That's why I got to move to Miami. Good morning guys. So it's like 8 a.m. right now. We're up a little bit earlier today because we want to get going. Having some coffee. So I just wanted to kind of recap yesterday. Yesterday was really fun. I really wanted to like make note of the fact that I felt like I ate just like my sister in 18. Like I feel like I had a normal appetite. I feel like I didn't eat really any more than them. You know, just like them. I only got one donut when we shared all three. So it wasn't like I got six donuts and then they each got one. So that also made me feel like super normal and feeling really normal on this trip has been like the most notable thing about it. And I just wanted to talk to you guys about that because it's like amazing. It feels so good to not be the one that just eats a lot of food or the one that's always hungry. Like I feel like my amount of hunger like matches theirs and they're very normal with their eating behavior. It felt really good to to be like one of them. Taking a long time to get here, but it's everything about it has been so worth it. I just think that I've made a lot of progress and I just really wanted to share that with you. We're going to get ready. I'm going to do my makeup. I have, you know, no makeup on right now. And then we're going to get going to our first place. Okay guys, so we're in Honey Bee Donuts. I think we're in Coconut Grove. So a little bit outside of Miami, but it's a beautiful city outside of Miami. And Nadine actually got the donuts because she has become a donut kind of sore. So she was like, I want to get a bunch of different ones. She loves these donuts. She's been here before. So I'm really excited to give them a try. We got beautiful donuts. She's attacking me. We're going to share all of these donuts. I'm so excited. I think the one that I'm really excited for just because I'm so excited is the one that I'm really excited for. Because this place is called Honey Bee Donuts is the Honey Caramel one. So I'm going to start with that one. So I'm assuming it's made with real honey and caramel. So let's see. It tastes like a better version of a glaze. You know? So maybe I'll try Nutella next. It's super filled. Oh my goodness. You did? It's good. So Nadine already took a bite out of this one. So you can see the inside. It's good. It's so good. Oh my god. Nutella is so rich. Guava. I'm so excited. Guava and cheese. It looks so different than the other one too. The guava is so good on this. Yeah. Wow. All right. That one's super good. I know. I think that one's my favorite. Wow. Okay. This one's dragon fruit. It's so interesting. I don't know what that tastes like. It's not just yeah. Because dragon fruit is on a strong flavor. Yeah. It's really sort of like a fruity taste. Oh, it looks really sad. I'm sure it's not. Okay. So they both tried this one. Apparently this one's good. Yeah, that's really good. So it's whipped cream, fresh strawberries. It tastes really fresh. So this one is the crème brûlée donut. That's so good. It has like a hard shell. It's really like candy hard. So they were so so good. I highly recommend it. It's amazing. Absolutely amazing. Just as good as a salty donut. Amazing. Oh. It's not as easy to eat on camera as you think it is. Donuts don't have stories. I love this. It's just like mixing flavors of this one. It was like you were like 10 times. They were like, you get it. There's no fruity donut. Okay. I'll be straight when I'm bent off the juice. True. Blue. My heart to blue. Pull out the shoes. Fill up the room. All of my friends used to be close. Now where they go. God only knows. I'll get in stone. Out of neon. We only talk when liquor involved. So all the food we've been having has been really good. But to be really honest with you guys, I feel like we just needed something healthy and light. We like our vegetables too. So can't get salad. And I'm happy that we're just having like a break and all the good stuff and having some of the great. Friday has its stages. My chest will be racing. Yeah. Impatient done with the waiting. This high like a mini vacation. Pulled up. Excuse my latest. Going up on a weekly basis. All of my friends wanted a week 10. All of my friends wanted a week 10. All of my friends. All of my friends. It's actually really good. All of my friends wanted a week 10. Friday need to end in. Really can't tell where you end in. Don't put me in your mentions. I don't want to see it when I'm waking up. Last night did the most. Now my body got no ghost. This little hobby's getting old. Said this not me just a clone. Oh. She knows better than a man's what to do like me. Oh. All my friends said she'd have tried to mess around and leave. Oh. She knows better. She knows better. She knows better. I'm not better. I'm not better. I'm not better. All of my friends wanted a week 10. All of my friends wanted a week 10. All of my friends wanted a week 10. All of my friends wanted a week 10. All of my friends wanted a week 10. It tastes like a cheesecake. It's so nasty. Seven R's. It's an R. All of my friends wanted a week 10. Alrighty guys. So we just got back. We had the most amazing dinner at Q. It was absolutely amazing. It's so highly recommended and for a reason. And thank you so much to Miami in general. Like Miami you have amazing food. I can't wait to come back. So like the video if you liked it. Subscribe if you happen to be new. I do lots of food videos. And I will see you in a video very soon. I love you guys so much. Bye.