 what is going on guys, welcome to the video. I have a new couch and I'm very excited about it. So we're gonna sit on my brand new couch and the sad part is I have nobody to sit on it with. I am completely and utterly alone. So I am sitting in this house all by myself in self-quarantine as I'm sure all of you guys are too. I'm sure you guys totally feel me on this. I am wearing a sports bra and I don't know how I feel about it yet. I'm panicking, that's probably why. I kind of just wanted to vlog today. I feel like I have a lot to say. I have a lot to talk to you guys about. So here we are. If you guys are wondering, my mom lives in an assisted living facility so her place is under complete lockdown. Like she's in quarantine so I haven't seen my mom which is I'm really happy that they are taking it so seriously. And I haven't seen my sister because my sister is a nurse and they did have a case of coronavirus in her hospital so I obviously haven't seen her either. Lastly and the most sadly, Jeff is not here. Jeff is actually in Canada right now. I'm feeling especially lonely without Jeff. I was supposed to have a flight last Wednesday. Obviously no one can travel so I did not travel so we have no clue when we will be able to see each other. I don't want to think about it. I'm hoping that things start to get better and I'm really thinking about all of the healthcare workers out there who are working like overtime right now. My sister being one of them. Anyways, I don't want to talk about the coronavirus for too long but I have been watching Pandemic. The irony of its release date and all that stuff, we all know like it is kind of a strange coincidence. If you guys didn't know, Netflix released a documentary called Pandemic and it's basically about this. How scientists have been predicting that this would happen for a very long time so it's insane to watch. If you guys have watched it, leave me a comment down below. Let me know what you think of it. We are going to be going through a full body workout. I actually did post a poll on my Instagram story if you wanted to see an upper lower workout or if you wanted to see a full body workout in full body one. I will be going through the workout with you guys in a minute but there is something that I want to talk to you guys about first and this is very serious so I did want to clear the air on this. So back in December, I decided that I was going to write an at home program and then I mentioned it to you guys in January. A lot of you guys said yes, you want it and I actually did an at home workout with you guys in that video and then I mentioned it again in February. I told you guys back in February that I was working on it. It was just taking some time because I put a lot of effort into my programs. Now I want to make it really clear. I am not trying to capitalize whatsoever on what is going on right now. I was actually considering postponing the release of this program because it's not ready and I need help to film the video demonstrations and to get photos and things like that because I can't travel right now. I have no one to do that for me so I was actually thinking of postponing it more than anything but I just had such a sense and feeling of urgency because when they started closing gyms I was getting so many messages asking me when are you releasing your program, when I need it more than ever now. Probably people who weren't interested in my at home program were now interested in it. So I felt this sense of urgency that I had to get it out and then I had to stop. I have a very high standard for my programs. I refuse to release a sub par product so when it is ready it will go out. Even if it went out after all of this commotion was over and gyms were reopening, even if that's how long it took for me to finish it, so be it. That's where I'm at right now so I would never want you to think otherwise. I hope that you guys can be patient with me and thank you guys so much for understanding. Yeah, so that's that. I just wanted to get that out of the way. So one more thing that I was going to bring up to you guys. So I don't know if you can tell at all but my eyes are quite red. I actually had Lasik done about a month ago and I have a lot to say. It was kind of a disaster. If you guys are interested in hearing about my whole Lasik experience, I am going to save that for after the workout. Just in case you don't care about the Lasik thing and you want the workout, stay to the end and I'll chat with you guys about it. So really quick before we get started, I just wanted to show you what I have in my garage right now. I have a pretty decent set of dumbbells, 5's, 10's, 15's, 20's and a 25 pound kettlebell. I also have like various monster bands and resistance bands and a hip circle and I also invested in a barbell with some 25 pound plates and some 10 pound plates. I hope I can get more in the future but this is just where I'm starting at right now. I also got this yoga ball which took me an eternity to blow up because they gave like this really ridiculous pump for it and it took like an hour. But anyways, other than that, I also got a bench. This bench does lay flat and everything I got was essentially from Walmart with the exception of like two things. The hip circle and a few of the monster bands were from Amazon but everything else I got at Walmart. But for this workout, all we're going to need is a lighter pair of dumbbells, a heavier set of dumbbells and some resistance bands. Now like I said, this is going to be a full body workout and something that I've learned since training at home is that I've been getting crazy sore. Like the novel stimulus, I don't know, the doms have been so real so I've just been taking more time doing a proper warm up. So here I'm doing cat cows. Then I'm also doing some arm circles to warm up my upper body as well as some arm swings. And then I'm also going to do a band pull apart and as you can see I'm just pulling a light resistance band, nothing too heavy and warm up your rear delts as well. Then for lower body, I'm doing toe touches to squats. So you basically bend down, touch your toes, crouch into a squat position and then reverse the movement. So again, it's touch your toes, squat down, unsquat and then stand back up and then repeat the process. After you do a few of them, you'll get the hang of it. Lastly, I want to warm up my hip flexors so I'm just kind of like doing some roundhouse kicks and then get in a catcher's position and you're going to push your elbows against your knees so it's going to really open up your hips. And then I kind of just shift my weight back and forth. I do have a hip injury that I'm constantly struggling with so I always like to make sure that my hips are nice and warmed up. And keep in mind with these exercises that the exercise order does matter. It's going to start off with the exercises that are most systemically taxing and it's going to get easier as you go along. So doing this workout in the order that I'm presenting it is a good idea because the exercises do start out hard when you're the most fresh and then they get a little bit easier as you go along. You don't want your exercises to get harder because as you get towards the end of the workout, then you'll just be too tired. So for the first exercise, we are starting out with Bulgarian split squats and I start out with just doing my body weight. If you ever see these, you might not always see people setting it up. So I wanted to show you how I set these up to keep my balance. So when my hands are on the ground, I do put my foot up and then once my foot is in place, I can let go of the ground and kind of just get into position that way. And then when I do them with weight, I place the dumbbells on the ground, then I push off the dumbbells to get my foot up, get my balance a little bit and then I squat down. These are really a quad dominant movement, but if you push off with your heel, you can definitely get a good glute burn out of these two. So these are just an amazing lower body exercise. Next up, we're going to be working out the hamstrings with some single leg stiff leg deadlifts. Okay, that's a lot of words. So some single leg RDLs. So there we go. You are going to need something to hold on to. So basically anything, I'm just using a chair. After I kind of get hold of my balance on one foot, I pick up the weight and with these, you're just going to want to put a slight bend in your knee. Go down pretty slow, especially if you don't have heavy dumbbells. I normally do these with much heavier dumbbells. So to make the exercise a little bit more challenging, I do slow down the eccentric and that way I definitely get more bang out of this exercise. With a slower eccentric, you should feel a nice burn in your hamstring from these. As you can see, you kind of swing your leg back like a pendulum and you're going to use hip extension to get yourself back up. But if you are limited on weight, I highly recommend on any exercise, just slowing down the eccentric. Now, if you find that that's a little bit challenging with your balance, you can just do just good old fashioned dumbbell RDLs. So next up, we're going to be working out some triceps and chest. So we're going to go onto the ground. We're going to be doing some dumbbell floor presses. So you want to make sure you get into position safely. With only the 10 pound dumbbells, this was just my warm up. I was able to prop them up really easily and then you just press with a slight elbow flare. So you're going to press straight up right above your boobs. You should be feeling this in your triceps and your chest. Now, when I had heavier dumbbells and I was using the 20 pound dumbbells, I did have to prop the weight up on my legs and then kind of swing myself back. Just the same way that I would if I was using a bench at a gym. And same thing, you kind of get the weights right into position and then you press straight up. And then coming back down, I did place the weights on my legs and then swung myself up. Next up, we're going to be doing some band pull downs. So most of these resistance band kits, the ones with the handles, they do come with like a door hang. And while I was hanging the door hang, it was such a nice day outside. So I just wanted to show you how beautiful it was outside. So with this, we're just doing a regular pull down. So you want to pull straight down, really focusing on contracting your lats. This was just my warm up set and I did find it a little bit too easy. So I doubled up the resistance to make it more challenging. I did really, really squeeze and contract hard at the bottom, really focusing on contracting my lats. And then I released it the eccentric really slowly just to get a little bit more burn from this. And I wasn't sure if you could see very well that angle was kind of weird shooting right into the glass door. So I did do them in my kitchen. So I figured I would show you this set just for gigs. And then after that, we are going to be doing some banded glute bridges. You're going to need a pretty heavy resistance band. The one I'm using is from Slingshot. It's the grippy one that I always use in all my videos. After you lay down, you are going to perform hip abduction. So you're going to be actively pushing out your knees, which is why the band is useful with this exercise. So you're going to actively be pushing out with your knees as you're thrusting your hips up and then you're going to squeeze your glutes at the top. This is like a good pumper exercise. So you're really going to want to contract at the top, squeeze your glutes and then come back down all while actively pushing against that resistance band. So it's a really good glute burnout exercise. And last but not least, we're going to do a set of abs. So I did a few sets of planks. And with planks, of course, you just want to make sure that you're completely parallel with the ground. You're not sticking your butt up or you're not drooping it down too far. You just want to stay completely solid. And I do find planks a lot harder since I'm a little bit heavier. But after the plank, if you want to, you can do more ab exercises if abs are like a priority to you. But after that, that was it. Okay guys, so I really hope that you enjoyed that workout. So now let's talk about my LASIK experience. Cool boy. Listen, we got, we got a lot to talk about. Let's begin the story with very blind Stephanie. Just so you know, I've been wearing contacts and or glasses since I was nine years old. So when I hit 30, my 30th birthday was last month. I wanted to do this for myself. I decided to get LASIK. Went to the consult. They said I was a good candidate. Fantastic. The whole procedure itself was like 20 minutes, but you're there for a few hours just prepping and all that stuff. As soon as I walked out of that place, the day that I had it done, I knew something was not right. Like I knew something was wrong. When I got home after the procedure, my right eye was in excruciating pain. I feel like I have a pretty good pain tolerance. It didn't feel right. Jeff has actually had LASIK. So he was like, that's not right. I'm telling him something's not right. I was supposed to go to sleep right after. Could not sleep. I was in so much pain, but just in one eye. So I knew that if something was wrong, my sister called. They were like, no, that's okay. Like that can happen sometimes. Okay, fine. So I actually had to take something stronger than the Tylenol PM that they gave me, which I happened to have from like a root canal. Anyways, I woke up the next day and my right eye still hurt. Not as bad as it did the day of the procedure, but it still hurt pretty bad. I knew that that was not how it was supposed to feel. They basically make it seem like the next day you have 2020 vision and everything's great and you can go back to work and whatever. And I was like, no, listen, no, that was not happening. And I found that it was kind of odd that my vision wasn't that clear. I realized after like kind of covering one eye at a time, my right eye, the one that was in so much pain was still very blurry. So I actually talked to the surgeon. They just assumed it was a lot of inflammation went in to get it checked out. They're like, oh, your eyes really inflamed. They were like, once the inflammation goes down, you should be able to see better. Okay, nothing changed. So after a week, I told them that I still couldn't see clearly out of that eye. And at that point, they kind of let me know that that wasn't right. The surgeon was like, nope, it should be clear. It's not the inflammation. It looks like you're going to need to have surgery again in that eye. I also want to mention that I was super disoriented from having only one eye with clear vision. I felt like I had to vertigo really bad. I had to take mechalazine, which is an anti-nogen medication because I was so disoriented. I was like out of work. I couldn't do any work, anything on my computer, nothing for a while. I felt horrible. And then they told me that if I wanted to see clearly out of that eye that I could wear glasses. So I got glasses. I actually felt even worse with glasses. I felt even more disoriented. I felt like I was tipping all the time. Glasses are no glasses. I didn't feel great. I would wear glasses if I felt basically the same without them. I still can't see well out of my right eye and I have my one month follow up on Monday. Obviously, I'm going to be very careful if I leave the house. It's obviously my eye, so it is really important that I get them evaluated again. And on Monday, they're going to rebook my next surgery. So I wanted to tell you guys a whole fiasco of a story. Sorry, it was kind of long. I'm in no way trying to scare you out of getting lasik or put a bad name on lasik. I am just telling you my experience with it. Jeff has had very successful lasik. My best friend Nadine also has had lasik. Worked out great for her. Both of them can see wonderful. 98% of people don't have issues. I was just the 2% that did. So I'm not trying to scare you, but I think it's fair of me to tell you my experience because there is that risk. I just didn't think that I was going to experience any issues. So I hate to scare you, but I did want to let you guys know. Obviously, if you're thinking about it, it's up to your discretion. I feel like I talked to you guys for a long time. How long have we been talking? It feels like it's been forever. Okay guys, so that's going to complete this video. I really hope that you liked it. Story time, workout, quarantine, self-isolation. Maybe I've been going on and on because I'm really lonely, so I want someone to talk to. It's been kind of nice talking to the camera. If you did like this video, give it a thumbs up. If you happen to be new, I'd love for you to subscribe. And I will see you in a video very soon. I love you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for sticking with me. See you soon.