 it just sounds like a lot. You really just have it. You just gonna finish it? I'm gonna try it. Okay. It's another cheat day. Here I am, six months later. Going all in. Hit my peak weight of having gained 42 pounds. I feel like I'm happy and healthy where I am, but there are things that I'm struggling with. I've reached this point where my appetite and my hunger is the way it is now. It feels so normal. It's a food guilt and bad body image. Sometimes I still struggle with it and I feel like this is just going to be a lifelong battle. I put on jeans for this video. Go back over there. They look good. We are doing a full blown update in this video about a lot of stuff. I want to talk about my current physique, my relationship with food, my book, training, and just general life updates. We're gonna be talking about it all, but I do want to say that I have something personal. I'm going to share in the physique update portion of the video, but I'll let you know it's coming because I'm not only going to be talking about my body, I'm going to show it. If you find physique updates triggering, you can just click out. I absolutely understand. First up, I want to talk about one of my favorite topics. Let's talk about food. You guys know I have a deep appreciation for food. I've probably had more delicious food in the last four years than the first 29 years of my life, like for real. Since going all in, I've rediscovered the joy of eating and experiencing life in trips, the way that I've always wanted to, and the way that I think everybody should. I've made a lot of mistakes with food and can say that I've gone through, I guess, a mini relapse in the past that I've openly talked about in this video. So if you missed that, I did have a few months over a year ago, I think, where I wasn't eating well, I was anxious, I lost a lot of weight, but I've done so much to catch myself before things went too far. And since I've made all of those corrections, I do feel like I'm in a really good place. I'm not perfect. I still struggle with food guilt and some fear foods, but those weak moments seem to happen less and less. And I say that not only as a reminder to you, but also for me, because no matter how many years post-all in I am, I think I'll always have to push back against really ingrained old habits that have a way of sneaking up on me. But I constantly remind myself that compared to the way that I was, I have made amazing progress and repeatedly pat myself on the back for every even tiny baby step I take towards normal eating behavior. There are a few struggles that I've actively corrected and I feel like a lot of people, because of diet culture, could probably relate to, so I want to talk about those struggles and then I want to talk about things that I'm still working on. So things that I feel like I've been doing really well with are things like not skipping breakfast or skipping any meals, which can be tempting if you're just like, oh, I'm not hungry, I'll eat later, and before you know it, you're intermittent fasting again. So even if it's just like a protein shake, I'll always have something in the morning. Another thing is eating a bowl of carbs without the compulsion to add protein. This might sound strange to people who are not like embedded in the fitness world, but not adding protein to everything feels like sacrilege to me. Are there any other like fitness people who feel like they really struggle with that? Like eat the damn bowl of spaghetti without adding meat. Like it's hard. I don't know why, but for some reason it's super hard. Not adding ground turkey to spaghetti sauce goes against everything in my bodybuilding soul. But since I've been doing really well with that, I think it's a true testament that I'm allowing myself to eat something just for the pleasure of eating it and not for the sake of function, which I used to only eat for function for so many years. So that one has been a hard habit to break. Obviously I try my best to keep my diet balanced and adding protein and eating protein is very good. Please don't get the wrong idea. Most people should do it if you struggle getting in your total daily protein, but I shouldn't fear eating a bowl of carbs just because I didn't add protein to it. You feel me? It hurts my soul sometimes just to eat the oatmeal without adding protein powder, but it's good for me. Another example of something that I've been really good with is eating a high calorie meal and a high calorie dessert, not just one if I really want both without the impulse of thinking, no, I shouldn't have that dessert because I had enough calories with my dinner. Just giving myself that freedom and not restricting by eating both if I want to. If I don't want it and I feel full, that's fine. But if I do, I eat it. So those are just a few examples of things that I've actively been correcting and been really mentally healthy with. But as I mentioned, old habits die hard. So this is something that is on the currently working on list that I need to get better with. So like because of the holidays, vacation, trips or just life, there are times when I know I'm indiscriminately eating a ton of delicious food and my pants start to feel a bit tight. I don't currently weigh myself. I have no idea how much I weigh, but I can tell with my clothing when they don't fit or feel too small. In those instances, my diet brain likes to button and wants so badly to take charge. It's like my diet brain is the Kool-Aid man and is like, oh, tight pants. I can fix that. And my diet brain is quiet when I feel like my weight is stable and I don't really even pay attention to my body or weight. But those minor blips from traveling or holidays or whatever where my clothes start to feel tight, it wakes up my diet brain. And it starts shouting all the ways that I can like lose that little bit of extra weight that I put on. Things like, no, don't order out. Just cook or don't skip the gym. Even if I'm tired and don't feel like going. Behaviors that lead down a slippery slope of restriction. So I have to consciously stop thinking those things. Recognizing that it's happening is the first really big step, but then addressing it is just as important. And as long as I can do that every time those week moments happen, I know I can make it another day, then another week, and then another month, and then another year with food freedom and eating intuitively. I don't want to live a life of restriction and I don't want to get extreme hunger again because that is like the ultimate nightmare for me. So my current relationship with food at the moment is I'd say like a 7.5 out of 10. If 10 out of 10 is perfect, like no restricting or unhealthy diet behavior. And considering it was probably like a 2 out of 10 before I went all in, literally doing everything under the sun to make sure I stayed super lean, I feel like I'm doing really well. Like that's a win for me. It's not perfect, but it's not bad. Okay, so that's it for food. Let's quickly talk about my training. So for the past like eight months or so, I've stuck with a three days a week full body regimen. I basically just run my quick and effective program with modifications here and there. And I don't think I'm going to change that anytime soon. I just have a lot going on with recently moving to a new state as you know, taking care of my mom, making sure I have time with Jeff, traveling to Canada to be here with Jeff, work, and writing my book, which I'll get to later in this video. So three days a week really works for me. I just tried to consistently get stronger as opposed to getting in as much volume as possible. There's also something about training full body that I love. If you've never tried it, I highly recommend it. It's actually so much less intimidating to go to the gym and know you don't have like a gazillion exercises for one body part. It's like just getting through one exercise of each body part, super setting a few exercises and then getting out in 45 minutes is so much easier to get myself hyped for, especially when I have just so much to do. It's like, okay, I can do 45 minutes. Yeah, I got this. But then I have days where I'm like super in the mood to train and want to spend more time in the gym. So I do and I take my time, but it's just not possible with my schedule most days. So I really like my current split and training style. I feel like I still have amazing workouts. I actually push my workouts harder because I'm not fatigued from over training. I'm only in the gym three days a week and I feel fully rested and I find that I actually train harder and exert more effort. Yeah, my 20s, I could probably train seven days a week, super hard, pushing super hard. But now at 33, I feel like I really need those rest days. So next update, my book. I know it's taking a long time, but I actually got halfway through writing it and then scrapped the whole thing. I know, I know. But honestly, I think it was a really good decision because I just wasn't feeling the flow of it. I originally wrote the story already being all in and then doing flashbacks as to how I got there. And it sounds cool in theory, but it was just not flowing. And I felt like it would just confuse the reader like they would be thinking, okay, so when is this? And that's how my editor felt too. So in the middle of last year, I completely started over. I'm actually in a hotel right now. I'm here focusing on my book and I have some breakfast and now the timeline is just linear. It starts before I went all in, then going all in and now reflecting on it three years later in like an epilogue of sorts. It will still read like a fiction book, as I mentioned in the past with dialogue, like a story basically, even though it's all real. I infuse real conversations that I luckily have because I film my life and I also journaled so much. So it'll actually have copies of my journal entries. It'll have text conversations, call out boxes, all sorts of good stuff. And I'm super proud of what I've rewritten since basically starting over. So I plan to finish like the full first draft hopefully in the next two months. And then after that, obviously my publishers and I will go from there. I know it's a very complicated process to get through all the edits and then imagery because I want to have lots of pictures and then the cover, etc. But I promise it will be worth the wait. And last but not least, let's do my physique update. So if you find seeing my body triggering, I love you. I will see you in the next one. This is what I currently look like. I actually have no idea how much I weigh. But I feel like my weight has been relatively stable for the past year. I know I mentioned having like ebbs and flows of weight gain, but it's been more or less consistent. I think this is where my body is happy and I feel really good at this weight. I feel healthy. I don't feel tired all the time. My appetite is very normal. I'm not overly hungry or not hungry. Like I don't have a lack of appetite. So yeah, I feel like really good and really positive in my skin. A big part of that is the update that I have for you. This was a very personal decision, but I wanted to share with you guys that I decided to get a breast augmentation. I've always been very transparent with my body on YouTube. I mean, you've seen me in my broad underwear more times than I'm willing to admit. So I felt comfortable telling you about this. But I do want to get ahead of a few questions that I know people will have for me. First being that I know you will probably wonder if I'm worried about breast implant illness. So nothing of what I'm about to say is meant to take away from anyone who has suffered from breast implant illness at all. However, with the information we have in this moment and all the studies on silicone implants as being one of the most well studied medical devices on the market, I am not worried about it for me personally. I thought long and hard about it. I did a lot of research and reading on PubMed. The information out there on BII is currently unclear and not conclusive. So I just made my decision on the safety reports that are clear and conclusive and know that I did not make my decision lightly. When evaluating the pros and cons as a healthy young woman who has no history of autoimmune disease, I felt like my reasons for getting the surgery outweighed the risks, which brings me to my reasons. You guys have seen my body up close and personal for years. I've shared extremely intimate details and showed you at my best and at my worst. With that being said, this is something that I did for me and the specific reasons are very personal and I'm not comfortable sharing the reasons, and I hope that you can respect that. I love you guys with all of my heart and whether you support my decision or not, I hope you can still be kind and respectful. Jess and my family were a thousand percent supportive, especially since they knew my reasons. And I'm so happy that I had them there for me and not judging me. This is obviously the first time that I've been on camera since my surgery and I was incredibly nervous to film this part of the video. And the fact that I had to think really long and hard about how I was going to tell thousands of people was an interesting experience. One that 99.9% of people don't have to do after having cosmetic surgery. Yes, it is my decision to share my life online, which I know comes with a cost. But I do want to try to retain some semblance of things that are for me, which I'm sure you understand the stress of sharing so much of my personal life online for people to openly criticize has taken a toll on me. But I continue to do it and love it for the people that I hope to help and the people that I can connect with on a deep level. When I meet people in real life or get emails or DMs and they tell me how much I've helped them with their food or body struggles, it means so much to me and makes it all worth it. You guys are the reason that I'm still here on YouTube. And before I get emotional, that is it for this video. I hope you enjoyed it and I will see you in the next one. I love you so much. Bye.