 Okay, okay, I feel like the holidays threw up in this room, but we're gonna roll with it, because I needed a backdrop, and it's been a while since I filmed the YouTube video, so, hello, hello, how are you guys? I have missed you. So today we're gonna be doing a video that I feel really passionate about. I feel like food guilt and food fears and restriction is just something that I have definitely dealt with. So I just like talking about it for those of you guys who are thinking about the holidays coming up, and it's giving you a lot of anxiety, which I've definitely been there, so I know how you feel. So in this video, I wanna talk about two different mentalities that I think are most common this time of year. One is enjoying and eating all the delicious food, like stuffing, mac and cheese, dinner rolls, and apple pie, but then you have so much food guilt after that your heart is racing as you lie in bed thinking of all the ways that you can burn off this food in the next coming days with hours of cardio and restricting all of your food. And two is restricting during the meal. So completely avoiding all the high carb or high fat dishes and just sticking with a side of green beans with white meat turkey breast. This will appease your inner food fears in the moment, but you basically miss out on all the delicious food made only once a year. Both scenarios suck. So first, let's talk about eating and enjoying yourself, but then feeling like you have this post meal food guilt. So when I was thinking about making this video, one point that I really wanted to like drive home was that the anxiety after one large meal is kind of completely unwarranted because a single meal will only cause just a ton of water retention and any weight gain that you experience, it'll almost predominantly be because of the food still in your stomach, so it's just food volume. So a lot of people think that after a big Thanksgiving dinner that you'll gain like five to 10 pounds, but like I said, it's mostly just food that's still in your body and all the water retention from lots of carbs and lots of sodium. So I'm not sure if you know this, but for every gram of carb that you eat and your body keeps this energy, an additional three to four grams of water is stored to help store the glycogen. So when people talk about water retention and when I just mentioned it, that's what I mean. Also, I've actually done an experiment using metabolic equations and was able to estimate how much actual fat I could have gained after eating 8,000 calories in a cheat day. And if you watch that video, you saw that it was actually super small. And according to the Calorie Control Council, on average, Americans only eat about 4,000 calories in a Thanksgiving meal. So that's just something to keep in mind. So because your body weight will be elevated because of the water and food weight, like I mentioned, do not weigh yourself after. Honestly, like don't weigh yourself for like a week after Thanksgiving. Personally, I would suggest throwing away your scale altogether, but that's just me. So the hours of cardio and restricting you are planning to do like plotting in your bed at night after Thanksgiving, basically creates a disordered transactional equation in your head that you might keep doing every time you have a large meal, which is an extremely slippery slope to a disordered mentality around food. The second scenario and mentality around the holidays is food restriction during the actual meal. Maybe all the high calorie foods laid out in the table in front of you are all on your list of fear foods. So you're looking at the food in front of you and it's giving you all this anxiety, so you just stick to the safe food. You stick to protein and you stick to the veggies. So no stuffing, no mashed potatoes, no Aunt Martha's famous pumpkin pie. In this scenario, you don't feel that post meal food guilt, but you feel sad and anxious because you missed out on all the delicious food you wish you could have had and you miss out on the joy of enjoying that food with loved ones. And in this scenario, instead of laying in bed plotting how to burn off food, you're laying in bed still hungry, unsatisfied and might even sneak out of bed to eat leftover pie in secret, eating giant spoonfuls straight out of the pie tin or binge on an entire plate of holiday cookies when you could have just had one or two at dinner. And then you just have a bunch of food guilt anyways, or if you don't sneak out and eat, you never get over your food fears and you continue down the path of food restriction and a poor relationship with fun food. So in both scenarios, how do you fix this? Honestly, it's pretty simple. Now, of course, like a lot of different things revolving around food and having food struggles is always easier said than done, but hear me out. The solution is to just eat. Enjoy yourself. Be mindful while you're eating and pay attention to your satiety cues, but enjoy everything that looks good to you. The next day, continue as normal. Eat some leftovers, exercise as normal, continue your normal eating pattern and just live life as normal. And that way you can live stress-free knowing you enjoyed yourself and can just move on. Or you can work yourself into a frenzy of restriction and a ton of cardio and then have a crazy compulsion that makes you feel that you have to do this every single time that you have a big meal or anything fun to eat. The former is food freedom and no disorder repercussions and the latter can create a poor relationship with food that continues forever. It's a very dangerous trap that I've been caught in before and it's not fun, very difficult to get out of and easily avoided by just continuing as normal. Please don't go down that slippery slope of a disordered mentality around food. Food and exercise and food and restriction are not a transaction. Once you get in that mindset, it's so hard to get out of it. It always becomes a tit for tat. Like this muffin means this much cardio or this dinner roll means this much exercise. It's just a dangerous mentality to get into. I wasn't always like this, but now I eat food and I exercise, but one does not dictate the other. I don't exercise because I eat food. I just exercise because it's good for me. It took me so many years to get here, but I hope you can get here too if you're not already. So this video was just a quick reminder to enjoy yourself, don't weigh yourself, spend time with loved ones, smile, laugh and eat on Martha's pie. And if you really need that reassurance that a single or even a couple of large meals is negligible in the long run of your physique, remember what I said about my 8,000 calorie G day. Lastly, I just wanted to mention that if you are really struggling with an eating disorder and maybe think these tips won't help you, there's nothing wrong with getting help. I will consult with experts and put their recommendations of good resources in the description box for you. I love you guys so, so much. Please, please, please enjoy yourself for me and have an amazing Thanksgiving. Until next time. Bye.