 gaining weight is hard. There's absolutely no way around it. And no matter who you are, if you gain weight, it's difficult to deal with. I was definitely victim to feeling bad about weight gain. And if you've ever felt self-conscious about gaining any weight, you're definitely not alone. So I wanna talk about how I dealt with weight gain. And obviously I can only speak from my own perspective as somebody who is eating to satiety, trying to fix my extreme hunger, but I was gaining weight as a byproduct. I do think these tips would be pretty universally applicable to anyone who's undergone any physique changes or weight gain, but I really just want you to understand where I'm coming from. And of course, we're all for self-love and body positivity here on my channel, but being loving towards your body just doesn't happen overnight. It takes patience, practice, and learning how to deal with change. Now this video would be super short if I was just like, you shouldn't care what other people think, just ignore people, just ignore the haters. But that's just not how our psychology works. So I'd rather give you some practical tips that I used on my own journey. I do wanna break these tips up into separate categories just to keep this video organized. But the first thing I wanna talk about is just a general tip for anyone going through anything difficult, any kind of hardship in their life, not just weight gain. And that is journaling. It helped me so much mentally deal with everything I was dealing with with the weight gain process in such a profound way that I honestly can't imagine doing this whole journey without this thing. It was something that I did like way back in the day when I was in middle school, but I stopped and I started again when I started my all-in journey and it has been such a lifesaver. I spoke to it like it was a person and I honestly wrote some things in there that I probably would never be able to say out loud, like horrible, awful things about myself to the most narcissistic cocky things about loving myself. A journal will not judge you, it will not hate you, and it will not try to sway you. It's literally just you and your thoughts being worked out line by line and I promise the more that you do it, the more that you will begin to love it. And I often get asked like what I would write in my journal whenever I would talk about it. So some examples were things like how much I was loving my body one day or how much I was hating my body one day, how I felt during my workouts, what my hunger levels were like, like in the morning and at night, and how much I loved and appreciated my boyfriend, and just small reminders not to give up. I highly recommend it and give it a chance if you haven't. It's definitely made an impact on me. Now with that general tip out of the way, I do wanna break up these next tips into categories because with weight gain, there are going to be three opinions that will likely weigh on your subconscious the most. One is going to be how you judge and like the opinions you have on yourself. Two are gonna be the judgments and opinions of others that are really close to you. And three and arguably just as difficult as the first two are the opinions and judgments of acquaintances and complete strangers. And I think the best way to deal with these different battles is to mentally address each one individually. So let's first talk about our worst and most brutal critic of all ourselves. The first thing I really felt like I really needed to do from the beginning was get out of my stupid brain. The way that I looked mattered so much because I really needed to take a step back and remember all the qualities that I possess that are way more important than the way that I look and just remind myself that my physique and my appearance is just not that interesting. I started to value in me qualities that I value in others like being supportive, caring, compassionate, kind and just pleasant to be around. Now that I had my priorities in order, I can move on to a really kind of small but bad habit that I had. And this is arguably the most actionable tip of this video and that is to stop body checking. Just stop it. I personally made sure to do this myself from the beginning. It's a really weird, strange, narcissistic habit that's hard to break and a lot of people do it so don't feel ashamed if you do, but if you do, just stop it. Stop checking for a flat tummy or checking to see if eating good food that your body likely wants is changing your body in any way. In my case, I just stopped my morning ritual of a quick ab check and I just got dressed like a normal person and moved on with my day. Now, I personally didn't find avoiding mirrors altogether very helpful. Something about seeing my reflection just later on in the day was just a little bit more daunting to me but I have heard from people that it is really helpful to just like stop looking at mirrors, stop paying so much attention to your reflection and I would just suggest doing whatever it is that you need to do to be less focused on your body. But I do wanna make a quick disclaimer as somebody who's documenting their journey, I did have to focus and show more of my body than I would suggest to anyone not documenting their journey but I did that for documentation purposes only and just so I could keep you guys in the loop. The next tip that I really had with my own personal self judgment on myself was to make sure that I was doing all the things that I felt like I wanted to do to make me feel still at my best. And I'm sure you guys all remember at the beginning of my journey, I started off by wearing really loose and baggy clothing which I do think was the right move because I was really comfortable, I never felt like constricted but as my weight stabilized, which it eventually did, I started dressing more for my new body type. So I accepted the fact that I had a curvier physique and I started dressing accordingly. So I would stop wearing big loose T-shirts that like gave me no shape whatsoever. It would completely hide my stomach or any shape that I would have and I started wearing more crop tops, more fitted tops but I would still wear high-waisted things so it would give me the illusion that I had shape. Little tweaks in my wardrobe definitely made me feel a lot more confident and to be honest with you, if I didn't do those things, I would just feel kind of fat, just being honest. And I know I shouldn't say that or I didn't really mean it, but that's just how I felt. Next up, I wanna talk about how to deal with the opinions and judgment of people who are really close to you, like close family, close friends and of course, your significant other. So the absolute most important thing that you have to do is do not shut these people out. I know that it's really tempting to do so because you're really not feeling your best and you just want everyone to leave you alone, but this is a mistake. Remember, if these people truly love and care about you, any comments or snarky remarks are probably just going to be because they just don't get it and that there might be some misunderstanding or confusion about it. Do not isolate yourself. You need a support system that understands what's going on and who's gonna be there for you. Most times that you get mean or unsolicited comments are from people who just don't get it. Keep close people close. I promise you, they just wanna help you. And I'm not talking about like your great distant uncle, Fred, that you only see at Thanksgiving. I'm more so talking about people like your mom, your dad, sisters, brothers, best friend and your significant other. Help them understand, talk to them, explain things to them, give them a chance to understand what you're going through. So I think a really good example of this is actually you guys. So when I first decided to go all in, I was really nervous. I did contemplate just like quitting YouTube and hiding away, but I felt really close to you guys. And if I just explained things to you, you guys would understand and stand behind me and support me. And not everybody understood at first. Maybe you just were kind of unsure what the whole process was about. But the more I let you in and the more that I explained things to you, the more you guys wanted to see me succeed and the more loving and supportive you guys were. Now, I would say that you should only invest this much time and energy in people that you really care about because you're gonna need them. And when things get hard, which they will, you're gonna want a shoulder to cry on. Just talk to them, explain things to them. They'll actually feel honored that you let them in and they'll wanna help. And of course, there are gonna be people who just don't get it. They'll push back, they'll argue, they'll tell you that you don't know what you're talking about. And to be honest with you, I personally feel like you just shouldn't spend as much time with these people and invest more in the people that are giving you a chance. Just make peace with the fact that some of these people just don't get it. However, I would say not to give up too quickly. Many of you guys know that I'm really close to my mom. And at the beginning, I have to say that there were times that she did make some mean comments. And coming from her, someone I'm like, so close to, it was really hard. And if you experience this, you know what they're saying can be really hurtful, but I promise they don't mean to be and they don't want to hurt you. Just be patient with those. You wanna keep close. If they don't get it, I'm sure they will come around. And I wanna speak separately about your significant other. I feel like they're like a special category of their own. And if you watch my previous videos, you guys are fully aware of the fact that Jess was like the backbone of my all-in journey. He helped me so much. He was unconditionally loving. He would support me no matter what. And I know that he would just love me no matter what weight I was. But what sometimes happens as a result of gaining weight is that some people do change. When people gain weight, some personality traits or habits sometimes change. And that could be the root cause of any conflict you seem to have with your significant other. Just give them the benefit of the doubt that it's not the actual weight gain and that it might be something else because as you gain weight, you might change. In my case, I think this was for the better. Jeff always says, I've seen so much happier, just better overall. But some people, when they gain weight, they can fall into depression. They can fall into having a short temper or just not feeling great all the time. So you might be shorter tempered with your significant other. And that could be more of the root cause of any issues that you have. So my advice would be to anybody who's gained weight and is in a relationship is to stay true to who you are. I know that this is not always easy, but try to remain the best version of yourself. And of course, nobody's perfect, but if your significant other really loves you, they'll be there for you and they will support you. And lastly, I wanna tackle how to deal with acquaintances, strangers, or even colleagues that you see on a regular basis, but you don't really know very well. And oddly enough, this is probably one of the most difficult categories to deal with because this is a category of people that you're not supposed to care about. But if you're human, of course you do. You are not wrong for putting stock into what other people think of you. I think like humans are hardwired to be this way. So don't feel like weird or strange or different if you struggle with this issue of caring what other people think of you. Most people do. It honestly comes down to whether or not you think your own personal journey or your health matters more than the opinion of these people who likely don't care about you. And if you're waking with something as a result of something other than my journey, which is 100% okay and just as difficult to deal with, you just have to evaluate whether or not these people's opinions should matter. Like should you care? Will you ever see these people again? And if yes, does your wellbeing depend on their opinion of you? Would you care if these people gained weight? I would think probably not. So just try to remember who you are. Remember the qualities in you that you possess, that you care about the most, and try not to let the opinion of these people obstruct your happiness, interfere with your journey, or even interfere with your day. Now, there is one place that this gets a little bit tangly, and that is when it comes down to seeing a healthcare professional, because it's probably likely that they're gonna notice that you gained weight from one visit to the next. If they do question why your weight has changed, just please give them the benefit of the doubt that they have your best interest in mind. They're not trying to do it for any malicious reason, and they are just thinking about you and your health. And if they do ask, which is a big if, because you're most likely the one most aware of your weight gain, but if they do ask, my best advice would be to just be 100% honest. This actually did happen to me. It happened to me when I went to go see my OB-GYN, and he noticed that there was obviously a weight difference from my previous visit to the current visit, and I was just totally honest. I told him everything that I was doing. And then after I explained this whole long spiel, he just nodded in an approving way, to be honest with you. I think he just thought that was a good move, especially if somebody who deals with pregnant women or women who are trying to be pregnant, I think, like I honestly think he thought I used to be too lean. Now, of course, this isn't always the case, but I think that you should just approach each scenario as you kind of see fit, because you'll kind of get the vibe of how you'll either need to ignore it altogether, like just leave it be, or just to tell them. And definitely know that you're not alone if you feel nervous about encountering somebody that you haven't seen in a while. And this kind of happened to me when I went to go see my dentist, and it also happened when I went to go see my hairdresser. So in the case of my dentist, I had this vibe from her that I honestly didn't think that she cared. I don't think she really noticed, so I just made that executive decision that she was just gonna be somebody that I would just leave it. I wasn't gonna mention it, I wasn't gonna bring it up, and that was just like, I just kind of made that decision myself to just leave it alone. Now, in this situation with my hairdresser, I consider her a friend of mine. I've been seeing her for years, so I definitely knew she would notice the difference from the last time she saw me, and in that scenario, I just decided to tell her. I just told her about my whole all-in journey, I told her everything. She was like really on board with it. She was super supportive, she loved the message I was sending. So I was really happy that I told her because it was just another person that I had supporting me. Again, you have to take it like on a case-by-case basis, but I think that your intuition will let you know whether you need to just leave it or tell them. So regardless, if it's like you, close friends or family, or strangers or acquaintances, the most important thing I can tell you is to just remember your why. I constantly reflected why I was doing this. I knew that I wanted to free myself from like this extreme hunger prison, and all it took was for me to eat as much as I wanted, and yes, like of course, I gained weight. I expected to gain weight, I did gain weight, but I knew everything that I was doing was the right thing, and I know that future Stephanie will thank me one day. So that's it for this video. If you did like it or learned something from it, I'd really appreciate it if you gave it a thumbs up. If you happen to be new, I'd love for you to subscribe, and I will see you in a video very soon. Love you and thank you so much for being there for me. I'm really happy that I let you in. Love you, see you next time. Bye.