 you filming? Who study once, she says you on topside. That's super good. You can eat it! Oh my god! Room temperature cheese. That's actually pretty good. Because I ain't trust what you're doing is real. In time, you will show me things for now. Starting to question what all this really is about. Is it recording? Yeah. My slides are cold. A little bit? A little bit cold. That's kind of nice though. It's nice. I've only ever sat in this chair once before, so this could go really well. It's the pinata chair. I know. Oh, it's actually kind of nice. Welcome back to Florida. Welcome to Florida. The weather has been gorgeous here, it's a little bit cold. So I came back home to celebrate my birthday and we had a little birthday party with my mom, sister, my friend Nadine and Jeff. Oh my goodness. I'm gonna have you take three steps forward, okay? Are you sure this is a birthday cake? It's a pumpkin house. And we hung a pinata on this thing. So I'll have to show you guys some clips of that. It was really fun. Now we're ready to the ceiling. Whack! Yeah! We actually made the pinata because it was something that my mom really wanted to do. I used to make them all the time when I was a kid. I was kind of joking. Like, I was like, mom, we should make a pinata. And she was so excited. So I had to. We made one and it was great. It was so much fun. What's your window? Oh. So smash that. Anyway, I don't water my plants. My poor plants. Wow, that's kind of nice. The reflection. I don't know anything about plants. I just know you have to water them once a week. When it's hot, I do that more than once a week. This is the extent of my responsibility. I don't think I could ever have a pet. So I put too much water. Don't come for me if I'm watering too much. So it's 7.30 in the morning and I'm going to go make some breakfast. Okay, so I have breakfast ready. I have two eggs on a whole avocado on toast. It is delicious. It's my favorite thing to eat other than my favorite protein oatmeal. I think I've beaten you guys over the head with that one. So I wanted to do something different. Another new addition to my breakfast is having iced coffee. I don't know what it is. I really like it. It's just regular brewed coffee that I let cool down and I put ice in it. And then I put some sweetener and hashy milk. So I really like that. Now while I eat breakfast, I'm going to be listening to an audiobook. I'm still listening to and reading tons of books. I'm always trying to get inspired by different authors and different writing. So I'm going to go ahead and listen to an audiobook and enjoy this. Cheers. It's so good. I don't need your protection, I said. But Jude does. Delicious. You filming? All right. Hair, makeup, done. I'm looking a lot better than the last time you saw me. I decided to get a little bit glam today. It's been a long time since I've done my makeup. I did not do my makeup in my last video. Today we are in full glam. So after I had breakfast, I actually went to the gym. And it's time for lunch. So I'm getting hungry. It's 1pm, so it's been quite a while since I had my breakfast. It's time for us to go get some lunch and the reason I'm going to have naked, as you can probably imagine, we're going to go somewhere where we're going to be outside. I'll see you there. Okay. Oh, by the way, I got a tattoo. This is actually my second tattoo. So I have another one. I don't know if I ever showed it on camera. I'm sure you've seen it in some clips, but I have another one on my side. So we just made it to the beach. I feel like there was a couple of things I wanted to talk about before we went out to the beach and had our subs. I was just thinking about it as I was driving. How full I get from a meal like I had this morning and how grateful I would have been over a year ago to know that that was going to be possible for me because I've been there. I've been at the place where I feel like I could eat indefinitely and never feel full. And after I had breakfast this morning, I was like an eight out of 10 full. I was like, oh man. And I felt super full up until basically we picked up the subs. My appetite and my hunger, all of that, like it still kind of shocks me that I've reached this point where my appetite and my hunger is the way it is now. It feels so normal. It feels like what I wanted it to feel like when I started this journey. So it does make me really happy and I feel like I've come a really long way. And something that I was talking to Jeff about was that I went through so many different food phases and I wanted to bring it up in this video because the full day of eating at the beginning. I ate so many potatoes and bananas. I don't know why it was all that I wanted. I feel like my cravings kind of swung all over the place. So I went through like months of eating like tons of bananas and sweet potatoes and potatoes. And then it kind of swung to another direction. I ate veggie burgers. I eat one every single day. So along with my oatmeal, I had veggie burgers every day. And then I will never forget this because during the lockdown, I think I ate almost exclusively oatmeal and cereal. Like that was all that I ate. And I was totally content with just eating oatmeal and cereal. I ate that for like four months straight. And then like it has recently swung to everything with avocado on it. I'm sure you've noticed in recent videos and if you follow me on Instagram story, avocado is my apparently my newer obsession. I go through like all these food craving phases and it's just been interesting to experiment with where what my body is craving at different phases of my journey. I don't really have any explanation for it other than it's an interesting observation that I thought I would talk about. But yeah, sub time now. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. I got the Italian five grain bread, which is like arguably the best bread, but all of their bread and their bakery is really good. Turkey, white American cheese, mustard and like every veggie because I love me some veggies. Cucumbers, lettuce, tomatoes, pickles, I don't know, all sorts of stuff. Oh, banana peppers. Jeff, over here. I had to get started. Yeah, he's hungry. It's the same kind of thing, but. Okay, there's a hair. Why I wore lip gloss to the beach is the worst idea. How to get a photo. Jeff helped me here. Talk for Jeff. Cheers. I got a photo. Right, so good. I don't feel nothing. Nothing. I don't feel nothing. Okay. Sub 10 out of 10. Delicious. What do you think? It was really good. Always, always delivers, but got something else. Oh yeah. Oh buddy, have you guys seen these yet? Oh my God, my nails match. So when I saw these in the store, I was like, this is literally me in an Oreo. Strawberry donut and it has glitter. I don't think I'm ready. We're going to give it a try. Stephanie review right now. Smells good. Oh my God. It does smell like a donut. Oh man. All right, we got to turn it to both of us. We're both going to give it a try. There's like two layers. I guess like that brown layer is supposed to be like the dough of the donut. And then the pink is the filling or the frosting. I'm sorry. And there's glitter. That's cool. I kind of see the glitter. Oh, it's coming apart. So let's see if I can. I guess that's glitter. Golden Oreo cookies are, I like them better than chocolate. For me, anything with the golden Oreo is probably going to get a really good rating. All right, I'm ready. I'm ready. Cheers. That's super good. That's super good. That's really good. I actually think that they nailed the strawberry frosting of a donut. Think of the frosting of a Dunkin Donuts donut and just taking the frosting and putting it inside an Oreo. It's a little bit melted because they were in my car. They are good though. Took me a second to register. It was pretty good. That's actually pretty good. Okay. So I am back all cleaned up from the beach and there was something in the car that I wanted to talk to you guys about that I completely forgot. I was trying to think of it when I was talking about all of my cravings and everything. I was like, oh, there's something else I want to talk about. And I just remembered what it is. Okay, I have this hypothesis slash theory about extreme hunger and at least how I think it worked in a way that I can't imagine. I have this theory about extreme hunger and at least how I think it worked and applied towards me personally. I don't have any scientific data to support anything that I'm saying. I have a half baked virgin theory about this. I have this theory that extreme hunger is made up of two main components, mental hunger and physical hunger. And I had to kind of defeat both of those for me to overcome extreme hunger. There's two parts of the equation. I feel like it was a stepwise process. I had to overcome my mental hunger first before my body was capable of overcoming physical hunger, extreme physical hunger. Of course, everyone has physical hunger all the time, but I mean super high levels of it like I had when I had extreme hunger. The mental hunger component, which if you're not familiar with mental hunger, I feel like a good definition or description of it. It's basically when you want food and you're thinking about food all the time, even when you're not physically hungry. Like you could just have eaten a meal and still want more and not ever feel fully satisfied because you have mental hunger. And that was really, really, really high for me at the beginning of my all in journey. And once I kind of satisfied that because I allowed myself to eat when I had mental hunger, even when I was not physically hungry, I was able to decrease it and eventually eliminate it. And by the time I kind of got rid of my mental hunger, I still had lingering very high levels of physical hunger. But I had to get that out of the way first before I could move on to the second part of the equation, which was the physical hunger part. And that eventually did decrease as you guys know as well. I had half a sub, half of it, and I was full. I'm still feeling full. It's been like a couple hours since I ate that. Talanya, Talanya, sunk to it. Noodle. I'm not actually about that much. Oh shit. Got it. Oh, I have to sneak in some help before I forget. It's a little bit. Too much help? We were not trying to show off. Jen has limited tolerance for help. It's gonna be really hot. That is good. College taught me how to make pasta. By the end of this, we're gonna have no noodles left. Dang it. See you anytime. That was easy. Nice. Taste test. Ready? I'm ready. Bit of this, bit of that. See what we're working with. Okay, that's too much mushroom. You can eat it. Oh my god. That's good. Thank you. It's pretty good. Dinner is pasta. We are having large elbows because apparently regular elbows weren't enough. I don't know why I got large elbows. They look better in the box. So the spaghetti sauce has turkey, ground turkey in it. It has mushrooms, a little bit of spinach, not too much. And I also cooked it with sauteed onions, red onions, topped with Parmesan cheese. Fancy stuff. I'm not super hungry, which is kind of crazy. Oh, that's good. That's delicious. Have some spinach. When I make pasta for myself and I'm not trying to make it more edible for Jeff, I don't do anything fancy. I literally just put ground turkey in it and that's it. It looks like a meeting alone. Do you want me to come over there? You want to keep me company? I actually want more cheese. I'll take a bit more. Hit me. Whoa. That's too much. I'm eating dinner with Jeff's knee. Bro, are you sitting on your lap? So you want me for composition. It does create better composition if you're in the shop. Room temperature cheese is the only reason that it's good. I'm just saying it just takes it up a notch. Okay, guys, I'm going to be honest with you. I had something planned for dessert and I am too full. Like this is a whole new version of Stephanie where she doesn't have room for dessert. Like I don't even know what to say. Some days I have dessert after dinner or I have something sweet before I go to bed. Some days I don't. Pasta is very filling. No dessert for me tonight. I feel like I'm just ready to wash my face and go to bed. So that's going to conclude this video. I really hope that you liked it. Let me know if you like full day video videos down below. Of course, I love to hear your feedback. I always appreciate it. And subscribe if you happen to be new. I would love to have you and I will see you in a video very soon. I love you guys. Bye.