 Going to Italy was a trip I will never forget. Whether that was because of the incredible food, the rich history, or the fact that I re-wore the only pair of socks I had for 6 Day Straight, I'm not sure. But it was incredible. That is so good. Oh, that's so good. Welcome to Italy! So Jeff, how do you feel about our luggage not making it? It could be better. Now, this Airbnb was an absolute gem. We booked it months ago, as we did with all of our Airbnbs, but the photos did not do it justice. Luckily our besties and travel companions, John and Lonnie, actually had their luggage, so we settled in and then went out to explore. And to find an H&M so we could pick up a few things to wear the next few days. Before dinner, we actually also popped into a grocery store to pick up food for breakfast, some essentials, and of course, some fun goodies. We've got Sisi Savini. Whoa! I'm gonna take your job stuff. Trying to steal my job? It's not the same. It's really good? Yeah. The first thing I wanted to eat in Italy was a big old bowl of pasta, and this will be sacrilegious to Italians, but this was actually my first time having pasta that didn't previously come out of a cardboard box. So being new to freshly made pasta, I was super excited, but I didn't really know what to expect. The chewiness just took me a bit off guard, but I still really enjoyed it. I mean, obviously. So today should actually be really fun, because we're actually going to be going to two different museums back to back, so we have an appointment at 10.30, and then another appointment for the other museum at 11.45. You do have to make appointments here because there's only a certain number of people that can be allowed in each place at a time, and then after that, we're gonna have lunch, and then we have dinner scheduled for this evening as well, so today should be fun. After being blown away by seeing some of the most iconic art in the history of, well, ever, we did a bit of sightseeing and then had lunch. So here in this place, I highly recommend this. It's called Satoria Sazel. Thank you to my model. We have English version, tanner, bone. Would you like to try my three soup appetizer? It kind of looks like a baby's, like, a son. It does, doesn't it? John said it looked like a prison. I thought it looked like you were in the military. So good. Yeah, so good. That's delicious. Okay, one side. You know what I mean? They're so good, I'm telling you, yeah, the flavor is crazy. Is it safe to stop a sneeze? That's a medical advice. It's a pork-serve-fine neurologist. Is it okay? It's safe? I thought it was bad. It's kind of like a fail-safe. I'm trying to get something out, but whatever you're doing, using a bottle top. It doesn't matter. Stop it. Oh, I thought it was bad for you. Like, like, buster gas? Yes. Yeah, then let it out. So it's okay to block a sneeze. Crazy salad. Okay. Fresh buffalo mushroom. Hold on, hold on, hold on. Got him. All right. The cheese is so good. Goat cheese and apricot jam. Oh, it's tangerine. Goat cheese and tangerine jam. Oh, wow. Mm-hmm. Strong, isn't it? Yeah. So I got a key bass, but it's cooked in salsa style, which is what the name of drostanolone is. So ideally, it'll be good. Oh, wow. Wow. Mm. Hands down, best meal so far. So I needed something to wear other than my pajamas for dinner. So Jeff kindly bought me this dress in an Italian dress shop, and I loved it. You can have all the cameras. We're at Angel Roof Bar in Grill. It looks beautiful, like 10 points for obvious. This is my starter. I got a beet salad. It looks really yummy. She said maybe this thing was really big, but it's not. It's big bowl. Yeah, it's just the bowl is big, but it's empty now. Is it walnuts or something? Yeah, walnuts. I'm judging. She's beats walnuts. It's just a beet. Like, it's kind of just a beet. Okay. Buttery roast marinated. It's really good. Drink, drink, drink. Oh man, I'm scared. Hand sanitizer with red food coloring. Try that one. Oh, that's so good. Oh, that's so good. You don't want one like that. No. It's so bad. What do you think? It tastes phenomenal. Your way. And then the squid. Fantastic. Put it here. This apparently was going to be too big. I knew it was going to be not enough. On the menu without the fillet, it was just... Imagine. Okay, right here. This is your meal. That would have been it. It's like chocolate. It's like chocolate. It's so good. Yeah, the octopus. Seared octopus. It's got to be good. The view and ambiance was a 10 out of 10. But the food and drinks... Not my favorite of the trip, but that was just me. And we skipped dessert at drostanolone for something even better. So this is dark chocolate. You got to get close. Dark chocolate. Wow. That's so good. Chocobo's so good. It tastes like real fresh chocobo. It's like chocolate covered chocolate. That's a chocolate. Mmm. I love fruity flavors. So I started with that because I knew this wouldn't be my last gelato stop of the trip. The next day we were doing some sightseeing and we were going to do a little bit of hiking. I did pack a few hats in my luggage, but... Yeah. So I picked up a new one from a street vendor and we definitely worked up an appetite for lunch after doing a bit more cardio than all of us were expecting. How's that cardio? It's better. Cardi, no. We had to climb this too much. Here are the bells chiming. It's 12 o'clock. Lunchtime. As you can see, this place was poppin'. It's a famous sandwich shop in the heart of Florence and even though the line was crazy long, it moved really fast. Then we decided to bring it back to eat at the Airbnb, but I snuck in a quick bite. Good? You got... You got... Vegetarian number two, which is Straccia Tella Cheese Cream of Pistachio Sun-dried Tomatoes and Basil. We saw my initial reaction in the actual restaurant. By the way, it's the same day. I changed because I was kind of sweaty. This is not like another day in another sandwich. I think that you have to really like this type of hard, dry bread to like this sandwich. If you like bread, that sucks. You will love it. Maybe it was just what I ordered. John got the real one though. John and Lonnie got like the real meat, like, you know... The corner yard recorder. I don't know if you guys know this, but I personally don't eat red meat, so that's why I've got the vegetarian options, because a lot of Italians might be like, well, you should have got the prosciutto, you should have got kind of like limited our options. We didn't have anything at all on the menu. Please don't be offended. Like, it's probably my fault because I didn't order something that I would like. Mmm, good. What's the matter? I honestly don't know. It's some kind of cheese, some kind of green. Some kind of red. After lunch, we went back to the airport. We were hopeful about finding our bags, so we didn't have to keep buying new clothes, but no luck. It's been a long, long day. We still do not have our luggage. I did buy like two outfits, so I'm gonna have to wash, rinse and repeat, and it was the land of luggage. It was the purgatory for luggage, it was the in-between. Luggage hell. Because it wasn't at luggage hell, because they still have some people it would be saved. I'm gonna have some pizza, yummy looking ravioli, and some cheese. It's the best food I've had yet. You're gonna love it. It's gonna be a great day. Cheese pizza. Oh, it's good. It's much more similar to like a New York style pizza. I mean, pizza pizza is everything. You're gonna love that ravioli. Yeah, yeah. Alright, better walk my world. It will. Oh yeah. That's the best thing I've had. It really was me too. Damn. It's not even that hot. It's like the kind of antenna is cold. What is this? I know it's just a go-to-sonia, but like... It's a cantaloupe dish. Cantaloupe. It's this cantaloupe. Again, I'm never gonna be allowed back to Italy. The title of this video is just gonna be Disrespecting Italy. That's super good too. Wow. That's great, cantaloupe. These pajamas, by the way, were given to me on the plane. So it's all I got. I got a wager for you. You get free pajamas. We get all your luggage. This is fun. People are braids. A lot of stairs. A lot of stairs. Oh, Stephanie, you gotta try a bit of the cheese board also. What do you put it on? I just broke off a little bit. And on your top? What's on your top? Yeah. What is it? Mark? It's Mar-a-Lago. Yeah, Mar-a-Rubio. I wasn't touching that. You touched on. It's all I need. Actually, it's the best medicine. Yeah. Drinks are bad. It gets drugs. It's the best medicine. It's not the journey of sedescending. It's the first, right? It's not the first time. Now I'm here. It's one alcohol contest. How do I mute single characters in the vlog? This looks like some Chicago need to jump. Have you guys tried it yet? Am I the only one that's eaten it? You are. I feel like I'm the gatekeeper of food or something. Oh, it's like fluffy. This is artichoke, by the way. This is plain cheese first. It's like toast. It's like toast. Reminds me of Vicky's. I'm telling you. Yeah, served us. I asked him for his identification. Yeah, he was. You could tell by the way he cut the pizza. Yeah. I asked him if he had any pizza. We were eating because I had more of it. It was hot. It was really hot. I told him that we had the problem. He was putting it in the oven. Okay. I told John I wanted it heated. Oh, come on. It's like that's hot. I said that I wanted it heated up because it's like dump hot. That's true. I actually put it in the freezer. I'm sorry. Last thing. I swear I'm not going to bunk you guys anymore. It's dessert. Looks good. Get a bit of the cake. The cake part? Oh yeah. That's super good. Yeah. I love that. Sadly, we couldn't take the train to our next destination. So we had to force John and Lonnie to go to the Amalfi Coast without us because we didn't want them to miss out on the next part of the trip. Are you serious? I actually have an early 10-ohm. It just left New York. But Jeff and I were determined to enjoy ourselves regardless not knowing how long we would be stuck here. Does it stay four or five? No luggage? And did you tell the vlog that we like skipped the second half of the trip? We're supposed to be in the Amalfi Coast right now. I don't want to leave Florence without it because if I leave Florence without my bag, I know I will never see it. More of the story is get air tags or some sort of luggage tracker and put them on your bags. And then after all that, took the train home and we were fine. We still didn't have our luggage. And then we got fined on the train because our ticket had expired. How did it expire? I don't know how we're getting fined. Just take us. Do you want to have these? Italy's revenge. To Italy. To Italy. Papa Alfomodoro, yeah? Yes, yes, yes, yes. So this is like a tomato soup with burrata cheese on top and this is just a mixed salad. Gonna have some bread with a nice soup. Perfect. That looks good. Let me take a little bite. That's really good. Yeah. Mmm, nice. I feel like this tastes like a really good grilled cheese sandwich that you dip in tomato soup, but for a dollar. This is the second seafood pasta dish I've gotten here. I feel like I should get, if I get pasta again before I leave Italy, I need to get something on the seafood. The noodles are like kind of big, so I feel like I need to cut it. This might be not the right way to eat it. Mmm. It's very pushy though, but it's good. With all of Florence, I've had one pair of leggings at a Calvin Klein, and I'm making it work. Let's look at it. Look what I got. Oh, buddy. I'm the last place. After two more days in Florence and six total days washing my socks in the sink, we finally had our bags, and we could catch a train to meet up with John and Lonnie. So we're finally leaving Florence. We were supposed to leave two days ago, finally going to the Amalfi Coast. So we had a three-hour train ride and another one hour commute. So we were off to Pasatano, which was honestly too beautiful for words, and I was so grateful to finally be there. We made it. We have our luggage. Now I feel like the rest of the trip is going to be just completely smooth sailing because now we're all good. I feel like we get a mulligan. Started the trip fresh, so finally wearing something that's mine. This is actually something that I've packed. We've had a Moscow mule. You want to try it? You're going to like that. I need one. Hey, see? I did this now. Yep. What you got, baby? Really good. I got lemon ravioli, and it has ricotta cheese on the inside. The lemons here are like the size of melons. Whoa. That is really lemon-y. It is kind of like a dessert. It's a dessert, man. I don't know what it's doing. I kind of like it though. You want lemon ravioli? It's definitely lemon. You're going to get lemon ravioli. Berry buttery, lots of butter, lots of lemon, lots of cheese, lots of... If you can't make that, you can't make that. You've got chicken, guys. The first time I've had this since I've been here, this chicken is syringe-ous style. Lots of cheese, lots of butter, a little bit of tomato sauce. It's good. She should do a video of her saying, it's good. I'm not a fan of people. It's sweet. This video is going down. No, it's not. Really, let me try this potato. It's actually a really good potato. It's really good. It's really good. It's really good. It's really good. It's really good. Try this potato. It's actually a really good potato. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you know? It could have been a matter of not ordering their best entree option, but it was nothing a little gelato couldn't make up for. There you go. That's so good. Looks good. Don't lose it. You're going to lose it on the back. Wow. Both of them? Obviously like 10 out of 10. I literally inhaled it because it was melting so fast, but it didn't mean I didn't love every bite, or like, or whatever. Both flavors were easy 10 out of 10. Unfortunately, we only had one full day in Pasatano because of arriving late. So we wanted to make the absolute most of it. Here's the luggage. Here's the luggage. The luggage. While we were sightseeing, I decided to pick up a slice of pizza next to the gelato place because I was not leaving Italy without having pizza that wasn't take out at the Airbnb as I did in Florence. Wood fire margarita pizza. Looks good. It's really good. It's all cheese pizza. I'm going to inhale the pizza all on camera. The dough is really soft. I've noticed that about people here. It's not like hard and chewy. Really good. For our final supper, I just couldn't resist. I got more pasta. More pasta, little Parmesan cheese. Okay, that looks yummy. Eggplant, cherry tomatoes, and homemade pasta. So this is it. This is the final supper. This is the last supper. That's really good. Okay, Italy, I'll see you. This is probably the best pasta I've had. Aside from the ravioli that take out Paracels, I think this is the best. Really good. We were off to Paris the next day, continuing our quest for more delicious food, of course. But for now, I love you guys so much. Thank you for sharing this trip to Italy with me. Ciao. Bye.