 5 years ago, I did my very first cheat day, and used to do cheat days about once a month to appease my really big appetite. I did want to talk about how I'm utilizing this to potentially help my crazy appetite. Three years ago, I decided to go all in and gave myself unconditional permission to eat whatever I wanted to finally fix my hunger. I'm not nearly as hungry anymore. So here we are, three years later, to see how my appetite has changed. Hit me! I did it! That's intense. That looks juicy. My completeness, a little bit. That one's so good. I have a vague memory of what I ate for my first meal. I know it's a big one, but I don't remember exactly, so we're going to write it down. It's going to be the biggest order Tim is going to have this morning. One person. Okay. Good morning! Oh, good morning! Good morning! Today, I am doing a cheat day. Hi! I'm going to give you a little bit of what's going on today. So I'm just going to do and eat whatever I feel like today. I'm number seven. I'm going to do 12 dollars and then 10, 10 bits. What did I say? It's a number seven. I don't know. We're going to fight. So I'm curious on a scale of 1 to 10, how hungry are you right now? 10 hungry. 10 hungry! I never remember that. It tastes really good because I'm really hungry. You look like a 10. Oh yeah. Who cut the cheese? Hash brown, got it. Okay, vanilla dip. That's good. Man, I thought everything was good. Wow, it's great. Coconut cream. Great glass of water. I know. Oh, the cinnamon roll. Lay cinnamon roll. Okay, I'm going to put it in. I'm going to put it in. I'm going to put it in. I'm going to put it in. I'm going to put it in. I'm going to put it in. I'm going to put it in. Lay cinnamon roll. Man, this video is lit. 2700 calories. 4 or 5 out of 10. I'm going to get started. I'm going to get started. Let's get it. Are you excited? Let's do it. You look like a 10. You look like an 11 now. Close up. Okay. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Regardless of where their appetite is like I still love don't know so don't get it twisted Did you see this Tim's ex Justin Bieber? Bebes man. He has his yeah Tim Bebes Yeah, I haven't been in Canada for a while We did get Timbit in the first video. I eat the favorite first Oh wait, how how hungry are you on a scale one to ten before you start ten ten is like completely full like ten is stuff Zero is is like I'm starving good thinking. Yeah, what a scale. Yeah, I would say I'm like Okay, I don't feel super hungry in the morning like I used to Egg and cheese classic I Feel like old Stephanie would have been like leave me some Have some bites of me I See it bro, what you got there? Yeah, I forgot what washed We still got it bro. Come on What one looks best to you right? Yeah, go for it What are you rating that one how good is it compared to like a crispy cream or a dump in donut strawberry Like What Duncan makes the best strawberry crispy cream has the best doughnuts in general but Duncan makes in my opinion That's Tim's best donut in my opinion. Yeah, I agree. Should I just do it after I think about Oh, yeah, that looks juicy give me a bite of that. I'm one. It's the best one I Yeah, definitely that one looks Surprise That was so good Money I would rate that a solid eight eight and a half maybe people right maybe maple when I say the word Canadian It's just a fly that I mean people like synonymous You love maple stuff They look really good. All right Do the honeycruiser I want to see it if you're taking fan requests It's so unique like airy give us a taste that Oh Oh I want this one this one birthday cake Is really good super birthday cakey I can see why you like that I want to have provided the apple fruit before I pause Feelings this is better than five years ago. Oh, yeah five years. They're actual bits of apple in it. That's apple stewed chocolate It's all the haters kicked on us. I love Oh Okay, I'm not having this all of their mm-hmm on a scale one to ten So can I my intuitive eating brain stops here? I feel like that would be like what I should do for the rest of this video It's still fun. It's still delicious That's the biggest things that I noticed while I was eating is I don't want so much sweet stuff All in one sitting. I was kind of feeling like I wish I had more savory stuff It felt like when I was doing a cheat day before I there was not enough sweet food in the world for me to eat But now I don't feel that way. I need like more of a balance anyways. We'll see how it goes. I'll see you the next meal Okay meal two three thousand calories. Oh, so that was the biggest meal of them all Okay, okay, you ready to do it Looks like it's pointing over there. Yeah So I don't feel like it's hot food. No, so I'm feeling pretty hungry. It's um 224 Let's go I Gave you some neat and half out of 10 I agree my original Rating you are really good. Yeah, what I've noticed is your your savory Rating seem to be about the same, you know, like you enjoy savory stuff about equally But it seems like you enjoy sweet stuff a little bit less. I think that it was before all in savory sweet after all in it just kind of It's still higher, but it's just gotten more even it's way more balanced now Okay, so my pizza came and I got a Mediterranean pizza here covered in pesto sauce This is the Barbecue chicken pizza and this is a tropical chicken pizza has pineapple and chicken on it Looks really good. First thing I'm gonna try is the Mediterranean Barbecue chicken Yeah, how many like better Mediterranean or barbecue? I Was it a tie? My complete mess a little bit Honestly, I can't tell you which one I like the best and they're all so good I give all them like a nine at a time. Whoa, they're all really good delicious I Just having a Mediterranean Our bigger What the fact that you like aren't hungry and like you can eat like a normal size portion, you know what I mean I'm not just proud. She would be like right. Yeah. Yeah, she'd be really good. Joy. I Mean at that point, I didn't know it was possible to fix it. Exactly. I just would have to look at it So I ended up doing medium thinking that's what I got in the first video I actually got smalls. I actually you know like a bigger slices this time to tropical chicken slices I had two Mediterranean and then I had one of the barbecue chicken So I ate five slices and the appetizer Yeah, so the dessert that I got five years ago, they don't have it anymore that can be thing We're deciding on something else, but I'm sure it'll still be delicious Exposure looks like it'd be better though. Mm-hmm. Let's go with that Oh Pizza will be wasted in the making of this video Well, they drove flower Art No, I don't know what that is, but it looks good and then this looks like it's brownie So I'm gonna get a little bit of everything. No, bro. That looks delicious Wow Yeah Incredibly good On a scale of one to ten top full So it's like a eight at a ten after the pizza and the dessert like just like a tiny bit like a quarter of a notch It was like a little cherry on top before I would start to feel physical fullness Before I felt mental fullness now. I feel mental fullness before I feel physical fullness I mentally don't want anything more but physically can eat I could like my stomach could contain more food, but I just don't want it to Oh My god As you can see I have a lot of goodies in front of me. I think it was like I was kind of satisfied every single craving I just feel very satisfied That's it. That's all she wrote. Okay Nothing looks similarly This is like what my grandma would make no, I want you to maybe you would like it Do you want it? Yeah, I just get it Okay guys, so this is my next meal. It's a lot of delicious looking food But I'm just not in the mood for it right now like after eating the pizza like I will eat it I'm gonna eat this sandwich first because I feel like I need something not only savory, but that isn't junk I don't know. I have no cravings for that real quick. I'm gonna have a sandwich It's just a plain avocado and turkey sandwich. I'm just gonna eat this really quick then I'm gonna move on to that stuff Well, it looks better to you right now that or that it was so good to me right now You can start with the dates because they they're off We're off video right now free balling. No, that's improvising Free balling They look amazing. I feel like it's shooting at my imaginary friends again That's good. Uh-huh. I knew you'd like that. I knew it. It's like a granola oatmeal bar. Mm-hmm. They're good It's got like a spice to it. That's what I thought you would like it. You know how I like carrot cake This is delicious Hit me These are super good. So let's just start with one serving You're good. Does anyone else know how to do this with their chip bag? Like does anyone else do this? And then it like you know, like there's you don't need to I've always done that my whole life and like whenever I do that in front of people they're like I Was going to mention that something that I think is gonna that's gonna be really different from my cheat days to today Is that I don't foresee feeling really bloated tomorrow or and still having like a food baby because I just like You know on cheat days I did I ate a lot of food and I was still digesting food the next day Whereas tomorrow I don't foresee like feeling all that different because my body is just more used to foods whereas before my food and my dietary preferences were a lot more bland having cheat days with lots of Sodium and lots of carbs would impact my body differently than I think it would now. I think tomorrow I'll pretty much feel the same You getting full I'm not getting full. I'm just tired. I'm just tired of catching chips. I'll log it as like half a serving Yeah Hit me ready for number two. Yeah, so this wasn't in the first cheat day But it is coconut based and they're really well coconut we couldn't find a bounty bar. It's been close enough and they look yummy Mmm, really coconutty. There's a nut in the middle. These are child proof. They make you earn it, bro Mmm, yummy, there's like a cream filling with a nut That's super good. Coming actually next Man I just destroyed that did I get the wrong ones they look different wait the ones I had were like roundists They're good though sour can be super good. They're yummy. They're quite sour more like sour patch kids. I think Okay, let's do the mint carobar Chocolate there's nice and green on the inside and it's like bubbly It's actually quite good. I wasn't fair to it the first time See how oh Henry treats you I I've had this many many times. I love this bar I couldn't have messed up Actually because I'm so used to snickers that I feel like it's a better version of a snickers Stingy get your peanut butter fix good old Reese's reliable Speddy kind of like death. I can't open it either. This whole video is me opening stuff Did you need to see the inside of Reese's? You can just pop it in here Apple So I couldn't find the apple blackberry crisp thing that I made in my last video This is as good as it's gonna get how many calories in a in a fifth 290 104 Looks good it smells delicious Still hot but it's good You love apple pie though. I do What was your favorite thing that you ate today of the savory food the pizza and then of the sweet I think that's more stoners. That was really good. Yeah But if you're still hungry then have something that's the name of the game right spice up this video a bit Cold pizza. Yeah, like it doesn't feel appealing to me. I don't know what I'm in the mood for I don't want like sushi or something. Try not to go off script too much I feel like you need like a meal like that sandwich was small. So I'm just gonna have a couple bites of this in the vlog If me or my mind are in the shop We got room for both you I didn't really make that big of a dent on these timbers I Want now I'm feeling kind of like too much. That was fun. That was a good day Feelin full Satisfied I remember doing this speech after every cheat day and it feels weird making that speech again But here we are three years post all in Full satisfied happy Ready for bed. It was a fun day. Had a really good time. The food was delicious like But I don't think I can eat the way I used to and I'm very very very happy for that I'm not the old Stephanie anymore, but I hope that you guys still love me I hope that you guys don't mind that I can't eat 10,000 calories in a day anymore because if that's the only reason you like to me Maybe I need to reevaluate my life. So I hope you enjoyed the video. Thank you to my imaginary friend For joining me in clubbing with me on this video. I love you so much and I'll see you in a video