

=== FILE: 2 Years Ago I Decided To Gain Weight... [RYL5N_Sjg7I].txt ===

 in May of 2019, I was having a seemingly ordinary evening watching a basketball game while casually eating an entire bag of chips, and this was just after eating a very generous portion of spaghetti and meatballs with a side of buttery parmesan garlic knots. It was a special night, not because the Toronto Raptors won in a buzzer beater, but because it was the night I ate my first official All-In meal, the first of many fully satisfying and fulfilling meals that over the course of the past two years nourished and satiated my very hungry body. Since May of 2019, I gave myself unconditional permission to eat and fuel my body properly. I went all in and ended the perpetual cycle of dieting, and I allowed my body to relearn how to feel full and satisfied. Full, but not bloated, no food, baby. I increased my metabolism and repaired my relationship with food, despite all of the challenges openly gaining 40 pounds on the internet presented. What happened? She put on 30 pounds of fat in a few months. She's hating having her pictures taken. Over the past two years, my body has been many different shapes and sizes, all of which metamorphosizing so rapidly that I could barely recognize myself at times. My lazy eye opens. I was swollen, no ankle bone, and my clothes never fit right. I was constantly buying new baggy clothes and dealing with startled glances from people who haven't seen me in a while. Reflecting back, I learned a lot about myself, society, and how toxic diet culture can be. I realized that society and social media values thinness. Every single time I see another video made about me, it still brings me such a wave of anxiety. And my public 40 pound weight gain was a personal affront to their belief system. This is what I'm looking like at the moment. And sacrilege to the word health, because in their eyes, healthy can only look one way. Despite that, I learned that I'm stronger than I thought, pushing back on a backwards belief system because of how damaging it can be. I've been victim to it. I don't like my arms. I don't show my arms. I've learned that healthy doesn't have a certain look at all. And ironically, the most unhealthy I've ever been was when I was lean, and the healthiest I've ever been was when I gained weight. I also learned that losing my identity as a super fit girl with a six pack was one of the best things that could have ever happened to me. Instead of being a fitness influencer, I just became Stephanie, someone you could relate to and bond with. So this is Stephanie in 2020. So hot! My personal relationship with you grew stronger and stronger as you learned to love the new me and finally getting to know the real me. It was easy to pull back the facade once I let my guard down, and I could finally be myself in all of my vulnerable glory. And beyond any measure of a doubt, my relationship with food has been transformed by letting myself value food for the sake of pleasure, enjoyment, health, and taste satisfaction. That's amazing! I woke up and still wake up every day excited to eat the food that makes me feel good, makes me feel happy, and makes me feel full. Some of the greatest and happiest moments of most people's lives involve food, and I spent too many years resisting the urge to fully partake. But now I happily and fully appreciate every celebration, family dinner, or just a random Tuesday night. All I wanted two years ago was to not be so hungry all the time. I'm going to eat as much as I want with no cap. It might sound insignificant if you've never experienced extreme hunger, but it was incredibly frustrating and seemed oddly enough, really unfair. Which I know is petty, but I will shamelessly say that I was sour when I would hear someone tell me that they were full after eating dinner when I was still super hungry. I didn't want to feel constantly hungry every second of every day anymore. I didn't want to go to bed still hungry. I didn't want to stop eating when I was only half full because I thought I should stop. I didn't want to have cheat days just so I could feel the blissful satisfaction of fullness. I wanted to feel full like that after eating all the time. 100% satisfied. 100% I took a chance and just leapt. Hoping I could fix my broken hunger signals, and I did. And to my delight, I fixed so much more than that. Yes, my appetite has thankfully decreased. Eating thousands and thousands of calories every day was starting to get expensive. And as fun as it was, I did hope it wouldn't last forever. Which it didn't because my body has balanced out and doesn't need that much food anymore. But I have no doubt that it once did. It takes a lot of food to restore the damage of dieting and restriction. I took a chance for the sake of my happiness and quality of life, and I'm still up in weight from where I started, which is a good thing. I never want to be that lean again, nor do I feel like I have any reason to. And I'm sure my body thanks me for that too. Body positivity doesn't always come easy to me, but now more than ever, even more than before, I've learned to accept my body. I will never stop being grateful for taking the plunge and going all in in May of 2019. That month and that year will forever mean something to me. It was when I stopped being so hungry, stopped caring so much about what everyone else thought of me, and allowed me to be me. Happy, healthy, and for the most part, pretty full.

=== FILE: All In Update： I Had To Get Surgery, Losing Weight？, Physique Update [eouFi46IpN0].txt ===

 learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning everybody's favorite thing in the world to do. But I just got this new crown and I feel like it's making me talk a little funny. So if it seems like I'm talking a little bit weird, that's why. Aside from the dentist appointment, which was not the highlight of my morning, I actually had a really good morning because I just got off a call with Abby Sharp. I'm good, how are you? And Abby Sharp is a fellow YouTuber. What's up, Abby? So we just did a video for her channel. She basically just had a few questions for me and we did a kind of interview style. That's a really good question because so much has actually changed. Other updates. So the biggest update of everything since I've really had like a time to chat with you that I actually had surgery. So I did put on my story this morning that I was having this done and so many of you guys were like, it sucks and that it hurts. Gotta love that for me. So I had a vein leg ablation procedure done on both of my legs on the greater saphenous vein. It's like the inner part of my leg on both legs. And I wanted to tell you guys about this because I can't train for two weeks. I can't train lower body for two weeks. I've been able to train upper body. It's been one week so far since I've had the procedure done and it's been hard. Let me tell you, I love training lower body. It's my favorite thing to train. The ablation procedure is basically, they insert a catheter into the vein. I think it emits like a radio frequency and it collapses the vein. The reason that I had it done was because I was experiencing blood reflux or blood backflow. So I wanted to make it very clear, very, very, very, very clear that this has nothing to do with going all in. I developed this problem in both of my legs because of previous injuries that I've had. So I played sports when I was younger. I was very active and I played softball. I had a very bad hematoma on my left shin and then I also fractured my right knee skiing. But the reason that I found out that I had it was because of going all in. I found out I had it because I was experiencing a lot of swelling. A lot of my spider veins were becoming a lot more noticeable and I probably wouldn't have ever gotten a checked out if I didn't go all in. Even when I was really lean, I've always experienced really bad swelling in my legs, especially when I would fly, regardless of my weight. And I just experienced swelling when I went all in just all the time. It just took going all in for me to like discover it. In a way, it like helped me. It looked pretty gnarly the day after I had it done to be honest with you. But it should like correct, hopefully, some of the swelling I experienced. I also experienced some like tingling in my feet. Another update that I wanted to give you guys was that today's Friday, I plan on getting new blood work done on Monday. Okay, so future Stephanie here. It's Monday, I just got my blood work done. And even though I've gotten this done, now this is like my fourth time, I don't remember how long it takes to get the results back. So I'm excited to see them and hopefully soon. So I will have new updated blood work for a future video. Another update is that Jeff and I have been apart. So I've been in Florida now for a couple of weeks. Jeff will be here this coming Tuesday. So I'm so excited for him to be here. It's definitely hard, but the reason why him not being here is at all relevant to you guys is because since I've gone all in, not having Jeff around has been probably like the hardest thing about being all in when I don't have like my big, like he's honestly like my biggest cheerleader, like in the whole world. And I would have like, I would kind of suffer from bad body image when he wasn't around constantly telling me that I was beautiful and that I was great and everything. Like he's so good about doing that. He just does it all the time. He's very loving that way. This is the first time that we've been apart that I didn't suffer from bad body image at all while we were apart. Like every single other time that we've been apart, I've always like had really bad body image days. I haven't had any since we've been apart this time. So it just kind of shows me that I've gotten so much better with my body positivity. I've been feeling really good about everything. And something that I've noticed was that my underwear was feeling a lot looser on me and my clothes were feeling a lot looser. So I did weigh myself. It was like two days ago. And yes, I have been losing some weight. Now I don't know if I'm gonna continue to lose weight. Like the rate at which I would lose any more weight. I don't wanna like be motivated by that in any way. I'm letting my body do its thing. It just indicates to me that my body feels happy right now. And I know that sounds really like maybe hippie, but like I feel like my body feels safe right now and it feels healthy. So it just feels good and I've been really good. My energy's been really good. As you can probably tell, I feel like I have way too much energy for this video. The only thing I've been bummed about lately is not being able to train more body. But something I'd like to note is that in the past, I probably would be way more like sensitive to not training because you know when you're like, oh, I miss one workout and all my muscles are gone kind of thing or my legs are gonna turn into mashed potatoes. And I had like one day of feeling that way. Like, oh dang, like two weeks is a long time. Like what's gonna happen kind of thing. But I've been good. Like I feel like my muscles not gonna go anywhere after two weeks. I'm a little bit worried about my strength gains. I've been doing so good with my strength, but my strength will probably come back really quickly. Like, you know, fingers crossed. I was getting up to 185 pounds for six on the squat for six reps. And then I was getting up to 205 pounds on my deadlift for five reps. So it's feeling really good about my strength. So I do find that that is like the one thing I'm a little bit struggling with, but I'm not struggling with like my legs are gonna, you know, deflate or they're gonna get like all mushy because I'm not training lower body, which I might've been more like that in the past, but I feel like I'm way better now. I'm way more positive about my body than rocking full length compression socks. If you watch my story, I basically show them like every single day, I have to wear compression socks every single day for those two weeks. I have one more week to go because it's been one week and they go from my foot to my groin. Like they're full length compression socks. And let me tell you, let me just tell you, I make compression socks look good. Listen, oh, speaking of my compression socks, do you guys see this thing right here? That helps me get my compression socks on. I'll have to show you how that works. Get your mind out of the gutter. That thing right there is magical. They're really hard to get on because they're like medical grade compression socks. I bought them at the doctor's office. They're really, really, really, really tight. And I felt like I was gonna break all my nails, pulling them on. So these are my natural nails. This video is all over the place, by the way. I don't even know where this video is going, but these are my natural nails. You guys ask me all the time, how the heck do you lift weights with these nails? I can lift just fine. Putting on socks, apparently I can't do it with long nails. So that's like the one inhibitor of my life with the nails is the socks. So I'm also gonna throw up some footage of what I'm currently looking like. So you guys have not seen this room yet. It's like my upstairs office slash makeup vanity area. Like I have like my computer and makeup vanity area that has not been unpacked yet. So please excuse that I should, I need to get this out of here, but you can still get an idea of what I'm looking like. You can see my bruises here. And this body suit, I'm like tucking it under because there's so much extra fabric here. I have been getting this requested a lot because, I don't know, like I just feel like a lot of you guys are like, oh, you haven't been doing your normal physique updates like you used to. Just because I kind of took a step back from like being so fizzy driven. This is what I look like. Don't mind the bruises on my legs, but yeah, this is kind of what I'm looking like. Okay, last update, last announcement kind of thing. First of all, I think this video is gonna go up either on Valentine's Day or the day after Valentine's Day. So I decided for Valentine's Day because I love you that I'm gonna do a quick sale on all of my programs. So all my programs, including the bundles are gonna be 50% off for like 24 hours, maybe 48 hours. I'll link it down below so you guys know, but I wanted to just show you guys that I appreciate you. I love you. So have a Valentine's Day. The update that I wanted to give you is that I'm currently working on an at home program. You guys definitely want it. You've been requesting it. I mentioned it like two videos ago. You guys were like, yes, at home program, love it. I wanna make it really good though. So I'm like, it's gonna be like five programs in one. I don't know why I do this to myself, but whenever I put out a product, I just really want it to be good. So it's gonna have a no equipment program within the program. There's gonna be a bands only program, a dumbbell only program, and then a dumbbell and bands only program. And then there's gonna be like minimal gym equipment kind of program. So that's five, because I love giving myself lots of work. But no, I want it to be really good. The reason that my more advanced programs don't have multiple programs is because they're super advanced and you need to just run that one at a time. Stay tuned for that. I'm so, so, so excited about that one. This is what happens when I haven't talked to you guys in a while, because I feel like I have so many updates and it's just way too much, but you're gonna hear me talk a lot. I don't know, I feel like these videos are really good because I feel like I can reconnect with you guys. I'm just a girl living her life, gaining weight on the internet. I'll probably throw in anything else at the end of this video, maybe just rival. All right, outro clip. Take one. Okay, he's back. Jeff is behind the camera, he's gonna help me film. Filming a little outro for you guys because I think I've updated you guys on plenty. I know it was a lot of updates, but I really hope you enjoyed the video. It was super off the cusp. I just wanted to catch you up on everything that's going on in my life. Like the video if you enjoyed it and subscribe if you happen to be new and I'll catch you in the next one. Bye. 🎵 You do it, I leave me turning on the traffic 🎵 🎵 Girl, you call YV, yeah 🎵

=== FILE: Busting Nutrition Myths With My New FIANCÉ!! 💍 ft Jeff Nippard (House Tour & Full Body Workout) [kquEIDNFW3s].txt ===

 Hello! How are you? I'm vlogging. Oh my god. Yes, I know. It's me. If you forgot, I'm Stephanie. Happy New Year, Merry Christmas, all the platitudes that I've missed. I really wanted to make a video to just, like, catch you guys up on what I've been up to. I've missed you guys as I always say it every video because I don't make enough videos. I know, I know, I know, I know. I saw the comments in the last video. You guys noticed? Yes, Jeff and I, we are engaged. You'll probably see me wave my hand a lot because it's very exciting for me. If you didn't know, Jeff and I have been together for, like, almost seven years. We've been together before I started my YouTube channel. We've been together way back in the day when I was still in grad school, still doing my PhD. It's a beautiful time to be alive. In this video, a little couple's action, we're gonna be doing a video together. I'm so excited about it because he's really smart about fitness and nutrition, so we're gonna be talking about a few myths, commonly held myths. I'm also gonna do a really quick, like, house renovations update, and then we're gonna do a workout. So it's gonna be a fun video. Let's do the fitness myths. I'm excited. I'm excited. Featuring Jeff Nippard. Okay, first one. We're just gonna jump right in. Let's do it. Let's do it. A lot of people think, a lot of people think, carbs, you cannot have them at bedtime or late at night. So carbs after dark is the myth. Do you want to start or do you want me to say something? You say what you think. Okay. Are you allowed to have carbs after dark? Yes. I don't know really know where it began, the idea. One, I think it started with people thinking that if you go to bed after eating a bunch of carbs, you don't have any way of burning those carbs off while you're sleeping. So it's just like automatic calories that turn into fat. And then like something happened in science that like one little hint about insulin and then like the whole world freaked out and now everyone believes this one thing. But it's been disproven by like 17 studies or something crazy. That's probably a made up number. Don't quote me on that. But a lot of studies that like carbs late at night doesn't matter. It's like it's all about total calories for the day. Because in theory, if carbs make you fat, then somebody on a low carb diet would technically lose more weight than somebody on a low fat diet. And they found that that doesn't matter. It's just total calories. So yeah, carbs, whatever time of day are wonderful and carbs do just make me happy. I think the carbs before night thing largely comes from the fact that like you mentioned you're lying down, you're asleep. And so your metabolism is going to be lower. People think that your metabolism is slower at night. So if you just eat, break before you go to bed, you're not going to be burning through those calories or through those carbs. And so what's going to happen? You're going to store it as fat. That's not true. Your metabolism when you sleep is about exactly the same as it is during the day at rest. In healthy people, it very slightly goes up in people who are overweight or obese. It's roughly the same or slightly lower. So it's basically a wash unless every time you eat, you're going to get up and work it off, which is ridiculous. There actually isn't much of a difference between just eating a meal and then getting back to work or sitting at your desk and eating a meal and then going to bed. And the key thing is not to zoom in on specific times throughout the day that you're eating, but to instead look at the day as a 24 hour period and what will dictate whether you gain fat or lose fat over the long term is going to be what that energy balance looks like over the long term. And you can even select a wider time range than just 24 hours. Like you could, yeah, it could be over the course of the week, but it's that long term energy balance that you want to be concerned with, not what is my body doing at different times of the day. The next kind of myth is that carbs in general are bad. Yeah, so that would go back to the the idea of insulin being a storage hormone. So when you eat carbohydrate, you trigger insulin release. That then causes that carbohydrate to either be stored in glycogen in the muscle, which is actually a good thing, especially for your bodybuilder. Or it could be through this like long process or whatever be converted to fat, which is actually pretty rare in humans. But essentially, like it can increase fat deposition and then decrease fat mobilization. That has caused a lot of people to label insulin as the bad thing. But just think about it this way. You look at cultures, you know, in Asia who've eaten tons of rice and noodles over years. And a lot of them remain underweight or at a healthy weight. And so if it really were the fact that insulin will cause anything you eat to go into fat, regardless of calorie content, that just wouldn't be possible. So like that defeats it on the face. And then they can kind of like get around it to be like, well, you know, Chloric intake matters, but there needs to be insulin in order for fat to be stored. So if you do keto, then you can't store fat. But that's also not true because they're the body is massively complex. And if it wants to store fat because you're in a chloric surplus, then there are other hormones and other pathways that can make that happen. Lastly, the other thing about insulin is again, it gets back to the idea of narrowing in on specific eating windows rather than looking at the long term 24 hour period or even long. If insulin is high, yes, you'll be storing nutrients while that's high. You'll be storing fat. You'll be storing glycogen. Then when it comes back down, you'll be releasing that fat. You'll be releasing that glycogen. So again, it's the balance of insulin over that 24 hour period. Ultimately comes back to calories. So Jeff is mostly speaking of from the context of somebody who's trying to lose weight. But for people maybe who are not as concerned with weight loss or maintaining or they're just like, I'm just intuitively eating carbs are really important for sustaining a good relationship with food because any sort of elimination diet or any vilification of any type of food in the long run just like creates such a bad relationship with food that like, do you want to live like that forever? Do you want to vilify a food group forever or a macro industry? Like some people might be thinking of it in the terms of weight loss, fat loss, and I know that's a goal for a lot of people. But for me, the idea of the elimination of it just creates like it creates fear foods and then that's really bad. So there's not only the people that can't vilify carbs that are just trying to lose weight. It's not just them that need to like realize that they're not bad. It's everybody. What else you got? Okay, we're going to switch over to more fitnessy stuff training. Women believe weightlifting makes you bulky. I'm going to let you start this one. I think people who have been lifting for a while realize that this is probably not true because it's extremely hard to build muscle. I think it's women who are new to lifting that fear they're going to all of a sudden look like someone on a bodybuilding stage. And what they need to realize is that muscle is not built very easily. It takes a lot of work. Those people who are competing in bodybuilding competitions, most of them have some combination of really good genetics. Extremely disciplined training over years and years and years where they're intentionally trying to build as much muscle as possible. That is their explicit goal and a lot of them are on anabolic steroids. If those three things don't apply to you, then you're not just going to wake up one morning looking like that. And then I think it's important to realize that like there are so many like even if it did say make you a little bulky, which I don't think it does. I think that's mostly caloric surplus and those other factors I mentioned. Even if it did, there are so many other positive benefits from resistance training that it would probably even be worth it. Like focus on those good things rather than like rather than like, oh no, am I going to like look bulky, which is like not realistic anyway for most women. The train of thought kind of makes sense. You look at women who are bulky. What do they do? They lift weights. So you're like, oh, I don't want to look like that. So I'm not going to do what they do without realizing what it took for them to get there, whether or not they are on performance enhancing drugs and whether or not their genetics are just prone for it. So if you have a desired look and you start lifting weights because this is what you want, you want like a certain definition in your arms and legs and grow your glutes and things like that, you weight lift, but you don't overnight become bulky. It would take years. So it's not like you can't pull it back if you're a it's not going to happen overnight. It's not like you're going to start training and like one morning you're going to wake up and you're going to be like, oh my god, I'm bulky now. So now what do I do? How do I get rid of it? It's it's that's not how this works. It takes so many many many years. If you get your desired effect, then you maintain your physique. It's not like you just keep going because you can't help yourself. Like it's not an addiction. You don't get addicted to it and you're like, oh my god, I keep getting bulky, but I can't stop. I can't stop. The people who do become bulky is because they're trying to and they might take drugs to get there. Yeah, I mean there are rare instances with people who say like have good genetics where there's like a certain body part that they don't want to develop further because it's like already developed enough for their liking or whatever. But in that case you could just train that body part for maintenance, which just means like train it less frequently, train it with less intensity. Don't push it quite so hard. Like just do the minimum required to like maintain what you have, which is probably something in the range of like 20 to 30 percent of the work you would do is trying to grow it. Like it's it's quite easy to maintain muscle that you already have. Yes. That would be the only. It's hard to grow it. It's easy to maintain it once you already have it. If you're worried about like gaining weight, which is generally like how you gain bulk is by bulking, then you can just maintain it. Like aim to maintain your weight and just focus on getting stronger in the gym. And then what you'll experience is called body recomposition, where you'll lose body fat as you build muscle and maintain your weight. That will not cause you to look bulkier. If anything, it'll cause you to look more tone defined, whatever, you know, word you want to use. The next myth ties in really well to this. So the idea of toning, I know a lot of people say toning is like a myth because it's like it doesn't really exist. Or if you've never heard that, it doesn't. But I think that the reason why this word is so popular, the reason why this word is so popular, I'm actually not, you might disagree with me. I actually think toning does exist. But hear me out. It's because we don't have a better word for it. It's just the lack of vocabulary. When people say toning, what they want is the muscle to show with less fat. So it shows definition and there's no jiggle more or less. Toning is a synonymous with like tightening up. But the thing is the way that people think that it happens is what is really wrong. I think women think toning is like a thousand arm circles to get rid of the jiggle on their arms. That is what is wrong with this word. It's like the idea of doing lots of reps on a muscle and that's going to tone it. That's actually not true. You have to build the muscle for the muscle to show and it'll appear more defined. From the science-based fitness side, we tend to cringe at the word toning because as you've said, it's associated with these pseudoscientific ideas. So what are they called? Sweat creams and body wraps and all this. That's a whole other side to the toning thing. It's basically like you said, just used as a buzzword that is highly marketable and will catch people's attention. Like, oh, toning, that's what I want. But I think when people say toning, all they really mean is fat loss, probably plus a little bit of muscle growth. So if someone came to me and was like, oh, I'm interested in toning, a lot of trainers would say, okay, well, we're going to get you to do high reps. Lots of, you know, these like, what area you want to tone your abs? Okay, then we're going to do lots of like, you know, crunches and core exercises and this sort of thing. But it's like, no, spot reduction isn't real. So if I was going to help someone who's like, oh, I want to tone, I'd be like, okay, well, what you really want to do is lose fat and build muscle. And so for the losing fat part, you need a caloric deficit, ideally a moderate caloric deficit, especially if you're going to be trying to build muscle at the same time. So something around like 10 to 20% below your caloric maintenance. Make sure you're eating enough protein and weight training with a focus on progressively increasing the reps or increasing the weight that you're using over time. That's going to build muscle. That's going to create a toned appearance so much better than all these other, you know, things we talked about. To be on the other side of this, the non weight loss side of this, just eating sufficient protein and weight training will also give you that effect. I don't think it's necessarily worth preaching that you have to lose fat to be toned. If you were to build muscle and like body recomb, then you would achieve a more quote unquote toned look. So that's it. That was easy. Give me a hard one. The earth flat. I'm getting the wrong side of you too, man. Something that'll get me in trouble. Is it possible to look like liver king, natty? No. I'm not no. All right. Good job. That was fun. Yeah. Okay. So I just got dressed, but before we go to the gym, I quickly want to show you a few of the updates we've made to my house here. I love my house. I loved it when I bought it, but there were a few things that I wasn't crazy about, namely the wall color and the floor here. So I will show you before clips of what everything looked like before and everything that has been done has been done by my own dad. So thank you daddy so much. I tried to help, but I am just not that talented. My dad is extremely talented. He used to work in construction for many years. I'll quickly go through and show you a few of the changes. Big change. We changed this tile. I wanted to do a light checker type vibe. Huge, huge difference. I mean like come on. The other obvious change is the wall color. Chandelier, new chandelier. Oh my god, the amount of work that this chandelier and this new chandelier. Oh my god. My dad also did this wane scotting, which is the trim. So in the dining room, we just decided to do half a wall to Distinguish the dining room from the foyer, which you can see is the bottom half and the top half. So he added the boxes, did the paint, repainted. Wane scotting over here. We added a bit of trim on this wall too to make it look more cohesive. And then we also added it to the living room, which it looks so good. The tv is going to be mounted there. Yes, what a difference, right? We also changed this chandelier. We also changed these pendant lights right here. I'm not Sure how I feel about them. They're almost too small for this space, but I like the vibe. They kind of they go with the vibe of this guy. Oh, yeah, we also added the medallion and we've added a medallion for this chandelier too. Master bedroom, we obviously painted, but we also added trim in the master. So you can see the boxes or the trim. It's kind of subtle, but it makes such an impact in my opinion. He also added trim below the windows, which are so cute. And then obviously we're going to mount a tv there. I'll only say this once because it's obvious. I'm not done. A lot of things are incomplete. Yada, yada, yada, you get the idea. And now I'm going to go to the gym and we're going to do a full body quick workout. I'll see you there. Let me mess it up on you first so I know you didn't cheat. Just rotated it. This is just... Okay, let's see the big finish. Hey, let's go. Photo shop added. It hit somebody. All right, let me get some B-roll you walking on this stupid thing. What's it once this called again? It's... Yeah, the machine. Starts with a T. What the hell? A lot of smith machines are a little bit difficult because they don't go all the way down. So you might have to get a box and stack it to increase the height of you to be able to get the full range of motion. The problem with that is the whole point of this program is for things to be quick and not have a lot of setup. Because at that point it might even just be faster to set up on a regular barbell or just use dumbbells. So I wanted to show you this that it's possible. A lot of smith machines allow you to get the full range of motion. So if you're lucky enough to have one of those machines then use it. But if not, this is an option. But it's also an option just to set up on a regular barbell or just to use dumbbells. Look at us. Who would have thought all these years later? I know right? Who would have thought I would have put up a machine all these years? With the assistive pull-up the idea is to use less resistance over time. Obviously not more because you need less assistance with the machine over time. I can do a regular pull-up but I find that I get a better mind-washing connection when I have assistance. When I'm just working like focusing on my lats and pulling down pulling my elbow in and really focusing on my lats. I personally don't think that you should focus on your ego. Do whatever feels better for the muscle that you're trying to exercise basically. I've said this before on my channel but if you don't know when you're doing dumbbell walking lunges, the longer your stride, the more it'll target your lutes. So if that's what you're going for, increase your stride length. If you want to target your quads more, you just do a shorter stride. Generally speaking, most people really try to feel the lats. A problem with a lot of people is that they feel their biceps way too much on a cable row. Just making sure you're driving with your elbows down and back because your biceps will end up taking over. I know some people opt not to use their thumbs. Instead of doing this, they go like this to avoid using your biceps. So if you want to do that. Then press and press it. I'm going to be very honest. I was kind of dying but I didn't want my dad to think I was a pansy. So I was sucking it up but my upper body is a little bit smoked. So I'm going to try not to kill myself. But for this we're doing a superset. Two dumbbell exercises but not the same muscle. So you should be able to recover quite quickly in between. Dumbbell hammer curl and constant tension dumbbell lateraries. But the thing is with the constant tension, we're doing 20 reps. So you have to use a very light weight. I'm going to use a 5 pound dumbbell because it's constant tension. You never get a break at the bottom. You have to stop shy and you have to keep. It's like use a lower weight than normal. And for the hammer curl we're doing RP 8 but 12 reps. So more normally. I'm going to be vlogging. Bruh I haven't been on camera holding a vlog camera in so long. My last video was a sit down video. If you missed it you should check it out. It's pretty good. That is it for this video. I hope you liked it. I hope you liked the workout. I hope you love my house as much as I do. I love my house. Thank you so much for catching up with me. Thank you to Jeff. It was so fun doing all the myths with him. I hope you learned something. I hope you learned. Hope you learned something. Hope you thought it was funny as always. I love you and I'll see you in the next one. Bye. Good job. He's my unofficial height man.

=== FILE: DAY IN THE LIFE： My Meals, Workouts & New Goals (2021) [5QXl86r8Oa8].txt ===

 e learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning significantly more mild on camera. I know, but I love the snow so much. Like every single time I see it, and I've been coming to Canada now since 2016. It was December of 2016, and it's 2021, and the snow still makes me so happy. I'm like, Jeff, Jeff, look, it's snowing! I'm like, yeah. Props manager. By the way, the house is so empty. I don't know, am I opening the video right now? The house is so empty because we actually just moved here, but we're in the Toronto area. We moved from British Columbia, Canada, so now we're in the Toronto area, and Jeff did it. I wanna think, I wanna believe that he moved here for me because I- I did, pretty much. Like I'm happy to be here too. Yeah, because it's so much closer for me to travel back and forth. The Florida, the flight is so much quicker. So now we're a quick flight, same time zone, and it's great, and we're so happy to be here. So new house, new furniture that isn't here yet, but yeah, new place. Show off anything in particular, like our puzzle. Hahaha. New house. That's all. That's all I got. Hey girl, tell me what it's like in your world. Tell me about your life once again. Hey girl, who don't know the type I can tell. Party every night for the girl. Hey girl, you ain't living right by yourself. Hey girl, tell me what it's like in your world. And I'ma do you right pretty girl. I'ma do you right pretty girl. Boom, we're on one. Going? Doing it. All right, before we work out, really quick book update because I know you guys are following along. I'm writing a book. I've been waking up at like five every single morning to do some writing. I feel the most productive and the most clear headed really early in the morning. It's before Jeff wakes up. So I'm also by myself and I can really focus. Come down here, turn on the fireplace. And I do a few hours and then sometimes I'll go back later in the day and do some more writing. This is the software that I use. I don't know. I'm sure I've talked about this already, but I'm using Scrivener, which is a book writing software. It helps you organize all your documents into folders. You can also put in pictures and things like that. I have some ideas for what I wanted to do for the cover. Oh, you should show that. For the cover. I have like, these are just like things I pulled from the internet, a comic strip idea in mind. I want the comic to look like me, but I don't want it to be a photo of me because this book is about my journey, but I want it to like feel like anybody could have written this. I don't really want it to be about me. So I kind of like the idea of like having different cartoons with stigmas about weight and eating and food. I'm gonna have to look for like a cartoonist or an artist for that. That's my current idea. Okay, so this is going to be from my month three chapter wherever that will fall. So month three, part three. This is literally like five sentences, but here we go. Not everything was dark, gloomy and depressing. Let's not forget why I was doing all of this mess. I was trying to fix my extreme hunger and to my surprise, it was working. My eating patterns were drastically different in the sense that I wasn't eating all of the time. I literally just spent all of my waking hours eating and now I would actually have this weird thing people call meals. I started having breakfast, lunch and dinner with some snacks in between of course and had semi-normal portions of food on a plate. This was astounding to me. I genuinely thought it was going to take so much longer for my body to grant me this luxury. Today I'm doing pre-workout. I'm doing raspberry lemonade, which I haven't had in like a hot minute. I have a philosophy on pre-workout that I think that you should take it when you feel like you need it. Like if you feel like your energy is good, I don't always think it's necessary, but today it's necessary. I've mentioned it multiple times. I hurt my back. Because I hurt my back, strength training was just like not a part of my training for a very long time. And now I'm finally getting back into it with Jeff's help where like I've been doing it twice a week. I do heavy lifts and it's been actually helping my back and my back feels really good right now. I feel really strong. When I do have these like strength workouts, I make sure that I eat very, I make sure I eat a lot. That's something that I've been focusing on lately is that I've been making sure that all of my nutrition more or less has been focused on my performance because right now I'm training for performance. I'm not training for a particular look right now that doesn't really interest me or excite me. What is kind of exciting me right now is getting stronger. Also keep in mind that I do eat intuitively. So I eat these types of foods all the time regardless of what I'm training or how I'm lifting. I just happen to be more mindful of it the day before I have heavy lifts. But when I really wanna feel strong, I wanna make sure that I ate enough. So yesterday we went over to Jeff's mom's house and she made delicious soup. Likes look good. I mean, soup. Potatoes, carrots, turnips, rice, and chicken. Oh, it looks so good. Yum. That's so good. This is like exactly what I want. Just cold out. Yeah. Negative seven degrees Celsius. And then she also made me a carrot cake. Oh my God. Wow. It smells so good. Yum. Bringing me back to my food videos. Oh yeah, I gotta get that zoom in, bruh. Oh yeah. Excuse my nails, by the way. I'm painting them tonight, I promise. That cake is so good. Best cake, prove me wrong. That's so good. Oh my God. And then last night, Jeff and I watched the Raptors game against the Celtics. We got, we ordered sushi because I really wanted more carbs, more energy. So I ate lots of sushi last night. It was delicious. See, I told you I'd paint my nails. I've been doing that because I want to be more mindful of eating more, especially before I have like a heavy strength session because I've talked about this, but my appetite has been very low and reminding myself to eat and pushing myself to eat. It's more motivating for me to do that when I know that I have like big lifts the next day. Wow. And it helps me more when I do it mostly like the day before. The morning of, sometimes I'll have something light like my normal protein oatmeal. So that's what we're doing. Doing a strength session. Raspberry lemonade, let's go. Down shot's like, little oozy. I'd have had four love nights this week. Try stack my kills, my kills, my kill it. Can you make me look like him? You already do. I see the glutes on this guy. I was like, brah, how do I get glutes like that? Yep. He must. He's probably on that. I gotta warm up my hips. I have old lady hips. Make yourself useful. Fill me. Coach Jeff. No, Jeff is like the best coach ever. By the way, I'm documenting my strength on Instagram. So if you're curious on how my lifts are going, if you follow me over there, you'll see progress a lot more consistently. I get so much like coach envy from people that I'm like, oh my God, I wish Jeff would coach me. I know, I'm lucky. Let's start, let's start this story from a very dark day last March, 2020. It was dark for the whole planet in March of 2020, but very dark on the day that I hurt my back. It was something that happened in an instant in a rep. I was sumo deadlifting, trying out a new technique and it backfired entirely. My back did not, didn't want it. After a couple of weeks, my back didn't get any better and I had to see a doctor. I got X-rays, got an MRI, did months of physical therapy. I had two herniated discs in my lower back. So I had two nerve blocks and a nerve ablation last fall. After we do some volume work, so basically we'll usually do five reps and just try to add some weight week to week or session to session. Then what we've been doing lately to help build more confidence is one heavy set or two heavy sets, but just one rep. Just one heavy single. So last week you did 145 pounds. So I'm gonna have you do that again for a single and then when that goes well, we'll bump it up to 150 and then that'll be your PR single for this week. Sweet, 150 pounds. Let's do it. 150, that's a good milestone. Let's get it! Let's go, let's go! Half 90, two sheets. One rep! Nice! Dry, easy, super easy. Come on. Come on. Woo! Okay, so first things first, when we first started with like the bar, roll number one, don't be scared. Roll number two, forget all of your old numbers. All your PRs, they don't matter anymore. They literally don't exist. I kept comparing myself to like my old numbers, like, oh, this is the way that I used to warm up with and now this is my working way. Like stop doing that because it was depressing me and I felt like a weak little start wearing a belt. Good butt shot. So start wearing a belt helped not only prevent me from feeling any back pain, but also my confidence. Like I felt like it was a mental thing. Like wearing a belt helped me mentally feel like I wasn't gonna get re-injured. So that was really important. Then I just like linearly progressed from week to week adding either a rep or just like a little bit of weight. That's all that I was really doing and we did work up to some heavy singles some days. Some days I did like just technique work because I wasn't feeling well and I did lighter weight. Like sometimes when I have my period, I don't feel great. So we kind of adapted and we auto-regulated for that. But yeah, so that's where I am. Okay, one rep, let's go. Here we go. Dead lift, take your time. Here we go, stop. And a nice, good squat rep. Woo! Okay, dead lift time. Am I in frame? Time to dead lift. My dead lift is stronger than my squat. So you'll notice that. And I'm obviously using this linear progression right now because I'm trying to be mindful of my back. But there are many different ways that you can train for strength. I am currently running a sale right now. So if you are interested in any of my programs, they're all gonna be 50% off. So if you wanna check those out, they will be linked down below. Hey! Show off. Three reps. Easy, easy. Power on the floor, still it. Here we go. Nice! Woo! Come on. Let's go. Two, good, one more. Stop, stop. Tight, good. Good lift. Lift down. Good. 195 for one. 195 for one. We'll literally just take it off. Yeah, okay. Easy way for each rep, let's go. I'm gonna do it. Oh, dry. Easy way. Woo! Yes! All right, 205. First time. Here. Breaking 200. Since my injury. Yes. There we go, stop, come on. Oh! Woo! Woo! I wanna get better with my goonies. Low, oozy. I'd have had four long nights this week. Try and stack my kills, my kills, my kills. Hit up my spot, don't chill. Hey, wish you'd meet my bills, my bills, my bills. I speak gold. Alrighty guys, so I just finished up my workout. I'm so happy with the progress that I've made. I didn't think I was gonna get to this point so quickly. So huge thank you to Jeff for helping me with everything. Coach Jeff, I am going to have a quick post-workout meal. If I need something really quick and simple, I have a turkey sandwich with avocado that I put like seasoning on, mustard and lettuce on a hamburger BUN because why not? So I'm gonna have this as my post-workout meal and that's gonna wrap up this video. Jeff's making lots of noise down there because he is actually working out himself. So if you hear that, that's Jeff. He's gonna do a workout now. But I hope you guys enjoyed this video. This type of vlog is not something I do very often. So definitely let me know down below. Just so I know I can make more of them. I can keep you guys updated on the progress that I've made with my training. I love you guys so much. I will see you in the next video. Subscribe if you happen to be new. I would love to have you. Anyways, love you. Bye. Mm-hmm. Simple but delicious. I'm a down south with a West Coast vibe. Keep your hands on the side.

=== FILE: DAY IN THE LIFE： My New Routine (Meals & Training) [JHJu_Ua6KmI].txt ===

 shakey start, that's okay. I'm a professional. Have I got to here? Oh yeah! Let's see the moomoo, come closer. Say something. Test, test, test, this is a test. What do you guys think of my new hair? You should do like a little twirl so you can see it, because it's against your black shirt. I know, I always wear black when I'm trying to show my hair. Good job. I'm about to eat something and drink an energy drink because I'm gonna go for a workout. I'm gonna have this wrap that I made, it has turkey, there's avocado, some kale salad with poppy seed dressing, looks really good, I've been eating this, like I've had this the last two days in a row, so I figured that since I knew how to make it really quick, I would just make it again. Early in the morning, I usually have oatmeal, but you've seen me eat oatmeal so many times that I didn't put it in a video. I actually just read a Jeff, a portion of my book as to why I think I like oatmeal so much. The part where I eat raw oats. Yeah, you see raw oatmeal. When I was prepping for a bikini competition, when I wasn't so old, I actually ate raw oats and I ate two spoonfuls of raw oats and those were the only carbohydrates I was allowed for the entire day and it was the best part of my whole day. For the record, you would eat it dry, like spoon to mouth, like no dip in water. Nothing, sometimes I would eat it straight out of the container, but most of the time, I had to have it right before I worked out. I put it in a little Ziploc bag and it would just be like this half inch layer of oatmeal and I would eat it in my car outside the gym with a spoon, like a plastic spoon and a Ziploc. I ate like 600 calories a day during my prep, which I think is really extreme for prep. Controversial question out the gate. Do you think that there's a better way to do bikini competition? There's definitely a better way to do it. Like I think that there are a few people who are very anti-diet, which I feel like I fall into that category as well, but they disparage any sort of fizzy competition, which I don't think is necessarily fair because any elite sport, whether it's someone who runs track or swimming, like I think it's just another sport that requires a certain level of body fat that may have a optimal way of achieving and a less optimal way of achieving. Like I don't think that it's a good sport or a healthy sport because I think that there has been so many people who have been like mentally food damaged from it. Like a lot of people really suffer from having a bad relationship with food as a result of it, but so do ballerinas. I don't think it's fair to just say it's just that sport. I think it's a lot of sports. Do I condone like super low levels of caloric intake to achieve a low body fat? No, but every woman has a choice to do with their body whatever they want to. And if they decide to compete in a competition, that's totally up to them. I don't know. I'm not one to judge on that. Okay, I'm gonna eat. Do we need space for your friend? You guys like the last video? I'm gonna get my food ready. Maybe you're not even gonna be interested in what I have with my food work at the mall. Maybe. Maybe. I don't know. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. Okay. Make all plays and I'll get my bangs. That's better. So this is the pre-workout meal of champions. Rice, ground turkey, cheese, sour cream, and sriracha. And then we've got one single kiwi. And then we've got half a cup of black cherries. Delicious. What do you guys think of this little breakfast table? It's obviously not our formal dining table. It's from CB2 and these chairs. These are also from CB2. Have I docked up here? Oh yeah. This house is really nice though. This is Jeff's house. My Honda Blue, polo the shoes, fell out of the room. All of my friends used to be close. Now where they go, God only knows. I'll get in stone, out of neon. We only talk when they're going far. Huh. All of my friends, one and a week's time. This picture is so old. I think I was still doing my PhD in this photo. All of my friends, all of my, all of my friends. All of my, all of my friends, one and only 10. Oh, save by the bell, I'm about to make these moves. I explain. I actually don't know. So I designed this program for me, to be honest with you. I made it because I was busy. And I wrote this program because I was super busy. Didn't have a lot of time to train. I only had like three days a week to train. And I needed to get in and out of the gym in like an hour, or like 45 minutes to an hour. I decided to make it a little bit better and release it. So yeah, for anyone who's like super busy, doesn't have like a ton of time to be in the gym, three days a week with an optional fourth day. This program is for you. Lots of good like training information. All the good stuff that I usually supply in my programs. If you purchase any of my other programs, you'll know the quality is going to be there, the price. I think you're going to like it. I'm excited. I'm so excited for you guys to try it. I should time myself. We've got an hour to knock this out. I'm going to do a quick warm up on the treadmill. Then we're going to hop into our first primary exercise. This is not mine. This is Jeff. This looks like- Sunny delight. Sunny. You guys have Sunny D? Looks like Sunny D. Oh. It's going to turn into a smoothie. Hey, what? No, hold on. I got it. What is wrong with you? Yeah, yeah. Wait. First exercise is leg press. This gym has an insane amount of leg equipment. So I'm also going to show you guys a different pendulum squat machine that I really like using. So I'll show you that after. If you kind of want to target more of your glutes, high and wide, if your toes pointed out, if you want to target your quads more, closer together with your toes facing up. So it's really just based on your own personal preference. I'm personally going to go high and wide. And I like to drive, make sure I'm driving with my heels. They claim they want beef like I ain't in a teatup. I turned them to vegan. I'm really a creature. She sent me to vegan. I beat it and plead it. It's all of these boogers won't be me, they can't. I'm someone tucked up. I'm late in the shade and I'm counting mine. Still ain't made it. I'm jaded, my latest, my greatest. I ain't ever cave in a city. I'm him, I'm a gym and the soil is by the time. I've been after mine. Okay, I'm a little bit out of breath. So for this first exercise, we're working on an RP8, which means that if you really had to, you could do two more reps, eight reps, RP8. So I'm leaving the kids running on me that I want me a boy and I need them to see me. Yeah, I know it's my season, my family to read. A lot of the exercises are either machines, dumbbells or cables, because there's just no setup involved. So it's a lot faster. So a machine that's not plate loaded like this for the machine shoulder press, which is the next exercise, it's just gonna be faster if you are in a rush. So try like using a pin loaded machine that's gonna be helpful instead of a plate loaded one. The main thing that I would say on this exercise is just to make sure that you have the seat height right. Make sure that the seat height is appropriate for you. We're working on an RP8. So this one is another primary movement of the workout. I really went from where it rags on me to its racks on me first class. They ain't got a pat on me like a tang. Dang, oh bitch, I'm rating the main frame. Turn my pain in the pain on the canvas. I've been a head case. Been frank on the right, I get been frank. They're burnt to wins in the candle. Won't be the first one get rich in my family. They don't understand me. I used to be a nice guy to the world. Tell me, come on. To make the workout more efficient, the next six exercises are three groups of supersets. So we're gonna do exercises back to back with very little rest in between just to make it as fast as possible. I'm gonna be doing an eccentric, accentuated Romanian deadlift. And I'm gonna go a little bit lighter because we're going to take the eccentric very slowly. You're gonna probably need to use a lighter weight than you're used to on a Romanian deadlift. So for dumbbell, RDLs, I'm gonna go a bit lighter because we're gonna do about three to four seconds on the eccentric. It's gonna burn. In between, while you're resting, after you do the RDL, the next exercise is a single arm dumbbell row. So while your hamstrings are resting, you're gonna train back. You guys are very familiar with this machine and this exercise, but we're gonna do another intensity technique, kind of like the eccentric accentuated, but this one we're gonna do a pause. So while your legs are open, we're gonna do a three second pause. We're just gonna make it a little bit more difficult and you're gonna squeeze your glutes really hard during that pause. And then we're gonna superset that with an ab exercise. Because we're using an intensity technique, you might need to go a little bit lower with the weight as with the other exercise. So a little bit of an ego test. We're supersetting right after this one. So you need to probably bring a weight with you unless there's a machine that has a weight nearby. So I just brought a dumbbell. We're supersetting right after this one. So you need to probably bring a weight with you unless there's a machine that has a weight nearby. So I just brought a dumbbell. We're supersetting right after this one. So you need to probably bring a weight with you unless there's a machine that has a weight nearby. So I just brought a dumbbell. It's a fun like fast moving workout. So it's like it's not really if you like to socialize at the gym it's tough to do that. You gotta you gotta move. No chat no chatting up the local bodybuilder. Well if you're trying to like sweet talk a little sweetheart make a little bit of time worth the gain sacrifice worth maybe sacrificing a little bit of your rest time. The exercises aren't super complex but how fast pace you need to be moving makes it more challenging so it does present an extra challenge to the more or less simple workouts but they're fun because you gotta move. So last but not least are two upper body exercises so we're gonna do with dumbbell lateral raises and rear delt lies. We're gonna be doing the exercise back to back with just rest after the second exercise then hop back into the first exercise which starts the new set. That sounds like a lot of gibberish. Oh my gosh. So we're gonna do rear delt lie so generally you can stop right at parallel which is gonna really focus on your rear delt. If you go above that it's not necessarily I think a bad thing I think it just works more of like your traps in back so it's also I think it's personal preference like personally I would just want to work on my rear delt so I'm gonna stop at parallel but if you go a little bit above that you're gonna work more of your traps in back. Okay so we needed to get in and out in an hour. It actually took us an hour and 15 minutes because we had a couple of people who are big fans of Jeff and they wanted to take some pictures with him so we did chat with a few people we have some friends at the gym as well so chatted with them that was the main reason but honestly like I thought that was super efficient really good got in out done now I'm hungry we're gonna go to a place called Swiss L.A. which is I think just in Canada and I was trying to think of like what it would be in the US but I can't really think of like a comparison so you're just gonna have to find out. This feels like my last video. I'm a professional eater on camera. This place sells chicken and it's very very good so you get like chicken with sides. What can you get? I'll probably get the chicken it's a chicken. Okay so I don't think I've mentioned it yet but in two days Jeff and I are leaving for Europe which is so exciting we've been planning this trip now for I don't know it's been like months we're gonna be gone for almost two weeks with our really good friends John and Lonnie and I'm planning on filming a video in Italy in addition to the fact that we're going to Florence and the Amalfi Coast we're also going to Paris you know like no stress just enjoy myself on vacation and it's gonna be a really good time so everything I eat in Italy video yeah it's so hearty young how many times do you do that on camera oh my gosh so Jeff and I are watching this show Severance if you have watched it or if you're currently watching it comment down below we're about to watch the finale tonight it's really good the soup is really good but the show is really good too. Good meal? Delicious yeah okay that was super good delicious really good post-workout delicious loved it if you're in Canada highly recommend is that it for this video oh my god I hope you guys enjoyed the workout my program is officially live it's gonna be on sale for the first week of launch so if you want to check it out you can get it for a discount down below all the information and all like the details about the program everything that it comes with will be in the description box obviously you can check out my website really excited about this one I just feel like this program makes training really accessible to people and people who are really tight on time I think that's why I like this program so much because I feel like it's for everybody beginner to advanced busy people who are just like and trying to work in a fitness regimen with their busy life so I hope you guys check it out let me know what you think but that's gonna be it for this video I hope you enjoyed it I will see you in Italy I love you guys so much see you soon bye oh my god what oh my god oh my god that was wild

=== FILE: Eating Unlimited Calories： How Much Do I Want When All In？ [pG29gt9SQow].txt ===

 so this is Stephanie in 2020. It's so hot! I just did my hair, but I'm still really hot. It's negative 17 degrees out, by the way. I think it's negative 12. Negative 12? I'll put on the screen what that is in Fahrenheit. Okay, okay, I guess I'll switch to clothes. There we go. There we go. Okay, guys, what's going on? Welcome to the video. Today we're going to do just a super fun, super casual style video. This morning, a girl, she went to Tim's. So I hear there's something new at Tim's. So, this video is mostly going to be about a certain topic that kind of came up when I posted my last video, and a comment kind of really stuck with me. So the comment was, in your last video, you were eating celebration cookies, and in the video I only had one cookie. And the question was, how did you, like, how do you have enough self-control to not eat the whole box of cookies? It would have been the same thing that I was thinking if it was eight months ago. Before I went all in, and before I ate to satiety every single day, before I gained 40 pounds, I would have easily been able to eat that whole box of cookies. You guys have seen my cheat days. You guys know what I'm capable of. But I think it's kind of a misunderstanding or maybe a miscommunication on my part to explain to you guys why I'm capable of only wanting one or even two cookies at this point. Now that I've gained 40 pounds and I've gone through this whole all in process, just to quickly summarize, the idea is to eat to satiety every day. Then after that, like your satiety cues and your hunger regulating signals in your body and in your brain kind of tell you to chill out. So after you eat as much as you want every single day, and I've been doing this now for eight months, I have no desire after I eat one cookie to eat a whole box of cookies. My body is where it's at right now. It's doing really well. This whole process has worked so well for me. I have very normal hunger regulatory signals. If you watched my all in science video where I explained leptin and ghrelin and how that kind of is regulated in your brain, especially when you gain weight and you have more body fat on your body, your body kind of tells you that you don't need to put on more body fat. When you're really lean and you're super hungry, it's because your body wants you to put on more body fat. It's going to tell you that you're hungry all the time, even though you just ate. That's just not where I am right now. And I think it took me probably two to three months of eating a lot of food, like, you know, up to 5,000 calories a day to get to that point. And since then, I've been like slowly getting better and better. So after month four, I have just been progressing even more. Like I feel like I need to eat even less every single day to feel satisfied. I used to eat so much to the point where I would just be like hard belly bloated. Like I would feel physically full, but could still probably eat more. And now I never get to that point. I never feel the need to get to that point. And it's very strange. It's like when I'm done, I'm done. But if I am hungry, I eat. That's just how my life is right now. And it's been really great. I say that all to say, I got some donuts this morning. So we got some donuts and they look beautiful. These are the new dream donuts at Tim Hortons. Look how beautiful they are. Oh my goodness. So to answer the gal's question or the comment, how I control not eating a whole box of cookies or a whole box of donuts, my body doesn't want me to. That's where I'm at. And it's a good feeling. Jess is dieting right now. And really quickly, I know you guys will ask if I'm going to diet. Like if there's ever going to be a point where I'm going to diet. And just to really briefly explain it, because I hate saying, go watch this video, go watch that video because I don't think you will. Or I don't want to make you do that. So I'm just going to say that I don't need to diet and I won't. Because after I eat less and I continue to eat less, my body is way above its set point. It should go back down to its set point. So there is scientific evidence to support that people have a set point and my body is above that. So slowly my body should come back down without any need to diet. Okay, so I got a question for you. For me? Because I'm the one who's more food focused at the moment. What one looks best to you right now? Like what one looks the most delicious? So my favorite is strawberry of anything, because I'm a fruity gal. But since I've seen them in real life, the one I'm most excited for is the dulce de leches. Ah, interesting. Because it's filled. So for me, this one looks so good. This is only for demonstration purposes. This is just for science. Strawberry first. Strawberry first. Okay. Best for first. Best for first. It's not filled, but it looks dang pretty. Strawberry's so good. The sprinkles. This is so good. I stand by by strawberry love. Tastes like a strawberry Dunkin' Donuts on it, but on steroids because it has this big icing thing on the top. Fake Maddie. You know Tim's does not have strawberry donut. It's the one thing I've always critiqued its menu for. I kind of want to say this one. So this chocolate donut I found out from, you know, taking pics from my food page. This is actually filled. It looks like it's just like a regular chocolate cake donut, but it's like, it's totally filled. If you split this, it's like a bagel. Oh wow. With frosting. Super smart. So it's not going to be like a dry cake donut. Oh my God. I'm going to love that. It's like the most rich, delicious chocolate cake I've ever had. Whoa. It looks delicious. It's like, it's like crispy on the outside. That's really good. It's kind of exactly what I thought. Oh my God. It's way better than I thought it would be. That's great. Okay. So this one better not disappoint me. This one, Dulce de Leche. This looks so beautiful. I don't even want to bite into it. Oh my God. I'm blown away. After having the chocolate in this one, the strawberry is not the best. This one's the best. Let's see what we got here. Is there a difference between the caramel here and the inside? Okay. Whoa. Whoa. That's really flavorful. Good, right? Mm-hmm. That's really good. Two for two. Now that I've had a little bit of sweetness. Normally, when I used to do cheat days, having a bite of three donuts would only trigger my appetite more. I would be like, okay, now they made me more hungry. For me now, of course, my capacity is really high, so I could eat a lot of food. I could eat all six of these donuts, but I have no desire to. His mom made us turkey soup last night. We have leftovers, and that's what I want right now. I'm in the mood to have some turkey soup. Maybe I'll have a little bit more of these later. That's where I'm at. As I mentioned, I'm really craving the turkey soup that Denise, Jeff's mom, made for us last night. It was so good, and it has carrots, shredded turkey, rice, potatoes, and turnip in it. It has a lot of really good, oh, it's celery. It's about noon right now. I'm going to have a few of these sandwiches as well that she made for us last night. They're so good, especially with soup. With it being so cold outside, soup is so good. After I eat the soup, I'm going to be doing an at-home workout. It was the most requested thing that I've ever had after I released my last in-the-gym workout, my women's optimization program. I was flooded with requests for an at-home program. I just want to do an at-home workout with you guys to see if you guys are still interested in something like that. If you are, comment down below. Okay, so before we do this little at-home workout, I have to address the elephant in the room. So we still have our Christmas tree up. Let me live my life. No, I'm just kidding. So you're going to see it in the background. I know a lot of you guys are going to be like, girl, that Christmas tree needs to come down. It's freaking middle of January. I know. I hear you. It's coming down. On a lighter note, another thing that I really wanted to talk to you guys about is something that I've been meaning to announce to YouTube. So I kind of brought it up on my Instagram story. I kind of keep you guys up to date with everything that's on my mind on my Instagram story. I brought up the fact that I was really, really considering writing a book. I wanted this book to be a way for me to talk about my experience, to talk about everything I was feeling, to even let you guys know what I wrote in my journal as I was going through this whole all-in process. Share this journey with you on a much deeper level because I would be able to write in so much more detail than I can say in a 10-minute video. I really want to share this whole journey with you guys because I plan on self-publishing. I have no idea what I'm doing. I've never published a book before. I've only written a PhD dissertation, which is not the same thing. I will show you guys every step of the way and I hope to keep you guys involved with the project and I hope you guys are excited about it. I'm super excited. So I hope you guys are too. All we're going to be using for this workout is a 25-pound plate and a hip circle. Okay, let's get started. So we're going to hop into a voiceover for this workout and I'm actually back in Florida right now and looking at this footage with Jeff and I is making me really sad. But anyways, this will be a lower body focused workout. So we will need to warm up our core temp and I'm doing this by just doing some body weight walking lunges and then I jumped into some dynamic stretching to open up my hip flexors. So because of all of your requests, I have been experimenting with some effective at-home workouts so I can do more of them on my channel, which really comes down to having a good understanding of biomechanics, what exercises put tension on which muscle, and how to progress from week to week with only having minimal equipment. So for this workout, we're actually going to be doing it in a circuit style. I've been experimenting with this style as opposed to the more traditional way, which is just like doing one exercise in multiple sets of it at a time before moving on to the next exercise. And I'm still working out which one I like best, but just for funsies, we're going to do it in a circuit style, which is new for my channel. So for the first exercise, we are going to be doing a weighted walking lunge. So you can hold on to whatever weights you have, whether it be dumbbells, a gallon of water, your dog, a baby, you know, whatever you have laying around. And the goal is going to be to do about 15 to 20 strides. And I personally like to do really long strides and make sure to drive through my heel. And this just makes the exercise more glute focused. But if you want them to be more quad focused, you can make your strides shorter. After that, we are going to be doing a single leg hip thrust, which is honestly so much harder now that I've gained some weight. But of course you can make this more challenging by adding weight to your hips, whether that be like a dumbbell or a plate. And for this type of hip thrust, I really like to drive into the ground with my heel, which really gets my glutes engaged. And I do this in, you know, bilateral hip thrust as well. It really does get them working when you are doing single leg hip thrust. And of course, make sure you're looking straight ahead and not up at the ceiling. So after you do both legs, we're going to be moving on to lateral band walks to get in some glute abduction. And I like to use a really high resistance band if you have one. So the main cues I like to give with these is to not only press out with the leading leg, you know, against the band, but also drive off the back foot of the non leading leg. It's hard to explain, but just try it and you'll know what I mean while you're doing it. You'll get way more glute action going on that way. I did 15 strides per leg before I moved on to the next exercise, which is a hamstring exercise. Now this is probably one of the hardest exercises of this whole workout. So don't underestimate it. So these are sliding hamstring curls. And if you have a yoga ball, you can of course do Swiss ball curls, which I've shown on my channel before, but I didn't have a yoga ball. So I just use a towel. And if you're on carpet, you might need to use something plastic or a piece of cardboard. But the idea is to keep your hips as high as you can while sliding your feet out and in. And it's an intense hamstring exercise. So I only did 10 reps. But if you have a yoga ball aim for 12 to 15. Now we're going to go back to the glutes and we are doing an exercise that everyone hates doing at the gym, but we're at home. So there's no shame here. And that is frog pumps. So I just use a couch pillow to support my head, which is important to do because if I do them flat on my back, I just don't get a good enough range of motion. So prop your head up on something, whatever you have. And then of course put your feet together and then drive down with the sides of your feet into the ground. Of course, thrust up with your glutes. I added weight for these, but you can just use your body weight, especially if you really haven't nailed down the technique yet, but they're pretty hard with or without weight. So like I said, you're going to be doing three rounds of all these exercises. And at the very end, I decided to do a few sets of abs, you know, just to throw some ab work in there. And then that was it. Okay. Alrighty guys. So I really hope that you enjoyed this video. I'm still out of breath. That was actually extremely hard, very challenging. If you like at home workouts, let me know. Subscribe if you happen to be new. I'd love to have you. And I will see you very soon in another video. Okay. I love you. Bye. Isn't it time? Isn't it time we go our separate ways? Not enough time, not enough time. Not enough time. Not enough time. Not enough time. Not enough time.

=== FILE: Everything I Ate in Miami ☀️(Food Reviews & Recommendations) [oP63d9M16VA].txt ===

 What is going on guys? Welcome to Miami! What is going on guys? Welcome to the video! So I am here in Miami, Florida, and I'm here with my sister and my very good friend Nadine, and we're just planning to sightsee, get some food, just have some fun and hang out, so I hope that you enjoy the video. We have some plans to go to one of like the most popular places in Miami, so I'll see you there! Okay guys, I don't know if you can hear me at all, but we're in a place called Morgan's Restaurant, and it's poppin', so it must be really really good. Kind of like a breakfast, brunch, kind of place, and like lunch, so we're gonna get hopefully something good. The menu looks amazing. So what's it with? Coming with the freshness. Yeah. Light green, sticky clean, so he buy me nice things. I've seen this before. That is so good. Okay, so I got some veggie burger, it's like a sprout green burger, it looks so good. It's a french fries, and then I also got a salad. Burger. It's really good, it tastes a little healthy. It tastes a little bit like health. I think the fries are really good. We are at the famous Salty Donut. This is probably the most highly recommended place in Miami, so we have three different donuts that we're gonna give a try. Guava and cheese, which I think they're famous for. Strawberry shortcake, and the peanut butter and jelly, and then my sister also got one of the glazed donut holes just so we could see how the glazed is. We are gonna start with the guava and cheese. Oh my god. That is like a 10 out of 10, so good. I love guava. The guava with the frosting is absolutely delicious. So far I'm super impressed. Next up we're gonna do the strawberry shortcake. It's so pretty that I don't even want to take a bite of it. The dough is actually really soft. It looks really dense, but it's actually super soft. It's delicious. It's like brush made strawberries. Last is the PB&J. It looks like it is filled here. Jelly right here. That's so good. It tastes like the best version of a peanut butter and jelly sandwich I've ever had, so of course you have to try the original glaze. Very good. Like I said, the dough is surprisingly soft. It's so good. I'm super impressed. This place was amazing. Kind of like in a super packed room. So we're feeling a little bit claustrophobic, so we're gonna eat the rest of these somewhere else, but absolutely love them. 10 out of 10. Salty donuts did not disappoint. Oh my gosh. Okay, so I am pretty tired. We just got back from walking all over Miami, but we just got back from dinner and we went to where do we go with the hell is that place called? We went to Coyo Taco and I had a chicken taco with roasted pineapple. It had cheese and onion on it, and then I also got a shrimp taco that had like pickled coleslaw. So good. Those are some of the best tacos I think I've ever had. We also got their like handmade guac and chips. Also delicious. Earlier today, we actually went to Lincoln Road and we just walked around. We didn't really shop or anything like that, but we just walked around and it was really fun. So we've walked all over Miami today and we're pretty tired, but that's not gonna stop us from getting some good food tomorrow. So I think we're gonna get up early in the morning and get more donuts. Should be fun. Are there rollies? Yeah. Okay, okay, okay. So this is... What do you say? Watch for the natures with dosa de natures. Okay, here we go. So many milk. Lots of milk and lots of dosa de natures. That's good. That's really sweet. It's really good. What was that? That's why I got to move to Miami. Good morning guys. So it's like 8 a.m. right now. We're up a little bit earlier today because we want to get going. Having some coffee. So I just wanted to kind of recap yesterday. Yesterday was really fun. I really wanted to like make note of the fact that I felt like I ate just like my sister in 18. Like I feel like I had a normal appetite. I feel like I didn't eat really any more than them. You know, just like them. I only got one donut when we shared all three. So it wasn't like I got six donuts and then they each got one. So that also made me feel like super normal and feeling really normal on this trip has been like the most notable thing about it. And I just wanted to talk to you guys about that because it's like amazing. It feels so good to not be the one that just eats a lot of food or the one that's always hungry. Like I feel like my amount of hunger like matches theirs and they're very normal with their eating behavior. It felt really good to to be like one of them. Taking a long time to get here, but it's everything about it has been so worth it. I just think that I've made a lot of progress and I just really wanted to share that with you. We're going to get ready. I'm going to do my makeup. I have, you know, no makeup on right now. And then we're going to get going to our first place. Okay guys, so we're in Honey Bee Donuts. I think we're in Coconut Grove. So a little bit outside of Miami, but it's a beautiful city outside of Miami. And Nadine actually got the donuts because she has become a donut kind of sore. So she was like, I want to get a bunch of different ones. She loves these donuts. She's been here before. So I'm really excited to give them a try. We got beautiful donuts. She's attacking me. We're going to share all of these donuts. I'm so excited. I think the one that I'm really excited for just because I'm so excited is the one that I'm really excited for. Because this place is called Honey Bee Donuts is the Honey Caramel one. So I'm going to start with that one. So I'm assuming it's made with real honey and caramel. So let's see. It tastes like a better version of a glaze. You know? So maybe I'll try Nutella next. It's super filled. Oh my goodness. You did? It's good. So Nadine already took a bite out of this one. So you can see the inside. It's good. It's so good. Oh my god. Nutella is so rich. Guava. I'm so excited. Guava and cheese. It looks so different than the other one too. The guava is so good on this. Yeah. Wow. All right. That one's super good. I know. I think that one's my favorite. Wow. Okay. This one's dragon fruit. It's so interesting. I don't know what that tastes like. It's not just yeah. Because dragon fruit is on a strong flavor. Yeah. It's really sort of like a fruity taste. Oh, it looks really sad. I'm sure it's not. Okay. So they both tried this one. Apparently this one's good. Yeah, that's really good. So it's whipped cream, fresh strawberries. It tastes really fresh. So this one is the crème brûlée donut. That's so good. It has like a hard shell. It's really like candy hard. So they were so so good. I highly recommend it. It's amazing. Absolutely amazing. Just as good as a salty donut. Amazing. Oh. It's not as easy to eat on camera as you think it is. Donuts don't have stories. I love this. It's just like mixing flavors of this one. It was like you were like 10 times. They were like, you get it. There's no fruity donut. Okay. I'll be straight when I'm bent off the juice. True. Blue. My heart to blue. Pull out the shoes. Fill up the room. All of my friends used to be close. Now where they go. God only knows. I'll get in stone. Out of neon. We only talk when liquor involved. So all the food we've been having has been really good. But to be really honest with you guys, I feel like we just needed something healthy and light. We like our vegetables too. So can't get salad. And I'm happy that we're just having like a break and all the good stuff and having some of the great. Friday has its stages. My chest will be racing. Yeah. Impatient done with the waiting. This high like a mini vacation. Pulled up. Excuse my latest. Going up on a weekly basis. All of my friends wanted a week 10. All of my friends wanted a week 10. All of my friends. All of my friends. It's actually really good. All of my friends wanted a week 10. Friday need to end in. Really can't tell where you end in. Don't put me in your mentions. I don't want to see it when I'm waking up. Last night did the most. Now my body got no ghost. This little hobby's getting old. Said this not me just a clone. Oh. She knows better than a man's what to do like me. Oh. All my friends said she'd have tried to mess around and leave. Oh. She knows better. She knows better. She knows better. I'm not better. I'm not better. I'm not better. All of my friends wanted a week 10. All of my friends wanted a week 10. All of my friends wanted a week 10. All of my friends wanted a week 10. All of my friends wanted a week 10. It tastes like a cheesecake. It's so nasty. Seven R's. It's an R. All of my friends wanted a week 10. Alrighty guys. So we just got back. We had the most amazing dinner at Q. It was absolutely amazing. It's so highly recommended and for a reason. And thank you so much to Miami in general. Like Miami you have amazing food. I can't wait to come back. So like the video if you liked it. Subscribe if you happen to be new. I do lots of food videos. And I will see you in a video very soon. I love you guys so much. Bye.

=== FILE: Food Struggles In Quarantine： All In？ Cravings？ Binging？ Intuitive Eating？ [EgegaDJ67pM].txt ===

 girls love cookies. Are you stuck at home all day? Does it feel like you can't escape food while you're in quarantine? Well, trust me, you're not alone. Yeah, yeah, she might be in a butter-bully snack, pull it right, brush it up, paint it. That's my sunshine when it's raining. That's my pool, yeah, yeah. When I'm all alone, she p- What's up, guys? So you have editing Stephanie here. So I'm currently editing the video. I have one really quick announcement, and I also have one really quick disclaimer. The at-home program that I've been working on basically since the end of December is finally live. It's going to be six programs ranging from beginner to advanced level lifters, and it's gonna be half off for the launch. So if you're interested and want more information about it, there will be a link down below in the description box. So for the quick disclaimer, I know that there's gonna be some people who think that there are more important things to talk about right now. However, I do think that there are some issues that may not seem to be important, that kinda get pushed to the wayside, that actually are very important. This quarantine could forever change your relationship with food, whether you've struggled with food in the past historically or not. I don't want this topic to become taboo, and I do think that it's important for people to have an honest conversation about this now as it's happening. I hope you enjoy the video. There's a lot of good information and tips in there. So let's talk about food. My favorite thing to talk about. So I know I don't need to reiterate this to you guys. We all know this is like a strange, stressful, weird time for us all, but I hope wherever you are in the world that you are safe, practicing social distancing, and you are healthy. And of course, if you are an essential worker, I'm sure I can speak for everybody and say thank you. I hope you're safe and we all really appreciate you. But as for the rest of us, we're all stuck at home. Probably binge watching Tiger King and taking very, very, very frequent trips to the refrigerator and possibly even more to the pantry. We might be constantly surrounded by people in our house, which can be very stressful or completely alone and just stressed out like me. And honestly, I was like this close to buying Alexa because I just wanted someone to talk to. My security system really just isn't cutting it for me. So we save on. Hello? Which brings me to the kitchen, which surprisingly has everything to do with being lonely or stressed. Trust me, if you are either stress eating, eating because you are bored or both, you're not the only one. And I can't tell you exactly what to do at a time like this because everyone does have their own unique situation. But I think it can offer some guidance or tips. And I'll also tell you guys how I've been dealing with quarantine as someone who is all in. And as a quick disclaimer, I'm not trying to prescribe you to do anything. If you need specific help with anything, I would go to a professional or registered dietitian. Your health is first and foremost of the utmost importance, especially right now. But with all of that being said, first we're gonna talk about how I've been dealing with food and quarantine. And then after that, I'll share some tips with you. Now I'm gonna be honest with you guys. I've been social distancing way before it's been mandated. So I feel like I know a thing or two about being home all day, constantly surrounded by food. So in quarantine, I've been doing what I do best. I've been eating. Definitely way less than extreme hunger, Stephanie, because my appetite isn't nearly as big anymore. But worldwide pandemic or not, as somebody who is all in, I eat when I feel hungry because I've given myself that unconditional permission to eat regardless of the environment, regardless of the situation. And even regardless if I'm actually hungry or not, it just completely throws all food guilt out the window because I've already given myself permission to do exactly that, eat when I want to eat. So I rarely ever feel guilty anymore. But if you happen to be new and don't know about my all in journey, I'll link a few videos for you down below. And of course I've heard people tell me that's mental hunger, not physical hunger. And yeah, that's great and all, but it honestly means nothing to me, especially would have meant nothing to extreme hunger, Stephanie. Hunger is hunger in my eyes. And when I feel hungry, I don't just go for a walk or drink a glass of water. I get a snack or make a meal. So now what going all in has done for me, well, it fixed my extreme hunger. And going through this quarantine with an abundance of food, it's not really that different than before the quarantine. And because I've been eating like this for almost a year, I guess you would call it intuitively, nothing's really changed. And honestly, if I had gone all in when it was a quarantine, it probably would have been so much easier because I was gaining a lot of weight and I was eating so much food. And during the quarantine, you're not really seeing a ton of people right now. So I don't know, it's just something that I've been thinking about. But anyways, let's just get into some of the issues that you might be having. And maybe I can tell you what I would do personally to help you get through this quarantine. Again, I'm not trying to tell anybody what to do. If you do need help, I recommend going to see a specialist or get some coaching, but maybe I can help ease your racing mind and help people who are really struggling with food right now. So the first problem that you might be encountering is that you might be eating more than usual right now. This could be because of the proximity to the kitchen, possibly you are bored or you're procrastinating or you're just stressed and just want some freaking ice cream. So to that I say, right now in these really strange times, just please, please, please be more kind to yourself, forgive yourself for being off your usual diet right now and just have a little bit more patience with yourself. When I first went all in, once I gave myself permission to do just that, it made me feel significantly less guilty because I've already accepted it. You could journal it, I recommend journaling in general, but you could explicitly state to yourself that I accept my eating habits are different right now and I'm just gonna give myself more wiggle room with my food intake and it's totally okay. We are all eating differently right now. Nobody's being perfect with their eating behavior and it's totally normal and don't feel the need to punish yourself at an already stressful and uncertain time. Just know that this isn't gonna last forever. So the next problem that you might be dealing with is not necessarily how much you're eating, but that you might not have complete control of what you are eating. Say you're at home from college and you're staying with your parents and you don't have control over what they buy at the grocery store or what they make for dinner or say you're alone like me and your normal staples at the grocery store are at a stock or just really hard to get. This rigidity in your routine just has to be more flexible. So I'd say in addition to being more kind to yourself and the other people around you in quarantine, you also have to be more flexible. The way the world is right now is literally out of anyone's control. So it would just make things a lot easier if you were just less rigid with your diet. Eat different foods and see it as a good thing that you're getting more variety in your diet and trying new things. Maybe mentally tell yourself during this time of quarantine, I'm going to purposefully make it a time that I wanna try different types of foods that I don't normally eat. And if you are just more accepting of this, you are less likely to feel any guilt from it. The next thing is definitely a biggie. So what goes hand in hand with food? That is exercise. And I know this is something that a lot of us are struggling with at the moment. It's like a historical moment that we cannot go to the gym. I mean, there's definitely times that I don't want to go to the gym, but the fact that I can't is a hard thing to swallow because nobody likes being told what to do. But exercise is a tricky one. So I say if you love exercising and it's a stress reliever, and it makes you a lot less focused on all the problems that are going on in the world, all the stress that you currently have and just less focused on all that mess, I personally think that you should find a way to move your body in a way that you enjoy. Whether that be that you like to do yoga or you happen to have some at home gym equipment or just going for a walk. And not in a, I'm going to distract my hunger type of walk. If you're hungry, definitely eat. But in a, I want some fresh air and want to move because I've been sitting all day type of walk. So I do think that exercise can be mentally and physiologically good for you. However, on the flip side, if you are feeling very stressed, this might not be the best time for you to exercise. Especially if you're the type of person where exercise is like a type of chore and you don't really find a lot of joy in it and you feel like more stressed when you have to exercise, now might not be the best time. You need to think about your health and keep yourself healthy right now. And overstressing can actually be detrimental to your health. And for me, resting was actually one of the most pivotal points in my all in journey. I didn't talk about it much, but it was like the end of month two and the beginning of month three. I completely took off training. So I stopped training for about a month because I was traveling from Australia to Bali. And then in Bali, I ended up getting really sick. How you feeling? Sick? Oh no. I feel like I'm sick. So when I returned from Bali, I just completely rested. And it was such an important part of my journey because it was a time that I think I made the most progress with my extreme hunger and the most progress with how I was feeling. It was a time that I was feeling really happy and rest was exactly what I needed and I didn't know it. So please don't feel guilty about resting. It might just be exactly what your body needs right now. And in either scenario, whether you decide to exercise or not, I just want to really reiterate to you, maybe so you feel a lot less FOMO that nobody can go to the gym right now. So you're definitely not alone. And the next issue is definitely something I've mentioned before, but it is more prevalent now more than ever now that we're all at home, all day long, all the time, all surrounded by our full length selfie mirrors. You have to stop body checking. Don't do it when you first wake up. Don't do it when you walk into your living room and pass a mirror. And don't do it every time you use the restroom. It's just not gonna make anything better right now. It's honestly like a really terrible habit and a lot of people do it, most of us do it. So don't feel bad if you do it. But once you stop doing it, you'll find how freeing it is to be so much less focused on your body. And another really quick disclaimer, I do know that I post about my physique, how I'm looking, how I'm feeling on my IG story and on YouTube all the time. Do you ever have one of those days where you wake up and you're just like, no, not today, not today. But I am documenting my all in journey. So I feel like this is kind of a specific scenario. However, most people are not documenting their body journey like I am. So if you're not, it's probably not a good idea to body check all the time. And if you're struggling with anything, even things that I didn't even mention, now might be a good time to start journaling. I know I preach about it all the time, but it helped me so much in hard times. It might be something that could really ease your mind if you just put your thoughts down on paper. You can literally write the most ridiculous stuff in there, which I did all the time. I gave myself little pep talks. I gave myself daily words of encouragement. And a lot of the things probably sounded so dumb out loud, but I wrote them down and it really helped me a lot. So if you're not journaling right now and you find yourself really stressed right now, pause Tiger King and give journaling a chance. So that's it for this video. I really hope that it helped you. Maybe it just helped your racing mind or the negative thoughts that you're feeling about yourself right now. Let me know what you think in the comments down below. If you happen to be struggling, it might really help someone else read your comment just so they can find solace in the fact that they're just not alone. So if you want to vent down there, go ahead. It'll probably help a lot of people. Like the video if you liked it, subscribe if you happen to be new. And I will see you in a video very soon. I love you guys so much. I hope you guys can love yourself too. I'll see you next time. Bye. She might paint up butter, jelly, snack, pull it, ride, brush it up, paint it. That's my sunshine when it's raining. That's my bull, yeah, yeah. When I'm all alone, she pull through. So when I catch that wave.

=== FILE: Full Body Workouts At Home (Minimal Equipment!) ｜ Alone in Quarantine [SstzpZVfjB0].txt ===

 what is going on guys, welcome to the video. I have a new couch and I'm very excited about it. So we're gonna sit on my brand new couch and the sad part is I have nobody to sit on it with. I am completely and utterly alone. So I am sitting in this house all by myself in self-quarantine as I'm sure all of you guys are too. I'm sure you guys totally feel me on this. I am wearing a sports bra and I don't know how I feel about it yet. I'm panicking, that's probably why. I kind of just wanted to vlog today. I feel like I have a lot to say. I have a lot to talk to you guys about. So here we are. If you guys are wondering, my mom lives in an assisted living facility so her place is under complete lockdown. Like she's in quarantine so I haven't seen my mom which is I'm really happy that they are taking it so seriously. And I haven't seen my sister because my sister is a nurse and they did have a case of coronavirus in her hospital so I obviously haven't seen her either. Lastly and the most sadly, Jeff is not here. Jeff is actually in Canada right now. I'm feeling especially lonely without Jeff. I was supposed to have a flight last Wednesday. Obviously no one can travel so I did not travel so we have no clue when we will be able to see each other. I don't want to think about it. I'm hoping that things start to get better and I'm really thinking about all of the healthcare workers out there who are working like overtime right now. My sister being one of them. Anyways, I don't want to talk about the coronavirus for too long but I have been watching Pandemic. The irony of its release date and all that stuff, we all know like it is kind of a strange coincidence. If you guys didn't know, Netflix released a documentary called Pandemic and it's basically about this. How scientists have been predicting that this would happen for a very long time so it's insane to watch. If you guys have watched it, leave me a comment down below. Let me know what you think of it. We are going to be going through a full body workout. I actually did post a poll on my Instagram story if you wanted to see an upper lower workout or if you wanted to see a full body workout in full body one. I will be going through the workout with you guys in a minute but there is something that I want to talk to you guys about first and this is very serious so I did want to clear the air on this. So back in December, I decided that I was going to write an at home program and then I mentioned it to you guys in January. A lot of you guys said yes, you want it and I actually did an at home workout with you guys in that video and then I mentioned it again in February. I told you guys back in February that I was working on it. It was just taking some time because I put a lot of effort into my programs. Now I want to make it really clear. I am not trying to capitalize whatsoever on what is going on right now. I was actually considering postponing the release of this program because it's not ready and I need help to film the video demonstrations and to get photos and things like that because I can't travel right now. I have no one to do that for me so I was actually thinking of postponing it more than anything but I just had such a sense and feeling of urgency because when they started closing gyms I was getting so many messages asking me when are you releasing your program, when I need it more than ever now. Probably people who weren't interested in my at home program were now interested in it. So I felt this sense of urgency that I had to get it out and then I had to stop. I have a very high standard for my programs. I refuse to release a sub par product so when it is ready it will go out. Even if it went out after all of this commotion was over and gyms were reopening, even if that's how long it took for me to finish it, so be it. That's where I'm at right now so I would never want you to think otherwise. I hope that you guys can be patient with me and thank you guys so much for understanding. Yeah, so that's that. I just wanted to get that out of the way. So one more thing that I was going to bring up to you guys. So I don't know if you can tell at all but my eyes are quite red. I actually had Lasik done about a month ago and I have a lot to say. It was kind of a disaster. If you guys are interested in hearing about my whole Lasik experience, I am going to save that for after the workout. Just in case you don't care about the Lasik thing and you want the workout, stay to the end and I'll chat with you guys about it. So really quick before we get started, I just wanted to show you what I have in my garage right now. I have a pretty decent set of dumbbells, 5's, 10's, 15's, 20's and a 25 pound kettlebell. I also have like various monster bands and resistance bands and a hip circle and I also invested in a barbell with some 25 pound plates and some 10 pound plates. I hope I can get more in the future but this is just where I'm starting at right now. I also got this yoga ball which took me an eternity to blow up because they gave like this really ridiculous pump for it and it took like an hour. But anyways, other than that, I also got a bench. This bench does lay flat and everything I got was essentially from Walmart with the exception of like two things. The hip circle and a few of the monster bands were from Amazon but everything else I got at Walmart. But for this workout, all we're going to need is a lighter pair of dumbbells, a heavier set of dumbbells and some resistance bands. Now like I said, this is going to be a full body workout and something that I've learned since training at home is that I've been getting crazy sore. Like the novel stimulus, I don't know, the doms have been so real so I've just been taking more time doing a proper warm up. So here I'm doing cat cows. Then I'm also doing some arm circles to warm up my upper body as well as some arm swings. And then I'm also going to do a band pull apart and as you can see I'm just pulling a light resistance band, nothing too heavy and warm up your rear delts as well. Then for lower body, I'm doing toe touches to squats. So you basically bend down, touch your toes, crouch into a squat position and then reverse the movement. So again, it's touch your toes, squat down, unsquat and then stand back up and then repeat the process. After you do a few of them, you'll get the hang of it. Lastly, I want to warm up my hip flexors so I'm just kind of like doing some roundhouse kicks and then get in a catcher's position and you're going to push your elbows against your knees so it's going to really open up your hips. And then I kind of just shift my weight back and forth. I do have a hip injury that I'm constantly struggling with so I always like to make sure that my hips are nice and warmed up. And keep in mind with these exercises that the exercise order does matter. It's going to start off with the exercises that are most systemically taxing and it's going to get easier as you go along. So doing this workout in the order that I'm presenting it is a good idea because the exercises do start out hard when you're the most fresh and then they get a little bit easier as you go along. You don't want your exercises to get harder because as you get towards the end of the workout, then you'll just be too tired. So for the first exercise, we are starting out with Bulgarian split squats and I start out with just doing my body weight. If you ever see these, you might not always see people setting it up. So I wanted to show you how I set these up to keep my balance. So when my hands are on the ground, I do put my foot up and then once my foot is in place, I can let go of the ground and kind of just get into position that way. And then when I do them with weight, I place the dumbbells on the ground, then I push off the dumbbells to get my foot up, get my balance a little bit and then I squat down. These are really a quad dominant movement, but if you push off with your heel, you can definitely get a good glute burn out of these two. So these are just an amazing lower body exercise. Next up, we're going to be working out the hamstrings with some single leg stiff leg deadlifts. Okay, that's a lot of words. So some single leg RDLs. So there we go. You are going to need something to hold on to. So basically anything, I'm just using a chair. After I kind of get hold of my balance on one foot, I pick up the weight and with these, you're just going to want to put a slight bend in your knee. Go down pretty slow, especially if you don't have heavy dumbbells. I normally do these with much heavier dumbbells. So to make the exercise a little bit more challenging, I do slow down the eccentric and that way I definitely get more bang out of this exercise. With a slower eccentric, you should feel a nice burn in your hamstring from these. As you can see, you kind of swing your leg back like a pendulum and you're going to use hip extension to get yourself back up. But if you are limited on weight, I highly recommend on any exercise, just slowing down the eccentric. Now, if you find that that's a little bit challenging with your balance, you can just do just good old fashioned dumbbell RDLs. So next up, we're going to be working out some triceps and chest. So we're going to go onto the ground. We're going to be doing some dumbbell floor presses. So you want to make sure you get into position safely. With only the 10 pound dumbbells, this was just my warm up. I was able to prop them up really easily and then you just press with a slight elbow flare. So you're going to press straight up right above your boobs. You should be feeling this in your triceps and your chest. Now, when I had heavier dumbbells and I was using the 20 pound dumbbells, I did have to prop the weight up on my legs and then kind of swing myself back. Just the same way that I would if I was using a bench at a gym. And same thing, you kind of get the weights right into position and then you press straight up. And then coming back down, I did place the weights on my legs and then swung myself up. Next up, we're going to be doing some band pull downs. So most of these resistance band kits, the ones with the handles, they do come with like a door hang. And while I was hanging the door hang, it was such a nice day outside. So I just wanted to show you how beautiful it was outside. So with this, we're just doing a regular pull down. So you want to pull straight down, really focusing on contracting your lats. This was just my warm up set and I did find it a little bit too easy. So I doubled up the resistance to make it more challenging. I did really, really squeeze and contract hard at the bottom, really focusing on contracting my lats. And then I released it the eccentric really slowly just to get a little bit more burn from this. And I wasn't sure if you could see very well that angle was kind of weird shooting right into the glass door. So I did do them in my kitchen. So I figured I would show you this set just for gigs. And then after that, we are going to be doing some banded glute bridges. You're going to need a pretty heavy resistance band. The one I'm using is from Slingshot. It's the grippy one that I always use in all my videos. After you lay down, you are going to perform hip abduction. So you're going to be actively pushing out your knees, which is why the band is useful with this exercise. So you're going to actively be pushing out with your knees as you're thrusting your hips up and then you're going to squeeze your glutes at the top. This is like a good pumper exercise. So you're really going to want to contract at the top, squeeze your glutes and then come back down all while actively pushing against that resistance band. So it's a really good glute burnout exercise. And last but not least, we're going to do a set of abs. So I did a few sets of planks. And with planks, of course, you just want to make sure that you're completely parallel with the ground. You're not sticking your butt up or you're not drooping it down too far. You just want to stay completely solid. And I do find planks a lot harder since I'm a little bit heavier. But after the plank, if you want to, you can do more ab exercises if abs are like a priority to you. But after that, that was it. Okay guys, so I really hope that you enjoyed that workout. So now let's talk about my LASIK experience. Cool boy. Listen, we got, we got a lot to talk about. Let's begin the story with very blind Stephanie. Just so you know, I've been wearing contacts and or glasses since I was nine years old. So when I hit 30, my 30th birthday was last month. I wanted to do this for myself. I decided to get LASIK. Went to the consult. They said I was a good candidate. Fantastic. The whole procedure itself was like 20 minutes, but you're there for a few hours just prepping and all that stuff. As soon as I walked out of that place, the day that I had it done, I knew something was not right. Like I knew something was wrong. When I got home after the procedure, my right eye was in excruciating pain. I feel like I have a pretty good pain tolerance. It didn't feel right. Jeff has actually had LASIK. So he was like, that's not right. I'm telling him something's not right. I was supposed to go to sleep right after. Could not sleep. I was in so much pain, but just in one eye. So I knew that if something was wrong, my sister called. They were like, no, that's okay. Like that can happen sometimes. Okay, fine. So I actually had to take something stronger than the Tylenol PM that they gave me, which I happened to have from like a root canal. Anyways, I woke up the next day and my right eye still hurt. Not as bad as it did the day of the procedure, but it still hurt pretty bad. I knew that that was not how it was supposed to feel. They basically make it seem like the next day you have 2020 vision and everything's great and you can go back to work and whatever. And I was like, no, listen, no, that was not happening. And I found that it was kind of odd that my vision wasn't that clear. I realized after like kind of covering one eye at a time, my right eye, the one that was in so much pain was still very blurry. So I actually talked to the surgeon. They just assumed it was a lot of inflammation went in to get it checked out. They're like, oh, your eyes really inflamed. They were like, once the inflammation goes down, you should be able to see better. Okay, nothing changed. So after a week, I told them that I still couldn't see clearly out of that eye. And at that point, they kind of let me know that that wasn't right. The surgeon was like, nope, it should be clear. It's not the inflammation. It looks like you're going to need to have surgery again in that eye. I also want to mention that I was super disoriented from having only one eye with clear vision. I felt like I had to vertigo really bad. I had to take mechalazine, which is an anti-nogen medication because I was so disoriented. I was like out of work. I couldn't do any work, anything on my computer, nothing for a while. I felt horrible. And then they told me that if I wanted to see clearly out of that eye that I could wear glasses. So I got glasses. I actually felt even worse with glasses. I felt even more disoriented. I felt like I was tipping all the time. Glasses are no glasses. I didn't feel great. I would wear glasses if I felt basically the same without them. I still can't see well out of my right eye and I have my one month follow up on Monday. Obviously, I'm going to be very careful if I leave the house. It's obviously my eye, so it is really important that I get them evaluated again. And on Monday, they're going to rebook my next surgery. So I wanted to tell you guys a whole fiasco of a story. Sorry, it was kind of long. I'm in no way trying to scare you out of getting lasik or put a bad name on lasik. I am just telling you my experience with it. Jeff has had very successful lasik. My best friend Nadine also has had lasik. Worked out great for her. Both of them can see wonderful. 98% of people don't have issues. I was just the 2% that did. So I'm not trying to scare you, but I think it's fair of me to tell you my experience because there is that risk. I just didn't think that I was going to experience any issues. So I hate to scare you, but I did want to let you guys know. Obviously, if you're thinking about it, it's up to your discretion. I feel like I talked to you guys for a long time. How long have we been talking? It feels like it's been forever. Okay guys, so that's going to complete this video. I really hope that you liked it. Story time, workout, quarantine, self-isolation. Maybe I've been going on and on because I'm really lonely, so I want someone to talk to. It's been kind of nice talking to the camera. If you did like this video, give it a thumbs up. If you happen to be new, I'd love for you to subscribe. And I will see you in a video very soon. I love you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for sticking with me. See you soon.

=== FILE: Honest Q&A： Do I Miss Being Shredded？ All In Haters？ Cheat Days？ Digestion Issues？ [12FoDVpy0AI].txt ===

 all my coordination went out the window. Do you still have any food rules? Prefer to you when you were thinner. Digestion issues? Do you another fun cheat day video? Oh, hello. Ooh, hello. What is going on, guys? Welcome to the video. So I'm actually super excited about this video. I did ask you guys on both Instagram and YouTube community to submit some questions, and I was looking for some juicy questions. I have a lot of ones that I want to get through, so I'm going to go ahead and get started. So the first question is one that was super popular. A lot of people were really curious if I missed being shredded. Like, did I miss my old skinny body? Do you sometimes wish you could go back to being shredded? And the short answer to that is no. I think that there were a lot more negatives to being really shredded than there were positives, and I kind of have to go to answer this question properly. I kind of have to go back into the mindset of when I was really shredded right before I went all in. So the mindset that I had at that time was that, like, I really wanted to look really fit because I thought that's what the fitness community kind of wanted out of me. Because, like, I never really felt fit enough, so I always thought that I needed to be more in shape. So I felt like this overwhelming pressure that I needed to, like, go on a cut. I needed to be more fit. I was afraid that if I didn't maintain that level of leanness... So your body's fast gonna pop up here? ...or that level of fitness that I would no longer be respected in the fitness industry. I have now realized is a bunch of bullshit, and it put me down a rabbit hole of being stuck feeling like I needed to be lean all the time. I don't want to go back there because when I was there, I didn't like how sunken in my face looked, and I didn't like that my boobs would basically, like, avicerate. And I felt like I was losing a lot of muscle being that lean, so there was a lot more negatives than the positives of, like, the credibility I gained. Like, looking really skinny in my face, I felt like it aged me a lot, and it made me look a lot older, and now somebody who is 30 years old, I feel like an old woman, I don't want to look any older than I already do now. So having, you know, like a healthier amount of body fat on my body livens up my face a lot, gives me a curvy, more feminine physique, in my opinion. You look okay? You look great. That's what I like on me. I'm not saying that I have anything against certain bodies. I don't think that there's anything wrong with any body type, but on me personally, I didn't love the way that it looked on me. I'm so happy that I don't ever feel like I need to appease that part of the internet anymore because I'm done being shredded, and I don't miss it. I'm gonna be honest, I don't miss it. Okay, so the next question is, would you ever do another fun cheat day video even while going all in? This question really excited me because I was actually planning on doing an attempting my first cheat day video. Because today, I am doing a cheat day. Like, I was going to, now that I had, you know, no longer have extreme hunger, I was gonna do a video where I attempt to eat like an old cheat day, my first cheat day. Last time I felt satisfied, I did a pancake challenge, so my life was a struggle. And I had that video planned for March of this year, and it was right before everything happened with the lockdown and the quarantine. You guys will have to let me know if you guys would still be interested in seeing that video, because I think it would be a really fun and eye-opening video to make, and it would just be for fun. It wouldn't be for trying to overeat or anything like that. I think it would be a great video to demonstrate how much my appetite has decreased and how much more in tune I am with my hunger and satiety signals. So kind of like the first video option I was thinking about was attempting to do an old cheat day. And then the second option would be like not trying to attempt any of my previous cheat days, but just to have a fun and lighthearted cheat day as somebody who is in the position they're in right now. So either one would be kind of fun and would be really interesting and insightful, I think, to me, to see how much my appetite has changed. So let me know down below. Okay, so this is a two-part question, and I think this is a really, really good question. So the first part is, do you ever feel like you need to binge? Like really eat a lot, just like your body is still testing you? If yes, when did it stop? And then the second part of the question is, did you feel psychological hunger? Like was not hungry in the stomach, but your brain wanted you to eat? If yes, when did it stop? Do I ever really feel like I need to binge? And I'm assuming she means right now because she's wondering if my body is still testing me. That is definitely a no. So more than anything right now, I'm struggling with the opposite problem. I feel like my appetite is really low, so I don't personally think my body is still trying to test me. I think that my body has a very clear understanding of its current appetite. And I don't really eat beyond that right now. And I usually eat three rolls. Sometimes I don't always finish all three. And of course, like I am human, there are definitely days where I'm hungrier than other days. Like usually a day where my appetite is pretty low. It's usually followed by a day that my appetite is so much higher. And it also depends on like how much I trained that day. Like if I had like a really hard leg day, sometimes that will make me feel really hungry and things like that. So my appetite does fluctuate from day to day, but I never really feel like I need to binge or ever really feel like I need to eat a lot. That is something that I no longer experience. I want to kind of like put into perspective of the way that I was before I went all in. I had extreme hunger, but I was like extremely disciplined. And I guess like that would be the word I would use. I was really disciplined and I never, I actually didn't binge before I went all in. That was not something that I personally struggled with. What I struggled with with my extreme appetite was that like I would eat to like 60% full and then I would stop because I was so disciplined. Like I'd be like, okay, Stephanie, that's enough calories. You had like 1800 calories for the day. Like that's enough. I know you're still hungry, but stop there. And I would even though I was still hungry because I had such a crazy appetite. And that was what I practiced prior to going all in. And that was what drove me nuts. Like I was going insane constantly feeling like I wanted to eat more, but I wouldn't. Once I went all in, all bets were off. Flood gates literally just opened and I was allowing myself to eat as much as I felt like I needed to feel satiated. Okay, so this is what I have for breakfast. I had two large bananas. I had two packets of oatmeal. I had an apple and then I had four sweet potatoes and I had two scoops of protein. Is that normal? So this goes into the second part of the question is if I ever felt psychological hunger. And that's something that I like to call like mental hunger. In my opinion, I've experienced both physical hunger and mental hunger. And the mental hunger was definitely at its peak when I first went all in. This is just a snack. I had breakfast already. Gotcha. Like I said, all bets were off. Flood gates open, hunger was rampant. I would eat and eat and eat probably like every single hour in my first and second month. And I was probably still hungry after that. I was, but I went to have to stop because I needed to do some more or else I'll just keep eating. I was super hungry and I would just allow myself to eat so much so that I felt like I had like a perma food baby. Like I was just like my skin would feel like it was stretching. My physical fullness was definitely there, but my mental fullness wasn't satisfied. Like I would feel like so big and bloated and my stomach would feel like it's going to pop. And I would still be like, man, I could go for some ice cream. Oh, my mental hunger was never satisfied. Even in those times, though, to be honest with you, I wouldn't ever constitute the way that I ate as a binge because I would eat like a meal. Then I would eat a little bit more and be like, okay, I could eat a little bit more. I wouldn't completely lose control. I was actually very mindful of what I was doing and kind of mentally cataloging how I was feeling and what I was doing for the sake of like documentation. And I would write in my journal how I was feeling and how I was doing. So I was definitely well aware of what was going on. I don't think I ever like lost control and that usually characterizes a traditional binge. In the third month, that kind of went away. Like I didn't experience that as often. Like I would feel physically full and then I would stop 100% satisfied. 100% Whoa. That is what Bali have done to me because my mental hunger really wasn't as prominent anymore. I think it was like three months all in and I have like a video where I'm actually super shocked. But I also feel like I'm not nearly as hungry anymore. Must say that again for the people in the back. And being more in tune with my internal like hunger signals, like when those started to kick in is when mental hunger started to abate. Okay guys, it's not really a juicy question, but it makes me feel some type of way. Why do you think so many people, specifically men weirdly, had such a bad reaction to your all in journey? I have been pondering this question for the last year and a half. So if any of you guys know why, I would love to know in the comments down below because I personally don't really know why. Jeff and I have gone through so many different possibilities as to why we think it is. And I think the most likely candidate of all of them is that men do not think women know anything about nutrition. There could be a double standard. So like if I post a squat video and there's a bit of a but wink, no one will bat an eye at least not in my audience. But if I post a video of you squatting and there's a bit of a but wink, everyone is going to try to fix it for you. It could be that thing where some men just want to, like they almost want to help women, but when it's not really welcome in a way. So their immediate reaction to anyone trying to say anything about diet or nutrition is immediately wrong. Like it is their duty to correct whoever is wrong. And most of those people who thought I was wrong were men because they just didn't understand it. Like I had all of the scientific community on my side, dietitian and nutrition experts. All of them were on my side. Like they were like, yes, this is what the literature shows happens. This is how a body reacts to eating enough food to supply biological processes, enough sustenance to continue when you halt them and your menstrual cycle. And all of these things need to kick back on. So you need a lot of food and all of that was backing me. But it seemed like it was mostly a female community that was backing me. It was kind of offensive because I had done so much research and I had read so much literature. I felt like I was pretty confident. I was really familiar with starvation studies, overfeeding studies. I was also really familiar with like set weight regulation theories that scientists have. I wasn't just speaking out of my ass and I didn't jump into this all in extreme journey. Is that at least reading some science to back this up? I do not know. So if you want to correct me, I would love it if you were to do so in the comments because I would like to know. And one more thing about this is that I never made my all in journey prescriptive ever. I never told anybody that you should do this. I was very clear in saying that, hey, I'm going to try this thing out. Seemed like I was a good candidate. I'm going to do this and I want to share this journey with you. I just had to say that because it's like a vent session. I needed to vent that out. OK, next question. How do you deal with the fact that even though you are healthier and happier now, a lot of the fitness industry, slash society, etc. prefer to you when you were thinner. So this is something that I've kind of had to deviate from to have like such a myopic view of the fitness industry. Because I've come to learn that the fitness industry is actually a lot broader than I was originally aware of. Like I always kind of fell into the niche of fitness of like people who kind of stayed really, really shredded year round. That is just one facet of the fitness industry. Would I say that that fitness industry no longer prefers me? They probably prefer me thinner, which would constitute their perception of what fit is. Kind of feel like I left that behind and I've joined like a different community, a more body acceptance community. People here in this community are so much more charitable with me when it comes to my body and accepting me at any weight. So I just realized that I didn't touch on like the societal pressure. She did mention both fitness industry and society. In my opinion, I don't really feel like society rewards ultra skinny. I feel like society rewards somewhere in like the Goldilocks zone of looking still looking like not being too lean, but not being too overweight, which is a difficult place to find yourself. It's like you have to be just right for society to accept you. And that just right is difficult to satisfy. And that is why societal pressure is just so hard, especially on women, because women have to be in this like just right zone for society to deem them acceptable or beautiful. And it's a tough place to be. And the easy way to deal with it is just from like overall happiness. And that's what gets me through not feeling like I need to seek acceptance, but just like trying to be happy. And that actually segues really nicely into a DM that I got. So I'm not going to show her name because she probably messaged me hoping that it would be private, but it's a really good question that I get pretty often. Do you think you would feel the same about your journey and still decided to do it if your set weight landed higher than it is now? I think that's a great question. I think I get a lot of misconceptions from people thinking that I'm so happy now because I've landed somewhere lower than my highest weight. That is absolutely not true. I don't think that my journey was only worth it because I ended up like at this weight and like the weight it was weight specific and that I am perceived to look good now. And that's the only reason why I feel like my journey was a success. And that is absolutely not true. I could give you the diplomatic answer and say that I am happy about the success of my journey because I am healthier and happier now, which is true. I'm not weak anymore, which is true. I'm not as tired anymore. That's also true. I'm going to keep it super real right now because I just have to say this. Like the real reason I am super happy is not because where I've landed with my set weight. It's because I am not hungry all the time anymore. I am not hungry all the time. Like you have no idea what it feels like to feel like you literally want to eat your arm off all the time because you are so hungry. You're so hungry to the point where you like look at everyone at the dinner table, wishing you could finish all their food on all the plates of people who didn't finish their food because they had normal appetites. Don't always feel like they have to inhale their food like I did. And I would stare at my empty plate and be like, are you going to eat that? Oh, are you going to eat that? That is what I didn't want anymore. So I don't even like the weight that I ended up. Yeah, I personally think it's important to have like a healthy body composition. So I always wanted to end up somewhere within like the normal healthy range with my set weight. But I could almost care less about my set weight because I am just happy that I'm not hungry anymore. If you can only understand like how compromising to my life, my appetite was and how hungry I was. It was if you've never experienced anything like it, you probably can't relate, but it is miserable. It is a miserable way to live to go to bed every single night still hungry to stop eating every single meal still hungry, wanting to eat more. It was such a life changing moment when I no longer felt like that. Even if my set weight landed me higher, I would still think my journey was a success. And I think that I actually did feel really satisfied with my whole journey, even when I didn't know that I was going to continue losing any more weight. So a really good example of this was back in like February, I was coming down in weight and I wasn't sure that I was going to continue to lose any more. And I was about like eight to 10 pounds heavier than I am now. And I was happy then like I was like, this is a success. I feel great. I thought that my journey was a success and I was at a higher what I perceived to be my set weight. I could I didn't know if I was going to lose any more weight. And I don't ever want people to think that I feel like my journey worked or that I'm successful or that I'm actually happy now because I look good. No, that has nothing to do with it. I feel so good and I'm not hungry. Okay, so the next question, if you had to do it all over again, would you change anything? This is a really good question. And I took a moment to think about this because I'm not actually sure that I would change anything because every single thing that I perceived that I did wrong ended up having like a downstream effect that probably was positive. If I were to have changed that, would I have learned the same lessons? I'm not sure. So the main thing that comes to mind my first month all in, I was really focused on making sure I was eating mostly whole foods because I was really focused on like, you know, getting in nutrient dense foods, which is totally fine. And I don't think that that was wrong. But I do feel like it kind of prolonged my journey a bit. Like I feel like it delayed me from getting into like the real meat of the journey by a month because eating a bunch of whole foods, which was pretty hard on my digestion, which I'll get to digestion in the next question. Eating a lot of whole foods didn't scratch the itch that I felt. Mmm, even chocolate, chocolate and banana. It like halfway scratched the itch that I felt for certain cravings and certain foods. And if I could change anything, I wouldn't have had that whole foods rule. And having rules was part of the reason that I had extreme hunger to begin with. So I should have like gone into this having as few rules as possible. I think that would be the one thing that I would change. It is like this ill perceived notion that you'll eat a bunch of junk food and always want more and more and more junk food. That's the opposite of what happened to me. And it's the opposite of what has happened to everyone that I know that has done this. You don't continue wanting to eat a bunch of junk food. After you get it out of your system, you don't want it anymore. Trust me, I have gone through ebbs and flows of like wanting a lot of sweet food and then a lot of savory food. That's so good. Yeah, it looks really good. I expected it to be amazing. That's lit. And then once I eat all that savory food, I end up eating like a mostly whole foods diet in the end. But it taught me like a really valuable lesson. Like I do feel like maybe it was mentally a better approach for me because it wasn't so extreme. So I do think that there was some benefits to it. So I don't know. I don't know if it would have been better either way. So that would be like the one thing that I would consider changing if I had a mulligan, like if I had a redo. So like I said, leading into the digestion issue, did you struggle with any digestion issues or did you notice any change in digestion? So prior to going all in, I didn't really struggle with digestion problems. I ate really high volume foods. Like this is like a lot of food. It was kind of normal that like at the end of the day, I'd feel pretty bloated, but nothing like totally out of the ordinary. I felt like that was pretty common. Like when you eat food, sometimes you get bloated and like that's just the way it is, especially when you eat a lot of high volume foods. So I was kind of accepting of that. The main digestion issues that I got were like I said, in the first month of my all in journey, I felt like I was still digesting food from the day before in the morning because I would eat mostly whole foods. And it was just like the bloat that I got from the first month was a severe type of bloat. Like it was like next level bloating because I felt pressure and I felt like so uncomfortable. I felt like my digestion efficiency was so horrible because I was also eating like every single hour. So I think that eating maybe like more processed foods would have been easier on my digestion. It was bad. It was I'd feel uncomfortable a lot in the first month. If I have to loosen up my fanny pack one more time, throwing this out the window, I'm going to back up. And as soon as I kind of stepped away from the whole foods rule, my digestion got a lot better. Calories were probably still the same because you know, when you eat more processed foods, you're eating higher calories. So calories didn't change much from like month one to month two and month three. But the volume of food changed a lot, which really, really alleviated me that feeling of like immense pressure in my stomach. And in month three, when my appetite did eventually start to go down and I also wasn't eating as frequently throughout the day, I was eating like three to four proper meals. When I got back from that trip from Bali, I started eating more regimented meals, which helped a lot with my digestion. Like having time in between that when you eat is better for digestion. And when you eat literally like when you don't stop eating all day long, like that's when you run into some problems. That's when I noticed things start to get better. And now I don't struggle with any like issues like that anymore. If you're struggling with digestion and maybe you do intermittent fasting or something like that where you eat a lot of food in like a short window of time, that might be the reason you might need to give yourself more space in between meals. Okay, so this is a good question. This is a question about my training. How has your mindset and approach towards the gym slash lifting changed slash evolved slash adjusted since all in in comparison to pre all in Stephanie? So the evolution of my thought process behind my training has changed a lot since I've gone all in to start pre all in Stephanie was so hyper focused on hypertrophy training. So when you get really lean, you lose a lot of muscle. And I felt like I was losing so much of the muscle that I had worked so hard for. So I was like predominantly focused on hypertrophy training. You know, when you get really lean, you lose a lot of strength when you lose a lot of weight. Strength training just wasn't on my priority list because I was really bad at it. So when you lose a lot of strength and you don't feel like you're good at like the compound lists anymore, you feel really weak and your ego is taking a hit. You're less inclined to do that type of training because you're just bad at it. And I felt pretty dour about the fact that I used to feel and be so strong and I lost that. Like I was just like desperately trying to hold on to any muscle that I had left. Like I would train glutes like no kidding. Before I went all in, I trained glutes like five or six times a week. It was like every day. Every day was glute day. Every day was like day. I really think it did help me preserve the muscle that I had. I did definitely lose some, but I definitely tried my best to preserve as much muscle as I could. When I went all in and I had all this energy from all the food that I was eating, I was like getting back into strength training. I'm going to get my dead lift up and get my squat up. I'm going to be strong. And I was so motivated by the initial food intake that I really wanted to get my strength up. So like this is what happened in my all in journey. So at the beginning, it was super high that it came crashing down in my second month of being all in because I got super sick. So I went on a trip to Bali and Australia. Got hella sick. I could not recover from this terrible cold. I was weak and fatigued and tired. And I was just like basking in the glory of all the food that I was eating. I was eating so much food and I completely rested. So I went from like intense strength training to no training at all for like over a month. And then after not training for like a really long time, the motivation was back up to get back into strength training. And then it went back down because at my heaviest weight, I was oddly uncoordinated. I don't know what happened. I don't know if it's because I gained a lot of weight really fast, but like all my coordination went out the window. It was like my body didn't, I didn't know where to put my extra body. Like I didn't know where to put my stance and my dead lift was all different. Okay. I can't even squat as deep in the hole anymore because my thighs won't let me. Just felt all sorts of uncoordinated. I don't even know if I've talked about this, but I did. And maybe that was because I gained weight so quickly that I didn't have enough time for like my mental coordination to catch up with how much extra body that I had. It was a period of time when I was at my heaviest weight that I felt very uncomfortable in the gym. Like I felt like the cellulite through my leggings was just like unflattering and lighting that is meant to give you like this shadowy appearance when you're super shredded. Does the opposite effect when you're not shredded, it emphasizes every single lump and bump and all of your flaws. I hated all the mirrors. So I took a break from lifting again. So when I took a step back and then I got back into like, because you know when you take some time off, you're like itching to get back into the gym. So I would itch to get back into it and I would and then worldwide pandemic happened and the quarantine happened and then I had to train at home. And that was really long-winded answer to say that I was really motivated by strength at times and then motivated zero at times. But throughout the entire journey, I can confidently say that I was never really motivated by looking a certain way from my training. Like I had completely taken a step back from training at all for any type of physique or aesthetic purposes, which was so good for me mentally. Like it was like such a mental break that I needed. My newest mindset, I am just focused on being healthy. I want to have like a healthy body composition. I want to get my muscle, like any muscle that I lost over the year of kind of like, I don't know, non-consistent training, I guess you could say. Not for a certain look, but for a certain health standard, like a certain health quota that I would like to hold myself to. But for the past year and a half, it has not been about the way that I look, which is great. Next question. Do you still have any food rules that you have trouble letting go of? And two, what has been your favorite part of your all-in journey so far? So for the first part of the question, do I have any food rules right now? The one thing that I would say that would be loosely interpreted as like a rule is that I'm really trying to eat breakfast and I'm really trying to space my meals throughout the day. Just to pick up my appetite a bit, it's not like this hard nose rule where I'm like, I'm forcing myself to eat even when I'm like really not hungry. But it's just a habit that I'm trying to enforce within myself to adopt more balanced and more evenly spaced meals throughout the day. I wouldn't really say it's a rule in terms of like something that I restrict myself from. Like I don't eat this or don't eat that like that type of rule. I don't have that. There's no food that's off limits and I eat whatever I want. I'm definitely not scared of eating like Thanksgiving just happened. And I hope you guys do my American subscribers. I really hope that you guys had a wonderful Thanksgiving. I encouraged everybody on Thanksgiving on my Instagram to make sure that you do not fear food that you deserve to eat. So if you are one of those people who fear eating, especially on days like today, I just want you to know that you deserve to eat too. You deserve all the happiness and joy that a family meal brings to people. And that having these food rules is just so inhibiting to a happy and like joyful life. Because having social meals with loved ones and family is such a good part of life. And I wouldn't want anybody to miss out on that. So I just had Thanksgiving, ate all of the food that I wanted, the mac and cheese, the biscuits. When we had dessert, it was an apple pie cheesecake and it was delicious. I have no rules and I don't like restrict in any type of way. And then the second part of the question is kind of just related to Thanksgiving. In my opinion, what has been your favorite part of your all-in journey so far is the social element of eating feels so much more normalized to me now. Whereas before I would like eat before I went out to dinner with friends or family, and I would always, you know, to balance my physique aesthetic, I would get like, you know, chicken, broccoli, rice or a sweet potato or something like that. Like I feel like I let all of that go. Like when I go to a restaurant, I just order what I want. Like I look at the menu, I'm like, oh, I really want spaghetti. Like I'm going to get some spaghetti. Another example would be when Jeff and I order pizza, I'm like, oh, I could totally smash like a medium pizza, like all by myself, right? So I'm like, I'm going to order that pizza. This is my flavor. If you want some, like, I'm going to get a barbecue chicken pizza. If you want some, you're going to have to trade me a slice of your pizza for one of mine because I'm going to want all eight slices of this pizza. That's yours. And I don't feel like I need to eat other stuff to fill myself up on that stuff to then eat less of the good stuff. You know what I mean? You feel me. Okay. So this is going to be my last question. And this one is not going to be at all related to all in. So I'm going to end off on this note. Given your family commitments, will Jeff moved Florida at some point? Have you and Jeff discussed long-term plans for the relationship? Thank you so much for asking, by the way. I know Jeff has become a big part of my channel. He's actually not here with me now. Jeff is currently in Canada right now. He had to leave to go back because Jeff, if you don't know, Jeff is Canadian. So Jeff can only be in the US only six months. For me, it complicates things a little bit because I am one of the primary caretakers to my mom. My sister and I both take turns taking care of her because I've mentioned this before, but I'll mention it again if you don't know. My mom is mentally ill. So she's not only mentally ill, her physical health has deteriorated so much in like the last five  naringin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, ni that that is the reason why my commitment to my family remains in Florida and it is not easy for me to be with Jeff right now to travel. Jeff and I have really thought of long term solutions to this and I know a big question is probably going to be why don't you guys get married but Jeff and I really strongly believe in the fact that we do not want to get pressured into getting married because of our living situation. We want to get married because we want to get married. We don't want it to be forced. Right now we're trying our best to accommodate my current situation, the best that we can without any drastic or rash decisions. And I acknowledge how selfish it feels that my family at this moment in time takes precedence, but I just can't let go of taking care of my mom. Like I'll just never not do that. And Jeff is so understanding of that and he doesn't mind at all and he loves my mom too. So it's not an issue. It's just we're trying to work out the logistics to the best of our ability because Jeff and I have been together now for four and a half years, something like that. That is going to be the end. Let me know if you like Q&As. Like I will definitely be able to do, I could do Q&As for the rest of time with how many questions I got submitted, but like the video if you like Q&As, subscribe if you happen to be new, and I will see you in a video very soon. I love you guys so much. Bye. Kept my leg crossed for way too long. Oh my goodness. Okay. Okay. Goodbye guys.

=== FILE: How 1 YEAR Of Weight Gain Changed My Life Forever (All In Results!) [N9z5xqAP7ek].txt ===

 heavily requested, that is Stephanie and Buttermore's all-in videos. Today I wanted to talk about Stephanie Buttermore, who is a YouTuber here on YouTube, and be a response video to Stephanie and Buttermore. Hey! Hello! Hello! You feeling ready to do this, babe? I feel nervous. It's like the most nervous I've ever been to film a video, but I feel ready. So I spent one year since you've been all-in. I know, isn't that insane? Time flies. It's absolutely crazy. Do you regret it at all? A year ago, I never thought I would ever know what it would feel like. Not to be hungry all the time. A year ago, I went all-in in hopes of fixing that and to fix my health, something I didn't even know I needed fixing. I really want to feel better. I want to feel stronger. I don't- I was really hopeful that going all-in was going to work for me. I just thought that I would be that one anomaly that this wasn't going to work for, because I've lived my life like that for so long. I've always had a big appetite, so I just thought struggling with the feeling of ever feeling full was just something I was going to have to deal with forever. To be honest, I was willing to try anything. I want to tell you everything so you can really understand how this all started and how hunger has affected me in most of my adult life. So we need to start from the beginning, like all the way to the beginning. So as a kid and into my teens, I played sports. I ate a lot. But it became really apparent that my appetite was unusually large because my dad and I were eating the same amount. I actually didn't grow up with my mom. It was just my dad, sister and I, and I just ate so much more than my sister, and she was older than me. And my dad is a big guy, like 6'2", pretty jack, and I was eating just as much as him when I was like 13 years old. When Steph was a kid, I mean, as far back as I can remember, she's always had a massive appetite. I did most of the cooking in the house when we were younger. I would portion out something for myself, and then I'd portion out dad's portion, and then I'd match it for Steph. I continued to have a big appetite, like through high school, through undergrad, through my masters, but I had never dieted before. But I was already into lifting weights, so usually that keeps your hunger pretty high. But it wasn't until I decided to compete in a bikini competition in 2014 that my extreme hunger was truly born. And I really want to describe to you guys what extreme hunger means, because it's going to be the main antagonist of this story. So extreme hunger is not your normal, I had a late lunch, so I'm hangry kind of hunger. No, no, no. Extreme hunger is a clearly defined phenomenon that you feel like you could just eat and eat and eat without ever wanting or ever feeling like you need to stop. That's so good. Through bottomless pit hunger, like no sense of feeling full, like you've even forgotten what it feels like to feel full. And the only reason you stop eating is because you literally feel like your stomach is going to pop. But even then, you could eat more. And living this way for years can really impact your quality of life and your happiness, which is what was happening to me. So the genesis of my extreme hunger was truly born back when I did a bikini competition because I had a very restrictive prep. Definitely not a flexible approach. It was a hardcore bro prep. And at the time, I didn't know any better. So this was before Evidence-Based Fitness was as mainstream as it is now. And I was only eating cod and 10 spears of asparagus like five times a day. And that's it. I think this adds up to be like 900 calories or something crazy. And I was also doing 45 minutes of HIIT cardio every morning at like 5 a.m. in the morning because I was in grad school. And if I was feeling tired or weak, I was allowed to have a spoonful of raw dry oats before I went to go work out because I was still training like six times a week. I lost a lot of weight and I lost it really fast. I actually ended up winning my show. I got first in overall and that was all exciting. I don't regret it. I think it was a really good learning experience. And I absolutely know now that there are right and wrong ways to compete. And I know that there are way better strategies than what I did. So absolutely no disrespect to anybody who competes. But that was just my experience. After I competed, I continued to maintain a pretty lean physique. But I had like this crazy appetite that I thought I just had to deal with. I thought this was like pretty common in fitness. Like I thought there was like hard work, sacrifice, determination, like commitment to being fit. And I thought that, you know, everybody in fitness kind of dealt with a certain level of hunger. And that was normal. And anyone who's ever competed knows you kind of want to hold on to it like a little bit after the competition because you worked so hard to get there. Your entire perspective of what lean is is like forever changed. Being five to 10 pounds above stage weight was no longer that lean to me. That was my new normal. And it becomes hard to see yourself like any bigger than that because you're just not used to it. And I didn't start an Instagram until the end of 2014. And I'm sure you know how that goes, like the selfies and the fitspo. So I kept it up because fitness was a really nice break for me. A nice break from intense cancer biology, 14 hours of bench work and reading six papers a day. Getting about three hours of sleep a night. So it was nice having an outlet. And then fast forward to 2015 when I finally discovered flexible dieting. And then at the end of 2016, I actually met Jeff and I was still lean, maintaining it for years at that point. So we had first met on Skype, but I do remember the first time we met in person. I remember when we first hugged, I just remember like noticing how slight you actually were. Obviously thought you were like extremely pretty and beautiful. And I really liked you from the start. But but I do, I still remember that, like just how like small and kind of petite you were at the time. Shortly after we met, I started my YouTube channel. Jeff actually encouraged me to start it because he thought it was unique to be a cancer research PhD student who was into fitness. And in Eliza is an enzyme linked at mutas urban estate. But that entire time my appetite was still alive and kicking of six reps with an RPE. I remember this like it was yesterday. So Jeff was doing the 10,000 calorie challenge and he really struggled through that. And the entire time I was watching, I was just thinking to myself like I could easily do this. No problem. Really good. I could totally eat that whole piece. Oh my God. You want to do it for me? So just for kicks and because I genuinely wanted to try it, I did it for my own YouTube channel. It was kind of the thing to do back then. And I easily completed it. And unlike Jeff's torturous experience, I thought it was so fun. And it was the first time in a long time that I went to bed full. Like not my normal 50% full, but like actually full. And it was really nice. I didn't think you'd actually be able to do it just because it was so hard. It was unfathomably hard for me. And I was like, you're significantly smaller than me. So like there's no way you're going to be able to do it. And because that video was so fun, I just wanted to do it again. So cheat days were born. You know what you're getting? Yeah, everything. And cheat days were days that I could just eat to satiety and it was just fun. Oh my God. And it seemed like you guys also really enjoyed them. But I obviously had to return to more clean eating because I wanted to balance my cheat days with my health and fitness goals. And I was in the fitness genre. So I did feel like this pressure that I had to stay fit. But those days were days that I loved because I could eat and feel satisfied and go to bed full. I kind of treated it like an experiment too, because my inner scientist wanted to know if cheat days would help sedate my hunger over time. I'm feeling really full, feeling really satisfied, but not too full. I got the idea to keep doing them because after the first cheat day, it definitely helped blunt my hunger for a few days. So I hypothesized that over time they might help me from feeling so hungry all the time. In retrospect, I don't think that they actually worked, aside from maybe just like slightly helping, but ultimately they just weren't good enough to keep me satisfied long term. Now when things really got set in motion was when I decided to do a mini cut at the end of 2018, early 2019. Long awaited video on the little cut I did back in December, January ish. And I was also working on my trained abs every day for six months video. Yeah, six months later. And I felt like for this type of content to do well in the over saturated environment of YouTube, I felt like I had to make sure that I was really lean. So the abs that I built would look even more impressive. And that was kind of the last straw, like the straw that broke the camel's back, that I was just sick of it. I was sick and tired of being hungry all the time, just so I could be in fitness, like just so I could be successful on this platform. It just wasn't worth it for me anymore. And like I just couldn't see myself sustaining it long term. It was the spring of 2019 that I had a chat with Dr. Nicola Rinaldi about hypothalamic amenorrhea. Hi Nicola, thank you so much for joining me. I, which is the lack of menstruation for three consecutive months or more. This could be due to under eating, overexercising, stress, genetics, or even a combination of any of those things. I was making a video on the topic and she's an expert in that area of research. So we had a great conversation. But I genuinely didn't think that our conversation would be so profound. I wanted her expertise, not only on hypothalamic amenorrhea, but also on how to fix it. So the quicker you return to sort of that, to fuel in your body adequately, the faster things can turn back on again. And this was something that I actually experienced myself back when I competed. And I knew a lot of my audience was dealing with it. She had this concept of going all in. So full credit nonstop to Nicola. But her version was eating a minimum of 2,500 calories with no maximum. And from what I understand, this is an effort to get your period back. But it could fix a lot more than just getting your period back. It can help with brittle hair and nails, feeling cold all the time, feeling tired and fix extreme hunger, which I knew I had. So I was super intrigued. After our chat, a lot of things changed for me. I went down a D dark rabbit hole on the internet, just exploring the idea of eating a minimum of X amount of calories. There were a ton of different permutations online of this. But I learned that this was a thing that people did. Like in fitness, it's completely the opposite. It's always about low macros and cutting and getting shredded. So this was a totally new concept for me. As a scientist, the rational part of my brain totally understood why this concept would work and how your body defends its natural set weight. But the irrational part of my brain thought, well, it probably wouldn't work for me. My hunger signals are probably just messed up genetically. I've always been a hungry kid. I thought I would be the one exception, like the one person that would just eat themselves into obesity. So I try to find a few examples of people that this actually worked for. And a few of them were actually past competitors. The common theme was that they would just eat to satiety every single day. And at the beginning, they would be experiencing extreme hunger, so they would gain a lot of weight. However, their weight would kind of plateau because they would no longer feel nearly as hungry after months of eating thousands of calories. And then even longer after that, their weight would actually go back down to its natural set weight because your appetite has been kind of normalized after that. And it goes down to a normal appetite and your weight comes down with it. And when I say set weight, set weight is not like an exact number. It's more like a range that fluctuates throughout your life and is predetermined by your genetics and your physiology. So they would go through this process of weight gain and then weight stabilization. And they would come out the other side with normal hunger and satiety cues and pretty normal eating behavior. No longer feeling that extreme hunger that they used to have. And I wanted that. I wanted that so badly. I would just see that and be like, I want to do that. Like, that's what I need to do. But regardless of how badly I wanted to do this, I was pretty terrified. I had gotten to a point that I was just like, this is who I am on the Internet. What's going to happen when that changes? I went back and forth for a long time. Like, I'm going to do this. I'm going to explain it to them and they'll totally understand to know they won't understand. This will be a complete disaster. You have no idea what you're doing to. OK, I'm going to do this. I'm going to go all in, but I'm basically going to quit social media so they don't have to watch me go through this. To nobody's surprise, gaining weight in public is extremely scary, especially on YouTube and especially in fitness because people are savage. And I thought I would just be run off the platform losing all of my fitness credibility and I would no longer be in the fitness genre anymore because I didn't belong there. Not knowing at the time that my channel would evolve to a genre of its own. So I felt like I could deal with the weight gain, but I knew I was going to have to endure a lot of criticism. I had been on YouTube long enough to know how hard this would be. Well, speaking of pigs, what did you think when I told you I was going all in? I was surprised to hear that you say that you wanted to do it, but I was also really excited about it. Like, you probably remember from the beginning, I was like very approving of that decision. I thought that it was what was best for you. And I was more or less just like, I guess it was like a combination of being happy and also being kind of like excited. Like this scientist in me was kind of like curious to see how we play out for you. It was always a positive thing in my eyes. It was honestly Jeff that gave me the final push to go through with it. He made me realize that this was the best way to do it. And that's what I decided. I would do it as openly and as honestly as possible and to just share the journey with you. I called it going all in from Dr. Renali's version of it, but I had my own version in mind and it was exactly how it sounded. So when Steph first told me she was going to go all in, she was really nervous. She had big news to tell me. Steph is the type of person that is very disciplined, very methodical. It's a huge reason why she's accomplished everything that she's done. And she's applied that same mentality to food, you know, for as long as I can remember. I was just so excited because I love to cook and I love food. I think I was more excited for me than for her at first because that's what you want to do with your best friend. You want to eat with them. So at the beginning, being able to eat all of that food was honestly glorious. I was just so hungry and was just ready to eat. I remember my first night officially being all in. We were actually watching the 2019 NBA Finals. And I ordered Ubreeth's and I ordered Spaghetti and Meatballs and Garlic Bread, which if you didn't know is one of my favorite things to eat. And I was actually all in for a whole week before I announced it in my first all in video. And just in the first week alone, I gained 10 pounds. Let me tell you that I had actually been all in this whole past week. And it's crazy to look back on because after I gained the first 10 pounds and I had to tell you guys, I felt so bad about my body. And in retrospect, I see that person that one week all in Stephanie and she was still super tiny. And that's how it went for the whole journey. I would always catastrophize how I looked and I would always look back on it and be like, it wasn't that bad. It's all perspective. So today is the day that I actually posted the video about my all in journey. So today has been an emotional roller coaster because I actually had no idea how you guys were going to respond. At the beginning, I just wanted to eat all day, every day and go to bed full every night. And the best part was that that was what I was supposed to do. So I didn't actually feel any guilt. Guilt actually came later in my journey. But the beginning, it was this new, exciting adventure that I was on. And I started out in my first month abiding by a 75% Whole Foods rule that at the time I thought was really smart. And I genuinely love Whole Foods. I basically liked everything and anything at that time. But I was just kind of learning as I went along. So I actually didn't stick to this rule after the first month because it was just so hard on my digestion. Imagine I was eating four to like seven ish thousand calories a day every day, like averaging 5000 calories. So with eating predominantly Whole Foods, my belly would just feel like a rock hard every day. And in the first month, I actually gained the most weight out of every month throughout the entire journey. I gained 18 pounds in the first month. After the first month, I kind of just ate whatever, which still included mostly Whole Foods, but it was no longer a rule. Because I was really determined to learn how to eat intuitively, to teach my body to eat when I'm hungry and to stop when I'm full. But even in months two and three with a slightly decreased appetite, I was still eating a lot of calories. And I actually wasn't tracking anymore because tracking thousands of calories of food every day is honestly exhausting. And it was also making me realize how much food I was eating, which was kind of starting to make me feel a bit guilty. So all the more reason to stop. But I want to particularly emphasize how important months two and three were for me. I actually think these were the most important months of the entire journey. And I think these were the months that I made the most progress. It was a time that I truly succumbed to eating whatever I wanted. And I took a huge setback from training almost all together. And this wasn't really on purpose. Jeff and I actually had a trip to Australia for a UBC fitness conference. You ready? Give a thumbs up. After that, purely for vacation, we were going to Bali. A new bikini that I'm going to be bringing with me to Bali and Australia. Probably not going to be wearing this in Australia because apparently it's winter there. That's bizarre to me. Partially packed. But Jeff, Jeff is completely okay. But I actually ended up getting sick at the start of our travels. I think I mentioned it. I'm kind of sick, by the way. I got sick like the day we got here. So while we were traveling, I just didn't train. And it was also a time that, man, I was eating the most amazing food. I ate amazing food in Melbourne and I ate whatever was put in front of me at our Airbnb in Bali by two lovely chefs that we had. This is my girl right here. Louis the best. She has made Bali the best experience of all time. I actually still think about them all the time. But I just bathed in the glory of vacation and was resting because I was really sick. And I'm really glad that these chain of events happened. Even though they weren't on purpose. But I really think that my appetite was so much lower when I got back from that trip than it was before I left. Feel like I'm not nearly as hungry anymore. Must say that again for the people in the back. And I just felt like I could really feel the process of being all in take effect. I was no longer feeling like a bottomless pit anymore. That dissipated in month four. And just a combination of all the food and rest, I think was really good for me. And probably sped up my journey in my opinion. And without that trip, I probably wouldn't have been so liberal with my food intake because I just can't cook like that. And I probably wouldn't have rested because I wouldn't have gotten sick. After I recovered from being sick, I did return to normal training after that because I did have strength goals still. But I really think that break was really good for me. And from that point on, I also really adopted eating like three to four proper meals throughout the day. Instead of literally constantly eating from the moment I wake up to the moment I go to bed. But I do have to say one thing that was actually the worst during this time was my swelling. This is when the puffiness really started. The swelling was everywhere, but I think it was really obvious in my face, my midsection and my ankles. If I had a definitive swollen phase, it started in month two and went through, man, like probably month six. And my swollen phase directly correlated to my sweaty phase. So I was swollen, inflamed and hot and sweaty all the time. Over the course of months two, three and four, I gained another 17 ish pounds because at my four month update, I was about 35 pounds up. And I'm really not trying to place so much emphasis on like the numbers and my weight. It was honestly one of the only quantitative metrics that I had. And I think it conveyed to you guys that never at any point in my journey did I try to prevent any of the weight gain. So I think saying these numbers can be helpful in that regard, I think. I also think it shows the natural progression of how the body regains weight and my appetite and weight gain were actually very linked. As I gained more weight, my appetite decreased with it in tandem. So I just used my weight as a visual metric. What did you think of how I looked at this time? So I personally think that you always think that you look worse than I think you do. So like hearing you retell that, you're describing yourself as this like just swollen monster. But like you didn't look like that at all to me. And like when you feel sweaty or you feel like you're holding water, it feels like it's so much. But to me, I kind of saw this change just sort of gradually happen. So I didn't really notice this phase the same that you did. I still thought that you look beautiful at this time. Honestly. After month four, I slowly gained another like five to seven pounds over the course of months five and six. I remember after about this six month mark, my weight hit a plateau and I hit my peak weight of having gained 42 pounds. And 42 pounds ended up being like the most weight I gained throughout this entire past year. And at that point, I was really not hungry anymore. I feel like six months was a good marker of when I had very distinct hunger and satiety cues. So with eating proper meals throughout the day, I kind of felt like I was like entering normal eating behavior territory. But I was still really swollen, really puffy and really sweaty. It was all very sexy. This was actually a really hard time for me. My weight was the highest I had ever seen it on a scale in my entire life. And I was having pretty regular breakdowns at this point. I just felt so badly about myself. And if there was ever a time that I wanted to quit and hide away from social media, maybe even start dieting so I didn't feel so big. It was six months in and I was getting comments telling me that I was obese now. And that my journey was a failure. And I think this is because in the minds of viewers, six months might seem like a really long time. But that's not long enough to complete an entire journey like this. But they obviously didn't know that. So it was one of the first times that I kind of felt like people were giving up on me. I feel like it's just too much. So I just wrote in my journal, as I always do, that you can't let this ruin all of your hard work. You've made it so far and you promised yourself you would do this. Please, Stephanie, don't forget your why. I would say those things over and over and over again. And what was even harder was dealing with the comments from the people that you do know and that you do care about and that you do love. Those comments, those hurt the most. She had a few things to say about my weight gain and I guess I didn't imagine it would affect me so badly. It did really bother me, I guess. And the things that she was saying were basically everything that I'm feeling. So to start with, our mom has good days and bad days. This, unfortunately, was just a night where she was having a bad day. We had just eaten dinner and we were just talking and relaxing and just blurted out saying without any thought. I think through the whole All-In process, it was really tough for her, you know, hearing all the critique from everybody. But I don't think it actually hit her until my mom made that comment that night. That was the first time it hit her hard. You guys know how close my mom and I are. And she is literally like the sweetest human being I know. Hi, YouTube. Hi, YouTube. But she is mentally ill and I know the ins and outs of her personality. Trust me, I've been taking care of her since I found her when I was 16 after not seeing her for many years. So I'm very familiar with her ups and downs and I know I shouldn't have taken it so seriously. I do know that. But everything that she was saying was everything that I was feeling. And it just hit me where it hurt. After about eight months is when the swelling finally started to go down. I'm wearing a short sleeve crop top. This is something that I haven't been ready for in a long time. My weight wasn't budging. I was still plateaued, but at least my swelling was going down. So visually, I looked a lot less puffy. My cheeks didn't take up my whole face anymore and my ankles wouldn't swell around my socks. Keep in mind, I was wearing compression socks all the time, like during the day and night to help with the swelling. And my weight was plateaued for about three months. So it was probably plateaued from months six to month nine. So month nine or February 2020 is when my weight has slowly come down to now, May 2020. And just to be clear, like weight loss is not the goal. I just want to give you some context for this journey that it was like this triphasic or three phase process, if you will. Phase one, you're really hungry and there's a lot of weight gain. Phase two, you're less hungry and your weight hits a plateau. So it doesn't move for a few months. And then phase three, you're less hungry than phase two. And your weight actually starts to decrease towards your set weight and that can take like however long. So from my highest weight, 42 pounds up to now, May 2020, I lost about 13 pounds over the course of those three to four months. And I feel very comfortable here. Like I don't feel like I need to lose anymore. Again, like that's not the goal. Also, keep in mind that none of my weight loss was due to anything other than just my decreased appetite. I was not trying to lose weight. I was not doing anything special or different. I didn't do any cardio. I went for occasional walks, but I've always. ogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogen there for two days. You did it again. I'm either getting dumber or just less concerned with food. And I would find it in the air fryer like two days later. And I actually don't think that my weight loss has anything to do with like weight training or exercising because I've actually been training significantly less since February because I've had a few things going on. So at the very end of January I had a vein ablation done you guys might remember but I had this done in both of my greater saphenous veins basically like the inner thigh of both of my legs because I was having some issues in those veins and I couldn't train my lower body at all after that. And then shortly after I went and had lacyc done which was a complete disaster and way more invasive than it should have been because I actually had some complications. And then after that I couldn't train for a while because I was just so disoriented from not being able to see out of my right eye. Like I felt like the world was always tipping and I always felt nauseous so I took some time off from training. But then we had a global pandemic and I've been having to stick to at-home training which is good don't get me wrong but it's definitely not as ideal for those like really heavy compound movements because I was focused on my strength so I obviously don't have like a full deadlift platform or squat rack at my house. So my strength training has had to take a step back and I'm actually still training at home even though gyms are open here so I haven't gone back to the gym yet. But I really want to say for the record that before all of this stuff happened with my leg vein ablation and all that stuff before all that I was making amazing strength progress like my lifts were looking so good so I don't want to take away from all the progress I made before this. So I know I mentioned that at the six month mark I had a really hard time so that was probably the time that I really wanted to quit but trust me I had way more meltdowns than just that like that was just when it was the worst. At the beginning I think I would have a meltdown like once a week. I had my first one right before I left for that Australia Bali trip and I had a couple in Bali I'm not gonna lie. So I'll get one time feeling down so you know that it happened. There's a belt that's supposed to go here and it doesn't fit. And yeah like at least once a week I would have one and luckily I haven't had one in a long time I actually can't even remember the last time I've had one but at the beginning I just had so many bad body image days I also just had so many doubts that this was even gonna work and I would just be like an example of this massive failure. Of course that didn't happen and having rational people by my side was really essential. As a science minded person I really truly appreciate you kind of bringing that science mind to. The weight gain was definitely tough my clothes not fitting me anymore or clothes that I literally just bought no longer fitting me that was hard. Oh and this might seem really random but whenever I would put on self-tanner and I couldn't reach like my back which I could easily do when I was lean and like the realization that I had to spread so much tanner over so much surface area I had a few cry sessions doing that. Jeff would be like consoling me and like rubbing self-tanner on my back. Good times. And something that was actually one of the hardest parts was dealing with the backlash that I got online. When I first started like I don't think it fazed me that much I was just like as the haters they don't know me they don't matter but you can only hear something so many times before it really starts to get to you. You're just gonna get fatter and fatter and you're gonna go down the self-destructive spiral. So you also had blood work done too right? Yeah so during my journey I got blood work done three times at the beginning the three month mark and at the nine month mark. I was really interested to see some improvements with my female reproductive hormones which started a bit low as you can imagine because I started out like really lean. I remember making my four month update video and I thought these improvements were kind of minor. The numbers did improve slightly but they were still in the lower end of the normal range but Dr. Analdi actually reached out to me because she watched the video and she told me that I should be encouraged by even like those minor improvements. And because I did gain quite a bit of weight I did want to make sure like other things were looking normal too like I wanted to check and make sure like other health markers were also normal and thankfully all of those were good and I genuinely think I would have continued to see progress in my female reproductive hormones if I didn't go on a hormonal birth control last September which of course changes all of that. So before that I actually had a copper IUD as my birth control modality and I was just experiencing so much pain like I had really sharp pelvic pain especially around the time of my cycle. I went to see a doctor and my doctor decided to remove my copper IUD and he started me on the pill so that's the reason why I did that but I really didn't want to. I wanted to keep my form of birth control like non-hormonal which a copper IUD doesn't affect your hormones but that was just the best option that my doctor had for me. So because I went on the pill I did want to have a chat with Dr. Nicola Rinaldi again and I wanted to ask her how going on the pill would affect these hormones. I unfortunately had to remove my copper IUD and I ended up going on the pill. I'm on the generic of YAS which is pretty standard. I obviously didn't expect to see improvements and I didn't so they were actually lower. I wanted to get you to talk about maybe like what birth control would do to things like estradiol, FSH and LH. So yeah so birth control pills basically suppress your whole system so it absolutely suppresses FSH, LH. You know it provides sort of a low level of estradiol and progesterone depending on which one you're on throughout the cycle. Depending on where you are in the cycle they have different functions so with the birth control pills it's a low enough level that it basically suppresses ovulation and therefore you know it's keeping your FSH and LH quite low and your natural estradiol and progesterone are suppressed as well. So even though I couldn't keep tabs on these hormones in my nine month blood work I like I said wanted to keep tabs on things like my cholesterol and my metabolic panel. Like I said all of those things are normal so I was really happy about that but I do want to make note that if you're not using a hormonal birth control or if you're trying to get pregnant those female reproductive hormones are numbers that you should be paying attention to. But in the end one year later everything is great I feel great and most importantly I'm healthy. The idea of healthy equals a look I think is really problematic. To me healthy equals functioning well so that you know that can be at a wide range of sizes and shapes and looks and everything. You know there's there is this idea that you know even on on the upper side of body size like there's such a wide range of what can be healthy and what can be unhealthy. Reflecting back what I ultimately wanted to accomplish was to improve my health and I definitely think I accomplished that. And I don't quite feel like this journey is over. From what I understand it can take three, four or more years but I do feel really proud of myself that I've made it this far. My goal when I originally started this journey was to improve my energy, fix being cold all the time, feel happier, not be so food focused and to fix my extreme hunger. And yeah I did all that for sure. Be honest do you think I'm different now? Do you think I'm happier? Yeah I've noticed your personality change a nice bit you do definitely seem happier just like on an hour-to-hour basis throughout the day and I do think it's improved our relationship as well. Things are just a lot easier for us now. So much of the time we spend together does center around food. I mean that's just the way socializing is in general and I find we enjoy each other's time a lot more now. I do think yeah your personality has changed in several ways but one of which would be that you're definitely happier now. Steph is so much happier now. Steph's always been a happy person and but ever since this change it's her mood is so much lighter and carefree. She could just tell she just enjoys things more. You know the Snickers commercial where they're the whole time they're like oh you're not yourself when you're hungry then you give them a Snickers and they're better. It's like Stephanie's been stuck in a super long Snickers commercial and nobody could give her a Snickers and it's like finally Steph gets her Snickers and she's so happy and she's the real Steph now. Not to sound too dramatic but this journey was one of the scariest things I've ever done mostly because there was just so many unknowns which is exactly why I'm so happy that I documented it and I couldn't have done it without you. You guys helped me through some of the darkest times I went through this past year and I don't think I could possibly describe to you how much of an impact you've made on my journey but just know that you have. A year ago I promised you guys that it would still stay Stephanie, that it would still be me throughout this journey but I would argue that I think I'm a more improved version of my previous self. I think I've evolved a lot this past year and I really hope that you guys will stick around to see how the rest of this journey unfolds. And I know it's only been a year but I definitely think I'm on the right track and I can just see that like growing brighter and brighter every single day. Before I know it I'm just gonna be living my life like not thinking about food or my next meal or maintaining a lean physique because the internet or society wants me to. Those days are in the past and I've never been happier. Do you regret it at all? Not even for a second.

=== FILE: How Do I Eat 1.5 Years After All In？ (Full Day Of Eating) [Muz-eKI_jFI].txt ===

 you filming? Who study once, she says you on topside. That's super good. You can eat it! Oh my god! Room temperature cheese. That's actually pretty good. Because I ain't trust what you're doing is real. In time, you will show me things for now. Starting to question what all this really is about. Is it recording? Yeah. My slides are cold. A little bit? A little bit cold. That's kind of nice though. It's nice. I've only ever sat in this chair once before, so this could go really well. It's the pinata chair. I know. Oh, it's actually kind of nice. Welcome back to Florida. Welcome to Florida. The weather has been gorgeous here, it's a little bit cold. So I came back home to celebrate my birthday and we had a little birthday party with my mom, sister, my friend Nadine and Jeff. Oh my goodness. I'm gonna have you take three steps forward, okay? Are you sure this is a birthday cake? It's a pumpkin house. And we hung a pinata on this thing. So I'll have to show you guys some clips of that. It was really fun. Now we're ready to the ceiling. Whack! Yeah! We actually made the pinata because it was something that my mom really wanted to do. I used to make them all the time when I was a kid. I was kind of joking. Like, I was like, mom, we should make a pinata. And she was so excited. So I had to. We made one and it was great. It was so much fun. What's your window? Oh. So smash that. Anyway, I don't water my plants. My poor plants. Wow, that's kind of nice. The reflection. I don't know anything about plants. I just know you have to water them once a week. When it's hot, I do that more than once a week. This is the extent of my responsibility. I don't think I could ever have a pet. So I put too much water. Don't come for me if I'm watering too much. So it's 7.30 in the morning and I'm going to go make some breakfast. Okay, so I have breakfast ready. I have two eggs on a whole avocado on toast. It is delicious. It's my favorite thing to eat other than my favorite protein oatmeal. I think I've beaten you guys over the head with that one. So I wanted to do something different. Another new addition to my breakfast is having iced coffee. I don't know what it is. I really like it. It's just regular brewed coffee that I let cool down and I put ice in it. And then I put some sweetener and hashy milk. So I really like that. Now while I eat breakfast, I'm going to be listening to an audiobook. I'm still listening to and reading tons of books. I'm always trying to get inspired by different authors and different writing. So I'm going to go ahead and listen to an audiobook and enjoy this. Cheers. It's so good. I don't need your protection, I said. But Jude does. Delicious. You filming? All right. Hair, makeup, done. I'm looking a lot better than the last time you saw me. I decided to get a little bit glam today. It's been a long time since I've done my makeup. I did not do my makeup in my last video. Today we are in full glam. So after I had breakfast, I actually went to the gym. And it's time for lunch. So I'm getting hungry. It's 1pm, so it's been quite a while since I had my breakfast. It's time for us to go get some lunch and the reason I'm going to have naked, as you can probably imagine, we're going to go somewhere where we're going to be outside. I'll see you there. Okay. Oh, by the way, I got a tattoo. This is actually my second tattoo. So I have another one. I don't know if I ever showed it on camera. I'm sure you've seen it in some clips, but I have another one on my side. So we just made it to the beach. I feel like there was a couple of things I wanted to talk about before we went out to the beach and had our subs. I was just thinking about it as I was driving. How full I get from a meal like I had this morning and how grateful I would have been over a year ago to know that that was going to be possible for me because I've been there. I've been at the place where I feel like I could eat indefinitely and never feel full. And after I had breakfast this morning, I was like an eight out of 10 full. I was like, oh man. And I felt super full up until basically we picked up the subs. My appetite and my hunger, all of that, like it still kind of shocks me that I've reached this point where my appetite and my hunger is the way it is now. It feels so normal. It feels like what I wanted it to feel like when I started this journey. So it does make me really happy and I feel like I've come a really long way. And something that I was talking to Jeff about was that I went through so many different food phases and I wanted to bring it up in this video because the full day of eating at the beginning. I ate so many potatoes and bananas. I don't know why it was all that I wanted. I feel like my cravings kind of swung all over the place. So I went through like months of eating like tons of bananas and sweet potatoes and potatoes. And then it kind of swung to another direction. I ate veggie burgers. I eat one every single day. So along with my oatmeal, I had veggie burgers every day. And then I will never forget this because during the lockdown, I think I ate almost exclusively oatmeal and cereal. Like that was all that I ate. And I was totally content with just eating oatmeal and cereal. I ate that for like four months straight. And then like it has recently swung to everything with avocado on it. I'm sure you've noticed in recent videos and if you follow me on Instagram story, avocado is my apparently my newer obsession. I go through like all these food craving phases and it's just been interesting to experiment with where what my body is craving at different phases of my journey. I don't really have any explanation for it other than it's an interesting observation that I thought I would talk about. But yeah, sub time now. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. I got the Italian five grain bread, which is like arguably the best bread, but all of their bread and their bakery is really good. Turkey, white American cheese, mustard and like every veggie because I love me some veggies. Cucumbers, lettuce, tomatoes, pickles, I don't know, all sorts of stuff. Oh, banana peppers. Jeff, over here. I had to get started. Yeah, he's hungry. It's the same kind of thing, but. Okay, there's a hair. Why I wore lip gloss to the beach is the worst idea. How to get a photo. Jeff helped me here. Talk for Jeff. Cheers. I got a photo. Right, so good. I don't feel nothing. Nothing. I don't feel nothing. Okay. Sub 10 out of 10. Delicious. What do you think? It was really good. Always, always delivers, but got something else. Oh yeah. Oh buddy, have you guys seen these yet? Oh my God, my nails match. So when I saw these in the store, I was like, this is literally me in an Oreo. Strawberry donut and it has glitter. I don't think I'm ready. We're going to give it a try. Stephanie review right now. Smells good. Oh my God. It does smell like a donut. Oh man. All right, we got to turn it to both of us. We're both going to give it a try. There's like two layers. I guess like that brown layer is supposed to be like the dough of the donut. And then the pink is the filling or the frosting. I'm sorry. And there's glitter. That's cool. I kind of see the glitter. Oh, it's coming apart. So let's see if I can. I guess that's glitter. Golden Oreo cookies are, I like them better than chocolate. For me, anything with the golden Oreo is probably going to get a really good rating. All right, I'm ready. I'm ready. Cheers. That's super good. That's super good. That's really good. I actually think that they nailed the strawberry frosting of a donut. Think of the frosting of a Dunkin Donuts donut and just taking the frosting and putting it inside an Oreo. It's a little bit melted because they were in my car. They are good though. Took me a second to register. It was pretty good. That's actually pretty good. Okay. So I am back all cleaned up from the beach and there was something in the car that I wanted to talk to you guys about that I completely forgot. I was trying to think of it when I was talking about all of my cravings and everything. I was like, oh, there's something else I want to talk about. And I just remembered what it is. Okay, I have this hypothesis slash theory about extreme hunger and at least how I think it worked in a way that I can't imagine. I have this theory about extreme hunger and at least how I think it worked and applied towards me personally. I don't have any scientific data to support anything that I'm saying. I have a half baked virgin theory about this. I have this theory that extreme hunger is made up of two main components, mental hunger and physical hunger. And I had to kind of defeat both of those for me to overcome extreme hunger. There's two parts of the equation. I feel like it was a stepwise process. I had to overcome my mental hunger first before my body was capable of overcoming physical hunger, extreme physical hunger. Of course, everyone has physical hunger all the time, but I mean super high levels of it like I had when I had extreme hunger. The mental hunger component, which if you're not familiar with mental hunger, I feel like a good definition or description of it. It's basically when you want food and you're thinking about food all the time, even when you're not physically hungry. Like you could just have eaten a meal and still want more and not ever feel fully satisfied because you have mental hunger. And that was really, really, really high for me at the beginning of my all in journey. And once I kind of satisfied that because I allowed myself to eat when I had mental hunger, even when I was not physically hungry, I was able to decrease it and eventually eliminate it. And by the time I kind of got rid of my mental hunger, I still had lingering very high levels of physical hunger. But I had to get that out of the way first before I could move on to the second part of the equation, which was the physical hunger part. And that eventually did decrease as you guys know as well. I had half a sub, half of it, and I was full. I'm still feeling full. It's been like a couple hours since I ate that. Talanya, Talanya, sunk to it. Noodle. I'm not actually about that much. Oh shit. Got it. Oh, I have to sneak in some help before I forget. It's a little bit. Too much help? We were not trying to show off. Jen has limited tolerance for help. It's gonna be really hot. That is good. College taught me how to make pasta. By the end of this, we're gonna have no noodles left. Dang it. See you anytime. That was easy. Nice. Taste test. Ready? I'm ready. Bit of this, bit of that. See what we're working with. Okay, that's too much mushroom. You can eat it. Oh my god. That's good. Thank you. It's pretty good. Dinner is pasta. We are having large elbows because apparently regular elbows weren't enough. I don't know why I got large elbows. They look better in the box. So the spaghetti sauce has turkey, ground turkey in it. It has mushrooms, a little bit of spinach, not too much. And I also cooked it with sauteed onions, red onions, topped with Parmesan cheese. Fancy stuff. I'm not super hungry, which is kind of crazy. Oh, that's good. That's delicious. Have some spinach. When I make pasta for myself and I'm not trying to make it more edible for Jeff, I don't do anything fancy. I literally just put ground turkey in it and that's it. It looks like a meeting alone. Do you want me to come over there? You want to keep me company? I actually want more cheese. I'll take a bit more. Hit me. Whoa. That's too much. I'm eating dinner with Jeff's knee. Bro, are you sitting on your lap? So you want me for composition. It does create better composition if you're in the shop. Room temperature cheese is the only reason that it's good. I'm just saying it just takes it up a notch. Okay, guys, I'm going to be honest with you. I had something planned for dessert and I am too full. Like this is a whole new version of Stephanie where she doesn't have room for dessert. Like I don't even know what to say. Some days I have dessert after dinner or I have something sweet before I go to bed. Some days I don't. Pasta is very filling. No dessert for me tonight. I feel like I'm just ready to wash my face and go to bed. So that's going to conclude this video. I really hope that you liked it. Let me know if you like full day video videos down below. Of course, I love to hear your feedback. I always appreciate it. And subscribe if you happen to be new. I would love to have you and I will see you in a video very soon. I love you guys. Bye.

=== FILE: How I Feel About My New Body [lNvXOC5bD4Q].txt ===

 it just sounds like a lot. You really just have it. You just gonna finish it? I'm gonna try it. Okay. It's another cheat day. Here I am, six months later. Going all in. Hit my peak weight of having gained 42 pounds. I feel like I'm happy and healthy where I am, but there are things that I'm struggling with. I've reached this point where my appetite and my hunger is the way it is now. It feels so normal. It's a food guilt and bad body image. Sometimes I still struggle with it and I feel like this is just going to be a lifelong battle. I put on jeans for this video. Go back over there. They look good. We are doing a full blown update in this video about a lot of stuff. I want to talk about my current physique, my relationship with food, my book, training, and just general life updates. We're gonna be talking about it all, but I do want to say that I have something personal. I'm going to share in the physique update portion of the video, but I'll let you know it's coming because I'm not only going to be talking about my body, I'm going to show it. If you find physique updates triggering, you can just click out. I absolutely understand. First up, I want to talk about one of my favorite topics. Let's talk about food. You guys know I have a deep appreciation for food. I've probably had more delicious food in the last four years than the first 29 years of my life, like for real. Since going all in, I've rediscovered the joy of eating and experiencing life in trips, the way that I've always wanted to, and the way that I think everybody should. I've made a lot of mistakes with food and can say that I've gone through, I guess, a mini relapse in the past that I've openly talked about in this video. So if you missed that, I did have a few months over a year ago, I think, where I wasn't eating well, I was anxious, I lost a lot of weight, but I've done so much to catch myself before things went too far. And since I've made all of those corrections, I do feel like I'm in a really good place. I'm not perfect. I still struggle with food guilt and some fear foods, but those weak moments seem to happen less and less. And I say that not only as a reminder to you, but also for me, because no matter how many years post-all in I am, I think I'll always have to push back against really ingrained old habits that have a way of sneaking up on me. But I constantly remind myself that compared to the way that I was, I have made amazing progress and repeatedly pat myself on the back for every even tiny baby step I take towards normal eating behavior. There are a few struggles that I've actively corrected and I feel like a lot of people, because of diet culture, could probably relate to, so I want to talk about those struggles and then I want to talk about things that I'm still working on. So things that I feel like I've been doing really well with are things like not skipping breakfast or skipping any meals, which can be tempting if you're just like, oh, I'm not hungry, I'll eat later, and before you know it, you're intermittent fasting again. So even if it's just like a protein shake, I'll always have something in the morning. Another thing is eating a bowl of carbs without the compulsion to add protein. This might sound strange to people who are not like embedded in the fitness world, but not adding protein to everything feels like sacrilege to me. Are there any other like fitness people who feel like they really struggle with that? Like eat the damn bowl of spaghetti without adding meat. Like it's hard. I don't know why, but for some reason it's super hard. Not adding ground turkey to spaghetti sauce goes against everything in my bodybuilding soul. But since I've been doing really well with that, I think it's a true testament that I'm allowing myself to eat something just for the pleasure of eating it and not for the sake of function, which I used to only eat for function for so many years. So that one has been a hard habit to break. Obviously I try my best to keep my diet balanced and adding protein and eating protein is very good. Please don't get the wrong idea. Most people should do it if you struggle getting in your total daily protein, but I shouldn't fear eating a bowl of carbs just because I didn't add protein to it. You feel me? It hurts my soul sometimes just to eat the oatmeal without adding protein powder, but it's good for me. Another example of something that I've been really good with is eating a high calorie meal and a high calorie dessert, not just one if I really want both without the impulse of thinking, no, I shouldn't have that dessert because I had enough calories with my dinner. Just giving myself that freedom and not restricting by eating both if I want to. If I don't want it and I feel full, that's fine. But if I do, I eat it. So those are just a few examples of things that I've actively been correcting and been really mentally healthy with. But as I mentioned, old habits die hard. So this is something that is on the currently working on list that I need to get better with. So like because of the holidays, vacation, trips or just life, there are times when I know I'm indiscriminately eating a ton of delicious food and my pants start to feel a bit tight. I don't currently weigh myself. I have no idea how much I weigh, but I can tell with my clothing when they don't fit or feel too small. In those instances, my diet brain likes to button and wants so badly to take charge. It's like my diet brain is the Kool-Aid man and is like, oh, tight pants. I can fix that. And my diet brain is quiet when I feel like my weight is stable and I don't really even pay attention to my body or weight. But those minor blips from traveling or holidays or whatever where my clothes start to feel tight, it wakes up my diet brain. And it starts shouting all the ways that I can like lose that little bit of extra weight that I put on. Things like, no, don't order out. Just cook or don't skip the gym. Even if I'm tired and don't feel like going. Behaviors that lead down a slippery slope of restriction. So I have to consciously stop thinking those things. Recognizing that it's happening is the first really big step, but then addressing it is just as important. And as long as I can do that every time those week moments happen, I know I can make it another day, then another week, and then another month, and then another year with food freedom and eating intuitively. I don't want to live a life of restriction and I don't want to get extreme hunger again because that is like the ultimate nightmare for me. So my current relationship with food at the moment is I'd say like a 7.5 out of 10. If 10 out of 10 is perfect, like no restricting or unhealthy diet behavior. And considering it was probably like a 2 out of 10 before I went all in, literally doing everything under the sun to make sure I stayed super lean, I feel like I'm doing really well. Like that's a win for me. It's not perfect, but it's not bad. Okay, so that's it for food. Let's quickly talk about my training. So for the past like eight months or so, I've stuck with a three days a week full body regimen. I basically just run my quick and effective program with modifications here and there. And I don't think I'm going to change that anytime soon. I just have a lot going on with recently moving to a new state as you know, taking care of my mom, making sure I have time with Jeff, traveling to Canada to be here with Jeff, work, and writing my book, which I'll get to later in this video. So three days a week really works for me. I just tried to consistently get stronger as opposed to getting in as much volume as possible. There's also something about training full body that I love. If you've never tried it, I highly recommend it. It's actually so much less intimidating to go to the gym and know you don't have like a gazillion exercises for one body part. It's like just getting through one exercise of each body part, super setting a few exercises and then getting out in 45 minutes is so much easier to get myself hyped for, especially when I have just so much to do. It's like, okay, I can do 45 minutes. Yeah, I got this. But then I have days where I'm like super in the mood to train and want to spend more time in the gym. So I do and I take my time, but it's just not possible with my schedule most days. So I really like my current split and training style. I feel like I still have amazing workouts. I actually push my workouts harder because I'm not fatigued from over training. I'm only in the gym three days a week and I feel fully rested and I find that I actually train harder and exert more effort. Yeah, my 20s, I could probably train seven days a week, super hard, pushing super hard. But now at 33, I feel like I really need those rest days. So next update, my book. I know it's taking a long time, but I actually got halfway through writing it and then scrapped the whole thing. I know, I know. But honestly, I think it was a really good decision because I just wasn't feeling the flow of it. I originally wrote the story already being all in and then doing flashbacks as to how I got there. And it sounds cool in theory, but it was just not flowing. And I felt like it would just confuse the reader like they would be thinking, okay, so when is this? And that's how my editor felt too. So in the middle of last year, I completely started over. I'm actually in a hotel right now. I'm here focusing on my book and I have some breakfast and now the timeline is just linear. It starts before I went all in, then going all in and now reflecting on it three years later in like an epilogue of sorts. It will still read like a fiction book, as I mentioned in the past with dialogue, like a story basically, even though it's all real. I infuse real conversations that I luckily have because I film my life and I also journaled so much. So it'll actually have copies of my journal entries. It'll have text conversations, call out boxes, all sorts of good stuff. And I'm super proud of what I've rewritten since basically starting over. So I plan to finish like the full first draft hopefully in the next two months. And then after that, obviously my publishers and I will go from there. I know it's a very complicated process to get through all the edits and then imagery because I want to have lots of pictures and then the cover, etc. But I promise it will be worth the wait. And last but not least, let's do my physique update. So if you find seeing my body triggering, I love you. I will see you in the next one. This is what I currently look like. I actually have no idea how much I weigh. But I feel like my weight has been relatively stable for the past year. I know I mentioned having like ebbs and flows of weight gain, but it's been more or less consistent. I think this is where my body is happy and I feel really good at this weight. I feel healthy. I don't feel tired all the time. My appetite is very normal. I'm not overly hungry or not hungry. Like I don't have a lack of appetite. So yeah, I feel like really good and really positive in my skin. A big part of that is the update that I have for you. This was a very personal decision, but I wanted to share with you guys that I decided to get a breast augmentation. I've always been very transparent with my body on YouTube. I mean, you've seen me in my broad underwear more times than I'm willing to admit. So I felt comfortable telling you about this. But I do want to get ahead of a few questions that I know people will have for me. First being that I know you will probably wonder if I'm worried about breast implant illness. So nothing of what I'm about to say is meant to take away from anyone who has suffered from breast implant illness at all. However, with the information we have in this moment and all the studies on silicone implants as being one of the most well studied medical devices on the market, I am not worried about it for me personally. I thought long and hard about it. I did a lot of research and reading on PubMed. The information out there on BII is currently unclear and not conclusive. So I just made my decision on the safety reports that are clear and conclusive and know that I did not make my decision lightly. When evaluating the pros and cons as a healthy young woman who has no history of autoimmune disease, I felt like my reasons for getting the surgery outweighed the risks, which brings me to my reasons. You guys have seen my body up close and personal for years. I've shared extremely intimate details and showed you at my best and at my worst. With that being said, this is something that I did for me and the specific reasons are very personal and I'm not comfortable sharing the reasons, and I hope that you can respect that. I love you guys with all of my heart and whether you support my decision or not, I hope you can still be kind and respectful. Jess and my family were a thousand percent supportive, especially since they knew my reasons. And I'm so happy that I had them there for me and not judging me. This is obviously the first time that I've been on camera since my surgery and I was incredibly nervous to film this part of the video. And the fact that I had to think really long and hard about how I was going to tell thousands of people was an interesting experience. One that 99.9% of people don't have to do after having cosmetic surgery. Yes, it is my decision to share my life online, which I know comes with a cost. But I do want to try to retain some semblance of things that are for me, which I'm sure you understand the stress of sharing so much of my personal life online for people to openly criticize has taken a toll on me. But I continue to do it and love it for the people that I hope to help and the people that I can connect with on a deep level. When I meet people in real life or get emails or DMs and they tell me how much I've helped them with their food or body struggles, it means so much to me and makes it all worth it. You guys are the reason that I'm still here on YouTube. And before I get emotional, that is it for this video. I hope you enjoyed it and I will see you in the next one. I love you so much. Bye.

=== FILE: How I Figured Out Intuitive Eating (After Years Of Dieting) [m1HnpGEFSjs].txt ===

 man, I feel kind of hungry. I think I need to eat something. Ooh, I'm feeling pretty full. I think I'm done with this. I'll save the rest. I think I'm gonna get a snack. The Quest to Become an Intuitive Eater, a short story by Stephanie Buttermore. But seriously, this has been a long and arduous process, but was ultimately the goal out of everything that I've done in my dieting slash all-in saga, which happily brings me to today. Which, by the way, is May 1st, 2021, and I went all in May 27th, 2019, which kind of blows my mind. ["Midnight Song"] ["Midnight Song"] Now, I am by no means a model of intuitive eating perfection, but I am leaps and bounds better with being in touch with my satiety cues, honoring my hunger, my relationship with food, and just overall eating behavior than I've been since competing in 2014. Really quick, in case you're unfamiliar, I do wanna go through a super brief history to remind you of how I got here. And then I'll talk about my own transition into intuitive eating, as well as tips from me and experts in intuitive eating towards the end. Having me on to chat. So to start, before I went all in, I had absolutely no sense of being full. You full? No. And was not in touch whatsoever with my hunger and satiety cues. It tastes like chocolate. Actually, let me take that back. I was in tune with my hunger cues because they were always turned on, but it was the satiety cues that were non-existent. Is it bad? I don't want another bowl. Meaning, I could eat for what felt like forever and never get full. Do I want another one? I don't want another one. Should I kill this box? No satiety cues or fullness for me. So like the obedient, physique, conscious, the fitness gal I was, I was always disciplined with my diet and I would usually stop around this 60% full mark thinking like, okay, Stephanie, you've had enough. At least what I thought was enough, but was never fully satisfied. In retrospect, I know now that this was my body's way of telling me that I was too lean and I needed to eat more, but my stubborn, high volume, clean eating fitness brain just didn't want to hear it because the amount of calories I was eating seemed to be reasonable at the time and I felt that pressure to look a certain way for social media. It's so dumb, I know. But I would balance out my clean eating by being a flexible dieter and of course the occasional cheat day. But it was just not enough and my body always wanted more. And always being hungry was just miserable and a sad way to live. I was over it, so I went all in. I want to be able to eat as many calories as I need to feel full. Most of you guys will know the story from there. So now I wanna talk about how I transitioned from my all-in diet, which was eating thousands and thousands of calories into currently eating intuitively, which is a way more balanced diet that is satisfying while still honoring my hunger, which almost two years after starting my journey, no longer requires me to eat every second of every day. So first and foremost, I gotta talk about what intuitive eating is and what it isn't, just so we're all on the same page. Intuitive eating is not a fancy new diet like keto, paleo, or the carnivore diet and it's not time specific, like intermittent fasting. It's not at all a weight loss tactic. It's most common that people just maintain their weight eating intuitively, but people can lose weight doing it and people can also gain weight. Honestly, it just depends on the person. I just wanna be super clear that the goal isn't to change your body eating this way. So not a fad or a new trend. It actually very much so goes hand in hand with body acceptance. You eat to satisfy your health and hunger, not to manipulate your weight. Her kick is so good. It's actually a pretty simple concept that might remind you of a simpler time in your life. I got a comment on my Instagram that was hilarious to me. She said something along the lines of, if diet culture wasn't so toxic, intuitive eating would just be called eating because that's all it really is. It basically reminds me of when I was a kid and into my teens. I ate three meals a day with snacks and just ate because I was hungry and I ate food that I wanted to. Some of it was very nutritious and some of it probably wasn't. And when I think back to that time, I would consider my eating behavior pretty normal. Well, normal for growing up in the 90s. And that's mentally what I feel like intuitive eating is in an anecdotal sense with a bit more nuance, like being mindful while eating and paying attention to feelings of hunger and fullness. But I also wanna give you a proper scientific definition so you understand fully. So intuitive eating is characterized by having a strong connection with and eating in accordance to physiological hunger and satiety cues rather than on like emotional or external cues and recognizing that all foods serve a variety of purposes like taste and feeling your body. It's also characterized by giving yourself an unconditional permission to eat, honoring your hunger and respecting the body regardless of weight and shape. And being physically active for enjoyment and for health, not just for burning calories or losing weight. If you want more science on the topic, there's actually a ton of research on it and I've listed a lot of really good papers in the description box below. However, in general, intuitive eating is often associated with a better relationship with food, better body image and less disordered eating. Which all sounds great to me and was ultimately my end goal for my all-in journey. I didn't go all-in to eat 5,000 calories every day forever. It was to give myself permission to eat as much as I wanted in hopes that once I fixed my extreme hunger, this whatever I wanted would be a balanced and non-restrictive diet. It took time, but eventually over the course of the past almost two years now, continuously giving myself unconditional permission to eat, the amount I needed to feel full just naturally decreased over time. I didn't even have to do anything special other than just eat when I was hungry. I mean, it's pretty basic stuff. So just to get into some of the smaller details of the transition of my own eating journey, as you may know, I started out eating about 5,000 calories a day. Okay, so this is what I have for breakfast. I had two large bananas. I had two packets of oatmeal. I had an apple, and then I had four sweet potatoes, and I had two scoops of protein. Is that normal? For the first two-ish months, basically eating like every second of every day. And that eventually went down to about 4,000 calories for a few months, and I was eating spaced out meals, like three to four times a day, which then trickled down to about 3,000 calories a day, still eating spaced out meals and snacks. And I think I was eating 3,000 calories a day for a while. I would say at least six months before my appetite slowly crawled down to about maybe 2,800 calories. I mean, I'm sure there are days that I still hit 3,000, but that's about where I am right now. And it's so funny because at the beginning, my meals would be a smorgasbord of mac and cheese, Oreos, sweet potatoes, and avocado toast. Mmm. So after that honeymoon phase, I eventually had a good balance of protein, carbs, and fat without being too perfect about it or anything. Like I was just trying to do my best while still accommodating my extreme hunger. Not long after I started eating meals that were balanced and satisfying, low-key stopped eating like a five-year-old assembling their lunchbox, I started having a strong sense of my hunger and satiety cues. So I would know when to eat and I would know when to stop. But like I said, this took time and I could feel this sense of satiety come in slowly. And I knew it was happening, so I was very patient with myself. And after about a year, the strangest thing happened and I swung too far to the proverbial other side. And I actually experienced a few months of struggling with a low appetite. I have absolutely no desire to eat. The irony of all of it was not lost on me. This was a few months back and if you're curious, my appetite is so much better now, especially after implementing a few strategies like eating earlier in the day and just like eating higher calorie foods. So my appetite is great and all of this brings us full circle to today. But since I'm still in the process of learning to navigate this way of eating, I did want to bring on an expert on the topic. Hello, how are you? So I talked to nutrition therapist and certified intuitive eating counselor, Alyssa Rumsey, author of Unapologetic Eating to weigh in on this. The way I think about intuitive eating is really getting back to reconnecting with our own body in terms of deciding what to eat, when to eat, how much to eat without judgment, really thinking about food and nutrition from a place of nourishment and self-care and nurturing rather than like the self-control or the restriction or the deprivation. I feel like the definition can kind of feel daunting to some people because they're like, oh, listen to my body. Well, I don't even know how to do that anymore. So based on everyone's background of dieting, do you think that there's a type of person that intuitive eating is kind of best suited for? In my mind, intuitive eating is really for everybody. I think if you're someone that has been dieting or has any kind of disordered eating at all or eating disorder, the first thing you need to do foundationally is making sure you're eating enough and eating consistently. And when I say eating enough, I mean both calories but also carbohydrates, because that's usually something that people are not eating enough of. Yeah, a lot of people's hunger and satiety cues will atrophy over time if they've been ignoring their body cues or overriding them for a long time. And I think a lot of times people fear hunger, like hunger has become this like four letter word of like, oh, no, no, I don't want to be hungry. But in reality, hunger is like your body saying like, hey, I'm trying to keep you alive. And Alyssa really believes that this way of eating is for everyone. And I feel so happy to say that it's been working really well for me. Nowadays, I feel like I can eat and feel fully satisfied and just move on with my day without constantly thinking about food. My body now can clearly let me know when it starts to feel hungry and gives me very distinct cues for fullness. And it's crazy, I'll be eating a meal and it hits me like a smack in the face or the stomach or whatever. I'll take a bite and start feeling full and then maybe one or two more. And then my body is like, nope, girl, you are full. Have some left. David's are later. Full, but not loaded. And I'll put down my fork and I'll be like, yep, I'm full. Unless, obviously it's for dessert. Which is a really good feeling that my body knows so well. And I'm sure everyone's process will be totally different. I mean, like most people are not coming from an all-in diet and are more likely starting from a more restrictive diet. And that's actually also something I wanted to ask Alyssa about. So in terms of that process, you know, when I'm working with clients before we start to try to like change any of their behaviors, really it's important to just like raise awareness. So if you're someone who is still macro tracking or calorie counting or dieting, just starting to bring more awareness to how that really affects you. Thinking back, you know, if this is something you've been doing on and off for a while, like what is your past history with that shown you? Usually the answers I get when I ask questions like these to people or as they tell me like, oh, well it worked for a little bit. And then it was, you know, just kind of like off the rails, either like on and I'm like tracking everything or it's like, well, screw it. And like I'm falling off the wagon because they only know these two binary things. But in reality, there's a middle ground, there's that gray area in between. And that's where intuitive eating is. Do you have any other like other tips or tricks or even like mindset shifts for people who are trying to eat intuitively, but they're struggling like letting go of tracking or restriction or like fear foods. They're struggling to let go of those things. Start to do the opposite of like whatever your diet kind of brain says or your diet thought is. So let's say you're going out to lunch somewhere and you're like, the sandwich looks good, but like no, I shouldn't get this sandwich because of the carbs, I should get a salad. It's like, okay, wait, you know, let me actually get the sandwich and see what happens. And so starting to challenge those thoughts and beliefs and actually by like experimenting with it, which can be really scary, but we have to kind of like lean into that because that's the only way we can challenge these thoughts and beliefs and behaviors is by kind of doing the opposite. So on that note, I want to offer a few of my tips or mentality shifts that I've used on my own quest of intuitive eating that has helped me so much during this process. So first of all, when it came to figuring out what to eat, I started simple. I just started with assembling meals that were balanced, i.e. protein, carbs and fat. So my tip would be to resist the urge to cut out carbs. This seems to be a common issue and a lot of women are usually tempted to cut them. And it's something Alyssa also mentioned. I promise you'll feel so much more satisfied after the meal and not feel the desire to want to eat more food or feel hungry again, literally like 30 minutes later. Also, remember your body needs carbs, especially if you lost your period and you're trying to get it back. Eat the damn carbs. So tip number two, so you might be thinking to yourself, hey, I eat carbs, but you might only eat fruit or organic sweet potatoes. So my next tip would be to let go of the fear foods like pasta, pizza, donuts and even sandwiches. Poor sandwiches always get such a bad rap. You probably don't regularly order one when you're out to lunch and might instead opt for the salad. But the reason this is a tip is because giving yourself this unconditional permission to eat these foods on a regular basis will actually prevent a lot of unnecessary binging and thus a lot of unnecessary food guilt. If you always give yourself that unconditional permission to eat, you can have a scoop of ice cream without the temptation to eat the whole pint, which might happen if you are restricting, then of course, follows the horrible feelings of food guilt and then back to restriction. It's a vicious cycle. I'm not saying these foods need to comprise your entire diet just to remember to incorporate them regularly. There should be a balance of both health and very importantly, taste satisfaction. Tip number three is more of a reminder, which might resonate with anyone who might be tempted to just altogether start restricting again. So something that might be helpful to remember, something that I constantly remind myself and used to remind myself is that any form of restriction will take me back to the way things were before. Dealing with extreme hunger and never feeling full. And trust me, I never want to go back there. Let's do another bowl cereal. And not only do I not want my extreme hunger to come back, which of course happens when you're not eating enough, I don't wanna decrease my healthy metabolism that I've taken so much time to correct. And to be honest with you, eating the combination of food for my health and taste leaves me feeling satisfied and also really helps my body get even more in tune with my satiety signals. Higher calorie foods, at least for me, are much more satisfying. My satiety cues kick in clearly while I'm eating and they keep me satisfied longer. So I don't think about food literally right after I ate. Another perk is that when my satiety cues kick in on time, I never overeat. Like I rarely feel overstuffed or bloated. My stomach is happier and my digestion is just so much better. And because I don't have clients or experience with working with clients, I also wanted to get some tips from my friend Deanna, who is a registered dietitian and has a ton of experience with working with women on their own intuitive eating journeys. Her first tip, which I think is great, is to stop weighing yourself. This scale doesn't measure our health or our self-worth. So she says that if you weigh yourself and you're upset, that stinks. If you weigh yourself and you're happy, that stinks too because that means you're giving power to the scale. She recommends getting on the scale backwards at your doctor's appointments and asks that your weight not be discussed before lifestyle habits. And she also recommends getting an accountability partner to move your scale at home so you're not tempted. Her next tip is to avoid the temptation to hop on the next popular diet. She notes that intuitive eaters tend to have a stable weight over time that can allow your body to naturally settle into its set weight range. Chronic dieters who are constantly restricting will likely experience the opposite and make it really hard for your weight to stabilize as it will always get stuck in like a weight gain and weight loss cycle. This actually tends to substantially decrease your metabolism and people commonly regain the weight they lost and actually end up at an even higher set point. All reasons to avoid the newest trendy diet. Her third tip is more of a mentality shift but she says to keep in mind that you will have bad body image days no matter what your body looks like. So she encourages finding body neutrality so bad body image days don't ruin yourself worth and you can move on. This can be much more powerful than finding body positivity at first. And finally, I want to leave you with my own personal mantra. It's very sophisticated. Just eat it. Whenever I'm feeling at all hesitant, I just tell myself, just eat it. I'm just eating it. That's fucking good. Eat the big piece of cake on your boyfriend's birthday without any guilt. Enjoy a movie night with your mom and eat pizza. Life is short. Don't miss out on the best parts. So that's it for this video. I hope it was helpful and I would love to know how many of you are on a similar journey in the comments below. Like the video if you liked it. Subscribe if you happen to be new and I will see you in a video very soon. I love you guys. Bye. ["Middle Parts Stephanie"] She better at filming than Middle Part Stephanie? Okay, okay. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Middle Part Stephanie sucks.

=== FILE: How To Deal With Weight Gain (Family, Friends, BF, Doctors, etc.) [AUxnxjLf0Eo].txt ===

 gaining weight is hard. There's absolutely no way around it. And no matter who you are, if you gain weight, it's difficult to deal with. I was definitely victim to feeling bad about weight gain. And if you've ever felt self-conscious about gaining any weight, you're definitely not alone. So I wanna talk about how I dealt with weight gain. And obviously I can only speak from my own perspective as somebody who is eating to satiety, trying to fix my extreme hunger, but I was gaining weight as a byproduct. I do think these tips would be pretty universally applicable to anyone who's undergone any physique changes or weight gain, but I really just want you to understand where I'm coming from. And of course, we're all for self-love and body positivity here on my channel, but being loving towards your body just doesn't happen overnight. It takes patience, practice, and learning how to deal with change. Now this video would be super short if I was just like, you shouldn't care what other people think, just ignore people, just ignore the haters. But that's just not how our psychology works. So I'd rather give you some practical tips that I used on my own journey. I do wanna break these tips up into separate categories just to keep this video organized. But the first thing I wanna talk about is just a general tip for anyone going through anything difficult, any kind of hardship in their life, not just weight gain. And that is journaling. It helped me so much mentally deal with everything I was dealing with with the weight gain process in such a profound way that I honestly can't imagine doing this whole journey without this thing. It was something that I did like way back in the day when I was in middle school, but I stopped and I started again when I started my all-in journey and it has been such a lifesaver. I spoke to it like it was a person and I honestly wrote some things in there that I probably would never be able to say out loud, like horrible, awful things about myself to the most narcissistic cocky things about loving myself. A journal will not judge you, it will not hate you, and it will not try to sway you. It's literally just you and your thoughts being worked out line by line and I promise the more that you do it, the more that you will begin to love it. And I often get asked like what I would write in my journal whenever I would talk about it. So some examples were things like how much I was loving my body one day or how much I was hating my body one day, how I felt during my workouts, what my hunger levels were like, like in the morning and at night, and how much I loved and appreciated my boyfriend, and just small reminders not to give up. I highly recommend it and give it a chance if you haven't. It's definitely made an impact on me. Now with that general tip out of the way, I do wanna break up these next tips into categories because with weight gain, there are going to be three opinions that will likely weigh on your subconscious the most. One is going to be how you judge and like the opinions you have on yourself. Two are gonna be the judgments and opinions of others that are really close to you. And three and arguably just as difficult as the first two are the opinions and judgments of acquaintances and complete strangers. And I think the best way to deal with these different battles is to mentally address each one individually. So let's first talk about our worst and most brutal critic of all ourselves. The first thing I really felt like I really needed to do from the beginning was get out of my stupid brain. The way that I looked mattered so much because I really needed to take a step back and remember all the qualities that I possess that are way more important than the way that I look and just remind myself that my physique and my appearance is just not that interesting. I started to value in me qualities that I value in others like being supportive, caring, compassionate, kind and just pleasant to be around. Now that I had my priorities in order, I can move on to a really kind of small but bad habit that I had. And this is arguably the most actionable tip of this video and that is to stop body checking. Just stop it. I personally made sure to do this myself from the beginning. It's a really weird, strange, narcissistic habit that's hard to break and a lot of people do it so don't feel ashamed if you do, but if you do, just stop it. Stop checking for a flat tummy or checking to see if eating good food that your body likely wants is changing your body in any way. In my case, I just stopped my morning ritual of a quick ab check and I just got dressed like a normal person and moved on with my day. Now, I personally didn't find avoiding mirrors altogether very helpful. Something about seeing my reflection just later on in the day was just a little bit more daunting to me but I have heard from people that it is really helpful to just like stop looking at mirrors, stop paying so much attention to your reflection and I would just suggest doing whatever it is that you need to do to be less focused on your body. But I do wanna make a quick disclaimer as somebody who's documenting their journey, I did have to focus and show more of my body than I would suggest to anyone not documenting their journey but I did that for documentation purposes only and just so I could keep you guys in the loop. The next tip that I really had with my own personal self judgment on myself was to make sure that I was doing all the things that I felt like I wanted to do to make me feel still at my best. And I'm sure you guys all remember at the beginning of my journey, I started off by wearing really loose and baggy clothing which I do think was the right move because I was really comfortable, I never felt like constricted but as my weight stabilized, which it eventually did, I started dressing more for my new body type. So I accepted the fact that I had a curvier physique and I started dressing accordingly. So I would stop wearing big loose T-shirts that like gave me no shape whatsoever. It would completely hide my stomach or any shape that I would have and I started wearing more crop tops, more fitted tops but I would still wear high-waisted things so it would give me the illusion that I had shape. Little tweaks in my wardrobe definitely made me feel a lot more confident and to be honest with you, if I didn't do those things, I would just feel kind of fat, just being honest. And I know I shouldn't say that or I didn't really mean it, but that's just how I felt. Next up, I wanna talk about how to deal with the opinions and judgment of people who are really close to you, like close family, close friends and of course, your significant other. So the absolute most important thing that you have to do is do not shut these people out. I know that it's really tempting to do so because you're really not feeling your best and you just want everyone to leave you alone, but this is a mistake. Remember, if these people truly love and care about you, any comments or snarky remarks are probably just going to be because they just don't get it and that there might be some misunderstanding or confusion about it. Do not isolate yourself. You need a support system that understands what's going on and who's gonna be there for you. Most times that you get mean or unsolicited comments are from people who just don't get it. Keep close people close. I promise you, they just wanna help you. And I'm not talking about like your great distant uncle, Fred, that you only see at Thanksgiving. I'm more so talking about people like your mom, your dad, sisters, brothers, best friend and your significant other. Help them understand, talk to them, explain things to them, give them a chance to understand what you're going through. So I think a really good example of this is actually you guys. So when I first decided to go all in, I was really nervous. I did contemplate just like quitting YouTube and hiding away, but I felt really close to you guys. And if I just explained things to you, you guys would understand and stand behind me and support me. And not everybody understood at first. Maybe you just were kind of unsure what the whole process was about. But the more I let you in and the more that I explained things to you, the more you guys wanted to see me succeed and the more loving and supportive you guys were. Now, I would say that you should only invest this much time and energy in people that you really care about because you're gonna need them. And when things get hard, which they will, you're gonna want a shoulder to cry on. Just talk to them, explain things to them. They'll actually feel honored that you let them in and they'll wanna help. And of course, there are gonna be people who just don't get it. They'll push back, they'll argue, they'll tell you that you don't know what you're talking about. And to be honest with you, I personally feel like you just shouldn't spend as much time with these people and invest more in the people that are giving you a chance. Just make peace with the fact that some of these people just don't get it. However, I would say not to give up too quickly. Many of you guys know that I'm really close to my mom. And at the beginning, I have to say that there were times that she did make some mean comments. And coming from her, someone I'm like, so close to, it was really hard. And if you experience this, you know what they're saying can be really hurtful, but I promise they don't mean to be and they don't want to hurt you. Just be patient with those. You wanna keep close. If they don't get it, I'm sure they will come around. And I wanna speak separately about your significant other. I feel like they're like a special category of their own. And if you watch my previous videos, you guys are fully aware of the fact that Jess was like the backbone of my all-in journey. He helped me so much. He was unconditionally loving. He would support me no matter what. And I know that he would just love me no matter what weight I was. But what sometimes happens as a result of gaining weight is that some people do change. When people gain weight, some personality traits or habits sometimes change. And that could be the root cause of any conflict you seem to have with your significant other. Just give them the benefit of the doubt that it's not the actual weight gain and that it might be something else because as you gain weight, you might change. In my case, I think this was for the better. Jeff always says, I've seen so much happier, just better overall. But some people, when they gain weight, they can fall into depression. They can fall into having a short temper or just not feeling great all the time. So you might be shorter tempered with your significant other. And that could be more of the root cause of any issues that you have. So my advice would be to anybody who's gained weight and is in a relationship is to stay true to who you are. I know that this is not always easy, but try to remain the best version of yourself. And of course, nobody's perfect, but if your significant other really loves you, they'll be there for you and they will support you. And lastly, I wanna tackle how to deal with acquaintances, strangers, or even colleagues that you see on a regular basis, but you don't really know very well. And oddly enough, this is probably one of the most difficult categories to deal with because this is a category of people that you're not supposed to care about. But if you're human, of course you do. You are not wrong for putting stock into what other people think of you. I think like humans are hardwired to be this way. So don't feel like weird or strange or different if you struggle with this issue of caring what other people think of you. Most people do. It honestly comes down to whether or not you think your own personal journey or your health matters more than the opinion of these people who likely don't care about you. And if you're waking with something as a result of something other than my journey, which is 100% okay and just as difficult to deal with, you just have to evaluate whether or not these people's opinions should matter. Like should you care? Will you ever see these people again? And if yes, does your wellbeing depend on their opinion of you? Would you care if these people gained weight? I would think probably not. So just try to remember who you are. Remember the qualities in you that you possess, that you care about the most, and try not to let the opinion of these people obstruct your happiness, interfere with your journey, or even interfere with your day. Now, there is one place that this gets a little bit tangly, and that is when it comes down to seeing a healthcare professional, because it's probably likely that they're gonna notice that you gained weight from one visit to the next. If they do question why your weight has changed, just please give them the benefit of the doubt that they have your best interest in mind. They're not trying to do it for any malicious reason, and they are just thinking about you and your health. And if they do ask, which is a big if, because you're most likely the one most aware of your weight gain, but if they do ask, my best advice would be to just be 100% honest. This actually did happen to me. It happened to me when I went to go see my OB-GYN, and he noticed that there was obviously a weight difference from my previous visit to the current visit, and I was just totally honest. I told him everything that I was doing. And then after I explained this whole long spiel, he just nodded in an approving way, to be honest with you. I think he just thought that was a good move, especially if somebody who deals with pregnant women or women who are trying to be pregnant, I think, like I honestly think he thought I used to be too lean. Now, of course, this isn't always the case, but I think that you should just approach each scenario as you kind of see fit, because you'll kind of get the vibe of how you'll either need to ignore it altogether, like just leave it be, or just to tell them. And definitely know that you're not alone if you feel nervous about encountering somebody that you haven't seen in a while. And this kind of happened to me when I went to go see my dentist, and it also happened when I went to go see my hairdresser. So in the case of my dentist, I had this vibe from her that I honestly didn't think that she cared. I don't think she really noticed, so I just made that executive decision that she was just gonna be somebody that I would just leave it. I wasn't gonna mention it, I wasn't gonna bring it up, and that was just like, I just kind of made that decision myself to just leave it alone. Now, in this situation with my hairdresser, I consider her a friend of mine. I've been seeing her for years, so I definitely knew she would notice the difference from the last time she saw me, and in that scenario, I just decided to tell her. I just told her about my whole all-in journey, I told her everything. She was like really on board with it. She was super supportive, she loved the message I was sending. So I was really happy that I told her because it was just another person that I had supporting me. Again, you have to take it like on a case-by-case basis, but I think that your intuition will let you know whether you need to just leave it or tell them. So regardless, if it's like you, close friends or family, or strangers or acquaintances, the most important thing I can tell you is to just remember your why. I constantly reflected why I was doing this. I knew that I wanted to free myself from like this extreme hunger prison, and all it took was for me to eat as much as I wanted, and yes, like of course, I gained weight. I expected to gain weight, I did gain weight, but I knew everything that I was doing was the right thing, and I know that future Stephanie will thank me one day. So that's it for this video. If you did like it or learned something from it, I'd really appreciate it if you gave it a thumbs up. If you happen to be new, I'd love for you to subscribe, and I will see you in a video very soon. Love you and thank you so much for being there for me. I'm really happy that I let you in. Love you, see you next time. Bye.

=== FILE: How To Eat During The Holidays (My Approach) [Sm0crgeVNTs].txt ===

 Okay, okay, I feel like the holidays threw up in this room, but we're gonna roll with it, because I needed a backdrop, and it's been a while since I filmed the YouTube video, so, hello, hello, how are you guys? I have missed you. So today we're gonna be doing a video that I feel really passionate about. I feel like food guilt and food fears and restriction is just something that I have definitely dealt with. So I just like talking about it for those of you guys who are thinking about the holidays coming up, and it's giving you a lot of anxiety, which I've definitely been there, so I know how you feel. So in this video, I wanna talk about two different mentalities that I think are most common this time of year. One is enjoying and eating all the delicious food, like stuffing, mac and cheese, dinner rolls, and apple pie, but then you have so much food guilt after that your heart is racing as you lie in bed thinking of all the ways that you can burn off this food in the next coming days with hours of cardio and restricting all of your food. And two is restricting during the meal. So completely avoiding all the high carb or high fat dishes and just sticking with a side of green beans with white meat turkey breast. This will appease your inner food fears in the moment, but you basically miss out on all the delicious food made only once a year. Both scenarios suck. So first, let's talk about eating and enjoying yourself, but then feeling like you have this post meal food guilt. So when I was thinking about making this video, one point that I really wanted to like drive home was that the anxiety after one large meal is kind of completely unwarranted because a single meal will only cause just a ton of water retention and any weight gain that you experience, it'll almost predominantly be because of the food still in your stomach, so it's just food volume. So a lot of people think that after a big Thanksgiving dinner that you'll gain like five to 10 pounds, but like I said, it's mostly just food that's still in your body and all the water retention from lots of carbs and lots of sodium. So I'm not sure if you know this, but for every gram of carb that you eat and your body keeps this energy, an additional three to four grams of water is stored to help store the glycogen. So when people talk about water retention and when I just mentioned it, that's what I mean. Also, I've actually done an experiment using metabolic equations and was able to estimate how much actual fat I could have gained after eating 8,000 calories in a cheat day. And if you watch that video, you saw that it was actually super small. And according to the Calorie Control Council, on average, Americans only eat about 4,000 calories in a Thanksgiving meal. So that's just something to keep in mind. So because your body weight will be elevated because of the water and food weight, like I mentioned, do not weigh yourself after. Honestly, like don't weigh yourself for like a week after Thanksgiving. Personally, I would suggest throwing away your scale altogether, but that's just me. So the hours of cardio and restricting you are planning to do like plotting in your bed at night after Thanksgiving, basically creates a disordered transactional equation in your head that you might keep doing every time you have a large meal, which is an extremely slippery slope to a disordered mentality around food. The second scenario and mentality around the holidays is food restriction during the actual meal. Maybe all the high calorie foods laid out in the table in front of you are all on your list of fear foods. So you're looking at the food in front of you and it's giving you all this anxiety, so you just stick to the safe food. You stick to protein and you stick to the veggies. So no stuffing, no mashed potatoes, no Aunt Martha's famous pumpkin pie. In this scenario, you don't feel that post meal food guilt, but you feel sad and anxious because you missed out on all the delicious food you wish you could have had and you miss out on the joy of enjoying that food with loved ones. And in this scenario, instead of laying in bed plotting how to burn off food, you're laying in bed still hungry, unsatisfied and might even sneak out of bed to eat leftover pie in secret, eating giant spoonfuls straight out of the pie tin or binge on an entire plate of holiday cookies when you could have just had one or two at dinner. And then you just have a bunch of food guilt anyways, or if you don't sneak out and eat, you never get over your food fears and you continue down the path of food restriction and a poor relationship with fun food. So in both scenarios, how do you fix this? Honestly, it's pretty simple. Now, of course, like a lot of different things revolving around food and having food struggles is always easier said than done, but hear me out. The solution is to just eat. Enjoy yourself. Be mindful while you're eating and pay attention to your satiety cues, but enjoy everything that looks good to you. The next day, continue as normal. Eat some leftovers, exercise as normal, continue your normal eating pattern and just live life as normal. And that way you can live stress-free knowing you enjoyed yourself and can just move on. Or you can work yourself into a frenzy of restriction and a ton of cardio and then have a crazy compulsion that makes you feel that you have to do this every single time that you have a big meal or anything fun to eat. The former is food freedom and no disorder repercussions and the latter can create a poor relationship with food that continues forever. It's a very dangerous trap that I've been caught in before and it's not fun, very difficult to get out of and easily avoided by just continuing as normal. Please don't go down that slippery slope of a disordered mentality around food. Food and exercise and food and restriction are not a transaction. Once you get in that mindset, it's so hard to get out of it. It always becomes a tit for tat. Like this muffin means this much cardio or this dinner roll means this much exercise. It's just a dangerous mentality to get into. I wasn't always like this, but now I eat food and I exercise, but one does not dictate the other. I don't exercise because I eat food. I just exercise because it's good for me. It took me so many years to get here, but I hope you can get here too if you're not already. So this video was just a quick reminder to enjoy yourself, don't weigh yourself, spend time with loved ones, smile, laugh and eat on Martha's pie. And if you really need that reassurance that a single or even a couple of large meals is negligible in the long run of your physique, remember what I said about my 8,000 calorie G day. Lastly, I just wanted to mention that if you are really struggling with an eating disorder and maybe think these tips won't help you, there's nothing wrong with getting help. I will consult with experts and put their recommendations of good resources in the description box for you. I love you guys so, so much. Please, please, please enjoy yourself for me and have an amazing Thanksgiving. Until next time. Bye.

=== FILE: I Ate Breakfast From A Different Country Every Day For 1 Week 🗺 [EsyePbhXvR0].txt ===

 and alfalfa-fibroxanone. We're just gonna wing it. Whatever looks like enough soup. Wow. What has gone on, guys? Welcome to the video. So today we're gonna be doing something a little bit different, but also should be a lot of fun. It's not nachos. So in this video, I am going to be trying five different breakfasts. Breakfasts? Is that plural for breakfasts? Breakfasts. I will be trying five different breakfasts from five different countries, and I figured that I would do breakfast because, let's just be honest, breakfast is like the best meal of the day. And I actually asked you guys on Instagram to help me pick those five countries because I wanted to know what you guys thought was the country that has the best breakfast. And I wanted to do this because, one, I thought it would be hella fun and delicious. And two, I really wanted to expand my culinary palette, and I just really want to try some new and different types of food. And if I'm gonna be completely honest, one of the main reasons I wanted to do this video was because I really wanted to see if anything could possibly beat out my favorite cake pop protein oatmeal, which basically tastes like cake batter with some toppings. So there's some really stiff competition, and I have my doubts that anything can beat it, but I just want to see. And this video is actually really inspired by Johnny Harris, who has an incredible YouTube channel. He did a video where he was trying to revive his love for breakfast, and it was, it looked really fun, so I wanted to do something similar, so I'll link his video down below. And please keep in mind that I'm gonna be attempting to make all of these myself, and I am by no means the best cook by any stretch of the imagination. We're just gonna wing it. Drop it. There might be some improvisation. Can I please order for pickup? Why didn't it work? I don't know. But it should be really fun and really delicious, so let's go ahead and jump into it. Welcome to day one of cooking breakfast every day with Stephanie, Chef Steph. We are going to be doing Thailand today. I really wanted to do Thailand because I am half Thai. Can you say hi to YouTube? Hi YouTube. On Sabaydi Luka? Sabaydi Kala Kunda Kaa. Sabaydi Kaa. Sabaydi Kaa. Sabaydi Kaa. And I never really knew what Thai people ate for breakfast. Like my mom always just ate whatever. She just ate leftovers from the night before. So when I did some research, I found that there was very few dishes that are actually breakfast like delegated just for breakfast. And the most popular one was something called khao tam. And I'm particularly doing khao tam goong. Can you say it too? Khao tam goong. Which is shrimp khao tam. So let's get started. cilantro, some fried garlic. You have to top it with some of this. Oh, sauté khao. Good. Look delicious. Look delicious. Excellent. Excellent. Thank you, mommy. Lagong khao. Lagong khao. Okay. I'm really excited to try it. It looks really delicious. It smells really good. There's rice and broth with shrimp, onions, garlic, lots of good stuff. It's topped with cilantro and green onions. Some broth. Mmm. That's so good. It has a light flavor. I feel like it could use chili like my mom said. I could see why they would eat this for breakfast because it's really light and it's delicious. Very good. Okay. Okay. I see you. I see you, Thailand. So I think this is good. It's very like comfort food-y, warm and delicious. Can see this being so good in like the winter time and it's very savory. Very good flavor. I think it's really good. I'd give it like a seven out of ten. It's not mind-blowing. It's kind of a light, easy on the stomach soup with carbs and protein and it feels warm and good. But my oatmeal still wins. So today of our travel expedition, we're going to go visit the neighboring lake. I wonder what kind of wild animal this is. Looks like a stingray. Okay guys, so that's it for beautiful Thailand. Tomorrow, we are off to France. Oh no. That looks delicious. Wow. It's like buttery and flaky and it's like the best version of croissant I think I've ever had. Wow. Welcome everybody to breakfast in France and I was a little hungry so I already tried the croissant and it was so good. It's delicious. It's still warm so amazing. I'm so excited to eat the rest of this. From my research and I apologize if I'm not completely correct but a typical breakfast in France is usually just a pastry croissant with coffee. Sometimes just cereal, yogurt and fruit but everything looks so delicious. I did not make these myself although I tried. Can I please order for pickup? But no, I did not make these myself. We did pick these up from a French bakery here in Jacksonville and the bread I didn't make either. But I did put it in the oven to toast it so that counts for something. I did take the granola out of a box and pour it in a bowl and I did cut the fruit myself. So there's that. We have some orange juice, some pariette, our espresso and yeah, we're gonna go ahead and get started even though I already did. I really want to try the chocolate one. Ooh it is still warm though. There's a reason why croissants are as popular as they are. Whoa. I guess I go ahead and take a bite. See how it is? Wow. That's so good with the chocolate. Wow. That's incredible. Oh I think you're gonna like this. I'm excited. Is it better than the original? Mm-hmm. Yeah. I heated the eclair up. You can see it looks like it's been boiled. I heated it up because I thought I was supposed to but I don't think I was. If I ruined it, I am so sorry people please don't come for me. Mmm. It's filled. I think I knew that. Can I see? I forgot. Wow. There's like a custard on the inside. It's delicious. It was filled but I completely forgot. And the outside is almost like a cookie but pastry. It's really good and then obviously you know it's cut in half and sugar so it's gonna taste good. So that's really good. Okay. So I have chocolate on my mouth from that. Is it better than the original? I'm making such a mess. Flaky things. Messy. So I have two beignets. One is mixed berry. One is chocolate hazelnut. So they look like little donuts to be honest with you. They're filled which is always a positive. Mmm. It's just like a donut. This is my comfort zone. This is where I'm comfortable. This tastes exactly, this is delicious. It's super soft and fluffy. That's delicious. So this one's not filled enough for me. I have very high standards. But still good. The jam on the inside is good. Should I try first? You can see until the chocolate croissant. Yes. Good right? Yeah. Holy cow. How do you stick some on the bite? That looks so bizarre. It's not nachos. Alright. So that was delicious. I feel like it was more of like a dessert. So it doesn't really help me anabolically. It doesn't help with the gains because there's no protein in this. I give this an 8 out of 10. Mmm. That's solid. Final answer. Loses one point for protein. Yep. And one point for being too desserty. Yep, but it was delicious. Really good. Where are we going tomorrow? Tomorrow? We are going to Mexico. Oh. Adios. Okay guys, welcome to day three. Today we are going to be doing Mexico. The most popular breakfast dishes from my research that Mexico has to offer are dishes that I'm going to be very honest with you. I just can't make them. I'm just going to be honest. I just don't think I can cook them. So I'd like to go to an authentic restaurant and have the best version of these dishes possible so I will see you at drostanolone. Oh, they're hiring. Okay, we're here. So no, we obviously didn't get food from Taco Bell. A very good restaurant. Actually two restaurants. My inability to cook is doubling as supporting local restaurants right now. And I'm excited. I'm hungry. You're hungry? Yeah. Not only does this absolutely look amazing, it smells incredible. Like wow. I feel really excited. I've never tried anything like this except for the tacos. The tacos are going to be the only thing that I've ever had before. The most popular breakfast dish that I discovered in my research was something called... Okay, okay. So you guys have editing Stephanie here and I want to stop myself right now before I butchered the pronunciation of this dish. So the dish is called chilaquiles. I say it wrong in the video. Please don't be mad at me. The part that frustrates me the most is that I actually looked up how to pronounce it in so many different YouTube videos, listen to it over and over again, and then I actually practiced how to say it and I still said it wrong in the video. So please don't come for me because I'm dumb. The proper pronunciation of this dish is chilaquiles. Okay, goodbye. There's something called chiquiles. They will typically top it with a red sauce that makes the corn tortillas that they cut up kind of soft and then they top it with shredded chicken and this one actually was topped with eggs. It came with eggs. I also have huevos rancheros and it's two eggs topped with salsa and it's usually comes with tortilla and then tamales. I got two, one for Jeff and I both to try but I had to get tacos too because tacos seem to be a staple no matter what time of day it is. One is drostanolone calls is the gringo version which is what I got for Jeff. No offense, Jeff. So yeah, the corn tortilla that is fried gets very soft from the sauce. That's delicious. It's so good. I don't know how to describe it. It's almost like nachos. Okay, I love that. It's so good. Wow. It's super delicious. I actually like the egg on it too. The huevos rancheros is here. So there's refried beans underneath here and then the egg. Can I eat this with my hands? What do you think? I would say yes. Mmm, totally different. Mmm, that's really good. This one tastes the most like breakfast to me. Mmm. This is a tamale. Yum. And then it's filled on the inside. Mmm. That's interesting. It's almost like a cake but with like a chipotle type sauce with meat on the inside. And then I'm going to take a quick bite of my taco because I know Jeff is getting hungry too. Mmm. It's a good taco. Still delicious. Wow. First of all, delicious. I expected just as much because Mexican food is delicious. I would give this another 8 out of 10. Realistically, would I have this in the morning regularly? It's more like a special occasion type thing to have. In the morning, I also think of like having coffee but things with like spice, I don't really see going well with coffee. So you guys will have to let me know like do you typically drink coffee with this? 8 out of 10, solid. We're going sightseeing today. We're going to visit an avocado farm. I'm just kidding. So I actually have an avocado tree which is like the best thing ever. This is a travel vlog, okay? Okay. Tomorrow, we are going to England. See you there. Alright guys, welcome to day 4. So today, we have a full English breakfast. A lot of these things look really familiar to me so that's actually really comforting. I couldn't do everything exactly right but I wanted to do everything to the best of my ability so it looks delicious. And then I also have like legit British tea. I'm really hungry so let's go ahead and get started. A typical English breakfast usually consists of eggs, bacon, sausage, baked beans, tomatoes, mushrooms, and often black pudding as well as a cup of tea. Okay, putting beans on the toast. Let's see how that goes. That's good. That's surprisingly really good on toast. Alright, let's cut it. I think you'll be surprised. I actually really enjoyed that even though a lot of it was very familiar to me. I've never had baked beans with breakfast except for one time I was in Newfoundland. But I really enjoyed it with the eggs and then the tomatoes and the mushrooms. I really really enjoyed that. I would give this a solid 8 out of 10. A lot of ties. A lot of 8 out of 10s because to break into the 9 out of 10, it has to really blow me away. This is like what I would consider like a good hearty breakfast. Nice. So wait, wait, wait. Where are we going tomorrow? Yeah, good question. Where are we going tomorrow? We're going somewhere very far away. I will see you tomorrow in Japan. So this could go either really well or really horribly. I'm going to attempt to poach an egg. If you guys know how to poach an egg, I commend you because I've never even tried before. Apparently you stir it and then the middle of like the whirlpool that you make, you have to drop the egg and it cooks for like how long? This is happening with or without you. Drop it. Oh no. Oh, here we go. Day 5. Are you guys sick of me yet? Oh my goodness. You guys have been spending so much time with me. Today is day 5 and today we have Japan and I am going to be honest. This is one that I'm probably the most excited about because it looks delicious. It was actually pretty easy to make except for the egg. Why didn't it work? I don't know. The egg was hard. In Japan they traditionally eat a raw egg. I don't really feel comfortable doing that in the United States. Nori sticky rice and then we have grilled salmon, miso soup, side of ginger and some soy sauce. I guess I'll dump the whole egg in here. And then some ginger for sure. So I'm going to take that in a bite. Oh, it's a little bit of egg. Oh Nori. I want to get it all in one bite. I bet Japanese people are like, nope, that's not it. This is a big bite. That's really good. Mmm, that's delicious. Mmm, so yummy. I thought that was absolutely delicious. Of everything I had this week, I honestly think that was one of my favorites. I really, really liked, like of all the favorite foods for sure. That was definitely my favorite. It was delicious but also felt good in your belly. It was like just the right amount of food and just the right contents of food that make you feel good and like not too sleepy, not too like rich of flavors but like just enough flavor. I thought it was amazing. So for this meal, I would give it an 8.5 out of 10. That leaves me to my conclusion. What I learned this week was that I really enjoy eating different types of foods. I thought it was a really nice break from eating the same thing that I eat all the time. I really enjoyed everything I ate. Quick disclaimer because I don't want to like disappoint my like Thai following. I adore Thai food. I think Thai cuisine is by far my favorite. However, I don't think that Thai dish is my favorite. I like chili paste and curry and like Thai basil. Like I like really flavorful dishes and that one, I can see why it's a breakfast dish. It's very light. So I quickly wanted to say that. So no shade to Thai people, no shade to Thai cuisine. I love the French cuisine. I love sweets. The pastries are delicious. I don't think I could eat that every day though. And the Mexican super rich and flavorful. Don't think I could eat it every day. I could see myself having this all the time. And I really enjoyed the English breakfast, but I don't see myself eating that every day either. It seems like something you'd have on like a Sunday morning. Overarching theme is that I thought everything was delicious. I enjoyed trying new food, but nothing beats my cake pops. Protein don't meal sadly. I try trying new things, but I still love what I eat every day. And I think that I'll still continue to have it most days, but sometimes maybe if I want something different, I'll recreate one of these dishes or I'll try other countries that I didn't try this week. And I know I didn't do everything perfect. It's impossible for me to do things authentically because I live in Florida. My resources are extremely limited on what I could do. And obviously my culinary skills could use some work. I tried my best. So I hope you guys enjoyed this video. If you did enjoy it, I really appreciate it. If you gave it a like, that lets me know that you enjoyed it. And let me know if you'd like me to do something similar. I could do lunch or dinner of different countries. I know we're all aching to travel right now when we can't. So that is going to be it for this video. I hope you enjoyed it. Subscribe if you happen to be new. And I will see you in a video very soon. I love you guys. Bye. Thank you.

=== FILE: I Ate Everything I Wanted In Italy 🇮🇹 (Living Without Restriction) [E4ML1rznzhk].txt ===

 Going to Italy was a trip I will never forget. Whether that was because of the incredible food, the rich history, or the fact that I re-wore the only pair of socks I had for 6 Day Straight, I'm not sure. But it was incredible. That is so good. Oh, that's so good. Welcome to Italy! So Jeff, how do you feel about our luggage not making it? It could be better. Now, this Airbnb was an absolute gem. We booked it months ago, as we did with all of our Airbnbs, but the photos did not do it justice. Luckily our besties and travel companions, John and Lonnie, actually had their luggage, so we settled in and then went out to explore. And to find an H&M so we could pick up a few things to wear the next few days. Before dinner, we actually also popped into a grocery store to pick up food for breakfast, some essentials, and of course, some fun goodies. We've got Sisi Savini. Whoa! I'm gonna take your job stuff. Trying to steal my job? It's not the same. It's really good? Yeah. The first thing I wanted to eat in Italy was a big old bowl of pasta, and this will be sacrilegious to Italians, but this was actually my first time having pasta that didn't previously come out of a cardboard box. So being new to freshly made pasta, I was super excited, but I didn't really know what to expect. The chewiness just took me a bit off guard, but I still really enjoyed it. I mean, obviously. So today should actually be really fun, because we're actually going to be going to two different museums back to back, so we have an appointment at 10.30, and then another appointment for the other museum at 11.45. You do have to make appointments here because there's only a certain number of people that can be allowed in each place at a time, and then after that, we're gonna have lunch, and then we have dinner scheduled for this evening as well, so today should be fun. After being blown away by seeing some of the most iconic art in the history of, well, ever, we did a bit of sightseeing and then had lunch. So here in this place, I highly recommend this. It's called Satoria Sazel. Thank you to my model. We have English version, tanner, bone. Would you like to try my three soup appetizer? It kind of looks like a baby's, like, a son. It does, doesn't it? John said it looked like a prison. I thought it looked like you were in the military. So good. Yeah, so good. That's delicious. Okay, one side. You know what I mean? They're so good, I'm telling you, yeah, the flavor is crazy. Is it safe to stop a sneeze? That's a medical advice. It's a pork-serve-fine neurologist. Is it okay? It's safe? I thought it was bad. It's kind of like a fail-safe. I'm trying to get something out, but whatever you're doing, using a bottle top. It doesn't matter. Stop it. Oh, I thought it was bad for you. Like, like, buster gas? Yes. Yeah, then let it out. So it's okay to block a sneeze. Crazy salad. Okay. Fresh buffalo mushroom. Hold on, hold on, hold on. Got him. All right. The cheese is so good. Goat cheese and apricot jam. Oh, it's tangerine. Goat cheese and tangerine jam. Oh, wow. Mm-hmm. Strong, isn't it? Yeah. So I got a key bass, but it's cooked in salsa style, which is what the name of drostanolone is. So ideally, it'll be good. Oh, wow. Wow. Mm. Hands down, best meal so far. So I needed something to wear other than my pajamas for dinner. So Jeff kindly bought me this dress in an Italian dress shop, and I loved it. You can have all the cameras. We're at Angel Roof Bar in Grill. It looks beautiful, like 10 points for obvious. This is my starter. I got a beet salad. It looks really yummy. She said maybe this thing was really big, but it's not. It's big bowl. Yeah, it's just the bowl is big, but it's empty now. Is it walnuts or something? Yeah, walnuts. I'm judging. She's beats walnuts. It's just a beet. Like, it's kind of just a beet. Okay. Buttery roast marinated. It's really good. Drink, drink, drink. Oh man, I'm scared. Hand sanitizer with red food coloring. Try that one. Oh, that's so good. Oh, that's so good. You don't want one like that. No. It's so bad. What do you think? It tastes phenomenal. Your way. And then the squid. Fantastic. Put it here. This apparently was going to be too big. I knew it was going to be not enough. On the menu without the fillet, it was just... Imagine. Okay, right here. This is your meal. That would have been it. It's like chocolate. It's like chocolate. It's so good. Yeah, the octopus. Seared octopus. It's got to be good. The view and ambiance was a 10 out of 10. But the food and drinks... Not my favorite of the trip, but that was just me. And we skipped dessert at drostanolone for something even better. So this is dark chocolate. You got to get close. Dark chocolate. Wow. That's so good. Chocobo's so good. It tastes like real fresh chocobo. It's like chocolate covered chocolate. That's a chocolate. Mmm. I love fruity flavors. So I started with that because I knew this wouldn't be my last gelato stop of the trip. The next day we were doing some sightseeing and we were going to do a little bit of hiking. I did pack a few hats in my luggage, but... Yeah. So I picked up a new one from a street vendor and we definitely worked up an appetite for lunch after doing a bit more cardio than all of us were expecting. How's that cardio? It's better. Cardi, no. We had to climb this too much. Here are the bells chiming. It's 12 o'clock. Lunchtime. As you can see, this place was poppin'. It's a famous sandwich shop in the heart of Florence and even though the line was crazy long, it moved really fast. Then we decided to bring it back to eat at the Airbnb, but I snuck in a quick bite. Good? You got... You got... Vegetarian number two, which is Straccia Tella Cheese Cream of Pistachio Sun-dried Tomatoes and Basil. We saw my initial reaction in the actual restaurant. By the way, it's the same day. I changed because I was kind of sweaty. This is not like another day in another sandwich. I think that you have to really like this type of hard, dry bread to like this sandwich. If you like bread, that sucks. You will love it. Maybe it was just what I ordered. John got the real one though. John and Lonnie got like the real meat, like, you know... The corner yard recorder. I don't know if you guys know this, but I personally don't eat red meat, so that's why I've got the vegetarian options, because a lot of Italians might be like, well, you should have got the prosciutto, you should have got kind of like limited our options. We didn't have anything at all on the menu. Please don't be offended. Like, it's probably my fault because I didn't order something that I would like. Mmm, good. What's the matter? I honestly don't know. It's some kind of cheese, some kind of green. Some kind of red. After lunch, we went back to the airport. We were hopeful about finding our bags, so we didn't have to keep buying new clothes, but no luck. It's been a long, long day. We still do not have our luggage. I did buy like two outfits, so I'm gonna have to wash, rinse and repeat, and it was the land of luggage. It was the purgatory for luggage, it was the in-between. Luggage hell. Because it wasn't at luggage hell, because they still have some people it would be saved. I'm gonna have some pizza, yummy looking ravioli, and some cheese. It's the best food I've had yet. You're gonna love it. It's gonna be a great day. Cheese pizza. Oh, it's good. It's much more similar to like a New York style pizza. I mean, pizza pizza is everything. You're gonna love that ravioli. Yeah, yeah. Alright, better walk my world. It will. Oh yeah. That's the best thing I've had. It really was me too. Damn. It's not even that hot. It's like the kind of antenna is cold. What is this? I know it's just a go-to-sonia, but like... It's a cantaloupe dish. Cantaloupe. It's this cantaloupe. Again, I'm never gonna be allowed back to Italy. The title of this video is just gonna be Disrespecting Italy. That's super good too. Wow. That's great, cantaloupe. These pajamas, by the way, were given to me on the plane. So it's all I got. I got a wager for you. You get free pajamas. We get all your luggage. This is fun. People are braids. A lot of stairs. A lot of stairs. Oh, Stephanie, you gotta try a bit of the cheese board also. What do you put it on? I just broke off a little bit. And on your top? What's on your top? Yeah. What is it? Mark? It's Mar-a-Lago. Yeah, Mar-a-Rubio. I wasn't touching that. You touched on. It's all I need. Actually, it's the best medicine. Yeah. Drinks are bad. It gets drugs. It's the best medicine. It's not the journey of sedescending. It's the first, right? It's not the first time. Now I'm here. It's one alcohol contest. How do I mute single characters in the vlog? This looks like some Chicago need to jump. Have you guys tried it yet? Am I the only one that's eaten it? You are. I feel like I'm the gatekeeper of food or something. Oh, it's like fluffy. This is artichoke, by the way. This is plain cheese first. It's like toast. It's like toast. Reminds me of Vicky's. I'm telling you. Yeah, served us. I asked him for his identification. Yeah, he was. You could tell by the way he cut the pizza. Yeah. I asked him if he had any pizza. We were eating because I had more of it. It was hot. It was really hot. I told him that we had the problem. He was putting it in the oven. Okay. I told John I wanted it heated. Oh, come on. It's like that's hot. I said that I wanted it heated up because it's like dump hot. That's true. I actually put it in the freezer. I'm sorry. Last thing. I swear I'm not going to bunk you guys anymore. It's dessert. Looks good. Get a bit of the cake. The cake part? Oh yeah. That's super good. Yeah. I love that. Sadly, we couldn't take the train to our next destination. So we had to force John and Lonnie to go to the Amalfi Coast without us because we didn't want them to miss out on the next part of the trip. Are you serious? I actually have an early 10-ohm. It just left New York. But Jeff and I were determined to enjoy ourselves regardless not knowing how long we would be stuck here. Does it stay four or five? No luggage? And did you tell the vlog that we like skipped the second half of the trip? We're supposed to be in the Amalfi Coast right now. I don't want to leave Florence without it because if I leave Florence without my bag, I know I will never see it. More of the story is get air tags or some sort of luggage tracker and put them on your bags. And then after all that, took the train home and we were fine. We still didn't have our luggage. And then we got fined on the train because our ticket had expired. How did it expire? I don't know how we're getting fined. Just take us. Do you want to have these? Italy's revenge. To Italy. To Italy. Papa Alfomodoro, yeah? Yes, yes, yes, yes. So this is like a tomato soup with burrata cheese on top and this is just a mixed salad. Gonna have some bread with a nice soup. Perfect. That looks good. Let me take a little bite. That's really good. Yeah. Mmm, nice. I feel like this tastes like a really good grilled cheese sandwich that you dip in tomato soup, but for a dollar. This is the second seafood pasta dish I've gotten here. I feel like I should get, if I get pasta again before I leave Italy, I need to get something on the seafood. The noodles are like kind of big, so I feel like I need to cut it. This might be not the right way to eat it. Mmm. It's very pushy though, but it's good. With all of Florence, I've had one pair of leggings at a Calvin Klein, and I'm making it work. Let's look at it. Look what I got. Oh, buddy. I'm the last place. After two more days in Florence and six total days washing my socks in the sink, we finally had our bags, and we could catch a train to meet up with John and Lonnie. So we're finally leaving Florence. We were supposed to leave two days ago, finally going to the Amalfi Coast. So we had a three-hour train ride and another one hour commute. So we were off to Pasatano, which was honestly too beautiful for words, and I was so grateful to finally be there. We made it. We have our luggage. Now I feel like the rest of the trip is going to be just completely smooth sailing because now we're all good. I feel like we get a mulligan. Started the trip fresh, so finally wearing something that's mine. This is actually something that I've packed. We've had a Moscow mule. You want to try it? You're going to like that. I need one. Hey, see? I did this now. Yep. What you got, baby? Really good. I got lemon ravioli, and it has ricotta cheese on the inside. The lemons here are like the size of melons. Whoa. That is really lemon-y. It is kind of like a dessert. It's a dessert, man. I don't know what it's doing. I kind of like it though. You want lemon ravioli? It's definitely lemon. You're going to get lemon ravioli. Berry buttery, lots of butter, lots of lemon, lots of cheese, lots of... If you can't make that, you can't make that. You've got chicken, guys. The first time I've had this since I've been here, this chicken is syringe-ous style. Lots of cheese, lots of butter, a little bit of tomato sauce. It's good. She should do a video of her saying, it's good. I'm not a fan of people. It's sweet. This video is going down. No, it's not. Really, let me try this potato. It's actually a really good potato. It's really good. It's really good. It's really good. It's really good. It's really good. Try this potato. It's actually a really good potato. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you know? It could have been a matter of not ordering their best entree option, but it was nothing a little gelato couldn't make up for. There you go. That's so good. Looks good. Don't lose it. You're going to lose it on the back. Wow. Both of them? Obviously like 10 out of 10. I literally inhaled it because it was melting so fast, but it didn't mean I didn't love every bite, or like, or whatever. Both flavors were easy 10 out of 10. Unfortunately, we only had one full day in Pasatano because of arriving late. So we wanted to make the absolute most of it. Here's the luggage. Here's the luggage. The luggage. While we were sightseeing, I decided to pick up a slice of pizza next to the gelato place because I was not leaving Italy without having pizza that wasn't take out at the Airbnb as I did in Florence. Wood fire margarita pizza. Looks good. It's really good. It's all cheese pizza. I'm going to inhale the pizza all on camera. The dough is really soft. I've noticed that about people here. It's not like hard and chewy. Really good. For our final supper, I just couldn't resist. I got more pasta. More pasta, little Parmesan cheese. Okay, that looks yummy. Eggplant, cherry tomatoes, and homemade pasta. So this is it. This is the final supper. This is the last supper. That's really good. Okay, Italy, I'll see you. This is probably the best pasta I've had. Aside from the ravioli that take out Paracels, I think this is the best. Really good. We were off to Paris the next day, continuing our quest for more delicious food, of course. But for now, I love you guys so much. Thank you for sharing this trip to Italy with me. Ciao. Bye.

=== FILE: I Did My First Cheat Day Again (How Many Calories Now？) [ZaoVfHVrRF4].txt ===

 5 years ago, I did my very first cheat day, and used to do cheat days about once a month to appease my really big appetite. I did want to talk about how I'm utilizing this to potentially help my crazy appetite. Three years ago, I decided to go all in and gave myself unconditional permission to eat whatever I wanted to finally fix my hunger. I'm not nearly as hungry anymore. So here we are, three years later, to see how my appetite has changed. Hit me! I did it! That's intense. That looks juicy. My completeness, a little bit. That one's so good. I have a vague memory of what I ate for my first meal. I know it's a big one, but I don't remember exactly, so we're going to write it down. It's going to be the biggest order Tim is going to have this morning. One person. Okay. Good morning! Oh, good morning! Good morning! Today, I am doing a cheat day. Hi! I'm going to give you a little bit of what's going on today. So I'm just going to do and eat whatever I feel like today. I'm number seven. I'm going to do 12 dollars and then 10, 10 bits. What did I say? It's a number seven. I don't know. We're going to fight. So I'm curious on a scale of 1 to 10, how hungry are you right now? 10 hungry. 10 hungry! I never remember that. It tastes really good because I'm really hungry. You look like a 10. Oh yeah. Who cut the cheese? Hash brown, got it. Okay, vanilla dip. That's good. Man, I thought everything was good. Wow, it's great. Coconut cream. Great glass of water. I know. Oh, the cinnamon roll. Lay cinnamon roll. Okay, I'm going to put it in. I'm going to put it in. I'm going to put it in. I'm going to put it in. I'm going to put it in. I'm going to put it in. I'm going to put it in. Lay cinnamon roll. Man, this video is lit. 2700 calories. 4 or 5 out of 10. I'm going to get started. I'm going to get started. Let's get it. Are you excited? Let's do it. You look like a 10. You look like an 11 now. Close up. Okay. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Regardless of where their appetite is like I still love don't know so don't get it twisted Did you see this Tim's ex Justin Bieber? Bebes man. He has his yeah Tim Bebes Yeah, I haven't been in Canada for a while We did get Timbit in the first video. I eat the favorite first Oh wait, how how hungry are you on a scale one to ten before you start ten ten is like completely full like ten is stuff Zero is is like I'm starving good thinking. Yeah, what a scale. Yeah, I would say I'm like Okay, I don't feel super hungry in the morning like I used to Egg and cheese classic I Feel like old Stephanie would have been like leave me some Have some bites of me I See it bro, what you got there? Yeah, I forgot what washed We still got it bro. Come on What one looks best to you right? Yeah, go for it What are you rating that one how good is it compared to like a crispy cream or a dump in donut strawberry Like What Duncan makes the best strawberry crispy cream has the best doughnuts in general but Duncan makes in my opinion That's Tim's best donut in my opinion. Yeah, I agree. Should I just do it after I think about Oh, yeah, that looks juicy give me a bite of that. I'm one. It's the best one I Yeah, definitely that one looks Surprise That was so good Money I would rate that a solid eight eight and a half maybe people right maybe maple when I say the word Canadian It's just a fly that I mean people like synonymous You love maple stuff They look really good. All right Do the honeycruiser I want to see it if you're taking fan requests It's so unique like airy give us a taste that Oh Oh I want this one this one birthday cake Is really good super birthday cakey I can see why you like that I want to have provided the apple fruit before I pause Feelings this is better than five years ago. Oh, yeah five years. They're actual bits of apple in it. That's apple stewed chocolate It's all the haters kicked on us. I love Oh Okay, I'm not having this all of their mm-hmm on a scale one to ten So can I my intuitive eating brain stops here? I feel like that would be like what I should do for the rest of this video It's still fun. It's still delicious That's the biggest things that I noticed while I was eating is I don't want so much sweet stuff All in one sitting. I was kind of feeling like I wish I had more savory stuff It felt like when I was doing a cheat day before I there was not enough sweet food in the world for me to eat But now I don't feel that way. I need like more of a balance anyways. We'll see how it goes. I'll see you the next meal Okay meal two three thousand calories. Oh, so that was the biggest meal of them all Okay, okay, you ready to do it Looks like it's pointing over there. Yeah So I don't feel like it's hot food. No, so I'm feeling pretty hungry. It's um 224 Let's go I Gave you some neat and half out of 10 I agree my original Rating you are really good. Yeah, what I've noticed is your your savory Rating seem to be about the same, you know, like you enjoy savory stuff about equally But it seems like you enjoy sweet stuff a little bit less. I think that it was before all in savory sweet after all in it just kind of It's still higher, but it's just gotten more even it's way more balanced now Okay, so my pizza came and I got a Mediterranean pizza here covered in pesto sauce This is the Barbecue chicken pizza and this is a tropical chicken pizza has pineapple and chicken on it Looks really good. First thing I'm gonna try is the Mediterranean Barbecue chicken Yeah, how many like better Mediterranean or barbecue? I Was it a tie? My complete mess a little bit Honestly, I can't tell you which one I like the best and they're all so good I give all them like a nine at a time. Whoa, they're all really good delicious I Just having a Mediterranean Our bigger What the fact that you like aren't hungry and like you can eat like a normal size portion, you know what I mean I'm not just proud. She would be like right. Yeah. Yeah, she'd be really good. Joy. I Mean at that point, I didn't know it was possible to fix it. Exactly. I just would have to look at it So I ended up doing medium thinking that's what I got in the first video I actually got smalls. I actually you know like a bigger slices this time to tropical chicken slices I had two Mediterranean and then I had one of the barbecue chicken So I ate five slices and the appetizer Yeah, so the dessert that I got five years ago, they don't have it anymore that can be thing We're deciding on something else, but I'm sure it'll still be delicious Exposure looks like it'd be better though. Mm-hmm. Let's go with that Oh Pizza will be wasted in the making of this video Well, they drove flower Art No, I don't know what that is, but it looks good and then this looks like it's brownie So I'm gonna get a little bit of everything. No, bro. That looks delicious Wow Yeah Incredibly good On a scale of one to ten top full So it's like a eight at a ten after the pizza and the dessert like just like a tiny bit like a quarter of a notch It was like a little cherry on top before I would start to feel physical fullness Before I felt mental fullness now. I feel mental fullness before I feel physical fullness I mentally don't want anything more but physically can eat I could like my stomach could contain more food, but I just don't want it to Oh My god As you can see I have a lot of goodies in front of me. I think it was like I was kind of satisfied every single craving I just feel very satisfied That's it. That's all she wrote. Okay Nothing looks similarly This is like what my grandma would make no, I want you to maybe you would like it Do you want it? Yeah, I just get it Okay guys, so this is my next meal. It's a lot of delicious looking food But I'm just not in the mood for it right now like after eating the pizza like I will eat it I'm gonna eat this sandwich first because I feel like I need something not only savory, but that isn't junk I don't know. I have no cravings for that real quick. I'm gonna have a sandwich It's just a plain avocado and turkey sandwich. I'm just gonna eat this really quick then I'm gonna move on to that stuff Well, it looks better to you right now that or that it was so good to me right now You can start with the dates because they they're off We're off video right now free balling. No, that's improvising Free balling They look amazing. I feel like it's shooting at my imaginary friends again That's good. Uh-huh. I knew you'd like that. I knew it. It's like a granola oatmeal bar. Mm-hmm. They're good It's got like a spice to it. That's what I thought you would like it. You know how I like carrot cake This is delicious Hit me These are super good. So let's just start with one serving You're good. Does anyone else know how to do this with their chip bag? Like does anyone else do this? And then it like you know, like there's you don't need to I've always done that my whole life and like whenever I do that in front of people they're like I Was going to mention that something that I think is gonna that's gonna be really different from my cheat days to today Is that I don't foresee feeling really bloated tomorrow or and still having like a food baby because I just like You know on cheat days I did I ate a lot of food and I was still digesting food the next day Whereas tomorrow I don't foresee like feeling all that different because my body is just more used to foods whereas before my food and my dietary preferences were a lot more bland having cheat days with lots of Sodium and lots of carbs would impact my body differently than I think it would now. I think tomorrow I'll pretty much feel the same You getting full I'm not getting full. I'm just tired. I'm just tired of catching chips. I'll log it as like half a serving Yeah Hit me ready for number two. Yeah, so this wasn't in the first cheat day But it is coconut based and they're really well coconut we couldn't find a bounty bar. It's been close enough and they look yummy Mmm, really coconutty. There's a nut in the middle. These are child proof. They make you earn it, bro Mmm, yummy, there's like a cream filling with a nut That's super good. Coming actually next Man I just destroyed that did I get the wrong ones they look different wait the ones I had were like roundists They're good though sour can be super good. They're yummy. They're quite sour more like sour patch kids. I think Okay, let's do the mint carobar Chocolate there's nice and green on the inside and it's like bubbly It's actually quite good. I wasn't fair to it the first time See how oh Henry treats you I I've had this many many times. I love this bar I couldn't have messed up Actually because I'm so used to snickers that I feel like it's a better version of a snickers Stingy get your peanut butter fix good old Reese's reliable Speddy kind of like death. I can't open it either. This whole video is me opening stuff Did you need to see the inside of Reese's? You can just pop it in here Apple So I couldn't find the apple blackberry crisp thing that I made in my last video This is as good as it's gonna get how many calories in a in a fifth 290 104 Looks good it smells delicious Still hot but it's good You love apple pie though. I do What was your favorite thing that you ate today of the savory food the pizza and then of the sweet I think that's more stoners. That was really good. Yeah But if you're still hungry then have something that's the name of the game right spice up this video a bit Cold pizza. Yeah, like it doesn't feel appealing to me. I don't know what I'm in the mood for I don't want like sushi or something. Try not to go off script too much I feel like you need like a meal like that sandwich was small. So I'm just gonna have a couple bites of this in the vlog If me or my mind are in the shop We got room for both you I didn't really make that big of a dent on these timbers I Want now I'm feeling kind of like too much. That was fun. That was a good day Feelin full Satisfied I remember doing this speech after every cheat day and it feels weird making that speech again But here we are three years post all in Full satisfied happy Ready for bed. It was a fun day. Had a really good time. The food was delicious like But I don't think I can eat the way I used to and I'm very very very happy for that I'm not the old Stephanie anymore, but I hope that you guys still love me I hope that you guys don't mind that I can't eat 10,000 calories in a day anymore because if that's the only reason you like to me Maybe I need to reevaluate my life. So I hope you enjoyed the video. Thank you to my imaginary friend For joining me in clubbing with me on this video. I love you so much and I'll see you in a video

=== FILE: My New All In Struggles (What I Haven’t Told You Yet) [oUf9lvOzcJw].txt ===

 I don't know what to do. I don't know. The all-in journey was hard, but doing it publicly just added so many layers of criticism, of pressure, of having to be perfect. So I'm gonna be honest with you, this video will be equally scary, but also a relief to make. It's scary because I want to open up to you about what I'm currently struggling with right now, with my body-life-hunger situation, and a relief just because I really want to just talk to you guys. I want to let you in, and I want to bring you in and share this next chapter with you. I have been wanting to do this for a while, but I just wasn't ready. But I think I'm ready now, so I want to talk to you about everything. In retrospect, I think my all-in one-year recap video had this false sense of finality, that I think led people to believe that I would just be done with all-in, and that's not necessarily true, or really how all of this works. That chapter was concluded, but I think right now I'm in a new chapter, so let's call it chapter two, that comes with its own hurdles and obstacles that I'm currently dealing with. So just to make sure that we're all on the same page, I really quickly want to recap chapter one. So before going all-in, as you know, I had extreme hunger, I was really tired, food focused, I was weak, low energy, and then I went all-in, and I sedated my extreme hunger by allowing myself unconditional permission to eat. I gained the necessary amount of weight to fix my hunger, fix my metabolism, and my quality of life. And after that, with a lower appetite and a higher metabolism, I lost a fraction of that weight gain, allowing my body to naturally settle into my predetermined genetic set weight, the weight that I can maintain easily without having to try and with intuitive eating, the body that I'm in now. So now what? So for starters, I'm going to tell you how much I weigh for context. So please do not take it out of context. And I would never try to say certain numbers are good or bad. Everybody is totally different. Everybody's body composition is different, and these numbers are completely arbitrary. I am not you and you are not me. But I want to tell you these numbers because I think it'll help you follow along. So I currently weigh 135 pounds, and this is 25 pounds higher than what I weighed before I began my journey. And the highest my weight ever got during my journey back in December 2019 was 152 pounds. And I think a good question to answer that I would like to address right now is whether or not I could have just gained 25 pounds, like to be the weight that I am now and not gain the 42 pounds that I did gain. And that is a definite no for me and my body. I needed to gain that 42 pounds to finally get to a place where my appetite was decreased to eventually get back down to my set weight. If I had only gained 25 pounds and like stopped eating to satiety, I would have never reached that point because after gaining only 25 pounds, I was still very hungry and still very far from finishing my journey. And stopping there would have just prevented me from fixing my extreme hunger. I do feel really good and happy here, not because I think I look good. I think I struggle with that regardless of what my weight is, but I really want to emphasize that I feel good, like physiologically, my health quality of life, my mood and my hunger. All of that is really good right now. I'm definitely in a way better place than I was before I started my journey, but mentally I am struggling with a few things right now. And that is what I want to talk about. So right now I'm in like this post all in weight maintenance phase. So my weight has been the same since July. I haven't been doing anything different or special, but this phase is tricky because of public perception. I feel like people think that my journey was supposed to be like this perfect linear line up in weight gain and then a perfect line down and weight loss and then plateau and stabilize for the rest of time. Hold on. Let me explain. Okay, so weight is on the y-axis and time I've been all in is on the x-axis. And then here is the weight I was when I started my journey. So this is what I think people think my all in journey should look like. I gained weight, then my appetite decreased. So I lost some of the weight that I gained and then my weight perfectly stabilizes for the rest of time at the ideal weight people think I should be. But based on everything I've learned about all in, it doesn't always work out like that. Some people who have a naturally lower set weight might gain a lot of weight and then settle at a lower body weight than I am now. Some people with a genetically higher body fat set point might not lose any of their overshoot weight or just lose a small amount of that weight. And then they settle higher than me because of their genetics. But I feel like right now I'm somewhere around here. My weight is stable and yes, I did lose some weight. But what I'm fearful is if I continue to lose any more weight, people might think I'm restricting or dieting again. Or if I gain more weight in a second wave of weight gain or just gain weight because Thanksgiving and the holidays are coming up. People might say all in failed and I'm back to yo-yoing with my weight. So at this point, like this is the pressure that I'm feeling right now. I feel this external pressure to maintain right here. If I deviate from here, I will get a lot of opinions thrown at me. People saying like, did all in not work? Are you restricting again? What's going on? Or I'll have to deal with people calling me obese again. And I know that it's really easy to say like, girl, don't worry about the haters. Like, don't worry about them. Don't listen to them. But it's so much easier said than done. I'm trying. I really am. But it's hard sometimes. So this is something that I am working on. I'm trying my absolute best to just like stay in my own lane and not let, you know, other people's opinions impact my behavior. But like I said, it's hard. And also not everyone is a hater. Some people just are concerned or confused. Like when I was gaining weight during my all in journey, a lot of people were just sharing their opinion of the fact that the weight gain was a detriment to my health. And now that I've lost some of that weight, people say that the weight loss is a detriment to my health. It's just a lot of opinions, not just hate, which is adding to this pressure. This is the problem. Like I'm really trying not to care. Okay. So the first problem is social media pressure to maintain this like ideal weight. So how am I going to fix that? Well, I don't really know if I have the right answer yet, but I really feel like this is a good place to start. Like me just opening up and being honest with you guys and telling you about how I feel and everything that I'm dealing with is a good place to start. Because I want to emphasize that an all in journey success is not predicated on where your weight ends up. It's predicated on not being food focused or hungry all the time and that your health has significantly improved. So if my weight changes from here, I just needed to let you know that it's a possibility and it doesn't make my all in journey any less successful. Okay. So that's one side of the first problem. The other side of this is that I need to stop letting other people's opinions impact or interfere with my journey. And one way that's helping me with this problem is doing more of what I mentioned in my last video. I've been doing a lot of reading, picking up new hobbies, spending time with my mom. How you? I want that one. My family, Jeff, and focusing on people in my real life who are not as invested in my weight or my body, which is nice because I need to separate my life from my life online. So my next struggle is likely a result of the first struggle. So the anxiety and pressure that I'm feeling from my external environment has led me down a path of having a pretty irregular appetite. So for the past few months, I've been suffering with pretty bad anxiety. Like, it's been bad. And I promised I would never use that word lightly. I truly understand the implications of that word. And this feeling is totally new to me. Like, I had normal bouts of anxiety during college, during my PhD, and throughout the year of my all-in journey, but never like this. Like, this is different. I've been too anxious to upload YouTube videos, too scared to talk about it, but I'm working on it. So here I am. And it seems like this newfound anxiety has been dramatically impacting my appetite. So when my anxiety is at its worst, which is in the morning, I have absolutely no desire to eat. I feel so bad to the point of jolting awake at 5.30 every day, just to get started on some task to appease my racing thoughts and fears. Also, so I don't lay in bed too long with said racing thoughts, so they don't spiral out of control. And what's worse is that when my appetite is very low, it makes me even more anxious because I don't want to lose any more weight because of what we've already talked about. So that spiraling anxiety loop is giving me more anxiety. And then my appetite will be really high at night, which is probably my body's way of like making up for the lack of food from earlier in the day. So at night time, I just like want to eat a whole pizza. But not in a binge. I never lose control and I'm just completely honoring my hunger. But then it kind of exacerbates this problem of not being hungry in the morning because I ate so much of my total daily food at night time. And you guys know that intuitive eating is eating in accordance to your hunger signals. But if your hunger signals are not reliable because of anxiety, it makes intuitive eating a lot harder. And don't get me wrong, it's only been a struggle for like the last few months, but it's been enough of an issue that I felt like I needed to address it. However, on top of that, all of this was really conflicting. I had like this mental tug of war where I was kind of like rejoicing in the fact that my appetite was so low and that I wasn't food focused anymore. I relished in the fact that food didn't rule my life anymore and that I barely thought about it throughout the day. But the irregularity was causing other downstream issues, which we'll get to in Act 3. And I know it is common for people to not eat in the morning. A lot of people skip breakfast, but before my anxiety got so bad, I was happily eating first thing in the morning. And another thing is that I actually didn't love the idea of prolonging my first meal and skipping breakfast because I do remember a conversation I had with Dr. Rinaldi where she mentioned how problematic intermittent fasting can be for women and their hormones. Making sure that you're spreading your food out throughout the day. This whole intermittent fasting thing is really, really horrible for women's hormones. Which kind of always stuck with me. So just another reason to address this problem. Funny enough, the video where I tried different breakfasts from different countries is actually me trying to fix this problem. I was working on my low morning appetite. It was in an attempt to help me start eating breakfast, but I just wasn't ready to talk about it at the time because I felt like I was still working on it. But it helped me eat complete meals earlier in the day and it was really fun. It's not nachos. So it broke through that aversion to food in the morning. And after that video, I did really try to continue eating earlier in the day. And I did pretty good, but it's just not something that I always do. But I feel like if I can manage my anxiety by talking to you guys, this problem won't feel so heavy. So I guess like the solution to my first problem will probably be a solution to this problem. So on the flip side of having a low appetite in the morning, like I mentioned, my appetite does like pick up at night. I feel like having a really high appetite and eating a lot more later in the day was causing a bit of food guilt. So that's the downstream effect of eating like the bulk of my food at nighttime. And I know that it's silly. I feel like I should be way past this, but food guilt is a tough feeling to stop. As you can see, my struggles kind of snowball into each other. This one, a combination of problems one and two, but food guilt is something that is not new to me. I definitely struggled with this in the past, even before going all in. I'm sure most people have dealt with it, but it's actually not surprising that it started to creep back once my weight had stabilized. And as you guys know, during my all in journey, I did struggle with food guilt, especially when I was at my heaviest weight. So I did pick up on a few tactics that I use then that I'm currently using now. However, the main difference between then and now is that now it seems to come in waves. Most of the time I'm completely fine, like carefree about food, eat freely without thinking too much about it. But it starts to get worse when my anxiety is bad. Like I already said, if my weight isn't what it should be by like some arbitrary metric, I start to pay more attention to how much I'm eating. But regardless, I still to this day honor my hunger. And when it's high, I still allow myself to eat, which might lead to just a small wash of guilt, admittedly, if I eat more than usual. But even when I have guilt, it doesn't stop me from eating and I still don't restrict. And I'm grateful for the fact that it's not an everyday thing, but it still happens occasionally. And of course, I wish this was something that never happened anymore, but I'm human. So some tactics that helped me in the past that I'm currently using. One, I always think about the food like nourishing my body. If my body was hungry, it was probably for a reason and my body probably needed the food. And two, I just think about how I could use the extra food for a quality session in the gym. Because I'm so much more focused on strength these days, anything that helps me lift more weight, I see it as a good thing. Another more obvious solution to this would be to fix problems one and two. But of course, that's a lot easier said than done. Also, it's kind of hard to say whether or not this would be easier on me if I wasn't so open with my journey on like the worldwide web. But I don't want it to stop me from sharing this journey with you. Because even if my videos or my Instagram stories or my Instagram posts in general help even just like a small fraction of you, it is worth the anxiety that comes with having a life on the internet. My skin can always get thicker, of course, and I feel like if I can manage my anxiety from external pressures, that would normalize my appetite and then fix all of my downstream issues. And to be very honest with you, I feel like after talking to you guys, I have like the weight of the world off of my shoulders. I feel like I'm so much off my chest. So none of this should have to be a concern anymore because if I gain or lose weight, I told you guys. So consider this a warning. But in all seriousness, I really hope that this video explains how I've been feeling and where I am right now and kind of lays a foundation for like the next obstacles that I plan to tackle in the upcoming months and in my upcoming videos. I want to share chapter two with you guys and I want to share how I'm dealing with this. And I want to show you how I improve. And I think maybe I think I might do a full day of eating for my next video. Just kind of like to catch you up on where I am mentally, show you how I'm eating to overcome some of these obstacles. And if that's something that you're interested in, maybe leave me a comment down below or like the video. And subscribe if you happen to be new. I'll leave you a link to my All In playlist if you want to catch up on all the Chronicles of Stephanie. And I'll see you in my next video. Thank you for being there with me. I love you. Bye.

=== FILE: My New Life (Updates, Food & Training) [r4N_OABcAr4].txt ===

 does my makeup look good? It does. That's the most important thing. Beautiful. Beautiful. MUSIC That's the best. Yeah. Ha ha ha. MUSIC I'm Toronto. Yes! We're back with our friends! After Europe, I came back to the US. I closed on my house in New Orleans. I don't even care that I live in the land of boxes, because you guys, I bought a house. I am a homeowner. Oh! Cheers to that. So cheers to being a new homeowner. You guys know Lonnie, and then John. I'm back in Canada, because we're going to see a Kendrick Lamar concert tonight. Who you eating, Canada, Canada! Buddy. You gotta try this one. This is one of the best cocktails, if not the best cocktail I've ever had in my life. It's that good. You're gonna love it. MUSIC Oh yeah, that's super good. I'm just gonna take you along for the weekend. We're getting some good food, gonna do a workout, good times, good food. I'll see you later. MUSIC I'm not sure if you can eat salad, but the reason I got it was because it was a signature dish. If you cover it, it's good. MUSIC That's lit. Can't wait to try it. I know. Cacini is not my choice. I have no chopsticks. It's really good. Yeah, try it out. I don't know what this fish is. There's something in the inside of this. It's corn fritter. It's like corn tempura. Oh, is it? Okay. MUSIC I'll just ride food then. It's like a chicken. We ride, but there's like this coconut cream milk sauce. It's okay. It's chicken and rice, man. It's also pretty good. I would say it's pretty good. MUSIC No? It's okay. Yeah, that's what I thought. MUSIC Ride, ride, baby ride. MUSIC It's a good day. It's a good day. It's a good day. It's a good day. It's a good day. It's a good day. It's a good day. It's a good day. It's a good day. MUSIC Staying here cause we need to make a left on Spadina. So today for me was like a really chill day. Last night we went to the concert and it was incredible. MUSIC My heart is still happy with how good the show was. We came home pretty late for me because I'm an old lady and I don't go to bed late. We're going to dinner now. The place is really highly rated. This goal. MUSIC I'm on one of the 309 books. Get off. MUSIC Yeah. MUSIC LAUGHING MUSIC LAUGHING What? I didn't wash my hands. Bro got a cappuccino, man. MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC I got a winner finally. MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC MUSIC learning learning learning learning learning Oh yeah, she takes one out of me. If you tell me how to like me, I'll just go bang, I'll just go bang. So my makeup look good? It does. That's the most important thing. Beautiful. We are at Fortis Fitness. This will be the first real workout since I've been in Toronto. Okay, let's do it. See these old like ads from like the, Fortis and stuff, some of them are hilarious. Too skinny, don't be fat. Let's tie it. The six seconds. Hey, it's been a while since I've done a workout voiceover. It feels good to talk about training again. Okay, so let's just jump right in. You just saw my brief warm-up of dynamic stretching of both upper and lower body since we are going to be doing a full body workout. So we had to do both. And I did walking lunges to bring up my body temperature, but you can always hop on a treadmill and walk on incline for five minutes to get your body warmed up. But I just thought this would be easier. So this is a workout from my newest quick and effective program for busy people or people who don't want to spend a ton of time in the gym. People who want fast workouts, but also be challenging, fun, and of course effective for building muscle. Also, if you have this program or any of my programs, keep in mind you get free access to my app, which is now live, to track all of your workouts. All my programs are on there and it's completely free for you guys when you purchase a program. So if you didn't know I had an app, now you do. I'll link all the info for you down below. Okay, so this workout starts out with two primary exercises. The first is a sumo goblet squat. You'll want your feet in a sumo or pointing out position, and you'll hold either a dumbbell or kettlebell in front of you as you lower. When you drive out of the hole or out from the bottom, you'll want to drive through your heels and drive with your glutes up and squeeze them at the top. The sumo position hits the glutes more than if your feet are forward, which would target the quads more. The next primary exercise is an eccentric accentuated lat pull down. So being limited on time, using this technique of decreasing the tempo of the eccentric, which is the going up portion of the movement, will allow for more tension on the muscle with less sets and reps, thus less time. You'll use a normal tempo pulling the bar down, driving your elbows down and in towards your waist, but slowly raise the bar up, accentuating the negative. The next two exercises will be a super set of a machine leg curl and a rope face pull, which you will do back to back with a short rest in between. So while your hamstrings are resting, you will hit your rear delts, and while your rear delts are resting, you'll hit your hamstrings. At this gym, they actually had pressurized Kaiser machines, which have an interesting and constant resistance curve. They're actually really cool machines. I think I've seen them only once before, but it was fun training on them, and it feels really strange at first, but it's really smooth once you get used to it. So I think that's a good thing about this gym. It's a lot of people struggle to feel their rear delts on a rope face pull, so a good cue is to pull the rope straight towards your eyes and pull your arms back like you're going to do a double bicep pose, and then reverse the movement on the eccentric, but keep control of the movement. The next two exercises are another group of supersets to keep this workout moving very fast. So you're going to do a leg extension and a machine ab crunch back to back, again with little rest in between. While writing this program, I tried to group exercises that don't overlap muscle groups, as well as could potentially be near each other in the gym. However, it's impossible to predict the layout of everyone's gym, so I did my best to group machine exercises together and dumbbell exercises together. This gym just happened to have the ab machine right next to the leg curl, which was a complete fluke, as I'd actually never been to this gym, but if you have to walk a bit in your gym to get to the next exercise, I would just count it towards your rest time. The leg extension and the ab machine were both pressurized Kaiser machines like the leg curl, so it took me a minute to get used to it. I want to see what kind of chops you got. Not bad. And last but not least, 10 to 15 minutes of moderate intensity steady state cardio. On this particular day of the program, I actually add cardio at the end of the workout. I've never included cardio in a program before, but when people ask me when to do cardio, only if they want to add cardio, I advise adding it after your weight training session. Since you're short on time, you're not going to have time to add cardio on top of these workouts, which is why I included it. And, you know, it's good for your heart. And after that, we are done. Super fast and super efficient. Tell everyone that he looks better in pink than I do. I love that. I can't deal with all this positive. I'm waiting for that. Looks nice. This is as good as it gets, okay? That's the best. It's so good. I can't feel it. Did she get breasting also? Or the weight? Oh, wow. That is super good. We had an incredible weekend with good food, good friends, good music, and of course, good times. I hope you enjoyed the video and I will see you in the next one. Love you. Bye.

=== FILE: My Recent Weight Loss and Fears About Regaining Weight (Explaining My Mistakes) [1wXVeeoZMPw].txt ===

 you just like think you're beyond these like petty problems, but then your mind turns on and you realize that you're not. Hello, hello, I have missed you guys. I'm just gonna jump right in. I'm here to explain where I've been the past four months and just talk about what's going on. So in a previous video, I talked to you guys about my struggles with anxiety and my low appetite, but for a few months last year, it ended up becoming a bigger issue than I was comfortable sharing. After I opened up about it in that video, unfortunately it ended up getting a lot worse and I started losing a lot of weight from simply exploiting my lack of hunger. And what I mean by that is, is that I took advantage of my low appetite as I lost more and more weight and I blindly ignored it. I was convinced that my body was still trying to settle into its natural set weight. I was also under an illusion that I was doing super well, that at first I didn't notice I was losing so much weight, but I ended up losing more than beyond what I believe my set weight is and didn't do anything to stop it. It was only for a few months, but those few months were enough to throw me off track. And I think I know why it happened. First of all, I am so unbelievably far from perfect. I would be the first person to say it, but I would be lying if I said that the positive comments about my body didn't start getting to my head and I'm ashamed how the positive reinforcement affected me. Comments like, you look amazing, you proved all the haters wrong and you look so good now, kept me in this mentality where my brain associated weight loss equals good and weight gain equals bad, which I know is wrong. Despite 99% of the feedback being positive about my all-in journey, it's no secret that I received very vocal unsavory comments about my weight gain, which really made me scared to ever regain weight again. Or I want to gain weight, but are they gonna start calling me pregnant again? However, as my body weight kept decreasing, my desire to stay lean kept increasing and it took me a few months to realize that I was tiptoeing in very dangerous territory. I think I was subconsciously restricting and blaming it on my lack of appetite. Of course, I wasn't lying about that. I genuinely never really felt that hungry, but I could have made more of an effort to just eat more and prevent that unnecessary weight loss, but I didn't. And it's hard for me to fill in these types of clips because I want to be better and has overcome all these issues, but I'm human and I just haven't. I guess I was too scared to not be a perfect example of this journey and I was, I guess, subconsciously trying to protect myself from getting hate again. With that weight loss came some of the signs of old habits. Habits I thought were long gone, but it turns out they were just lying dormant. My mind is a little disordered because I don't want to gain too much weight too fast. Like all these disordered thoughts coming back. Like restrictive habits, like choosing the healthy option at a restaurant, skipping meals if I wasn't hungry and feeling guilty after a high calorie meal, all of which I ignored at first, making up excuses like, oh, well, if I'm not hungry and I'm eating intuitively, not eating would just be listening to my body, right? And in actuality, what I needed to do was to get my anxiety under control so I could get my appetite back and get rid of the mindset of being scared to regain weight, all of which kind of required me to take a break from social media. So here I am after regaining healthy weight to report back on what I did to fix these issues. One, to let you know where I've been and two, in the event you've ever been in my position and started slipping back into old habits, maybe this video and telling you what I did might help you. I felt like I needed to get past these struggles on my own terms because I feel like if it doesn't come from within, I knew that it wouldn't last. I recognized quickly that the first thing I needed to do was fix my anxiety. So I signed up for a service that helps you find a therapist because I wanted to give therapy a try. Jeff was actually having a lot of success with therapy, so I went in feeling really optimistic. However, I tried three different therapists and all of them made me feel so much worse but for totally different reasons. One was like talking to Radio Silence. I was like, come on, give me something. It was basically like talking to myself. Another gave me so much homework and made me buy so many books that I was incredibly overwhelmed. All of them made me feel more anxious after the call than before it. So for me personally, I didn't have success with it but I still recommend trying therapy because I know it does help a lot of people. After that, my anxiety continued to get worse. Sometimes I go five steps forward just to move 10 steps back and it's just tough sometimes. So I decided to go to a psychiatrist and I started taking medication for my anxiety and by far that helped me the most. The changes were both subtle while being simultaneously super significant. One day I woke up and I didn't feel like my heart was going to leap out of my chest anymore and thoughts of regaining weight didn't make me feel like I was going to lose everything and reap the wrath of the internet. I could breathe. It also didn't hurt that my doctor was really kind and patient. He was the best therapist of them all and he isn't even a therapist. From there, I had the realization that, hey, whenever I talk to Kayla who you've seen on my channel before, I always feel a million times better. There you are, oh my God. I know, you look beautiful, how are you? I tried therapy because I would never want to abuse Kayla's friendship but I needed her and I had a feeling she would know what to do. Like for example, this is what starts a lot of disordered eating for a lot of people is you lose weight and then you get the world that validates all of your core fears and your core beliefs of I'm only good enough if I'm exercise or if I look a certain way. So there's that element too that's gonna cause those thoughts to come back. And thankfully I had a wonderful call with her. She made me feel like all of my problems were normal. I mean, you know my story. Like I did this how many times? From working now with people, this happens more often than not. Like it's pretty rare where people don't go back. She didn't make me feel like I relapsed or that it was strange to feel this way. She reassured me that I was doing the right thing, trying to fix it before it went too far and was too far down the rabbit hole of feeling that irrational desire of I'm so lean again and I like it, which I know can happen very easily. If you catch yourself, you can learn a lot for yourself of what not to do the next time and it really strengthens your faith in the process and it strengthens your why, it strengthens so much. So since my anxiety was finally under control, chatting with her made the solution so simple. It's silly how simple it is, but it was painfully easier said than done. But I still get scared that I'm, I still get scared. This is why, like, you know, like I didn't mess with you, like, oh, I'm all good now. That is not, I'm just far from the truth. So the solution was just that I just had to eat more and not care what my body looks like and not care what people think and not care if I get hate. I was actually at a point where regaining weight wasn't my biggest fear anymore. I was actually more scared that I lost too much weight and I was terrified of going back down the path of where I was before I went all in. And that realization really scared the wits out of me. I thought to myself, after everything I've been through, a bit of anxiety is going to push me back all the way to the beginning. I was in shock that I almost let it happen and to be honest with you, I started eating again like it was my job. And I say that because that is exactly what Jeff said to me when he told me to snap out of it in the nicest way possible. He said, you gotta eat. Jeff has always been my rock and even through the few months that I got off track, he was there to help me get back on track. Another thing that made an enormous difference was that I stopped weighing myself. And this one will seem like a duh moment, but I spent years weighing myself before all in and then I had to document my weight gain and weight loss during all in and then continued to document my weight after all in. It was actually really hard to stop because I had this irrational feeling that I was duty bound to keeping tabs on this information for the sake of my channel. I don't really know, I just felt like I had to. But I had to throw that out the window because I really don't think you guys give it how much I weigh at this point. I finally said, screw documentation and stopped. And it is the first time in almost a decade that I have absolutely no clue how much I weigh. I couldn't even guess if I tried. And it feels really great not knowing. Being on the brink of going a million steps backwards after everything I've accomplished really puts into perspective how mental body images and how damaging society is. I suffer still from having food guilt even though I'm trying to gain weight. Like this is how silly and mental this can be. Like food and weight and your body is such a mental mind game. As someone who preaches body neutrality and gained a bunch of weight in front of millions of people still struggled with weight gain, anxiety and body image. It's messed up and I have no excuse other than I'm human and a woman. And we can be really hard on ourselves. I'm not an exception to that. However, this isn't entirely a sad story. I did get back on track and I caught myself before things went too far. I never got to the point where I started developing high levels of hunger again and I just started eating and regaining weight like it was my job. I did it and here I am. Just a few months off course, just a few. So if you've ever been there in the position that I was in, it's never too late to get back on track. I'm here with you. I know exactly how you feel. These days I'm eating consistently and often, which is what I was doing before. I kind of ran into this trouble and got off course, but I'm back to doing it again. I'm back on track and I regained healthy weight. And I realized that regaining weight was the best thing for me because I feel like once I broke the fear and anxiety revolving around my weight fluctuating, I could just get past it and move on. But I want to come back with no excuses. I will own all of my mistakes. I've made many. I'm just sharing. Don't do what I do. I'm just sharing the things that I've done and they may or may not work for everybody. Okay, so last but not least, I want to get your input on what you would like to see from me. Many of you want me to stop talking about all in and I absolutely understand. I take no offense at all. I get it. It can be repetitive and tiresome to hear about. I can 100% move on from here and just talk about what I'm doing now. I can do daily vlogs, informative videos, do full days of eating, fitness related stuff like how I train or I could do try on halls. I don't know. You just gotta let me know. Because aside from that, my all in journey did enable me to reach a lot of the eating disorder and recovery community because there does seem to be a lot of overlap. It's interesting because I actually never intended to reach anyone outside of the fitness community in my own little corner of YouTube, but I did. My original intention was always to reach women who may be competed in the past or women who were really into fitness who could relate to the issues that I was struggling with. However, I am incredibly happy that my struggles resonated with the recovery and ED community because my videos do seem to help. So, since you are here, I wanted to know if you want me to cover this topic. I can bring on experts and interview them to discuss certain topics you wanna hear about. As you may or may not know, my PhD is in pathology and cell biology with a focus on ovarian cancer. So, nothing to do with nutrition. I'm just a girl who struggled with extreme hunger who just happens to also have a PhD. It doesn't make me any type of authority on this stuff. So, maybe you can give me some recommendations of who you'd like me to chat with on my channel and what you'd like me to cover. It's also really important to me that I talk to experts because I personally did not have anorexia or binge eating disorder, but was definitely orthorexic before all in. I had a very rigid bodybuilder type diet. So, I think I would be a good interlocutor due to my past struggles. People might think that I binged on my cheat days, but I was always fully in control and just ate to satiety. Wow. It was just that my satiety was super, super high, but my orthorexic tendencies were still restrictive enough to lead to extreme hunger and I'm sure I'm not alone. The last thing I wanna discuss is that, regardless of the type of content I make moving forward, I wanna clear the air about a particular concern people have and that is about showing my physique. I know I showed it in this video, but I never want to be triggering. However, I've noticed showing my body seems to upset people since I've lost weight. I guess I just never thought of not showing my body because throughout the entire process of me gaining weight and when I was at my heaviest weight, I never got any complaints. On the contrary, I was praised for my bravery, but now showing the exact same thing, but in a smaller body seems to upset people. So just let me know so I'm aware. Would it be preferable if I didn't show my physique in videos anymore? Your input would be most appreciated and help me navigate what I should film and what I should share. So that's it for this video. I'm feeling a bit vulnerable right now, but I felt like I just needed to open up to you guys. I love you guys and I miss you so much. I will see you in the next one. Bye. What's up, you guys? Just like that.

=== FILE: The Problem With Fat Shaming (My Experience + The Science) [37FXytTqUvo].txt ===

 your fat, fat, fat, fat! Fat-shaming. We've all seen it in movies, TV, or likely in real life. She got fat. Or maybe you've been subjected to fat-shaming, or even been the person doing it in hopes that maybe you have some sort of persuasive power to motivate someone into either losing weight or to start exercising. Listen, I don't want to be that guy, but you gotta lose some weight. But does fat-shaming actually work? Does it actually encourage someone to change their entire lifestyle and do all the health and fitness-y stuff? And I myself have experienced it last year when I gained over 40 pounds during my all-in journey. So, did it actually work on me? I've been really interested in this topic ever since I saw Ben Carpenter's fat-shaming video on Instagram. So please, allow me to do some explaining. Where he goes into the research and his video is awesome, definitely check it out. He makes a bunch of informative content. But this question of whether or not fat-shaming is effective is actually a question that is well studied. And there is an extensive body of literature on it. And the results, at least to me, are extremely surprising. We're going to get into my experience in a little bit, but first, let's talk about what we know from the science. So, fat-shaming is often referred to as weight stigmatization or weight discrimination in the literature. And it's described as a perception that stigmatizing or shaming overweight and obese individuals can be used as a tool to instill motivation in them. So they start to eat healthier and exercise more to improve their health. An interesting study examined how watching a fat-shaming video affected eating behavior in 73 women. This video contained clips from popular movies portraying overweight and obese women with negative stereotypes, like being lazy, clumsy, and loud. Now, the women chosen for this study had varying body weights and varying BMI. So they ranged from normal weight to overweight or obese. And half the women watched the negative weight stigmatizing video, and the other half of the women watched neutral videos on, like, insurance commercials. And keep in mind that the participants did not know what the study was for. So, after watching the videos, they were asked to wait in a room that had a variety of snacks. And the researchers were clever and were like, Oh, can you wait here? We have a few things to do. Make yourself comfortable. And they made sure to tell them to help themselves to anything you want. And there were three different snack bowls containing M&M's, jelly beans, and sun chips, which sound delicious, solid choices. And after the ladies left the room, they actually weighed the bowls and could measure how much food they ate. So what happened? Well, it turns out that the overweight women who watched the fat shaming video ate three times the amount of snacks compared with the overweight women in the control group who watched the neutral insurance videos. They also compared the food intake between normal weight women watching the fat shaming videos versus the control group. And interestingly, there wasn't a big difference between the amount of snacks they ate. So this study demonstrated that being subjected to watching negative fat shaming content makes overweight and obese people eat more, not less. So the people likely targeted for weight discrimination are the people who are likely to be the most vulnerable to increasing the amount of food they eat. Another very similar study, which used a weight stigmatizing news article instead of video clips, showed the same thing. When overweight or obese women were subjected to reading a news article called, Lose Weight or Lose Your Job, compared to reading a neutral news article about smoking, they found that the overweight women who read the fat shaming article ate almost double the amount of snacks. This study had different but still very delicious snacks, but the outcome was the same. And they also noticed that in the underweight and average weight groups, there was no significant difference in the amount of snacks they ate. Again, showing that the people most likely to be targeted for weight discrimination are the people most likely to be affected by it. To kind of really drive this point home, a study conducted in over 2,000 obese and overweight women measuring survey responses reported that 79% of them used food as a coping mechanism. And ate more food when they were subjected to fat shaming. And 75% of the women reported they coped with weight discrimination by refusing to diet. Also, they reported that family members and doctors were the two most common weight shamers. Fat shamers. Now, in terms of doctors, I understand it's their job to point out harms to someone's health. That's totally reasonable. But there's an accumulation of both self-reported and experimental research that demonstrates negative stereotypes and attitudes towards obese patients by health care providers and fitness professionals. Which includes views that obese patients are lazy, lacking self-discipline, and non-compliant with treatment. So they are treated differently just because of their weight. There's also research indicating that doctors spend less time and appointments and provide less health education with obese patients compared to thinner patients. Now, in terms of family, I genuinely feel like family members have their relatives best interests at heart. But as we have seen, it has been repeatedly shown that shaming someone into dieting actually has the opposite effect. And I'm sure this isn't the same for everyone, so I would love to know some of your individual responses to weight discrimination from family in the comments. But I want to talk about my own experience with fat shaming that I encountered with both family and non-family members. But before I do, I think I need to make clear that since my heaviest all-in-weight, I have come down since then for reasons completely unrelated to fat shaming or criticism I received. So if you're unfamiliar with my journey, I gained 42 pounds last year to fix my extreme hunger. And now, over a year and eight months later, I've settled into my set weight. I started eating less because I didn't have extreme hunger anymore, not because I was shamed into it. But even though the weight gain was done with a purpose, it doesn't mean that I was immune to the negative effects of the fat shaming. I mean, I did get my fair share of it. And I have to admit, when it comes from family, it just hurts a lot more. It can oddly feel like they love you less or think less of you, even though in their mind, they just want to help. Comments from family about my weight just made me feel bad. It's some type of awful you don't feel as strongly as when it comes from strangers. And I have to be honest, from someone who comes from a background of dieting, yes, the hurtful comments did tempt me to want to diet, but then other times it just made me want to like double down on my all-in journey and show off my weight gain even more. Just to annoy the haters. So I kind of fell into both categories, I guess. And yeah, strangers on the internet calling me obese, unhealthy, and a fat pig felt pretty bad, but it was somewhat easier to ignore than comments from family. Now I know I only went through a few studies in detail about the effects of food consumption, but there are hundreds of papers that repeatedly tell the same story, and they're very nicely summarized in a review paper on the effects of obesity stigma, if you need more convincing. So now that we covered how ineffective fat shaming is on diet, what about exercise? Maybe people are more primal and more action-oriented, so maybe instead of changing dietary habits, people just start exercising more. And I feel like people who fat-shame other people think it will induce some sort of like, I'll show you mentality, but that's not the case at all. A study conducted in almost 400 overweight or obese participants who were currently or recently a member of a gym filled out an online questionnaire. It was about a range of topics to keep the people unaware of what the study motive or why they were being asked these questions, but the researchers were most interested in their reporting on exercise. So when asked about their experience with weight stigma and exercise, the participants actually reported that weight stigma made them have a negative attitude towards going to the gym, more internalized weight bias, like they felt internally that the negative stereotypes about overweight people were about them. They were more self-conscious, they reported unhealthy weight control practices because of the fat-shaming, and worse, self-reported physical and emotional health, and we'll get to mental health in a bit. But the results of the study basically tell us that fat-shaming does not make people more likely to exercise. And in my experience, I have to 100% agree with this. At my heaviest weight when I was subjected to the most criticism, I absolutely hated going to the gym. I would do it, but it was a lot less, or sometimes I had months of not working out at all, which was often sadly somewhat dependent on when the most recent fat-shaming video came out about me. I had little to no motivation. I felt like the lighting in the gym made me look even worse. I was very self-conscious. I have an arm insecurity. And there were just so many mirrors. Also, finding something to wear that actually fit me right was just tormenting every time I got dressed. I would dig through my closet, like trying to find the most flattering outfit, usually without success, and it just left me feeling defeated, half-dressed, and sitting on the floor of my bedroom with a blank stare. And I love working out, so for someone who doesn't have that inherent love for the gym, I mean, I imagine it's hard to get motivated to strap up in spandex and walk into an often judgemental and intimidating environment. With my gym! Ooh! Now, one huge component of weight stigma that I haven't touched on yet are the effects and negative toll it takes on mental health. Mental health is just as much a part of your overall well-being as physical health, and is more often than not completely overlooked. And this is something that really resonates with me, because at the start of my all-in journey, I wasn't afraid to show you guys anything, and I used to make and upload a lot more videos than I do now. I started suffering from really bad anxiety, and I'm often too scared to film or upload videos or even post on my Instagram. Except for Instagram story. I actually feel the most comfortable sharing my journey over there, but the amount of body shaming I've experienced at every body size was enough to really negatively impact my mental health. So it's not surprising that a meta-analysis of 105 studies consisting of almost 60,000 participants showed a correlation between weight stigma and worse mental health status. Also really important to note, research has consistently shown a correlation between weight-based victimization and eating disorder symptoms with increased episodes of binge eating. And finally, a 2020 joint international consensus statement on weight stigma published in Nature Medicine, a very highly regarded journal, with a panel of 36 multidisciplinary experts unanimously agreed that weight-based stigma and internalized weight bias can be particularly harmful to mental health, increasing risks of depressive symptoms, anxiety, and promoting lower self-esteem, social isolation, stress, and substance abuse. So now that I've driven home the point that fat shaming clearly does not work, what can be done instead? I know that there are people out there who want to help someone they love or care about, change dietary or exercise habits. So is there a right way to encourage a healthier lifestyle? Well, for starters, we, as in we a society, first need to stop judging someone's health by looking at them. This is a point Ben did a great job of emphasizing in his video that you cannot judge someone's health just by looking at them. There are so many examples, especially in the fitness industry, of people looking like they are the pinnacle of health and actually have horrible physical and not to mention mental health. I feel like pre-Allen Stephanie was a great example of this. I had a lot of problems that I needed to address. I know many of you have expressed your struggles with your health even though you were visually a normal weight. Conversely, a larger-bodied person doesn't have to have a six-pack to still have amazing health by every medical standard. So once we get it out of our minds that someone's health must be bad just because they are larger, we can dismiss the unnecessary weight discrimination on people who might be healthier than we think. So tip number one, maybe keep your thoughts to yourself unless you have a really good reason to give unsolicited advice or criticism to someone about their body. Now, if a friend or loved one is struggling with their health and you are aware for a fact they are indeed struggling, maybe due to the onset of disease or maybe they come to you for help, then at that point the most effective thing you can do is to be as positive and encouraging to their goals as possible. It's not up to you to decide what they do with their body and you should respect that and be there to support them. I know that's all I would have wanted when I gained weight and my family just didn't understand. Like, I wasn't telling them they needed to understand what I was doing, I just wanted them to be supportive of it. Now, you might say that sentiments like this means I must not care and that I'm like promoting obesity, which is fabulously untrue. I do care about people who are subjected to weight stigma because it's pretty clear the ways people think it will promote health doesn't work. They're peels not shit! So if you care so much, then you try to see how ineffective fat shaming is. Obesity is a very complex and multifaceted disease that's not going to be fixed by someone saying, you're fat, you need to lose weight. And of course, there will be examples of people that behave opposite to what trends in science show, but again, this is just what happens most of the time. And if you think the science is wrong, you clearly just missed the entire point of this video and I'm probably not going to reach you or have an argument that you will accept anyways. So, yeah. But that's going to be it for this video. I would love to hear your feedback in the comments down below. Like the video if you liked it, subscribe if you happen to be new, and I will catch you in the next one. Love you guys. Bye.

=== FILE: What Am I Doing Right Now？ (Full Life Update) [xImuAI5fcO4].txt ===

 good morning. Is it going? Is it rolling? Let's do it! Peach and grape oreos? So the vibe that I got from my last video, based on your feedback, was that you guys just want to watch what I make, like anything that I want to make. So that's what we're doing today. We are going to be doing more like a hangout with me, catch up with me type situation. Yeah, so I actually filmed on my birthday in my last video. If you missed it, I am an old lady. I'm 32 years old, if you guys didn't know. Okay, first of all, I hate celebrating my birthday. I feel like I don't like the attention, but I actually had a really good time because my sister decided to throw me a tea party, which sounds like a six-year-old's dream, but it was actually really fun. She made the most amazing food. This turned out great. I don't know why we don't do tea parties more often. It was, if you're looking for an idea for a themed party, I highly recommend a tea party. If you want something like girly and fun and you can have really good handheld edible foods that are delicious and just like a good balance of savory food and sweet food, I highly recommend it was such a good time. If you guys have been around on my channel for a while, you know my sister's like my best friend in the whole world, but she got married. Okay, so do a little twirl. Oh, this is beautiful. I love it. She allowed me and trusted me to do her makeup. This, once you blend it and then you add like even just the tiniest bit of this pink. Yeah, that's perfect. I always feel like I should show my sister more in my videos, but I just don't want to like shove a camera in people's faces, especially if they're not particularly like excited about being on camera. I don't think she minds it, but I just don't like shoving a camera in people's faces. The only time I do that is in the case of my mom because my mom loves being on camera. She is just like she's the most photogenic and like camera happy person. I love putting my mom on camera. She's like the best. Nadine, uh, because she came up really close to when my birthday was, uh, she got me some delicious like snacks from the Asian market. I definitely am going to be reviewing those because some of them look so, so interesting. Julie, did you see these peach and grape Oreos? Praised pork, roasted human lamb. So the next thing I wanted to update you guys on was my training routine, which has I guess it's changed. I've been doing this for like the last two or three months. So I kind of wanted to tell you guys what I've been doing because I feel like it's a type of training. A lot of people would be really interested in. I've only been training three days a week, sometimes four. Today's a rest day, by the way. So the clips that you're going to be seeing are clips from a different day. And I've been training full body and I've been able to get in and out of the gym in less than an hour. I've been doing like really quick and efficient workouts. So the way that I've kind of been achieving that is by doing exercises that don't require a lot of setups, like more machine exercises. A lot of dumbbell work, a lot of supersets, things that can make a workout really efficient, but also just as effective. It takes a lot of tweaking to make the workout make sense. Like my full body workouts have to account for recovery. The supersets also have to make sense because like I don't have time to walk across the entire gym in between two different exercises. So the exercises that I superset have to make sense as well as like the order of my exercises, like my primary exercises. I still focus on strength, so I don't superset those. But with my accessory movements, I do. I do a lot of eccentric, accentuated exercises because then I can do less sets of those. And I also train certain exercises to failure because those are also more efficient if you do less sets of those as well. So you can kind of get more bang for your buck. Like there's some method to my madness. It took a lot of thought, like forethought with exercise selection. If I can get out in like 45 minutes or like any time under an hour, I feel like I did a good job because I just have other responsibilities and I have things to do. So Jeff is around here somewhere. He's editing his next video, which by the way, yours truly helped him film. So we are filming Jeff's protein video. We're gonna do things in, that's pretty. This is Jeff's video. It's not my video. If you're interested in protein intake, how much protein you should be eating and stuff like that, this is gonna be a really informative video. We're putting so much effort into the B-roll. You better appreciate it. Just watch it. But this video, his video will already be out by the time this is out. It'll be, have been out probably for a really long time. Shout out. Don't leave me hanging. Don't leave me hanging. And I will actually be in this video. So if you want to check it out, I highly recommend checking it out. Nice. All right, let's do it. But another exciting thing that happened is that Jeff actually hit three million subscribers. I can't even believe that. I'm about to hit three million subscribers. And I was wondering if you could subscribe to my channel. Oh yes. She's gonna be one. My mom was there to witness it. It was so amazing. Oh, oh, oh no. I missed it. Oh. Three million people. Yep. Isn't that cool? Yes, it's cool. You got approval from... Uh-oh. Uh-oh. Uh-oh. Uh-oh. Oh my god, it's cool. That's kind of... Ah! Crazy. I'm just so unbelievably proud of him. I don't think I've ever seen another YouTuber work as hard as him. If you're not already subscribed to his channel, I'd highly recommend checking out his channel because... Very good. So if you're not familiar with my living situation, I currently have a home in Florida. This house is in Florida, Jacksonville, Florida, if you didn't know. I also spend half of the year in Canada because Jeff is actually Canadian. But for the United States location, I am actually moving to New Orleans, which has to do with my sister's new husband because my sister is moving to be with him. I am moving along with my mom. I've only been to New Orleans once. I actually went to New Orleans for the American Association for Cancer Research Conference. When I was doing my PhD, I did a poster presentation there, and it was a really big conference, and I loved New Orleans. When I was told that I was going to be moving there, I was actually pretty excited about it. So we're going to go there this coming week to check out some good food, some good areas to live in, maybe the gym situation. But the main thing that I need to check out is the situation for my mom's living. So my mom lives in an assisted living facility, so I need to make sure that I find a facility that's like really good for her, that will give her the care that she needs. She actually just had knee surgery. She had a whole knee replacement surgery. I'm going to see Mama Wally. Nice. Glutes are on point. You're shooting my butt? I thought you were getting in the hospital. I was just hitting the shot also. You had some composition. Yeah. Hi, Wally. Aww. Just in general, I have my mom over three days a week. She's an enormous part of my life. I spend a lot of my time either just spending time with her or taking care of her. Aside from her knee surgery and her mobility, she has a lot of other issues. I mentioned before on my channel, she is mentally ill and she does suffer from a lot of side effects from her mental illness medication. All of those things kind of impede her mobility. So she does need a lot of care and attention from my sister and I. I only want to say this for those who are fellow caregivers because they are very much more important than I am. I'm not a fellow caregiver because sometimes it is overwhelming and sometimes it does feel like it's a lot on your shoulders. Because you're trying to take on the health and responsibility of the person that you're taking care of. In addition to the fact that you have to take care of yourself. I have to do my own work and have my own life and have relationships and friendships. Finding that balance the past couple years has been really tough for me. I prioritize my mom right now. I'm reaching out to you if you are a fellow caretaker to just be patient with the person you're with. You will never, when they're no longer with you, which the thought of that literally will make me break down and feel like I'm going to die. You will never regret doing too much for somebody. You will only ever regret not doing enough. It'll be something that will stay with you for the rest of your life and you'll be happy that you did what you did for the other person. That was super random. I just wanted to say that. That is actually it for this video. I wanted to just show you what I've been up to. Comment down below anything you'd like to see from me. If you'd like for me to talk about anything more in specific. I love you guys so much and I will see you in the next one. Bye. Came like this. They smell like high chews. Yes, yes. They smell like grape high chews. That's not exactly. Instagram versus reality moment. This is so weird. It's like grape bubblegum with Oreo cookie. I don't know how I feel about that. That was my verdict. Question mark at a 10.

=== FILE: What Do I Eat Like Now？ (Full Day of Eating & Meal Ideas) [O6s_R9CTxto].txt ===

 start over, cut! I got tons of st- I got tons of st- I got tons of st- I got tons of st- I got tons of st- I got tons of st- I got tons of st- I got tons of st- I got tons of st- Good morning, guys! So, I'm about to get ready to film, and I figured that I would actually just take you through what I do, like, my everyday makeup situation. I'm obviously still in my pajamas. I'm gonna change and look like a functioned human of society in just a minute. We need to take a moment for my slippers, because they deserve a moment of screen time. Can we just... They're my favorite. I got them on target. Okay, all I have on right now is my sunscreen. It is tinted, so it creates, like, a really nice base, because I don't wear a ton of makeup on a day-to-day basis. I use two different colors of powder, one for, like, the center of my face, and then a darker one for the outer portion of my face. I use the brand Mineral Fusion, because it actually doesn't break me out. All I do with the lighter color is that I put it under my eyes, on my nose, the center of my forehead, and, like, above my lip, and then my chin. And then for the outer portion of my face, I use a darker color. After that, I put on bronzer. This is just a Milani bronzer in the perimeter of my face. I'm, like, I don't full on contour. Obviously, this is not a good contouring product, but I kind of, like, give myself a little bit of a contour with it. I also put some on my neck. I don't do this every day, but just for kicks, I'm gonna do it today. I'm gonna put in a little bit of blush. Normally, I stop after the bronzer, but because I'm filming, I'm doing it for you guys. So the last thing I do is I contour my nose in a way, so I don't full-blown contour it, like, when I do full face of makeup. But I do add a stripe of a really light colored powder right down the center of my nose. I also like this powder. It's a Physician's Formula powder, because it has SPF, which I feel like on your nose, you get the most sun exposure, so, like, layering sunscreen, so it has a dual purpose. I just use my finger, and then I take a brush and kind of blend it out. But after that, that's it. That's all I do. It's really simple. Okay, breakfast time. So I hope their expectations weren't too high when I said that I was gonna change and look like a functioning adult. I just put on a t-shirt. Before I begin, I'm gonna give all the disclaimers. This isn't what I eat every day, except for oatmeal, maybe, is one of the things that I eat probably almost every day. But general disclaimer, this is not how I eat every day. I'm not saying that you have to eat like this, etc., etc. I know you guys are smart. I know you guys know that. Breakfast, no surprises. Oatmeal. I switch it up occasionally, but Alonni knew just released two new flavors of their vegan protein, and it happens to mix, like, so well. Chef's Kiss in oatmeal. So I've been enjoying it. It is available to purchase if you're interested. Yeah, I'll link it down below. I decided to use the Cinnabon flavor today. It's probably an Amazon package. So since I used the Cinnabon flavor today, I did add a little bit more cinnamon just to spice it up a bit, and it goes really well with banana. So something I wanted to talk to you guys about was actually my next video. I want to talk to three different intuitive eating experts from maybe different backgrounds. Maybe they have a little bit of a different specialty, but I want to ask them for their best advice, and I thought it would be something really cool to share with you guys. So if you guys like the idea of that video, I want to do it anyways. I'm going to be honest, but I'd like to hear whether or not you are looking forward to it. I'm going to interview three different experts in nutrition, especially people who are focused on intuitive eating. So stay tuned for that. I didn't get a chance to say this in my last video, but the TVP, which is textured vegetable protein, has like this granola consistency, and I love putting it on top of yogurt, oatmeal, all sorts of stuff because it gives a really good crunch. So that's why I add it to my oatmeal. I love it. After breakfast, I usually give myself a little bit of time to digest. I'll change and then I will work out. So I think I wear a tank top maybe once a month, even less if I'm working out. Let's just take it all in. Okay, I'm going to work out now. Okay, so work out is done. I'm drinking a protein fit shake. If I haven't already had one earlier in the day, then I usually don't have more than one, but I'll always have one after I work out. They're my fave. Cheers. Okay, okay, okay. A nice bit of time has gone by, which is why I tried to make sure I drink that fit shake after I train because sometimes I have to like run errands after I work out or like go see my mom and things like that. Today I had to run a few errands and then I had to come home and cook. So this is what I have for lunch. Brussels sprouts are so much better if you roast them in the oven. So I did roast some Brussels sprouts and the chicken I actually marinated early this morning in balsamic vinegar, olive oil, thyme, garlic powder, and salt and pepper that was sitting in the fridge for a couple of hours before I just sauteed it in the pan. And then just microwave rice because I needed a shortcut for one of these things in this meal, okay? I also topped it with tzatziki sauce because I really like tzatziki sauce. So that is on top. It goes really well with the chicken. That's about it. Tzatziki on chicken, forever a favorite. So when I spoke to you guys about my training style, how I can get like in and out of the gym in 45 minutes to an hour, I got a lot of people really interested in that style of training and I actually just did one of those workouts because I have some variations that can actually be done at home. The same ideology with like super sets, eccentric accentuated movements, techniques that make a workout more efficient. Because of all the structuring that I've done and programming that I've done for myself, I am planning on releasing a program if you guys are interested because I think that it would help a lot of people who just feel like they don't have the time for the gym to be able to get an efficient workouts and not feel overwhelmed with having to be in the gym for hours at a time. It's like three days a week. It's very doable for most people. So I hope that you guys are looking forward to that. Jeff is going to one of the playoff Toronto Raptors games with his mom and he has court side tickets. Just a little bit jealous. Alrighty guys. So we are keeping this last meal super casual. I'm going to stand here and eat it like a savage. I eat standing all the time. It's probably a really bad habit. Barbecue chicken pizza from California Pizza Kitchen by far hands down the best frozen pizza at the grocery store. I've tried many. Trust me. Like I live for frozen pizza. This one's the best. So I quickly just wanted to thank everybody in regards to my mom. I showed me a lot of love about what I talked about in my last video. So I really appreciate it. She's doing really well. She's recovering from surgery. We actually celebrated Easter in her rehab facility. Give a egg. Excalibur. Delicious. But she's out now and she's doing really well walking around really well. So I appreciate everybody who centers some well wishes. It's actually so crazy to me that whenever I have one of these pizzas I usually eat half of it. When Jeff is here we split it. Before I went all in while I was all in it would be nothing for me to eat the whole thing. And it's crazy to me now that I generally only eat half and I'm good. Whereas before I would eat the whole thing and probably could just eat a whole other one too. So much has changed. It's insane. It's game time. Let's go. Jeff is sending me a snap test. It's game time. Let's go. Let's go. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's go. It's a video. Oh. Jeff and I are currently apart sadly. He is in Canada and that is how we stay so close when we're apart is that we snapchat each other all day long. I basically vlog my entire day to Jeff. So if you're in a long distance relationship I highly recommend using snapchat for that purpose. It's so much easier than sending like photos through text message. It's not quite the same. It's not as spontaneous. We snap each other all day long. So for dessert I'm going to have one of these strawberry mochi ice cream things. I love these. I love these in like every single flavor but I particularly like the strawberry and the mango flavor. I also like mochi in general. I even have the strawberry mochi. These are not ice cream filled. They're just gummy mochi. I don't know how else to describe them. I love them. So just like regular mochi. I love it. But I love these ice cream ones. So I'm a little close up. So you guys have been with me like all freaking day. Are you like sick of me yet? I have been in like four different outfits. Pajamas, t-shirt, workout, back in pajamas, different pajamas. Like I don't even know. I might have to do so much laundry just because I don't want to look like a complete mess in a video where typically I might just wear my pajamas all day. But here we are. I hope you enjoy this video. I hope you enjoy full day of eating videos. If you enjoyed it, please let me know. Any and all feedback is always appreciated. I love you guys with all of my heart. I'm so happy to be back on YouTube being more consistent and vlogging again. I'll see you guys in the next one. I love you guys. Bye.

=== FILE: What Everyone Got Wrong About My Weight Gain [MpglO-3ZvjM].txt ===

 action. Here we go, here we go. Oh my god. Okay, I'm ready. What is going on, guys? Welcome to the video. I hope you guys are doing well. I am actually fantastic because Jess and I are finally reunited. He's behind the camera. He's helping me film. Literally, I feel so much happier. I'm so much more at ease, and I'm just so happy that he's here. We got so lucky. You have no idea. He came the week before we saw a second round of spikes, and we just got so happy. He's here. Jeff and I actually did a super fun video for his channel where he attempts to eat my all-in diet from when I first went all-in. When I was eating 5,000 calories, don't even. No, I'm just saying. It's very satiate. Oh my god. It's a really fun video. I think you're really going to enjoy it. It's just a lighthearted video that was bringing attention to my all-in journey and the concept of extreme hunger to a predominantly male audience. If you're interested in checking it out, I will link it down below for you. Throughout my all-in journey, I did get a lot of feedback that I personally didn't think was true. A lot of things that I didn't find to be the case not only with my own journey, but with all the research I have done related to the concept of all-in. Today, I want to talk about five misconceptions that I'd like to clarify and expand on. They could be things that you've also heard or might think yourself. Let's talk about them. Also, in the event that you happen to be unfamiliar with my all-in journey, I'd highly recommend watching my last video, which was my one-year recap of my all-in journey because I'm not going to repeat some of the same things I've already talked about over and over in other videos. Go ahead and watch that video first and then come back to this one. Please. I also want to make a disclaimer. These are misconceptions that I didn't find to be true with my own journey. These are more or less opinion-based, but I do have some rationale as to why I have these opinions, so let's jump into it. The first misconception is that going all-in is unhealthy. I think this comes from the idea that eating a lot of calories just has to be bad for your cholesterol or your blood glucose levels or just gaining a lot of weight is inherently bad for you. In my journey, that really wasn't the case because you have to remember that going all-in is temporary. I actually did have blood work taken throughout my journey. Throughout my journey, all my blood work always came back normal and all these health markers were always good even when I was at my heaviest. This actually brings me to the question of what is healthy? What is a healthy body? I know that's a super loaded question, but when you really think about it, it should really come back to functioning and functioning at an optimal level or at least close to it. And in reality, before I started my all-in journey, when I was lean, that was when things were not functioning well at all and things related to being thin like my female reproductive hormones, my cortisol levels, my extreme exhaustion, not to mention my extreme hunger. Well, all of that to me is what I consider unhealthy. I mean, arguably, when I was the fittest I ever looked was probably the time that I was the most unhealthy. So you should never go looking at people just on the outside and assume they're healthy or not because you have no idea what's going on on the inside. What I define as healthy are things like, do I feel good? Do I sleep good? Do I have a regular menstrual cycle? Do I have a good libido? Am I tired or always have to pee all the time? Or am I constantly hungry or constantly stressed? Do I feel happy? Those are things that define health to me. So I think it's important to really talk about how detrimental being underweight or in an underfed state is for your body and how in reality going all in was probably the healthiest thing I could have ever done. So when you're under-fueling your body, a lot of biological processes do start to shut down and most notably for women is your reproductive system. Now, when your reproductive system shuts down, that means that you're under-producing estrogen. Estrogen plays such an important role in your heart health and your bone health. And I mean being chronically exhausted and overstressed all the time. That is not healthy no matter how you look on the outside. Your body will shut down the things that are not essential to keeping you alive in the short term, which can have a lot of really bad long-term downstream effects. I mean, I've heard horror stories of women who break their hip at the age of 30 because they have osteoporotic bones. Lastly, when you're under-eating and you're too lean, you're not only unhealthy, but you're also not happy. But I do want to say for the record that it does swing the other way, like to the other extreme. So we are going to talk about whether or not all in leads to obesity next. But finding a healthy body weight and eating enough calories every day really helped me and my health and my happiness. So I personally don't think that going all in is unhealthy. So the next misconception is one that I actually believed myself, and I know I've mentioned this many times before, but that is if you just listen to your body, you just eat whenever you're hungry, that you're going to spiral out of control and just eat yourself into obesity. Like once you open the floodgates of just eating whatever you want, whenever you want, that you just won't be able to stop. But in reality, unless you have like leptin resistance, which is commonly seen in the morbidly obese, that's just not how appetite regulatory mechanisms work. So I've actually done a whole video on the science behind going all in, which talks about this stuff in depth that I will link down below. But I think expanding on the misconception of eating yourself into obesity begs the question of what actually causes obesity. Now, obesity is a very complex medical disease that would probably take an entire video to cover. But I think experts can agree that it's a combination of genetics, maybe some underlying health problems, also in combination with perpetual yo-yo dieting that can lead to losing your normal hunger signals, which can also lead to leptin resistance in an environment with very highly palatable foods literally everywhere you look is a big part of the problem. But this is totally different than going all in because the point of going all in is to restore your hunger signals and to allow your body to find a natural settling weight. And remember, the extreme overfeeding part of going all in is very temporary, but it ultimately led me down a path to intuitive eating, which was always the goal. So with that being said, gaining weight and continuing to gain weight indefinitely kind of goes against everything we know about how your body regulates body fat and your body's genetically predetermined set weight. So when your body has too much body fat, your body, like a thermostat, will let you know and it will suppress your appetite. But the same thing goes in the other direction. If you have too little body fat, your body is going to let you know that you got to eat. Now, for me, suppressing my appetite did take many months, but it will eventually happen if you don't restrict during the process because the moment you restrict, it can really set you back to square one. So to relieve my extreme hunger, I had to eat, I had to gain weight, and I had to get my body out of the cycle of thinking it's in like a famine or a food shortage because it wasn't getting enough calories. That way, my biological mechanisms can turn back on and my weight and my appetite could balance out, which is what ended up happening. Now, I do have to say that throughout my journey, I did have critics say that when I was at my heaviest, that I did enter into the obesity body fat range. However, I did actually measure my body fat throughout my journey and this was also something that was not true. So when I started my journey, I was about 13.8% body fat. And then when I got to my heaviest weight, I was about 24.6% body fat, which is actually still within the normal range for women. But there is a huge but here. Even if I did surpass the 32% obesity body fat range, I don't think that would have been the worst thing in the world because it would have been a temporary necessary amount of weight gain that my body might have needed to turn on all of those biological processes that we talked about before. And I like to think of this as like an analogy. So when I started my journey, my body was in debt and not only did I have to pay back my body's debt to like break even. I also had to pay interest. So a certain amount of overshoot weight was necessary to reignite all of those biological mechanisms that are essential to our health. And I think it's a price worth paying. So the next misconception is that a slow increase in calories and slow weight gain is better than going all in. So this would be more like a reverse dieting approach being more optimal than completely jumping headfirst and going all in like I did. But for me, this was simply not the case at all. And in this particular instance, I'm not saying that reverse dieting doesn't work for some people. I know for some people it works very well and it's a very good strategy for them coming out of a caloric deficit. But for me, it just didn't work. And I personally don't think it's a smart approach for people who are experiencing extreme hunger and possibly are coming out of maybe an eating disorder or who are coming out of chronic restriction after a bikini competition like me. Just a healthy bout of normal weight loss is not what I'm talking about. You don't need to do something as drastic as going all in. I'm sure you know that. And it's also not ideal for people who didn't suffer from the normal side effects of competing and have aspirations of competing again. But in the event that your quality of life and your health are suffering because of extreme hunger, maybe loss of menstrual cycle and like extreme exhaustion, a reverse diet can just prolong your journey back to health and a healthy relationship with food. So from a physiological perspective, just a slow increase in calories will just draw out the amount of time that your body is in an under fueled state. Because just adding calories week to week is probably going to still keep you in a deficit, i.e. just prolonging the total amount of time that you're halting mechanisms and function of your body. And it will also just delay getting your period back, which is just more time without an active menstrual cycle, doing more harm than you think. And from a psychological perspective, reverse dieting can be problematic because you just never let go. You just never let go to counting calories or counting macros and you never allow yourself to learn how to eat intuitively. If you are obsessed with the numbers, you might just develop a lot of fear foods because you may not want to eat them because they might take up too many of your macros. You might have a hard time being able to detect your body's hunger signals and you might start binge eating, which has actually been shown in the literature. So going back to me, I actually tried reverse dieting twice, once in 2017 and once in 2019. And in 2017, just the slow addition of like 100 or 200 calories a week, honestly just like fueled my appetite even more and it made me really frustrated with my appetite. So after my first failed attempt of reverse dieting, I actually tried to do a lean bulk. I've never implemented a bulk before, so this is going to be an experimental process. I was like desperate to try something new and to get control of my appetite, something that you guys know I've struggled with forever. I'm still at the point where I'm still really hungry all the time, which is part of the reason why I'm going to be doing a bulk. Now in retrospect, going on a lean bulk was kind of like going half in. It just wasn't enough to sedate my appetite and I ended up gaining like a little bit of weight, but it was just weight that I gained that I ended up losing later and it didn't end up helping me really at all. And then the second time I tried reverse dieting was last year in 2019 and it was right after my mini cut. I actually did try reverse dieting for a few weeks before I just got frustrated again with my appetite. I was so food focused and that's when I like completely threw in the towel and discovered the concept of going all in. I would compare reverse dieting to dipping your toes in very cold pool water and getting in slowly. It's just harder and you might never fully dunk your head under and get stuck at the hard part like right at your belly as opposed to going all in where you completely let go can of ball straight in. And the last thing that I have to mention is that I now have very good internal hunger cues and I have like a mild to moderate appetite and I highly doubt I would feel this way if I just spent the last year slowly adding calories week to week. And I would probably need a lot more food to feel full than with my acceptance based all in approach. Just saying. So the next misconception is that going all in shouldn't take so long. Now this comes from the fact that there really is no definitive timeline of like a traditional all in journey. Everyone is totally different. So I can imagine as a viewer that it seemed like I was going through this journey for what seemed like forever. And unfortunately this leads people to believe that the process just isn't working. Yes, it did take a long time for my body to respond. So I can kind of understand people's impatience. People are programmed to want quick fixes and overnight success stories, which is just simply not the case in this instance. It's a slow process for your body to adapt to so much food and to increase its metabolic rate. What actually does happen really quickly is for the opposite to happen. Your body can actually adapt really quickly to starvation and it'll lower its metabolic rate to survive. But on the flip side, it's much slower for your body to adapt to an all in diet and it takes a long time for it to increase its metabolic rate, which is why I saw a lot of weight gain at the beginning because I was likely starting out with a lower metabolism. I never expected going all in was going to be quick or an easy fix. I was mentally prepared for the long haul. So when you go all in, you just got to buckle up for the ride. And last but not least, and this misconception is a biggie, many people believe that you have to be very thin to undergo an all in process. And from all the research that I've done, this doesn't seem to be true. There are larger bodied individuals that have been recommended to do a process similar to mine that have benefited in the exact same way that I have. It's the same common misconception that you have to be very thin to lose your period, but that's also not true. Now, in this instance, I'm obviously not going to be speaking from experience as I did start my journey very lean, but I did speak to dietitians. There are a lot of people who maybe are in a larger body who have spent their whole lives kind of dieting and binging and restricting and kind of going up and down. Dr. Rinaldi as well as done a lot of research on the topic. And my conclusion is that you can be any body size and experience extreme hunger and benefit from going all in. So this is most likely the case if you are larger bodied and you are chronic yo-yo dieter and you've been in this constant cycle of extreme restriction, which commonly leads to binging, which is basically your body fighting you and fighting the deficit that you're putting it through. So you might be at a higher weight, but you might still suffer from the same symptoms of extreme hunger that I did. When you have all the signs telling you that you have extreme insatiable hunger, extreme food focus, maybe your hormones are out of whack or you lost your menstrual cycle. These are all things that might indicate that this might be appropriate for you. Now, of course, I'm not personally recommending for anybody to go all in without consulting an expert. Like first and foremost, you should not take this as prescriptive. I'm not saying that you should go all in, but the criteria of having to be thin to go all in just isn't what the experts I've spoken to agree on. I do imagine that your journey might look slightly different, but also really similar in the sense that you will temporarily gain weight. But once your hormones are back on track and you fixed your hunger signals, you will eventually settle back down into your set weight, which might be higher than mine or even higher than you were expecting. But there just has to be some level of body acceptance and where your body feels happy. Because if you don't respect it, you will be constantly picking a fight with your body. But if you allow this process to happen, you will eventually learn how to eat intuitively and get out of that vicious cycle of chronic yo-yo dieting. And in my opinion, it's a small price to pay to live happier and to have a better relationship with food for the rest of your very long life. In my last video, Dr. Rinaldi said that the fact that healthy equals a look is very problematic and health should equal function regardless of your body size, which is something that I 100% agree with. So your body being healthy is not that it needs to be thin, but it needs to function well. So I don't ever want people to look at me or to look at anybody and just assume they're healthy just by looking at them. That is just not how this works. So that's it for this video. I really hope you enjoyed it and maybe learned something. I also want to take a moment to thank you from the bottom of my heart for all the love and positivity that you gave me on my last video. It really meant the world to me and I want to continue sharing with you everything that I've learned and everything I've experienced in future videos. So subscribe if you happen to be new, like the video if you liked it and I will see you in a video very soon. I love you so much. Bye.

=== FILE: What I Eat In A Day (Full Day Of Intuitive Eating) [E_jcXhlFeM4].txt ===

 but then you're gonna have to watch me like lick it out of a cone. Okay, we're gonna put it in a cone. That's my own, don't know whether you should break my heart or put me together. Okay, my head is cut off. Let's try this again. What is going on, guys? Welcome to the video. As promised, I'm here with a full day of eating. This is actually my lunch, but we'll get to that in a minute. I'm sure this totally goes without saying, but what I eat today is not what I eat every single day. So, I'm gonna try to show you the most accurate representation of what I eat because I generally do eat very similar meals every single day. If you follow me on Instagram Story, you are well aware of that. This is mostly because I'm lazy and I lack creativity, so today is gonna be no different. You're gonna get the same old boring meals that I eat most of the time. I'm also gonna show you a few other examples of meals that I ate earlier this week, so you can get a true representation of the type of food I eat on a regular basis. I also wanna catch you up on everything that's going on with me, so maybe a little bit of an update. But first, I wanna show you what I had for breakfast. I mentioned in my last video that I wake up at some god-awful time in the morning, like every morning, and I still do that. Hello. Hi. But I've definitely switched up what I'm actually doing in the morning to help with that whole anxiety and lack of appetite thing that I mentioned in my last video. So what I do every morning is I get my breakfast together and I sit down and I write my book for at least 30 minutes to an hour every single morning. I have been working on my book and things have been going really well. I'm actually all the way up to chapter five. I still have like tons more work to do on it, but I am making progress. Today I'm having cake pop oatmeal as usual. I mean like what else is new? But I've been making this the night before. It's the night before. So it's super easy for me to sit down and write and already have something to eat. What I do is I make them the way that I normally make oatmeal. Like I actually cook the instant oatmeal as usual with boiling water and then I add a scoop of protein. Nothing different here. I also like switching up the cake pop for my other favorite, the strawberries and cream protein for oats when I want something different. I let it cool down before I scoop it into the jar. I throw in some granola, some berries. And tada! Cold cooked oats that sat in the fridge overnight. It makes it like cookie dough. I mean come on. Now I don't make this using a conventional overnight oats method of just like letting oats soak in almond milk or something. But this is my breakfast and when have I ever been conventional? I'm also going to show you an example breakfast of what I ate yesterday. Pretty basic and yeah I do eat oatmeal most of the time. But sometimes I enjoy eating other stuff too, especially when I'm in the mood for something more savory. And I know that it's like really early in the morning to eat breakfast, especially for somebody who has very little appetite in the morning. But there's something about the routine of just sitting down and eating with my tea and my computer that I feel like as soon as I take the first couple of bites of whatever I'm eating, I start to feel hungry. It's like so early that like I haven't even had time to be super anxious about the day yet. It's like before the internet has woken up and I have me time and I have my food time, my breakfast time, my tea time, and my book time. After I finish eating, I will take a multivitamin and I will also take a hair, skin, and nail supplement. And then after I finish eating breakfast, I get dressed, get ready for the day, and then I usually head over to the gym. Okay, so I'm dressed and ready for the gym. I'm actually wearing Whitney Simmons' collaboration with Gymshark, at least the top is, and the sports bra. Very cute. The leggings are from Amazon, if you're curious. And I'm going to go do a quick lower body workout. I'm just probably going to run through it pretty fast in the video because I know you guys are here for the food. So ideally, I will see you with food. Very soon. It's great. I just did my hair, I just did my makeup, and as soon as I step outside, my hair is going to be a complete mess. So at least I tried and it looked good for like five minutes. So now that we're all caught up, it's time for lunch. I am just having a sandwich. I don't think it requires a tutorial on how to put meat in between two slices of bread, but I will let you know what's in it. So I personally think it's essential to toast the bread of a sandwich. This is a classy sandwich. And then I added mustard, some shredded cheese, which I know is bizarre in a sandwich to add shredded cheese, but Jeff does it and he got me in the habit of using it. And I kind of like it in a sandwich. Then I put sliced turkey, a half of an avocado, pickles, another essential, I love pickles, and then salt and pepper, which is super underrated on a sandwich. You should always add salt and pepper. It makes everything taste better. And then I top it with another slice of bread. I have master culinary skills, let me tell you. On the side, I have baby golden potatoes, which I make in the air fryer, but I make them in big batches at a time. So I just microwaved these. And then I had some steamed green beans that I just heated up as well. And voila. I also have a glass of greens because I actually really just like the taste of them. And I know they're like healthy for me or something like that, but like they're just actually really good. They kind of taste like, I don't know, it tastes like cold chocolate juice or something. I don't know. Maybe that sounds gross to you. Time to eat. I want to get some composition in here, but I'm afraid if I put, see, that's what happens. I put the lemons in. I lose focus. Okay. No lemons for me. This is going to be a boring shot because I got nothing in it but me. We're going to talk. Update chat. I don't want to go on too long. Nothing has been super like revolutionary or life changing, but I feel like there's been enough time since my last video that a few things have changed. So as I said earlier, I have been making progress on my book. I quickly wanted to read to you something, something really small from it. I went on way too long the first time. So let's do something really short. Looking down at my newfound belly rolls made from eating thousands upon thousands of calories of food every day for the past six months, I begin to cry. Jeff, my boyfriend of four years, comes over to my side and pulls my lifted shirt down to conceal my stomach and says in a soft whisper, stop Steph, you look perfect. I look up at him with watery eyes and a hint of shame and I nod my head. And then I hug him, hoping we can both just ignore the brief moment of self-deprecation. Now I want to start by saying that I am not the emotional wreck I am about to portray myself to be. But six months into my all in journey, I was often a frequent passenger on a very emotional roller coaster. Okay. So I must stop there. Aside from that, I did hit my 20 book goal that I wanted to hit 20 books in one month. And now that it's been almost two months, I've read over 30 books and I'm still simultaneously reading at the same time that I'm writing. I don't have to stop one for the other. You need to read this book. This was my favorite. And that's a bold statement. A man called Uva. It'll make you laugh. It'll make you cry. It was exactly the type of book that I needed. I really recommend, cannot recommend it enough. I've told everybody I know that they need to read it. This is a good book. So with book stuff out of the way, I have been doing a lot of the things that I said I would do to kind of keep my anxiety in check. And I have been doing a lot of things as you saw this morning with keeping my appetite in check and making sure that I don't bulk so much of my food later in the day. I make sure that I eat and space out my meals throughout the day, which really helps me. And it really helps me feel like I'm having, like I have like a more well balanced diet. Jeff uses BetterHelp. He recommends it to me very highly. Haven't done a session with a therapist yet. But I know that that is something that would probably help me a lot. That's something that I plan on doing. But something that I have done is that I spoke to Kayla. It's so nice to see you. Like it's so good to see your face. If you guys are new to my channel, you may not know that Kayla was one of the gals who reached out to me after I made my first initial All In video, telling me that she kind of like helps people who do this sort of thing and like who recover and go all in. She like helps coach them. I've been talking to her basically since the beginning of my whole All In journey and she's helped me so much. She made me feel really good and she told me my lack of appetite was actually super normal. They come from this end and they have extreme insatiable hunger. And then they go all the way through recovery and they end up on the side like with no appetite, no cravings. Like you said, I'm not complaining really because I would take this over extreme constant hunger. But you know, like why does this happen? You know? It's like this weird phenomenon that your hunger cues literally just balance out so much to where you have zero cravings. You have like zero draw to food. You're just like, eh, food is food. If under the condition that the client is completely like cooperating in terms of like eating everything and they're not restricting, like I feel like there is a pretty distinct timeline. Three months, a certain thing happened six months and that the one year certain and then you're saying now like the one year, year and a half, like certain things tend to happen if you did follow the rules. Like if you did eat as much as you really wanted to. The only difference with my particular scenario is that I have a lot of stress and anxiety from the pressure that I feel from my online presence. And I have come to realize since releasing that video and reading all of your comments about how it doesn't matter if I change, it does mean a lot to me because it did relieve me of some of that external pressure I was feeling. You guys said the same thing to me like that you said in my first video that you don't care that you like me. It meant a lot to me that you guys just care about who I am. Okay, let's get back to the food now. So I have transitioned over to the dark side of sweatpants because comfort. So for tonight for dinner, we are going to be having sushi and sushi is something that I have at least twice a week for dinner. I don't know if I should say that with shame or if I should say that with pride, but I love meat and sushi. So let's go ahead and get started. The first thing that I usually eat is just I start eating edamame because it's hot. So the other rolls that I got, spicy tuna roll, California roll, and then something called a fire starter roll, which is like a spicy tuna roll with avocado and it has fish eggs and tuna on top. So I'm internally battling with my seven year old self right now because I want to put this ice cream in a cone. I got a bowl originally, but something about ice cream in a cone is just it's just so much better. But then you're going to have to watch me like lick it out of a cone. We're going to put it in a cone. These are just like plain waffle cones from Publix. As you saw, I didn't finish my sushi entirely. I did eat most of it. By the way, this is Edie's slow churn ice cream and cookies and cream. Edie's or Edie's? I don't know. You can correct me if you know down below. It's better. I'm telling you. It's better. Okay guys, that is going to conclude this video. I really hope that you enjoyed it and I hope that you enjoyed me showing you more than one example of each type of meal because I obviously don't eat the same thing every day. I'm sure you guys know that. Let me know if you like full day of eating videos. I can do more of them. So just leave me a comment down below. Like the video if you did enjoy it and subscribe if you happen to be new and I will see you in a video very soon. I love you guys. Bye.

=== FILE: What I Eat In A Day (Living with Food Freedom) [zXNPkq2i3Tg].txt ===

 does this seem more casual? Okay, pizza? This is how I sit in my house all the time. Lights, camera, action. Welcome to the video. I haven't seen you guys in a little while. My last couple videos have been topic-based videos, so today we're going to do a full day eating, vlog, train, and be merry type video. I just want to catch you up on just things that are going on with me. One of which that is probably the most exciting thing, because my life is very boring, is that I got a haircut yesterday. And when the most exciting thing that has happened to you is a haircut, you need to get out more. Okay, so it's officially right before I'm about to get my haircut. Can we just take a moment and appreciate the fact that I'm not in gym clothes and I'm in regular clothes? This is what we're looking like before. One day, I've talked about this with Jeff, I might chop all of my hair off. You'll have to let me know if any of you guys think that's a good idea, or how many of you guys think that's a terrible idea. But anyway, I'm also going to go to the gym, book updates, just hanging out with you. Hungry, I'm going to have some breakfast, so let's make some breakfast. Okay, so time for breakfast. I have an egg scramble that I put onions, mushrooms, and spinach in, and I topped it with feta cheese. And then I also have some Kodiak pancakes, which I love. I've been having those a lot lately, and I threw some blueberries in them. Normally when I eat breakfast, I usually either read or listen to an audiobook, so I'm going to listen to that. Let's dig in, I'm hungry. The sheen need me, and she breathe in the room. Tastes really good. The sheen need me, and she breathe in the room. I'd like to know what can you get me. All done, that was delicious. I feel after a meal that size, pretty full. This morning, I was actually writing the portion of my book where I recapped the 10K challenge. I actually still have in my fitness pal what I ate from the 10K challenge. Like I went to February 25th, 2017, and it's all there. And I was like, oh my god, my first meal alone, I ate 3300 calories. There's no way, I feel full after this. And I just ate two pancakes and some eggs. It's crazy to me, it blows my mind. I don't even know, I wonder how I would do if I were to do the 10K challenge now. Oh my god, I would fail it, probably so miserably. Too worse than me. Probably, I can't even fathom it. Curse you. Really quick before I go to the gym, I wanted to share with you the shorts that I'm wearing, because I really love them, and I think that you guys would really like them too. And then a pair of leggings that I love from Amazon. I don't really get a lot of opportunities to share clothing related things to you, unless you follow me on Instagram. If you are interested in the things that I'm wearing, definitely follow me on Instagram. But these shorts, I bought them myself, they are from Alpha Leap, and I'm actually super impressed with them. Like, they have a scrunch detail here. I know that it's really popular with brands with doing that, but they really nailed it. I know that's a straight butt shot, but I feel like they're extremely flattering. They also have no front seam, which I love that brands are doing now. So this is another color that I have in them, and I just think that they're, I feel like they're just really nice. I'm really impressed by them. So apparently these leggings are like super popular on TikTok, I think. I just wanted to pick them up to see what all the hype was about. So they also have no front seam, which is really nice. They also have that scrunch booty detail. It's obviously really popular right now. They're not going to be for everybody, but I figured I'd show them to you because I kind of like them. And they're pretty cheap. Gym time. So I just finished up my workout. It went really well. I think my deadlifts went really well. I feel like I've been feeling really good, really strong. My back has been feeling really good. After I did deadlifts, I just finished up with a bunch of accessory movements. As much as my channel has like evolved into like literally everything, even though I kind of started in fitness, I still love and enjoy working out. I am really trying to train for strength. And I think that it's just made the gym so much more enjoyable for me. If you're really struggling with maybe a little bit too focused on like the physique component of fitness, I would just try just for fun to try to like switch your focus a little bit to the strength aspect of lifting and not just doing it to look better because when you focus so much on that, it can become overwhelming and fitness will lose that sense of fun for me personally. So if you are struggling with that, I definitely recommend giving that a try. If you guys are interested in my training programs, I do have training programs for at home in the gym for beginners, intermediates, and advanced level lifters. If you guys are interested in building strength and muscle, I will leave a code down below for my YouTube family if you want to discount off of one of my programs. But yeah, so I finished up my workout and now I'm going to go home, get cleaned up, and get something to eat. So typically after the gym, I get dressed and I actually come to Panera Bread, which I know is really random, but it's actually like a really peaceful and quiet place to work. And I've been sleeping on Panera because Panera actually has really good food. They have really good sandwiches. Love me some sandwiches. And they have really good like rice bowls, which I think is what I'm going to get today. I've been craving their Baja Bowl with chicken. It's really good. Try it if you haven't. When you work at home, sometimes you need a change of scenery. So I usually come three to four times a week and I always get something to eat when I come. It's really quiet, really nice. So we're going to do that today. I'm going to do some work on my computer and get something to eat. So I'll see you in there. I'm going to get some cookies. I'm going to get some cookies. I'm going to get some cookies. I'm going to get some cookies. I'm going to get some cookies. I'm going to get some cookies. I'm going to get some cookies. I'm going to get some cookies. I'm going to get some cookies. I'm going to get some cookies. I'm going to get some cookies. I'm going to get some cookies. I'm going to get some cookies. I'm going to get some cookies. That lemon drop cookie. Oh my God. That was so good. It's definitely my favorite cookie from Panera. I've had their chocolate, chunk, chipper. I've had their oatmeal raisin. I've had their cinnamon twist BUN things. But that lemon drop cookie, it has like white chocolate chips in it and the inside was like buttery and delicious. If you like lemon, I highly recommend that cookie. I'm a good girlfriend because I actually saved half of it for Jeff. I want him to try it because it kind of blew my mind. But anyways, I'm going to go home and do a little bit more work. I'm going to get some cookies. And learning learning learning learning I'll see you in a little bit. Rollin'. Rollin'? Let's do this. OK. So I'm going to read you guys a little something. I'm going to read you the prologue. All right. Prologue. Breathing heavy and profusely sweating while attempting to pull on my third pair of leggings, I began to mentally reprimand myself for my pathetic lack of any cardiovascular endurance while simultaneously attempting to give myself a pep talk on all the reasons not to cry. Trust me, when I say that there were no victors in the intracranial boxing match, I was having. Don't cry. I whispered to myself as I flopped onto the edge of the bed, leggings midway up my thighs, feeling completely defeated and still breathing heavy. I started to wriggle out of the two small pair of leggings and pulled with all of my might at the bottom hem to rip them off. I threw them aside and I decided I would just have to wear a pair that I knew fit me. But also keenly aware were dirty from wearing them for the past two days. They were a size large, one of the few pairs I had in that size from a recent shopping trip. I dug through the dirty laundry, still a little out of breath, this time not from putting on the leggings, but from removing them and pulled out the pair that I was looking for. They were inside out, covered in lint, and pilling where my inner thighs rubbed together. They were looking pretty rough and I knew that I should probably get another pair. Ugh, looks like I need to go shopping again. Considering my precarious position, I was actually in a really good mood. Before all of my attempts to get dressed, I had just finished eating a very satisfying breakfast of a big bowl of oatmeal topped with bananas and peanut butter. I was feeling rather triumphant that the bowl of oatmeal, albeit a somewhat large bowl, was all I needed to feel full. I would have never believed this was possible six months ago, and I was starting to feel like everything I had gone through the past six months was worth it. It's working, I thought to myself while smiling. Exhaling and blowing a strand of sweaty hair out of my face, I looked up into my closet, hands on my hips and thought, now, all I need to find is the top that fits. Nice. So I sent that to my editor, I sent a chapter over to my editor. I'm working on many other chapters simultaneously, but the next one I'm working on is kind of going back in time. The timeline isn't perfectly linear, but I think it works with the story. I promise it's gonna be good. Okay, pizza? Let's do it. Pizza. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. Excited? Hot. Hot. It is. Super hot. Wearing a sweater. Hot. Hot. Hot. It is. Hot. Hot. Hot. Hot. Hot. Hot. Hot. Hot. Hot. Hot. Hot. Hot. Hot. Okay, what one first? Queen Margarita. So, I'm close. I might have to voice over this because the music is really loud, so I will definitely have to tell you what I thought of everything in the car after. Well. Margarita first. Queen Margarita. Queen Margarita. Oh My god Bro you like it whoa that like shook me okay the bus is so like I Don't know you don't know anything about it. You like yeah, it's like not like at all. It's like It's like biting into a croissant That's crazy, bro. I know Really good. Yeah, wow. It's like toast on yeah Toast on the bottom. Yeah, I did not use my piece like that. Yeah Oh It's literally the best pizza I've ever had I know it's so good. I'm excited for this one this one Mr. Clean is coming for that ad-lib You like it You You We got a talk That was Honestly the best pizza I've ever had in my life Like it was 10 out of 10 blew me away never had anything like it I don't even know what I just ate no words My favorite piece was the Queens margarita second favorite was probably the base of the pesto So my two were my favorite that's gonna complete the video. I'm feeling full very satisfied two slices of pizza I'm good like the video if you liked it subscribe if you happen to be new I would love to have you and I will see you in a video very soon. Love you

=== FILE: What I Eat In A Day In Quarantine (No Calorie Restriction & 11 Months All In!) [oYqvy7FTGE8].txt ===

 that's so good. Oh! Oh! Hoping it's gonna rain, never comes to me when I lose you. What is going on, guys? Welcome to the video. As you saw by the title, today we are doing a full day of eating in quarantine. I do eat a lot of the same things every day. I'm forewarning you that if you've seen my other full day of eating videos, you might recognize some of the dishes, but I just wanted it to be an accurate representation of what I eat every day. This is not the most accurate representation of how I look every day, especially in quarantine, but I kind of wanted to put on my game face. I'm filming today and I was like, you know what? I'm gonna do some glam and I always try to do something kind of light and then I end up with a full blown smoky eye. But most days, most of the time I actually look like this. Or I look like this because I'm doing an Instagram story and I'm just showing you guys what I'm looking like. But after my workout, it's back to this. So just keep that in mind that I'm not normally this glam just to be at home all day. So it's now like 12.30 in the afternoon and that's usually when I get hungry on a regular basis. Oh my God, this thing is so heavy. I need to put this down. I have mentioned this before, but I just have no appetite in the morning, especially like these past few months. When I first went all in, I was very hungry in the morning and I ate in the morning, but as of late, like I have no appetite in the morning. So I eat around noon, 12.30 and then I'll typically train after that. So let's get into the first thing I'm gonna make. So you guys already know what I eat every single day. I still eat this every single day. It's been almost a year now that I've been eating it. It's my OG cake pop protein oatmeal. I eat it every day. I love it. I try not to show it too much, but this is genuinely what I eat every day. I have an eyeballed amount of oats. This is like a cup of oats and I'm gonna be honest with you, I just eyeball the amount of boiling water that I add and I add enough that it's going to have somewhat of a liquidy consistency because I want to be able to add the protein powder and it doesn't get too dry. So I'm gonna give the oats a minute or two just to cook up with the hot water. So after the oats are cooked enough, I do add one scoop of the cake pop protein. I have been on PE science about making this into a vegan flavor. Trust me, I've put in the request so you guys will be the first to know if they make it. It tastes like cake batter. Now I'm just gonna cut up a banana. I love banana in my oats. So I also love adding cereal to my oatmeal. I don't know, something about adding a little extra crunch is just the best. I'm also gonna add a little bit of cinnamon. So unless you guys follow me on Instagram, you probably haven't seen my new dining room and shout out to Jeff because those flowers are from Jeff. They make me so happy. They go with my lemons. These chairs are from World Market and then the table is from CB2 and I'm obsessed. I love it. Oh, my cup matches my shirt. Look at that. And the reason I think I've been able to eat it every day, aside from the fact that I just love it, is that I always change the toppings. So it's always like a little bit different. And while in quarantine, I'm sure you guys know this, but finding some protein is not always easy at the grocery store right now. So this is just a staple for me because everything else is so hard to find. I'm gonna go ahead and eat this and then after that, I'm gonna do a workout. It's the best. If I have food in my teeth, I'm sorry. I'm about to jump into a lower body workout. If you are here only for the food, I'll totally understand if you want to skip the workout, but I'm gonna be doing a lower body workout from my newest at home program. So I'm gonna get dressed into workout clothes and I'll see you in a minute. So I just finished up a really quick warm up. I just did some body weight walking lunges and then I did some dynamic stretching like I always do. I do the same thing in all my videos. We're gonna jump into the first exercise, which is an RDL. If you have a barbell and weights, you can do a barbell, normal Romanian deadlift. For this video, I'm gonna use dumbbells because I know most people just don't have a barbell with plates at their house. And we're gonna do dumbbell, Romanian deadlift. So I don't have heavy enough dumbbells for my hamstrings. I ordered some. They're on the way. Shipping is really slow right now, which is understandable. If your weights aren't heavy enough for you, like the weights you normally use in the gym, consider really, really, really slowing down the eccentric because that's gonna make the exercise significantly harder with the same amount of weight. So in the event that you don't have any weight or dumbbells around your house, but you do have some bands, I'm gonna show you how you can do an RDL with a band. Ideally a pretty heavy band, so it actually feels like some resistance, but I'll show you how to set that up. The next thing that we're gonna be doing after RDLs, we're gonna be doing goblet squats. And you can either use like a kettlebell or like a gallon of water or you can use a dumbbell if you have it. A lot of people struggle to feel their glutes on this one. So I usually tell people to make sure that you have a sumo stance and that you drive through your heels and then squeeze your glutes at the top as you're contracting. Another trick you can use is to use a band around your knees if you're not feeling it in your glutes. If you have a band around your knees, you're gonna be actively performing hip abduction. So you're gonna be pushing your knees against the band, which really gets your glutes engaged as you do the squat. So give that a try. Okay, so next up we have single leg hip thrusts. And I'm sure you guys have seen me do this a million times before, so I'm gonna use this couch to do them because this couch is a lot more firm. The other one is like, it's so squishy that I just like sank right into it. I feel like people really underestimate how hard those are, maybe because I've gained weight and like my body weight exercises are a little bit harder than they used to be, but those are hard. If you're doing it right and you're really driving through your heel and you're squeezing at the top, those are hard. So next up we're gonna do some calves. I feel like calves are gonna be easily neglected, especially if you're doing some at home training. It's easy to just be like, oh, I forget calves, but calves are so easy to train at home that you might as well complete the physique, do everything and hit your calves. Easiest way to do them is to just do standing calves, but hold weight. If you have a step in your house anywhere that would make it a little bit better, it would give you more of a stretch. So if you do have a step in your house, I recommend doing it that way. Okay, next up we're gonna be doing weighted frog pumps. So you're just gonna put a weight on your hips and do frog pumps as normal. If you don't know how to do frog pumps, you basically face your feet each other and then drive up with your glutes with the side of your feet. A lot of people do struggle with really feeling their glutes on this one. So for those people, I recommend just really trying to engage your glutes without any weight. Like don't get ahead of yourself and add weight right away because you might start feeling it in different parts of your legs as opposed to your glutes. So really nail down how you need to situate your body so you feel it in your glutes first with no weight and then add weight. So last but not least, we are going to hit some abs. So we're gonna do a few sets of bicycle crunches. And if you're the type of person that if abs are at the end of your workout and you always feel like skipping them, I recommend just knocking them out first then because you don't want to neglect them. You don't want to forget them or you don't want to skip them. Okay, so the workout doesn't end here because I actually do a workout with my mom about three to four times a week. She has to stay in her room so she's really not moving much so it doesn't make me feel very good that she's not getting a lot of exercise. So it's a time for us to kind of bond and she gets in a little exercise at the same time. Hi YouTube. Oh, mommy what are we about to do? Exercise. We're gonna exercise. You ready? Okay, ready. March. Good. One, two. Out. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. So I have the camera going. Hello everybody. So I made my mom say hi. It's like I'm using everybody for clout on YouTube. Okay guys, I'm sorry about the delay. Jeff called me while I was like getting dressed so we had a little chat and I just got cleaned up after the workout and I'm dressed and finally gonna eat my post-workout meal. So this won't take long to prepare because it's just leftovers. I made this dish yesterday and I filmed myself making it so I could show you guys how I made it. I'm just going to heat it up. I needed white rice for this. I actually made some white rice while I was doing the workout with my mom. I just had it simmering in the background. Don't come for me because it's a minute rice. These are dark times right now. It's the best I can do. So I know that this does not look very pretty but it's absolutely delicious. So I want to tell you how I made it. I kind of had it improvised. I basically just used what I had. So I did have a can of Prick King Curry paste which I like to put on everything. So I used the whole can of that. I used a tablespoon of roasted red chili paste and I used two tablespoons or just like a big scoop of peanut butter to give it like a peanutty taste. And then I put in some coconut oil to heat up the pan. And then I mixed all of those together and it made like a paste. And then after the paste came together I added the shrimp and then I added the broccoli and mixed it all up and that was it. It's really simple, really easy to make and this looks delicious so I'm going to go ahead and eat this. This is bringing me back to my cheat days. It is an art to get the camera to focus on food. That's all I got to say. So it's like 7.30 at night so I'm feeling kind of hungry. I'm ready for my next meal. I am just throwing together everything that I currently have. So I was thinking that I could make like a bowl of some sort. I should take these clips out of my hair. I put these in my hair because sometimes it's really annoying to have my hair in my face. I have some cooked vegetables, some sweet potatoes. I always have sweet potatoes cooked and as soon as I'm running low I will just cook some more. I always have, I don't know, I love sweet potatoes. You probably already know that. Some spring mix, avocado, I always have avocados and some leftover salmon. I'm going to cook this up so I want to preheat the oven. Then I will show you what happens. So a bit of a change of plans. So while I was seasoning the salmon it really didn't smell right. Not in the mood to get some food poisoning so I did decide to throw in other fish that I had in my freezer that I was saving for a different night and I'm going to cook that instead which is fine. I wasn't trying to like pre-plan anything. I was just going to make and cook whatever I had to be like a really realistic full day of eating. We're going to go to plan V. I hope you don't mind. It'll be alright. So we have one sweet potato, orange ruffy. This is our plan B. There is half an avocado, some spring mix, chopped vegetables and sun dried tomatoes. And then I topped it with liquid aminos and some black pepper. So I think I'm going to take this over to the couch, watch something and eat this. That's it. So for dessert I want to have one of these banana nut muffins that my sister made for me. Now before you come for me my sister brought these over to me wearing gloves and a mask and she made them like two days ago. I haven't touched them so I think they're fine. And she's not sick by the way. We have just been completely keeping our distance from each other. And I feel bad. She made me these and I haven't even tried them yet because I told her that I was going to have them sit in my fridge for a little bit. And she made them from scratch. And I'm going to pop it in the microwave and I'm going to put some ice cream on it. And for the ice cream I'm going to do this so delicious peanut butter swirl because I think that banana nut and peanut butter would be really good together. Oh my god it smells so good. Oh my god. Think there's like walnuts in it? So there's big chunks of walnuts. Ow that's hot. I've tried a few of the so delicious dairy free ice creams before but I've never tried this one. Peanut butter and banana usually taste really good together. This is what it looks like. Looks delicious. Mmm that's good. So I know this seems really small but honestly my appetite was pretty low today. It happens like I can't predict when my appetite is going to be higher low. Some days it's higher than others and yeah it wasn't too high today. That's so good. Wow. But at night sometimes I'll have like a bowl of fruit after I have dinner or I just have like a bowl of cereal. But I wanted to have one of these muffins. Honestly for me like I feel so good like at the end of the night every night I never feel overly full. I used to get like so bloated that I would have like this giant belly like this giant food baby every night because I felt like I could never eat enough food. Now I feel like I have very normal hunger signals when I'm hungry I eat and when I'm full I stop and then I just wanted something little for dessert and it was honestly like perfect. I feel great. I feel really good. I don't feel like I need to keep eating. I have no desire to eat anything more. It's been a life changing experience to know what this feels like but ever since I started feeling it like every day is just such a joy that I don't live my life hungry all the time. Because this feeling to me is still so new I'm grateful every single day. I'm just really happy with the progress that I've made. So I'm going to do a more thorough all in update I think in my next video but that's going to conclude this video. I really hope that you liked it. If you did enjoy it please give it a thumbs up. It lets me know that you like full day of eating videos. Subscribe if you happen to be new and I will see you in a video very soon. Bye.

=== FILE: What's Going On With Me？ (I Need To Open Up...) [5yPl1haFP_M].txt ===

 this is what my life is coming for. I did it! I did it! It's too hot to drink, so it's just gonna be a prop for the meantime. What is going on? I hope you guys are doing well. Things have been calm for me recently. I've just been taking some time because there's a lot of things going on in my life that I don't always get a chance to talk about. One of the most prominent things going on in my life right now are things related to my mom. My mom was in like hardcore lockdown because her facility, her nursing home facility, was just like very, very protected for good reason because of the pandemic. But my sister and I are considered essential caregivers, so we are allowed to have access to seeing her. I have to take her to a lot of doctor's appointments. I actually get swabbed every two weeks. I have to have a negative COVID test to see her. Recently, I've been spending a lot of time just taking care of her, so that has been like my first, foremost priority. I guess in a weird way, it was like a nice way for me to think about things. I've been thinking about things so much so that I wrote a whole script for a video and I had an entire, you know, idea and concept for a video that I ended up completely scrapping because I was... I don't know if I want to use the word like I was too scared to film it, but I do have some thoughts on how harsh the internet can be sometimes. And putting myself out there, it feels like I'm in like the ocean and like a wave hits me and when I come up another wave hits me. It's just sometimes I just want a break and get out of the water. It was a really good time for me because I was already doing a lot of things for my mom to just like take a breather. I don't know, I read a lot of books. This is why these are not just props. I read a lot of books. I plan on continuing to read a lot of books because reading has really helped me completely take my mind away from anything related to my current life right now. And I also have been cubing. I'm not done yet. Let me just see if it fails then I suck. Is this the dagger? What? What the heck? Wait, wait, wait. I did it! I did it! So I have been learning how to do a rubrics cube. It took a lot of YouTube. So I actually haven't been there. YouTube is always in my life. I can't run from it. It's like this mental exercise that keeps my mind off of things that are just not as important and things that are just bad thoughts. I've been doing a lot of that and doing a lot of reading and doing a lot of cubing while reading. I can multitask. I'll cube in the audiobook. How about that? I'm on my sixth book now. I would be like, what books are they? Okay. These are just a few. I've read six in the past like two weeks has been. I plan on reading like 20 by like the end of October, the beginning of October. So I have a lot of work to do, but two that I would highly recommend if you are interested in fiction. I've been reading a lot of fiction. Both of them by Hank Green. They're both like a series. This is book one and this is book two. First one is an absolutely remarkable book. And the second one is a beautifully foolish endeavor. Two books. If you're looking for a good fiction mini series, I highly recommend those. The reason I've been reading those books is because I've been thinking more about the book that I want to write myself. I mentioned that before, but I'm seriously like planning and thinking more about how I want this book to flow and how I want this book to sound. And the more that I thought about it and the more fiction books that I read, I really liked it. I really wanted it to sound like a fiction story. That's why I've been reading a lot of stories from really good storytellers to to hopefully be able to properly tell you the story. It's kind of similar to what I did for my one year all in recap video. I was trying to model it off of like a documentary. I don't know if I achieved that or what, but I watched probably 30 documentaries just to get inspiration for making that. So it's kind of the same idea. I'm reading lots of books in preparation of writing a book. I actually wanted to read you a little excerpt that I actually wrote for my book. All right, I might mess this up. This is take one. I'll let you know how many takes it actually takes. I'm going to enjoy it with something that I was thinking at the beginning. All right, here we go. I'm cold, tired and hungry all the time. Why am I so hungry? Is this really worth it anymore? Chapter one. If you're new to me, hi, I'm Stephanie Buttermore, the dumbest smart person you'll ever meet. And I'm going to try to convince you that this book should rest ironically amongst all of the bullshit diet weight loss, Jenny Craig, Atkins and nutrition books in the health with a capital H section and not the self-help section, which is mortifying. But let's be real, you probably spotted the cover as just pixels on a screen on an Amazon page. And not an actual bookstore, but I digress. I say ironically because this book is not a health book. It's a look how I messed up book. Hopefully this will either make you feel less alone or it will prevent you from making the same dumb mistakes I did. I say that I'm the dumbest smart person you'll ever meet because despite all of my many years of trying to smarten myself in multiple higher education degrees, learning about the intricate nuances of cancer biology and pathology, I've done a lot of things that were really not good for my body. They teach you very little, actually zero about nutrition in a pathology and cell biology PhD program and focus on stuff like microscopic point mutations of a single nucleotide coding for a single amino acid of a single protein. I can recite signal transaction pathways of dozens of proteins, but was never formally educated on the proper way to put food in my piehole to make my body function properly. To be honest, most of my colleagues all had horrible eating and sleeping patterns. We would spend 16 hours in a lab fighting cancer fueled by pop tarts and energy drinks from the vending machine. So if you've come here for a revolutionary dietetic advice, I won't have it. But if you've come here to take a page from my mistakes and what I've learned to fix said mistakes, stay tuned. So that's all I got so far. I also have a newfound love for wearing jeans. So all of you active wear lounge wear stretchy pants for life. Purists are going to think that I am excluded from the club, which I was, I was like an honorary president of that club throughout my all in journey. I literally only wore stretchy things, but now that my weight hasn't changed since like June at all. I don't think my body is really changing really much at all. I have been exploring and getting back into the world of wearing jeans, which has been really nice. jeans, which has been really nice. This tea is going to burn my mouth. My love for tea since my last video is strong. I want to say, because I feel like with this, people don't understand because I thought that this was just a matter of looking at it and being like, because I've played around with them before and I thought you could just be like, okay, there's a red one here, I'll try to, okay, let me see, I got that red one there. But it's not like that, you have to learn all the different algorithms. There's like over 300 algorithms that you use to move the pieces where you need to. I've gotten pretty good at the main ones, obviously, and the way that I do it is pretty amateur. I'm sure like it's how to teach a beginner how to do it, but I mean, I've gotten pretty good at it. So got the first two layers done. I'm gonna leave it for now because this is going on for way too long. What's next, I'm gonna start with my tea. Does that mean the video's on? Oh, that, my struggles. Yeah, you should talk about it on it. Okay, I guess kind of segueing off of talking about my book. The next kind of chapter in this story is something that I'd like to talk to you guys about, but I don't necessarily think I'm ready just yet because I'm kind of like in the middle of it right now. And I kind of feel like I'm documenting it as I'm going, but I don't know if I'm ready to really talk about it yet. I have been kind of struggling with new obstacles that are different than the ones that I had when I was going through the weight game process. Things like talking about my weight and feeling comfortable with my weight now and feeling pressure if my weight changes from here and the pressure that I don't wanna feel like a failure to any of you if, I don't know, that I'm not a perfect case study of how an all-in journey is supposed to work. I feel like I'm happy and healthy where I am, but there are things that I'm struggling with that I will talk about in a future video that I'm not perfect right now, and I'm working on it and I'm getting a lot better. Jeff has been helping me a lot. My lack of appetite in some instances, probably a lot to do with some of the anxiety I feel about the pressure of being on social media. I don't wanna say taking me back a few steps, but it's definitely not helping. I'll talk about that soon, probably my next video. And I wanted to let you guys know that I would open up to you guys about that when I feel like I'm ready. Um, Chad, wanna talk about your training for workouts? Yeah, so as far as training goes, I've actually been really enjoying my training. I don't really wanna go down the rabbit hole of telling you about my old lady back. By the way, I have an old lady back. I'm seeing a doctor. My training has been good aside from occasional bouts of soreness because my back is, cause I'm old and I'm 30 years old if you didn't know that and my back sucks. As soon as I hit 30, I hurt my back and I've been struggling with that a little bit, but other than that, everything has been really good. I've been training in the gym and training at home. I've been doing a bit of both. I've been training about four times a week. I'm doing an upper lower training style right now. I'm actually gonna do an upper body workout and at home, upper body workout. So stay tuned for that really, really quick montage, that fitness montage. Jeff is interviewing me, trying to help me open up to you guys. I told Jeff like everything I wanted to talk about. So he's helping me kind of remember. He's, I'm paying him extra. So I pay him for his cameraman fee, but also for his therapist fee. He is my personal at home. He comes to my house. That's when you know you have a really good mental health therapist. He's helped me a lot. It helps a lot that he's also on social media and he gets it and it's been tough. I've had some bad days. You've had some good days too. So I'm not trying to complain. I'm just trying to catch you guys up on where my head is currently and why I scrapped my last video and why I felt almost scared to talk about certain subjects. I just need to find a balance of sharing my thoughts and opinions without asking for it. The upper body workout I'm going to be doing is from my at home program. I don't normally do this. So this is something that makes me feel a little uncomfortable, but I can do this. I can do this. I'm a YouTuber. So I'm going to go ahead and jump into an at home upper body workout. It's going to be from my at home program, which is still currently 50% off. I've actually left it 50% off because the financial crisis we're in and I just didn't feel good about raising it to full price. So if you want to support me, the best way to actually support me is to, if you're interested in a training program, of course, is to purchase some like my training programs. I haven't done a sponsored video in two years. No, I don't really talk about this, but yeah, I haven't. I don't do sponsored videos and I don't plan on doing them because I feel like it interrupts the flow of my videos and just for other personal reasons. I also don't add mid-rolls in my videos because I just want them to be more pleasant to watch. So if there was any good way to support me, that would be a good way to support me if you want to, of course. So I'm going to jump into the workout in three, two, one. I'm going to say no price. I'm going to say no price. I'm going to say no price. I'm going to say no price. I'm going to say no price. I'm going to say no price. I'm going to say no price. I'm going to say no price. I'm going to say no price. I'm going to say no price. I'm going to say no price. Okay guys, so that's going to be it for this video. I really hope you like this like casual. I don't even know what this video was, but regardless, I hope you enjoyed it. I do want to continue making content, continue opening up to you guys and just tell you exactly what I'm thinking, what I'm thinking it. So stay tuned for my next video. video subscribe if you happen to be new and I will see you in the next one I love you bye
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.366955Z ===
