 your fat, fat, fat, fat! Fat-shaming. We've all seen it in movies, TV, or likely in real life. She got fat. Or maybe you've been subjected to fat-shaming, or even been the person doing it in hopes that maybe you have some sort of persuasive power to motivate someone into either losing weight or to start exercising. Listen, I don't want to be that guy, but you gotta lose some weight. But does fat-shaming actually work? Does it actually encourage someone to change their entire lifestyle and do all the health and fitness-y stuff? And I myself have experienced it last year when I gained over 40 pounds during my all-in journey. So, did it actually work on me? I've been really interested in this topic ever since I saw Ben Carpenter's fat-shaming video on Instagram. So please, allow me to do some explaining. Where he goes into the research and his video is awesome, definitely check it out. He makes a bunch of informative content. But this question of whether or not fat-shaming is effective is actually a question that is well studied. And there is an extensive body of literature on it. And the results, at least to me, are extremely surprising. We're going to get into my experience in a little bit, but first, let's talk about what we know from the science. So, fat-shaming is often referred to as weight stigmatization or weight discrimination in the literature. And it's described as a perception that stigmatizing or shaming overweight and obese individuals can be used as a tool to instill motivation in them. So they start to eat healthier and exercise more to improve their health. An interesting study examined how watching a fat-shaming video affected eating behavior in 73 women. This video contained clips from popular movies portraying overweight and obese women with negative stereotypes, like being lazy, clumsy, and loud. Now, the women chosen for this study had varying body weights and varying BMI. So they ranged from normal weight to overweight or obese. And half the women watched the negative weight stigmatizing video, and the other half of the women watched neutral videos on, like, insurance commercials. And keep in mind that the participants did not know what the study was for. So, after watching the videos, they were asked to wait in a room that had a variety of snacks. And the researchers were clever and were like, Oh, can you wait here? We have a few things to do. Make yourself comfortable. And they made sure to tell them to help themselves to anything you want. And there were three different snack bowls containing M&M's, jelly beans, and sun chips, which sound delicious, solid choices. And after the ladies left the room, they actually weighed the bowls and could measure how much food they ate. So what happened? Well, it turns out that the overweight women who watched the fat shaming video ate three times the amount of snacks compared with the overweight women in the control group who watched the neutral insurance videos. They also compared the food intake between normal weight women watching the fat shaming videos versus the control group. And interestingly, there wasn't a big difference between the amount of snacks they ate. So this study demonstrated that being subjected to watching negative fat shaming content makes overweight and obese people eat more, not less. So the people likely targeted for weight discrimination are the people who are likely to be the most vulnerable to increasing the amount of food they eat. Another very similar study, which used a weight stigmatizing news article instead of video clips, showed the same thing. When overweight or obese women were subjected to reading a news article called, Lose Weight or Lose Your Job, compared to reading a neutral news article about smoking, they found that the overweight women who read the fat shaming article ate almost double the amount of snacks. This study had different but still very delicious snacks, but the outcome was the same. And they also noticed that in the underweight and average weight groups, there was no significant difference in the amount of snacks they ate. Again, showing that the people most likely to be targeted for weight discrimination are the people most likely to be affected by it. To kind of really drive this point home, a study conducted in over 2,000 obese and overweight women measuring survey responses reported that 79% of them used food as a coping mechanism. And ate more food when they were subjected to fat shaming. And 75% of the women reported they coped with weight discrimination by refusing to diet. Also, they reported that family members and doctors were the two most common weight shamers. Fat shamers. Now, in terms of doctors, I understand it's their job to point out harms to someone's health. That's totally reasonable. But there's an accumulation of both self-reported and experimental research that demonstrates negative stereotypes and attitudes towards obese patients by health care providers and fitness professionals. Which includes views that obese patients are lazy, lacking self-discipline, and non-compliant with treatment. So they are treated differently just because of their weight. There's also research indicating that doctors spend less time and appointments and provide less health education with obese patients compared to thinner patients. Now, in terms of family, I genuinely feel like family members have their relatives best interests at heart. But as we have seen, it has been repeatedly shown that shaming someone into dieting actually has the opposite effect. And I'm sure this isn't the same for everyone, so I would love to know some of your individual responses to weight discrimination from family in the comments. But I want to talk about my own experience with fat shaming that I encountered with both family and non-family members. But before I do, I think I need to make clear that since my heaviest all-in-weight, I have come down since then for reasons completely unrelated to fat shaming or criticism I received. So if you're unfamiliar with my journey, I gained 42 pounds last year to fix my extreme hunger. And now, over a year and eight months later, I've settled into my set weight. I started eating less because I didn't have extreme hunger anymore, not because I was shamed into it. But even though the weight gain was done with a purpose, it doesn't mean that I was immune to the negative effects of the fat shaming. I mean, I did get my fair share of it. And I have to admit, when it comes from family, it just hurts a lot more. It can oddly feel like they love you less or think less of you, even though in their mind, they just want to help. Comments from family about my weight just made me feel bad. It's some type of awful you don't feel as strongly as when it comes from strangers. And I have to be honest, from someone who comes from a background of dieting, yes, the hurtful comments did tempt me to want to diet, but then other times it just made me want to like double down on my all-in journey and show off my weight gain even more. Just to annoy the haters. So I kind of fell into both categories, I guess. And yeah, strangers on the internet calling me obese, unhealthy, and a fat pig felt pretty bad, but it was somewhat easier to ignore than comments from family. Now I know I only went through a few studies in detail about the effects of food consumption, but there are hundreds of papers that repeatedly tell the same story, and they're very nicely summarized in a review paper on the effects of obesity stigma, if you need more convincing. So now that we covered how ineffective fat shaming is on diet, what about exercise? Maybe people are more primal and more action-oriented, so maybe instead of changing dietary habits, people just start exercising more. And I feel like people who fat-shame other people think it will induce some sort of like, I'll show you mentality, but that's not the case at all. A study conducted in almost 400 overweight or obese participants who were currently or recently a member of a gym filled out an online questionnaire. It was about a range of topics to keep the people unaware of what the study motive or why they were being asked these questions, but the researchers were most interested in their reporting on exercise. So when asked about their experience with weight stigma and exercise, the participants actually reported that weight stigma made them have a negative attitude towards going to the gym, more internalized weight bias, like they felt internally that the negative stereotypes about overweight people were about them. They were more self-conscious, they reported unhealthy weight control practices because of the fat-shaming, and worse, self-reported physical and emotional health, and we'll get to mental health in a bit. But the results of the study basically tell us that fat-shaming does not make people more likely to exercise. And in my experience, I have to 100% agree with this. At my heaviest weight when I was subjected to the most criticism, I absolutely hated going to the gym. I would do it, but it was a lot less, or sometimes I had months of not working out at all, which was often sadly somewhat dependent on when the most recent fat-shaming video came out about me. I had little to no motivation. I felt like the lighting in the gym made me look even worse. I was very self-conscious. I have an arm insecurity. And there were just so many mirrors. Also, finding something to wear that actually fit me right was just tormenting every time I got dressed. I would dig through my closet, like trying to find the most flattering outfit, usually without success, and it just left me feeling defeated, half-dressed, and sitting on the floor of my bedroom with a blank stare. And I love working out, so for someone who doesn't have that inherent love for the gym, I mean, I imagine it's hard to get motivated to strap up in spandex and walk into an often judgemental and intimidating environment. With my gym! Ooh! Now, one huge component of weight stigma that I haven't touched on yet are the effects and negative toll it takes on mental health. Mental health is just as much a part of your overall well-being as physical health, and is more often than not completely overlooked. And this is something that really resonates with me, because at the start of my all-in journey, I wasn't afraid to show you guys anything, and I used to make and upload a lot more videos than I do now. I started suffering from really bad anxiety, and I'm often too scared to film or upload videos or even post on my Instagram. Except for Instagram story. I actually feel the most comfortable sharing my journey over there, but the amount of body shaming I've experienced at every body size was enough to really negatively impact my mental health. So it's not surprising that a meta-analysis of 105 studies consisting of almost 60,000 participants showed a correlation between weight stigma and worse mental health status. Also really important to note, research has consistently shown a correlation between weight-based victimization and eating disorder symptoms with increased episodes of binge eating. And finally, a 2020 joint international consensus statement on weight stigma published in Nature Medicine, a very highly regarded journal, with a panel of 36 multidisciplinary experts unanimously agreed that weight-based stigma and internalized weight bias can be particularly harmful to mental health, increasing risks of depressive symptoms, anxiety, and promoting lower self-esteem, social isolation, stress, and substance abuse. So now that I've driven home the point that fat shaming clearly does not work, what can be done instead? I know that there are people out there who want to help someone they love or care about, change dietary or exercise habits. So is there a right way to encourage a healthier lifestyle? Well, for starters, we, as in we a society, first need to stop judging someone's health by looking at them. This is a point Ben did a great job of emphasizing in his video that you cannot judge someone's health just by looking at them. There are so many examples, especially in the fitness industry, of people looking like they are the pinnacle of health and actually have horrible physical and not to mention mental health. I feel like pre-Allen Stephanie was a great example of this. I had a lot of problems that I needed to address. I know many of you have expressed your struggles with your health even though you were visually a normal weight. Conversely, a larger-bodied person doesn't have to have a six-pack to still have amazing health by every medical standard. So once we get it out of our minds that someone's health must be bad just because they are larger, we can dismiss the unnecessary weight discrimination on people who might be healthier than we think. So tip number one, maybe keep your thoughts to yourself unless you have a really good reason to give unsolicited advice or criticism to someone about their body. Now, if a friend or loved one is struggling with their health and you are aware for a fact they are indeed struggling, maybe due to the onset of disease or maybe they come to you for help, then at that point the most effective thing you can do is to be as positive and encouraging to their goals as possible. It's not up to you to decide what they do with their body and you should respect that and be there to support them. I know that's all I would have wanted when I gained weight and my family just didn't understand. Like, I wasn't telling them they needed to understand what I was doing, I just wanted them to be supportive of it. Now, you might say that sentiments like this means I must not care and that I'm like promoting obesity, which is fabulously untrue. I do care about people who are subjected to weight stigma because it's pretty clear the ways people think it will promote health doesn't work. They're peels not shit! So if you care so much, then you try to see how ineffective fat shaming is. Obesity is a very complex and multifaceted disease that's not going to be fixed by someone saying, you're fat, you need to lose weight. And of course, there will be examples of people that behave opposite to what trends in science show, but again, this is just what happens most of the time. And if you think the science is wrong, you clearly just missed the entire point of this video and I'm probably not going to reach you or have an argument that you will accept anyways. So, yeah. But that's going to be it for this video. I would love to hear your feedback in the comments down below. Like the video if you liked it, subscribe if you happen to be new, and I will catch you in the next one. Love you guys. Bye.