 good morning. Is it going? Is it rolling? Let's do it! Peach and grape oreos? So the vibe that I got from my last video, based on your feedback, was that you guys just want to watch what I make, like anything that I want to make. So that's what we're doing today. We are going to be doing more like a hangout with me, catch up with me type situation. Yeah, so I actually filmed on my birthday in my last video. If you missed it, I am an old lady. I'm 32 years old, if you guys didn't know. Okay, first of all, I hate celebrating my birthday. I feel like I don't like the attention, but I actually had a really good time because my sister decided to throw me a tea party, which sounds like a six-year-old's dream, but it was actually really fun. She made the most amazing food. This turned out great. I don't know why we don't do tea parties more often. It was, if you're looking for an idea for a themed party, I highly recommend a tea party. If you want something like girly and fun and you can have really good handheld edible foods that are delicious and just like a good balance of savory food and sweet food, I highly recommend it was such a good time. If you guys have been around on my channel for a while, you know my sister's like my best friend in the whole world, but she got married. Okay, so do a little twirl. Oh, this is beautiful. I love it. She allowed me and trusted me to do her makeup. This, once you blend it and then you add like even just the tiniest bit of this pink. Yeah, that's perfect. I always feel like I should show my sister more in my videos, but I just don't want to like shove a camera in people's faces, especially if they're not particularly like excited about being on camera. I don't think she minds it, but I just don't like shoving a camera in people's faces. The only time I do that is in the case of my mom because my mom loves being on camera. She is just like she's the most photogenic and like camera happy person. I love putting my mom on camera. She's like the best. Nadine, uh, because she came up really close to when my birthday was, uh, she got me some delicious like snacks from the Asian market. I definitely am going to be reviewing those because some of them look so, so interesting. Julie, did you see these peach and grape Oreos? Praised pork, roasted human lamb. So the next thing I wanted to update you guys on was my training routine, which has I guess it's changed. I've been doing this for like the last two or three months. So I kind of wanted to tell you guys what I've been doing because I feel like it's a type of training. A lot of people would be really interested in. I've only been training three days a week, sometimes four. Today's a rest day, by the way. So the clips that you're going to be seeing are clips from a different day. And I've been training full body and I've been able to get in and out of the gym in less than an hour. I've been doing like really quick and efficient workouts. So the way that I've kind of been achieving that is by doing exercises that don't require a lot of setups, like more machine exercises. A lot of dumbbell work, a lot of supersets, things that can make a workout really efficient, but also just as effective. It takes a lot of tweaking to make the workout make sense. Like my full body workouts have to account for recovery. The supersets also have to make sense because like I don't have time to walk across the entire gym in between two different exercises. So the exercises that I superset have to make sense as well as like the order of my exercises, like my primary exercises. I still focus on strength, so I don't superset those. But with my accessory movements, I do. I do a lot of eccentric, accentuated exercises because then I can do less sets of those. And I also train certain exercises to failure because those are also more efficient if you do less sets of those as well. So you can kind of get more bang for your buck. Like there's some method to my madness. It took a lot of thought, like forethought with exercise selection. If I can get out in like 45 minutes or like any time under an hour, I feel like I did a good job because I just have other responsibilities and I have things to do. So Jeff is around here somewhere. He's editing his next video, which by the way, yours truly helped him film. So we are filming Jeff's protein video. We're gonna do things in, that's pretty. This is Jeff's video. It's not my video. If you're interested in protein intake, how much protein you should be eating and stuff like that, this is gonna be a really informative video. We're putting so much effort into the B-roll. You better appreciate it. Just watch it. But this video, his video will already be out by the time this is out. It'll be, have been out probably for a really long time. Shout out. Don't leave me hanging. Don't leave me hanging. And I will actually be in this video. So if you want to check it out, I highly recommend checking it out. Nice. All right, let's do it. But another exciting thing that happened is that Jeff actually hit three million subscribers. I can't even believe that. I'm about to hit three million subscribers. And I was wondering if you could subscribe to my channel. Oh yes. She's gonna be one. My mom was there to witness it. It was so amazing. Oh, oh, oh no. I missed it. Oh. Three million people. Yep. Isn't that cool? Yes, it's cool. You got approval from... Uh-oh. Uh-oh. Uh-oh. Uh-oh. Oh my god, it's cool. That's kind of... Ah! Crazy. I'm just so unbelievably proud of him. I don't think I've ever seen another YouTuber work as hard as him. If you're not already subscribed to his channel, I'd highly recommend checking out his channel because... Very good. So if you're not familiar with my living situation, I currently have a home in Florida. This house is in Florida, Jacksonville, Florida, if you didn't know. I also spend half of the year in Canada because Jeff is actually Canadian. But for the United States location, I am actually moving to New Orleans, which has to do with my sister's new husband because my sister is moving to be with him. I am moving along with my mom. I've only been to New Orleans once. I actually went to New Orleans for the American Association for Cancer Research Conference. When I was doing my PhD, I did a poster presentation there, and it was a really big conference, and I loved New Orleans. When I was told that I was going to be moving there, I was actually pretty excited about it. So we're going to go there this coming week to check out some good food, some good areas to live in, maybe the gym situation. But the main thing that I need to check out is the situation for my mom's living. So my mom lives in an assisted living facility, so I need to make sure that I find a facility that's like really good for her, that will give her the care that she needs. She actually just had knee surgery. She had a whole knee replacement surgery. I'm going to see Mama Wally. Nice. Glutes are on point. You're shooting my butt? I thought you were getting in the hospital. I was just hitting the shot also. You had some composition. Yeah. Hi, Wally. Aww. Just in general, I have my mom over three days a week. She's an enormous part of my life. I spend a lot of my time either just spending time with her or taking care of her. Aside from her knee surgery and her mobility, she has a lot of other issues. I mentioned before on my channel, she is mentally ill and she does suffer from a lot of side effects from her mental illness medication. All of those things kind of impede her mobility. So she does need a lot of care and attention from my sister and I. I only want to say this for those who are fellow caregivers because they are very much more important than I am. I'm not a fellow caregiver because sometimes it is overwhelming and sometimes it does feel like it's a lot on your shoulders. Because you're trying to take on the health and responsibility of the person that you're taking care of. In addition to the fact that you have to take care of yourself. I have to do my own work and have my own life and have relationships and friendships. Finding that balance the past couple years has been really tough for me. I prioritize my mom right now. I'm reaching out to you if you are a fellow caretaker to just be patient with the person you're with. You will never, when they're no longer with you, which the thought of that literally will make me break down and feel like I'm going to die. You will never regret doing too much for somebody. You will only ever regret not doing enough. It'll be something that will stay with you for the rest of your life and you'll be happy that you did what you did for the other person. That was super random. I just wanted to say that. That is actually it for this video. I wanted to just show you what I've been up to. Comment down below anything you'd like to see from me. If you'd like for me to talk about anything more in specific. I love you guys so much and I will see you in the next one. Bye. Came like this. They smell like high chews. Yes, yes. They smell like grape high chews. That's not exactly. Instagram versus reality moment. This is so weird. It's like grape bubblegum with Oreo cookie. I don't know how I feel about that. That was my verdict. Question mark at a 10.