 action. Here we go, here we go. Oh my god. Okay, I'm ready. What is going on, guys? Welcome to the video. I hope you guys are doing well. I am actually fantastic because Jess and I are finally reunited. He's behind the camera. He's helping me film. Literally, I feel so much happier. I'm so much more at ease, and I'm just so happy that he's here. We got so lucky. You have no idea. He came the week before we saw a second round of spikes, and we just got so happy. He's here. Jeff and I actually did a super fun video for his channel where he attempts to eat my all-in diet from when I first went all-in. When I was eating 5,000 calories, don't even. No, I'm just saying. It's very satiate. Oh my god. It's a really fun video. I think you're really going to enjoy it. It's just a lighthearted video that was bringing attention to my all-in journey and the concept of extreme hunger to a predominantly male audience. If you're interested in checking it out, I will link it down below for you. Throughout my all-in journey, I did get a lot of feedback that I personally didn't think was true. A lot of things that I didn't find to be the case not only with my own journey, but with all the research I have done related to the concept of all-in. Today, I want to talk about five misconceptions that I'd like to clarify and expand on. They could be things that you've also heard or might think yourself. Let's talk about them. Also, in the event that you happen to be unfamiliar with my all-in journey, I'd highly recommend watching my last video, which was my one-year recap of my all-in journey because I'm not going to repeat some of the same things I've already talked about over and over in other videos. Go ahead and watch that video first and then come back to this one. Please. I also want to make a disclaimer. These are misconceptions that I didn't find to be true with my own journey. These are more or less opinion-based, but I do have some rationale as to why I have these opinions, so let's jump into it. The first misconception is that going all-in is unhealthy. I think this comes from the idea that eating a lot of calories just has to be bad for your cholesterol or your blood glucose levels or just gaining a lot of weight is inherently bad for you. In my journey, that really wasn't the case because you have to remember that going all-in is temporary. I actually did have blood work taken throughout my journey. Throughout my journey, all my blood work always came back normal and all these health markers were always good even when I was at my heaviest. This actually brings me to the question of what is healthy? What is a healthy body? I know that's a super loaded question, but when you really think about it, it should really come back to functioning and functioning at an optimal level or at least close to it. And in reality, before I started my all-in journey, when I was lean, that was when things were not functioning well at all and things related to being thin like my female reproductive hormones, my cortisol levels, my extreme exhaustion, not to mention my extreme hunger. Well, all of that to me is what I consider unhealthy. I mean, arguably, when I was the fittest I ever looked was probably the time that I was the most unhealthy. So you should never go looking at people just on the outside and assume they're healthy or not because you have no idea what's going on on the inside. What I define as healthy are things like, do I feel good? Do I sleep good? Do I have a regular menstrual cycle? Do I have a good libido? Am I tired or always have to pee all the time? Or am I constantly hungry or constantly stressed? Do I feel happy? Those are things that define health to me. So I think it's important to really talk about how detrimental being underweight or in an underfed state is for your body and how in reality going all in was probably the healthiest thing I could have ever done. So when you're under-fueling your body, a lot of biological processes do start to shut down and most notably for women is your reproductive system. Now, when your reproductive system shuts down, that means that you're under-producing estrogen. Estrogen plays such an important role in your heart health and your bone health. And I mean being chronically exhausted and overstressed all the time. That is not healthy no matter how you look on the outside. Your body will shut down the things that are not essential to keeping you alive in the short term, which can have a lot of really bad long-term downstream effects. I mean, I've heard horror stories of women who break their hip at the age of 30 because they have osteoporotic bones. Lastly, when you're under-eating and you're too lean, you're not only unhealthy, but you're also not happy. But I do want to say for the record that it does swing the other way, like to the other extreme. So we are going to talk about whether or not all in leads to obesity next. But finding a healthy body weight and eating enough calories every day really helped me and my health and my happiness. So I personally don't think that going all in is unhealthy. So the next misconception is one that I actually believed myself, and I know I've mentioned this many times before, but that is if you just listen to your body, you just eat whenever you're hungry, that you're going to spiral out of control and just eat yourself into obesity. Like once you open the floodgates of just eating whatever you want, whenever you want, that you just won't be able to stop. But in reality, unless you have like leptin resistance, which is commonly seen in the morbidly obese, that's just not how appetite regulatory mechanisms work. So I've actually done a whole video on the science behind going all in, which talks about this stuff in depth that I will link down below. But I think expanding on the misconception of eating yourself into obesity begs the question of what actually causes obesity. Now, obesity is a very complex medical disease that would probably take an entire video to cover. But I think experts can agree that it's a combination of genetics, maybe some underlying health problems, also in combination with perpetual yo-yo dieting that can lead to losing your normal hunger signals, which can also lead to leptin resistance in an environment with very highly palatable foods literally everywhere you look is a big part of the problem. But this is totally different than going all in because the point of going all in is to restore your hunger signals and to allow your body to find a natural settling weight. And remember, the extreme overfeeding part of going all in is very temporary, but it ultimately led me down a path to intuitive eating, which was always the goal. So with that being said, gaining weight and continuing to gain weight indefinitely kind of goes against everything we know about how your body regulates body fat and your body's genetically predetermined set weight. So when your body has too much body fat, your body, like a thermostat, will let you know and it will suppress your appetite. But the same thing goes in the other direction. If you have too little body fat, your body is going to let you know that you got to eat. Now, for me, suppressing my appetite did take many months, but it will eventually happen if you don't restrict during the process because the moment you restrict, it can really set you back to square one. So to relieve my extreme hunger, I had to eat, I had to gain weight, and I had to get my body out of the cycle of thinking it's in like a famine or a food shortage because it wasn't getting enough calories. That way, my biological mechanisms can turn back on and my weight and my appetite could balance out, which is what ended up happening. Now, I do have to say that throughout my journey, I did have critics say that when I was at my heaviest, that I did enter into the obesity body fat range. However, I did actually measure my body fat throughout my journey and this was also something that was not true. So when I started my journey, I was about 13.8% body fat. And then when I got to my heaviest weight, I was about 24.6% body fat, which is actually still within the normal range for women. But there is a huge but here. Even if I did surpass the 32% obesity body fat range, I don't think that would have been the worst thing in the world because it would have been a temporary necessary amount of weight gain that my body might have needed to turn on all of those biological processes that we talked about before. And I like to think of this as like an analogy. So when I started my journey, my body was in debt and not only did I have to pay back my body's debt to like break even. I also had to pay interest. So a certain amount of overshoot weight was necessary to reignite all of those biological mechanisms that are essential to our health. And I think it's a price worth paying. So the next misconception is that a slow increase in calories and slow weight gain is better than going all in. So this would be more like a reverse dieting approach being more optimal than completely jumping headfirst and going all in like I did. But for me, this was simply not the case at all. And in this particular instance, I'm not saying that reverse dieting doesn't work for some people. I know for some people it works very well and it's a very good strategy for them coming out of a caloric deficit. But for me, it just didn't work. And I personally don't think it's a smart approach for people who are experiencing extreme hunger and possibly are coming out of maybe an eating disorder or who are coming out of chronic restriction after a bikini competition like me. Just a healthy bout of normal weight loss is not what I'm talking about. You don't need to do something as drastic as going all in. I'm sure you know that. And it's also not ideal for people who didn't suffer from the normal side effects of competing and have aspirations of competing again. But in the event that your quality of life and your health are suffering because of extreme hunger, maybe loss of menstrual cycle and like extreme exhaustion, a reverse diet can just prolong your journey back to health and a healthy relationship with food. So from a physiological perspective, just a slow increase in calories will just draw out the amount of time that your body is in an under fueled state. Because just adding calories week to week is probably going to still keep you in a deficit, i.e. just prolonging the total amount of time that you're halting mechanisms and function of your body. And it will also just delay getting your period back, which is just more time without an active menstrual cycle, doing more harm than you think. And from a psychological perspective, reverse dieting can be problematic because you just never let go. You just never let go to counting calories or counting macros and you never allow yourself to learn how to eat intuitively. If you are obsessed with the numbers, you might just develop a lot of fear foods because you may not want to eat them because they might take up too many of your macros. You might have a hard time being able to detect your body's hunger signals and you might start binge eating, which has actually been shown in the literature. So going back to me, I actually tried reverse dieting twice, once in 2017 and once in 2019. And in 2017, just the slow addition of like 100 or 200 calories a week, honestly just like fueled my appetite even more and it made me really frustrated with my appetite. So after my first failed attempt of reverse dieting, I actually tried to do a lean bulk. I've never implemented a bulk before, so this is going to be an experimental process. I was like desperate to try something new and to get control of my appetite, something that you guys know I've struggled with forever. I'm still at the point where I'm still really hungry all the time, which is part of the reason why I'm going to be doing a bulk. Now in retrospect, going on a lean bulk was kind of like going half in. It just wasn't enough to sedate my appetite and I ended up gaining like a little bit of weight, but it was just weight that I gained that I ended up losing later and it didn't end up helping me really at all. And then the second time I tried reverse dieting was last year in 2019 and it was right after my mini cut. I actually did try reverse dieting for a few weeks before I just got frustrated again with my appetite. I was so food focused and that's when I like completely threw in the towel and discovered the concept of going all in. I would compare reverse dieting to dipping your toes in very cold pool water and getting in slowly. It's just harder and you might never fully dunk your head under and get stuck at the hard part like right at your belly as opposed to going all in where you completely let go can of ball straight in. And the last thing that I have to mention is that I now have very good internal hunger cues and I have like a mild to moderate appetite and I highly doubt I would feel this way if I just spent the last year slowly adding calories week to week. And I would probably need a lot more food to feel full than with my acceptance based all in approach. Just saying. So the next misconception is that going all in shouldn't take so long. Now this comes from the fact that there really is no definitive timeline of like a traditional all in journey. Everyone is totally different. So I can imagine as a viewer that it seemed like I was going through this journey for what seemed like forever. And unfortunately this leads people to believe that the process just isn't working. Yes, it did take a long time for my body to respond. So I can kind of understand people's impatience. People are programmed to want quick fixes and overnight success stories, which is just simply not the case in this instance. It's a slow process for your body to adapt to so much food and to increase its metabolic rate. What actually does happen really quickly is for the opposite to happen. Your body can actually adapt really quickly to starvation and it'll lower its metabolic rate to survive. But on the flip side, it's much slower for your body to adapt to an all in diet and it takes a long time for it to increase its metabolic rate, which is why I saw a lot of weight gain at the beginning because I was likely starting out with a lower metabolism. I never expected going all in was going to be quick or an easy fix. I was mentally prepared for the long haul. So when you go all in, you just got to buckle up for the ride. And last but not least, and this misconception is a biggie, many people believe that you have to be very thin to undergo an all in process. And from all the research that I've done, this doesn't seem to be true. There are larger bodied individuals that have been recommended to do a process similar to mine that have benefited in the exact same way that I have. It's the same common misconception that you have to be very thin to lose your period, but that's also not true. Now, in this instance, I'm obviously not going to be speaking from experience as I did start my journey very lean, but I did speak to dietitians. There are a lot of people who maybe are in a larger body who have spent their whole lives kind of dieting and binging and restricting and kind of going up and down. Dr. Rinaldi as well as done a lot of research on the topic. And my conclusion is that you can be any body size and experience extreme hunger and benefit from going all in. So this is most likely the case if you are larger bodied and you are chronic yo-yo dieter and you've been in this constant cycle of extreme restriction, which commonly leads to binging, which is basically your body fighting you and fighting the deficit that you're putting it through. So you might be at a higher weight, but you might still suffer from the same symptoms of extreme hunger that I did. When you have all the signs telling you that you have extreme insatiable hunger, extreme food focus, maybe your hormones are out of whack or you lost your menstrual cycle. These are all things that might indicate that this might be appropriate for you. Now, of course, I'm not personally recommending for anybody to go all in without consulting an expert. Like first and foremost, you should not take this as prescriptive. I'm not saying that you should go all in, but the criteria of having to be thin to go all in just isn't what the experts I've spoken to agree on. I do imagine that your journey might look slightly different, but also really similar in the sense that you will temporarily gain weight. But once your hormones are back on track and you fixed your hunger signals, you will eventually settle back down into your set weight, which might be higher than mine or even higher than you were expecting. But there just has to be some level of body acceptance and where your body feels happy. Because if you don't respect it, you will be constantly picking a fight with your body. But if you allow this process to happen, you will eventually learn how to eat intuitively and get out of that vicious cycle of chronic yo-yo dieting. And in my opinion, it's a small price to pay to live happier and to have a better relationship with food for the rest of your very long life. In my last video, Dr. Rinaldi said that the fact that healthy equals a look is very problematic and health should equal function regardless of your body size, which is something that I 100% agree with. So your body being healthy is not that it needs to be thin, but it needs to function well. So I don't ever want people to look at me or to look at anybody and just assume they're healthy just by looking at them. That is just not how this works. So that's it for this video. I really hope you enjoyed it and maybe learned something. I also want to take a moment to thank you from the bottom of my heart for all the love and positivity that you gave me on my last video. It really meant the world to me and I want to continue sharing with you everything that I've learned and everything I've experienced in future videos. So subscribe if you happen to be new, like the video if you liked it and I will see you in a video very soon. I love you so much. Bye.