 start over, cut! I got tons of st- I got tons of st- I got tons of st- I got tons of st- I got tons of st- I got tons of st- I got tons of st- I got tons of st- I got tons of st- Good morning, guys! So, I'm about to get ready to film, and I figured that I would actually just take you through what I do, like, my everyday makeup situation. I'm obviously still in my pajamas. I'm gonna change and look like a functioned human of society in just a minute. We need to take a moment for my slippers, because they deserve a moment of screen time. Can we just... They're my favorite. I got them on target. Okay, all I have on right now is my sunscreen. It is tinted, so it creates, like, a really nice base, because I don't wear a ton of makeup on a day-to-day basis. I use two different colors of powder, one for, like, the center of my face, and then a darker one for the outer portion of my face. I use the brand Mineral Fusion, because it actually doesn't break me out. All I do with the lighter color is that I put it under my eyes, on my nose, the center of my forehead, and, like, above my lip, and then my chin. And then for the outer portion of my face, I use a darker color. After that, I put on bronzer. This is just a Milani bronzer in the perimeter of my face. I'm, like, I don't full on contour. Obviously, this is not a good contouring product, but I kind of, like, give myself a little bit of a contour with it. I also put some on my neck. I don't do this every day, but just for kicks, I'm gonna do it today. I'm gonna put in a little bit of blush. Normally, I stop after the bronzer, but because I'm filming, I'm doing it for you guys. So the last thing I do is I contour my nose in a way, so I don't full-blown contour it, like, when I do full face of makeup. But I do add a stripe of a really light colored powder right down the center of my nose. I also like this powder. It's a Physician's Formula powder, because it has SPF, which I feel like on your nose, you get the most sun exposure, so, like, layering sunscreen, so it has a dual purpose. I just use my finger, and then I take a brush and kind of blend it out. But after that, that's it. That's all I do. It's really simple. Okay, breakfast time. So I hope their expectations weren't too high when I said that I was gonna change and look like a functioning adult. I just put on a t-shirt. Before I begin, I'm gonna give all the disclaimers. This isn't what I eat every day, except for oatmeal, maybe, is one of the things that I eat probably almost every day. But general disclaimer, this is not how I eat every day. I'm not saying that you have to eat like this, etc., etc. I know you guys are smart. I know you guys know that. Breakfast, no surprises. Oatmeal. I switch it up occasionally, but Alonni knew just released two new flavors of their vegan protein, and it happens to mix, like, so well. Chef's Kiss in oatmeal. So I've been enjoying it. It is available to purchase if you're interested. Yeah, I'll link it down below. I decided to use the Cinnabon flavor today. It's probably an Amazon package. So since I used the Cinnabon flavor today, I did add a little bit more cinnamon just to spice it up a bit, and it goes really well with banana. So something I wanted to talk to you guys about was actually my next video. I want to talk to three different intuitive eating experts from maybe different backgrounds. Maybe they have a little bit of a different specialty, but I want to ask them for their best advice, and I thought it would be something really cool to share with you guys. So if you guys like the idea of that video, I want to do it anyways. I'm going to be honest, but I'd like to hear whether or not you are looking forward to it. I'm going to interview three different experts in nutrition, especially people who are focused on intuitive eating. So stay tuned for that. I didn't get a chance to say this in my last video, but the TVP, which is textured vegetable protein, has like this granola consistency, and I love putting it on top of yogurt, oatmeal, all sorts of stuff because it gives a really good crunch. So that's why I add it to my oatmeal. I love it. After breakfast, I usually give myself a little bit of time to digest. I'll change and then I will work out. So I think I wear a tank top maybe once a month, even less if I'm working out. Let's just take it all in. Okay, I'm going to work out now. Okay, so work out is done. I'm drinking a protein fit shake. If I haven't already had one earlier in the day, then I usually don't have more than one, but I'll always have one after I work out. They're my fave. Cheers. Okay, okay, okay. A nice bit of time has gone by, which is why I tried to make sure I drink that fit shake after I train because sometimes I have to like run errands after I work out or like go see my mom and things like that. Today I had to run a few errands and then I had to come home and cook. So this is what I have for lunch. Brussels sprouts are so much better if you roast them in the oven. So I did roast some Brussels sprouts and the chicken I actually marinated early this morning in balsamic vinegar, olive oil, thyme, garlic powder, and salt and pepper that was sitting in the fridge for a couple of hours before I just sauteed it in the pan. And then just microwave rice because I needed a shortcut for one of these things in this meal, okay? I also topped it with tzatziki sauce because I really like tzatziki sauce. So that is on top. It goes really well with the chicken. That's about it. Tzatziki on chicken, forever a favorite. So when I spoke to you guys about my training style, how I can get like in and out of the gym in 45 minutes to an hour, I got a lot of people really interested in that style of training and I actually just did one of those workouts because I have some variations that can actually be done at home. The same ideology with like super sets, eccentric accentuated movements, techniques that make a workout more efficient. Because of all the structuring that I've done and programming that I've done for myself, I am planning on releasing a program if you guys are interested because I think that it would help a lot of people who just feel like they don't have the time for the gym to be able to get an efficient workouts and not feel overwhelmed with having to be in the gym for hours at a time. It's like three days a week. It's very doable for most people. So I hope that you guys are looking forward to that. Jeff is going to one of the playoff Toronto Raptors games with his mom and he has court side tickets. Just a little bit jealous. Alrighty guys. So we are keeping this last meal super casual. I'm going to stand here and eat it like a savage. I eat standing all the time. It's probably a really bad habit. Barbecue chicken pizza from California Pizza Kitchen by far hands down the best frozen pizza at the grocery store. I've tried many. Trust me. Like I live for frozen pizza. This one's the best. So I quickly just wanted to thank everybody in regards to my mom. I showed me a lot of love about what I talked about in my last video. So I really appreciate it. She's doing really well. She's recovering from surgery. We actually celebrated Easter in her rehab facility. Give a egg. Excalibur. Delicious. But she's out now and she's doing really well walking around really well. So I appreciate everybody who centers some well wishes. It's actually so crazy to me that whenever I have one of these pizzas I usually eat half of it. When Jeff is here we split it. Before I went all in while I was all in it would be nothing for me to eat the whole thing. And it's crazy to me now that I generally only eat half and I'm good. Whereas before I would eat the whole thing and probably could just eat a whole other one too. So much has changed. It's insane. It's game time. Let's go. Jeff is sending me a snap test. It's game time. Let's go. Let's go. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's go. It's a video. Oh. Jeff and I are currently apart sadly. He is in Canada and that is how we stay so close when we're apart is that we snapchat each other all day long. I basically vlog my entire day to Jeff. So if you're in a long distance relationship I highly recommend using snapchat for that purpose. It's so much easier than sending like photos through text message. It's not quite the same. It's not as spontaneous. We snap each other all day long. So for dessert I'm going to have one of these strawberry mochi ice cream things. I love these. I love these in like every single flavor but I particularly like the strawberry and the mango flavor. I also like mochi in general. I even have the strawberry mochi. These are not ice cream filled. They're just gummy mochi. I don't know how else to describe them. I love them. So just like regular mochi. I love it. But I love these ice cream ones. So I'm a little close up. So you guys have been with me like all freaking day. Are you like sick of me yet? I have been in like four different outfits. Pajamas, t-shirt, workout, back in pajamas, different pajamas. Like I don't even know. I might have to do so much laundry just because I don't want to look like a complete mess in a video where typically I might just wear my pajamas all day. But here we are. I hope you enjoy this video. I hope you enjoy full day of eating videos. If you enjoyed it, please let me know. Any and all feedback is always appreciated. I love you guys with all of my heart. I'm so happy to be back on YouTube being more consistent and vlogging again. I'll see you guys in the next one. I love you guys. Bye.