 this is what my life is coming for. I did it! I did it! It's too hot to drink, so it's just gonna be a prop for the meantime. What is going on? I hope you guys are doing well. Things have been calm for me recently. I've just been taking some time because there's a lot of things going on in my life that I don't always get a chance to talk about. One of the most prominent things going on in my life right now are things related to my mom. My mom was in like hardcore lockdown because her facility, her nursing home facility, was just like very, very protected for good reason because of the pandemic. But my sister and I are considered essential caregivers, so we are allowed to have access to seeing her. I have to take her to a lot of doctor's appointments. I actually get swabbed every two weeks. I have to have a negative COVID test to see her. Recently, I've been spending a lot of time just taking care of her, so that has been like my first, foremost priority. I guess in a weird way, it was like a nice way for me to think about things. I've been thinking about things so much so that I wrote a whole script for a video and I had an entire, you know, idea and concept for a video that I ended up completely scrapping because I was... I don't know if I want to use the word like I was too scared to film it, but I do have some thoughts on how harsh the internet can be sometimes. And putting myself out there, it feels like I'm in like the ocean and like a wave hits me and when I come up another wave hits me. It's just sometimes I just want a break and get out of the water. It was a really good time for me because I was already doing a lot of things for my mom to just like take a breather. I don't know, I read a lot of books. This is why these are not just props. I read a lot of books. I plan on continuing to read a lot of books because reading has really helped me completely take my mind away from anything related to my current life right now. And I also have been cubing. I'm not done yet. Let me just see if it fails then I suck. Is this the dagger? What? What the heck? Wait, wait, wait. I did it! I did it! So I have been learning how to do a rubrics cube. It took a lot of YouTube. So I actually haven't been there. YouTube is always in my life. I can't run from it. It's like this mental exercise that keeps my mind off of things that are just not as important and things that are just bad thoughts. I've been doing a lot of that and doing a lot of reading and doing a lot of cubing while reading. I can multitask. I'll cube in the audiobook. How about that? I'm on my sixth book now. I would be like, what books are they? Okay. These are just a few. I've read six in the past like two weeks has been. I plan on reading like 20 by like the end of October, the beginning of October. So I have a lot of work to do, but two that I would highly recommend if you are interested in fiction. I've been reading a lot of fiction. Both of them by Hank Green. They're both like a series. This is book one and this is book two. First one is an absolutely remarkable book. And the second one is a beautifully foolish endeavor. Two books. If you're looking for a good fiction mini series, I highly recommend those. The reason I've been reading those books is because I've been thinking more about the book that I want to write myself. I mentioned that before, but I'm seriously like planning and thinking more about how I want this book to flow and how I want this book to sound. And the more that I thought about it and the more fiction books that I read, I really liked it. I really wanted it to sound like a fiction story. That's why I've been reading a lot of stories from really good storytellers to to hopefully be able to properly tell you the story. It's kind of similar to what I did for my one year all in recap video. I was trying to model it off of like a documentary. I don't know if I achieved that or what, but I watched probably 30 documentaries just to get inspiration for making that. So it's kind of the same idea. I'm reading lots of books in preparation of writing a book. I actually wanted to read you a little excerpt that I actually wrote for my book. All right, I might mess this up. This is take one. I'll let you know how many takes it actually takes. I'm going to enjoy it with something that I was thinking at the beginning. All right, here we go. I'm cold, tired and hungry all the time. Why am I so hungry? Is this really worth it anymore? Chapter one. If you're new to me, hi, I'm Stephanie Buttermore, the dumbest smart person you'll ever meet. And I'm going to try to convince you that this book should rest ironically amongst all of the bullshit diet weight loss, Jenny Craig, Atkins and nutrition books in the health with a capital H section and not the self-help section, which is mortifying. But let's be real, you probably spotted the cover as just pixels on a screen on an Amazon page. And not an actual bookstore, but I digress. I say ironically because this book is not a health book. It's a look how I messed up book. Hopefully this will either make you feel less alone or it will prevent you from making the same dumb mistakes I did. I say that I'm the dumbest smart person you'll ever meet because despite all of my many years of trying to smarten myself in multiple higher education degrees, learning about the intricate nuances of cancer biology and pathology, I've done a lot of things that were really not good for my body. They teach you very little, actually zero about nutrition in a pathology and cell biology PhD program and focus on stuff like microscopic point mutations of a single nucleotide coding for a single amino acid of a single protein. I can recite signal transaction pathways of dozens of proteins, but was never formally educated on the proper way to put food in my piehole to make my body function properly. To be honest, most of my colleagues all had horrible eating and sleeping patterns. We would spend 16 hours in a lab fighting cancer fueled by pop tarts and energy drinks from the vending machine. So if you've come here for a revolutionary dietetic advice, I won't have it. But if you've come here to take a page from my mistakes and what I've learned to fix said mistakes, stay tuned. So that's all I got so far. I also have a newfound love for wearing jeans. So all of you active wear lounge wear stretchy pants for life. Purists are going to think that I am excluded from the club, which I was, I was like an honorary president of that club throughout my all in journey. I literally only wore stretchy things, but now that my weight hasn't changed since like June at all. I don't think my body is really changing really much at all. I have been exploring and getting back into the world of wearing jeans, which has been really nice. jeans, which has been really nice. This tea is going to burn my mouth. My love for tea since my last video is strong. I want to say, because I feel like with this, people don't understand because I thought that this was just a matter of looking at it and being like, because I've played around with them before and I thought you could just be like, okay, there's a red one here, I'll try to, okay, let me see, I got that red one there. But it's not like that, you have to learn all the different algorithms. There's like over 300 algorithms that you use to move the pieces where you need to. I've gotten pretty good at the main ones, obviously, and the way that I do it is pretty amateur. I'm sure like it's how to teach a beginner how to do it, but I mean, I've gotten pretty good at it. So got the first two layers done. I'm gonna leave it for now because this is going on for way too long. What's next, I'm gonna start with my tea. Does that mean the video's on? Oh, that, my struggles. Yeah, you should talk about it on it. Okay, I guess kind of segueing off of talking about my book. The next kind of chapter in this story is something that I'd like to talk to you guys about, but I don't necessarily think I'm ready just yet because I'm kind of like in the middle of it right now. And I kind of feel like I'm documenting it as I'm going, but I don't know if I'm ready to really talk about it yet. I have been kind of struggling with new obstacles that are different than the ones that I had when I was going through the weight game process. Things like talking about my weight and feeling comfortable with my weight now and feeling pressure if my weight changes from here and the pressure that I don't wanna feel like a failure to any of you if, I don't know, that I'm not a perfect case study of how an all-in journey is supposed to work. I feel like I'm happy and healthy where I am, but there are things that I'm struggling with that I will talk about in a future video that I'm not perfect right now, and I'm working on it and I'm getting a lot better. Jeff has been helping me a lot. My lack of appetite in some instances, probably a lot to do with some of the anxiety I feel about the pressure of being on social media. I don't wanna say taking me back a few steps, but it's definitely not helping. I'll talk about that soon, probably my next video. And I wanted to let you guys know that I would open up to you guys about that when I feel like I'm ready. Um, Chad, wanna talk about your training for workouts? Yeah, so as far as training goes, I've actually been really enjoying my training. I don't really wanna go down the rabbit hole of telling you about my old lady back. By the way, I have an old lady back. I'm seeing a doctor. My training has been good aside from occasional bouts of soreness because my back is, cause I'm old and I'm 30 years old if you didn't know that and my back sucks. As soon as I hit 30, I hurt my back and I've been struggling with that a little bit, but other than that, everything has been really good. I've been training in the gym and training at home. I've been doing a bit of both. I've been training about four times a week. I'm doing an upper lower training style right now. I'm actually gonna do an upper body workout and at home, upper body workout. So stay tuned for that really, really quick montage, that fitness montage. Jeff is interviewing me, trying to help me open up to you guys. I told Jeff like everything I wanted to talk about. So he's helping me kind of remember. He's, I'm paying him extra. So I pay him for his cameraman fee, but also for his therapist fee. He is my personal at home. He comes to my house. That's when you know you have a really good mental health therapist. He's helped me a lot. It helps a lot that he's also on social media and he gets it and it's been tough. I've had some bad days. You've had some good days too. So I'm not trying to complain. I'm just trying to catch you guys up on where my head is currently and why I scrapped my last video and why I felt almost scared to talk about certain subjects. I just need to find a balance of sharing my thoughts and opinions without asking for it. The upper body workout I'm going to be doing is from my at home program. I don't normally do this. So this is something that makes me feel a little uncomfortable, but I can do this. I can do this. I'm a YouTuber. So I'm going to go ahead and jump into an at home upper body workout. It's going to be from my at home program, which is still currently 50% off. I've actually left it 50% off because the financial crisis we're in and I just didn't feel good about raising it to full price. So if you want to support me, the best way to actually support me is to, if you're interested in a training program, of course, is to purchase some like my training programs. I haven't done a sponsored video in two years. No, I don't really talk about this, but yeah, I haven't. I don't do sponsored videos and I don't plan on doing them because I feel like it interrupts the flow of my videos and just for other personal reasons. I also don't add mid-rolls in my videos because I just want them to be more pleasant to watch. So if there was any good way to support me, that would be a good way to support me if you want to, of course. So I'm going to jump into the workout in three, two, one. I'm going to say no price. I'm going to say no price. I'm going to say no price. I'm going to say no price. I'm going to say no price. I'm going to say no price. I'm going to say no price. I'm going to say no price. I'm going to say no price. I'm going to say no price. I'm going to say no price. Okay guys, so that's going to be it for this video. I really hope you like this like casual. I don't even know what this video was, but regardless, I hope you enjoyed it. I do want to continue making content, continue opening up to you guys and just tell you exactly what I'm thinking, what I'm thinking it. So stay tuned for my next video. video subscribe if you happen to be new and I will see you in the next one I love you bye