 Ebrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrush It's nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing So we already brushed that. Do you, like, is there a . Yeah. That's all. That's, yeah, I'm great. That's why I said, you know, . . . . . . . . . . . . Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right, why don't we get started? Welcome, everyone, to Pediatric Neurology Grand Rounds. I'm Andrew Wiley. I'm one of the chief residents. Before we begin our typical programming today, I was hoping to invite Dr. Melissa Walker up here to say a couple of words. So we are very sad to announce for those who haven't already heard that Dr. Elizabeth Dooling passed away in December of this past year. I think everyone in the department will remember her for her incredible leadership as a true triple threat, a consummate child neurologist, an incredible educator, a researcher of great depth, and an incredible mentor to so many in our community as child neurologists and at MGH. And I think it's therefore very fitting that one of the amazing people who she mentored is going to be giving us a talk today. But we also want to announce that in Dr. Dooling's honor, we are now renaming the Pediatric Neuro Radiology Rounds to the Elizabeth Dooling Pediatric Neuro Radiology Rounds. Thank you, Dr. Walker. Dr. Grace Gambale is an associate professor at M.A. University and director of the Pediatric Neuroimmunology and Multiple Sclerosis Clinic at the Children's Healthcare of Atlanta. She completed pediatric neurology residency at Mass General and then fellowship in pediatric multiple sclerosis and neuroimmunology at Mass General Brigham and Boston Children's. She is PI of an NIH U54 rare disease clinical research network called ARISEN, which is a multicenter prospective patient neuroinflammatory registry for autoimmune encephalitis, Rasmussen syndrome, and NORS. She's also chair of the scientific selection and program planning committee for the Child Neurology Society 2026 and 2027 meetings. Please join me and give me a warm welcome to Dr. Grace Gambale. Dr. Grace Gambale. Hi, everybody. Good morning. Good afternoon now, I guess. Thanks for having me back. It's really wonderful to be back here. It kind of feels like coming back home. A lot of familiar faces. Nice to see. And nice to see new faces also. I really appreciate you giving me this opportunity to talk about some of the work we're doing. I was asked to talk about our advancing in autoimmune encephalitis care, our biomarket discovery, and our multi-center registry initiative. Here are my disclosures, which really shouldn't affect this talk. I do get part-time CDC consulting time for acute flaccid myelitis disease surveillance. That's under the polio division. Unfortunately, that will probably get closed in the next few months because of our current administration, so we'll see how that goes. I do not get any honorarium for being an associate editor for Annals of the Child Neurology Society. And if I discuss any treatments today, they're going to be off-label because, as everyone is aware, everything that we do right now in autoimmune encephalitis and in most pediatric conditions are off-label. So here are the objectives and outline for the next 45 minutes or so for today. I'm going to discuss some potential predictive biomarkers in autoimmune encephalitis and really focus on some of the work we've done in developing this multi-center network, which was originally called Connect, is now called Arisen. I'm going to touch upon some of the mimickers of autoimmune encephalitis because this comes up a lot in clinical practice and some of the work we've done looking at rates of AE and new onset psychosis in children. So let's talk about the autoimmune encephalitis and biomarker work. As everyone is aware here, just to ground everybody, let's talk about, you know, when do you suspect autoimmune encephalitis? What is possible AE? And this is some of the inclusion criteria that we developed for our network. So when you have a patient who comes in with nuanced symptoms, and there's a wide variety of symptoms, right? Psychiatric, cognitive, speech, movement disorders, excluding tics. Tics are not part of this criteria. Seizures, autoimmune instability, hypoventilation, right? They have a lot of different myriad of symptoms that can really look like a lot of conditions, but also be suspected inflammation. I bring up this here because I realize my audience is both pediatric and adult. And because a lot of you are going to be familiar with this paper. This is back in 2016 now, so almost 10 years old, looking at the clinical approach to diagnosing autoimmune encephalitis. And this is geared towards adults with suspected AE. I made this flow diagram small on purpose because I'm not going to go through everything. If you are suspecting adult with AE, go through this flow diagram. And what I really like about it, it walks through the different potential diagnostic criteria for diagnosing ADEM, autoimmune limbic encephalitis, NTN-D receptor encephalitis, Bickerstaff brainstem encephalitis, Hashimoto's encephalopathy, and then the most arching question that everybody has so much angst about, which is seronegative or antibody-negative AE. This is a really important slide here because what the caveat that this paper talks about is that other potential causes that can look like AE. I am thrilled everybody wants to diagnose AE. It's one of my favorite diseases. That's why I'm studying and that's why I went into this field. But there are other diseases that mimic it. So please, please, please consider other causes, everything from infection, sepsis, metabolic encephalopathy, drug toxicity, strokes, neoplastic disorders, like Quartz-Fadyakob disease, right, different types of seizures, different types of systemic rheumatologic disorders, Klein-Levin syndrome, Rye syndrome, especially in children, things like mitochondrial diseases or other inborn errors of metabolism, CNS vasculitis, and Rasmusens. So this doesn't cover all the list of things that could be mimicking AE or AE can mimic these conditions, but just consider it because if you look at the criteria for both the Grouse and then what we'll talk about, the pediatric criteria, you have to consider other causes and exclude other causes as much as possible. So let's talk about the approach to pediatric AE. This was developed by this Lucci et al. group back in 2020 because they realized, right, pediatric AE is really hard to, challenging to diagnose, right? In kids, you have overlapping clinical presentation with other diseases, complexity of normal behavioral changes, what's considered normal in the childhood development, right? Like I have four kids. When I have a kid who gets sick or something happens to them and they get really agitated and really aggressive, is it because they're developing AE or is this part of their normal development? And then the other piece that's really important to think about, which we deal with all the time in our not only young children, but in our patients who aren't able to communicate, right? They can't really describe their symptoms, so you have to infer a lot of symptoms with them. So this diagnostic criteria is slightly different from the Grouse. So there's overlap with different conditions like psychiatric disorders, infections, metabolic diseases, or all sorts of inflammation. And so they're not applicable because not only the presentations and paraclinical findings different in children compared to adults, the autoantibody profiles, the different antibodies are more common in kids compared to adults. So case in point is if you send your antibody testing panel to the Mayo Clinic, for example, their pediatric autoencephalopathy panel is different from the adult. And they make it very clear if you're under 18, we send it to the pediatric. If they're over 18, you send the adult panel, quote unquote. One of the main differences on that panel is MOG, actually. MOG is not on the adult panel, although they may have changed it recently, so they may have put it on there. But MOG is on the pediatric panel because we know MOG can look like an autoimmune encephalitis. So again, I'm not going to go through this flow diagram. This is just here for your reference. But if you have a patient who comes in with a clinical presentation with considering for AE, do they have paraclinical and antibody testing consistent with AE? And this is what's important. So you send the test for it. Is it have the ancillary test that are consistent with it? If the answer is yes, then you can start immunotherapy and think about it. And then if you actually have autoantibodies that are associated with AE, you'd have definitely antibody positive pediatric AE. If the answer is no, you do all the testing, even though clinically you feel like they fit like an AE, if they don't have the testing that's positive with it, consider all other conditions. And then same thing with the probable antibody negative AE. Let's say you do have some positive testing. The antibody panel is negative. And you're like, maybe this is zero negative or antibody negative. You can consider starting therapy, but still consider other conditions. So just like everything we do in medicine and neurology, right, the diagnosis of AE is not just on testing alone. We don't make a diagnosis just on a single test. It should be based upon the clinical history and everything else that's happening with the patient. Okay. Let's talk about NMDA receptor encephalitis. So as everyone is aware in here, about one-third of NMDA or NMDAR can occur in children, and up to 10% actually can die from their disease. They're in the hospital a long time. And you are aware of this if you've ever diagnosed someone with NMDA. And this is data that we have from our Children's Healthcare Atlanta or CHOA, where their average hospital length of stay is 39 days, anywhere from up to two months. And not only that, this is inpatient rehabilitation data. So they're also in inpatient rehab for at least 39 days and up to six months. And so that doesn't talk about, right, day rehab after they get discharged from inpatient rehab and how do you start rehabilitating them and starting to slowly integrate them back into their normal lives. So when I make this diagnosis, I tell families we're in it for the long haul. It's going to take months to years to see recovery from this illness, hopefully faster, which is a good thing. About one-third is associated with ovarian teratomas. So it's a perineoplastic disorder in that case. But then there was a very talented medical student named Jen Lee, who's now an internal medicine physician, actually, in Emory. But she came up to me after one of my talks and she said, hey, we know one-third of NMDA is associated with ovarian tumors. How often do people with ovarian tumors develop NMDA? And I said, I don't know the answer to that, but let's look at it. So she actually went through and did a chart review of all the patients who had ovarian teratomas at CHOA. And it turns out the answer is 3%. 3% of all comers with ovarian teratomas have NMDA receptor encephalitis. And that's actually very similar to the opsoclonus-myoclonus ataxia literature related to neuroblastoma. So 50% of OMS is going to have a tumor, most likely neuroblastoma, associated with it. But then if you have all comers with neuroblastoma, about 1% to 3% will develop the OMS, perineoplastic syndrome, with it. And then as you're all aware, some people can develop NMDA receptor encephalitis after HSV, herpes inflex viral encephalitis. So the diagnosis is actually having a positive CSF, anti-NMDA receptor antibody. You can have some people with low positive titers in their serum. About 1% of the population can have the low serum positivity. So you really want to make sure that CSF is positive. And then this disease was made popular and more well-known in the literature or in the lay population because of this memoir by Susanna Callahan called Brain on Fire. There's also a Netflix movie for it. What's our current treatment approach for pediatric NMDA receptor encephalitis? This is the International Consensus Recommendations for this. This was published a few years ago. Again, I made this flow diagram very small for a reason because if you diagnose a patient, pull up the paper, or you can go through the flow diagram. What I like about it, it talks about standard disease versus severe disease and how do you treat them. And so as you're not going to be surprised about, typical treatment plans include first-line therapies, things like IV steroids, IVIG, plasmapheresis, and then tumor removal if you find a tumor. And then second line is going to be rituximab, cyclophosphamide, mycophenolate mofetil, and tocilizumab. Although now, like, things are trendy, right, in medicine, including in the neuroinflammatory world. Probably our second line in this disease will be rituximab. If that's in the work, we're probably going to do tocilizumab next because tocilizumab has become more popular in the neuroinflammatory world. We talked a bit about this already, but recovery takes a long time, right, when you have a child who comes in with NMDR or an adult. And this is older data, but recovery at two years, when you look at two-year outcome data, 70% have, quote-unquote, good outcomes. But how do you define the good outcomes? In this case, a lot of people use the modified Rankin scale, or MRS, which you're familiar with. But the MRS is a scale between zero to six, zero being no symptoms, up to three, meaning, like, some disability, walking without assistance. Four is unable to walk, you know, without assistance. And then up to six, which is death. And the way that good versus poor outcomes is defined is good is between zero to two, and then poor is between three to six. So 70% have, quote-unquote, good outcomes, whereas 30% have poor outcomes, and this is even two years out from the onset of their disease. And then some of the things that we know that can help with outcomes, right, is early treatment can associate with improved outcomes, which is not going to be a surprise, right? You treat them earlier, they're going to do better. But what's also important to know is that do they respond to treatment? So you've started treatment to them. Are they actually improving with the treatment? And if they are improving treatment early, and by the way, early here is defined as four weeks. This is one of the things that sort of comes up in my institution and may come up here, right? You have somebody with suspected NNDA. You send out the testing. People are upset because it can take a few days to a couple weeks to come back, and they want to treat right away four weeks. So we're talking about early treatments within four weeks. Treatment response is also within four weeks of treatment. And then the consensus criteria, treatment criteria that I just talked about, they recommend waiting one to two weeks in between treatments. They don't say hit everybody really hard with all of the meds at once. You want to wait one to two weeks. And so one of the things that I've really dedicated my time to is looking at what are predictors for patients with good versus poor outcomes? Can I predict at the time of diagnosis whether or not you're going to do well or not? And then if I think you're going to do poorly, can I be more aggressive with immunotherapy up front? Some groups have already looked at this. This is a multi-center study led by the Mayo Clinic called the NEO SCORE, the One-Year Outcome Assessment in NMDAAR. And so they gave everybody five points if you're admitted to that. You got one point for each of these criteria. So if you're admitted to the ICU, delayed treatment more than four weeks, lack of clinical improvement within four weeks, had an abnormal MRI, or you have a CSL white cell count greater than 20 cells. And so this is what they found. So if you have a low NEO SCORE, so zero to one, up to four to five, five being the highest, your good one-year functional status, again, is that modified Lincoln score, zero to two being good. So if you had a low NEO SCORE, you did pretty well at one year. Close to all of them had a good score. But as you can see, as the NEO SCORE got higher, they did more poorly or more associated. What I like about here in panel B, it shows you the breakdown of how the individual patients ended up doing or the groups, right? So even though zero to one overall did pretty well, you still have a few poor MRS scores even in the zero to one group. And so even though you get that worse over time, you still have people who did well in this four to five versus in the four to five group. They still had an MRS of zero. So we actually looked at this. And so Leah Lawrence, who's actually now a child neurology resident at CHOP, was a medical student at Emory who looked at this with me. And so we actually did a validation study along with a German group showing that this is validated. We were able to validate this NEO SCORE in our cohorts individually or independently, but it's not applicable at an individual level. So even if I have somebody who has a NEO SCORE of four to five, I still cannot predict at one year how well you're doing. I can tell as a group level with an individual patient in front of you, I cannot say that. So here's some of the work we did looking at predictors of outcomes. One of the things we started looking at was EEG features and sleep, some MRI work. And then the other piece, which I sort of have been hinting at, is better outcome measures in NMDAR, which I'll go into in a little bit. So let's talk about the EEG. So extreme Delta brush has been shown to be associated with adult NMDAR. This group is very familiar with extreme Delta brush. She knows normal and premature infants, but we should not see it in older kids or adults. And then this group found that in about 30 percent of adults with NMDAR had the extreme Delta brush on their EEG. And what they found was that if there was presence of extreme Delta brush, it was associated with longer hospitalization. And they trended, they tend to have maybe worse MRS scores at one year from their onset. There were a few pediatric cases that said, oh, this kid came in with extreme Delta brush. They had poor outcomes. So maybe that associates with it. And then there's this group from China that had about 80 children with NMDAR who they looked at how many of them had extreme Delta brush. And they said about 6 percent, but they never really correlated or associated the extreme Delta brush with the outcomes. And so we started looking at that in our group. So this was led by Drs. Lynn and Elkins, who were residents and then fellows. And now Dr. Lynn is on staff as an epileptologist at Emory. And Dr. Elkins is in St. Louis. But they led this effort with four other epileptologists here. So we wanted to look at this extreme Delta brush associated with outcomes in children with NMDAR. In our cohort, which is relatively small because we had to go back and look at the raw EEG files and trying to access all of the raw EEG files was next to impossible. But when they went back and looked at it, we found that about 63 percent of our cohort did have extreme Delta brush but did not associate with outcomes. Interestingly enough, when we went back and looked at the charts, a good proportion to them, about 80 percent of them reported sleep disturbance. And about a third, about 27 percent, had absence of electrophysiologic sleep. And this is actually in the first 24 hours of EEG recording that we have on these patients. 24 hours, there's no evidence of sleep. And you've ever been on service or on call, right, or had these patients admitted, they're in the ICU. The ICU is calling you because they're like, this kid is awake. They are agitated. They are not sleeping. They are awake. And now I have EEG evidence to show they are not sleeping during the first early times of it. And so when we actually looked at the presence or absence of sleep stages on EEG, that actually associated with inpatient rehab length of stay and the need for a higher number of enotherapies. And so then we did a multivariate analysis looking at poor outcomes at one year. And what we found is that if you had patients who had an absent posterior dominant rhythm, absent sleep stages, and epileptiform discharges, that actually seemed to associate with poor outcomes. And so we're actually going to start looking at this, investigating this in a larger multi-center study. So let's go to the sleep question. This was really striking to me that 80 percent reported sleep issues and that there was no evidence of sleep in a good proportion of our patients on their EEG. So sleep is often disturbed. This has been shown, Dr. Delma has reported this a lot in his papers in NMDR. But there hadn't been a lot of studies in kids and their sleep problems. So we went back and did a retrospective chart review, and we had 47 NMDR patients at that time. And it turns out at least 39, so at least 80 percent, had reported sleep presence problems at presentation. And I don't know about you, but I usually don't ask about sleep in an inpatient consult, right? And when I'm doing an inpatient consult, I don't talk about it. Outpatient I do, but not an inpatient. But on the either initial history and physical, the admission note from the primary team or the initial neuroconsult note, the families or the patients were complaining about poor sleep. Most of them had insomnia. There's one family or one patient that was reporting hypersomnia as their sleep issues. And so even though poor sleep at presentation did not predict poor outcomes at one year, having persistent sleep issues at one year did associate with poor outcomes. And it's hard for me to say at this point, is it because, is it the poor sleep is a sign of the disease severity, meaning that if you have poor sleep still at one year, that means you had severe NMDR. Versus a lot of my patients are teenagers and they're not sleeping well and they have poor sleep hygiene. So is it because they have poor sleep hygiene and they're not recovering as well as they would like to because of their poor sleep hygiene? So if anybody wants to help me look at that, let me know, because I don't know how to tease that out. But that's something that we should really explore. I've alluded to this already, but I wanted to talk about some of our multi-center network work. And so this is called CONNECT, which stands for Conquering Numeral Inflammation and Epilepsies Consortium. And we were very grateful to receive funding from the Pediatric Epilepsy Research Foundation for this. So we started off as a prospective registry. And then we actually also came together to put together a retrospective network, a database of NMDA receptor encephalitis patients. And here is the stars and the list of all the sites included in this work. And so one of our first papers that we came out with was looking at MRI T2 lesions in children with NMDR. There had been a former study from China and about 40-ish patients that included mostly adults that said if you had T2 temporal lobe lesions in the adult group, you had poor outcomes. And so we were curious, is that true in our pediatric group? So in our multi-center retrospective study, which at that time we had data from 11 sites from 175 children, we excluded those with prior HSV for many reasons, right? HSV can cause lesions in your brain. And we don't know. And we know that they're more severe if you have prior HSV. Also, I don't know which lesions are going to be from your NMDA versus your HSV. So just to take that out, we excluded those patients. So these 175 did not have prior HSV. In our cohort, 35% had some sort of abnormality on their MRI. And then luckily our outcomes, older data I showed you was 30% poor outcomes at one year. Ours is now 20%. So in our cohort, 20% had poor outcomes at one year. And to show you the MRS here, just to remind you. So when we looked at features to predict poor outcomes, looking at the crude odds ratio, looking at abnormal MRIs. So having an abnormal eye increases your risk of poor outcomes or odds of poor outcomes almost three times. This has been shown before. This was shown in that newspaper I showed you earlier. Many people have looked at this. But what was to our surprise, temporal lobe lesions didn't affect outcomes or associate with outcomes. It turns out if you had frontal or occipital lobe lesions, that actually increase your risk for poor outcomes. And then we did an adjusted odds ratio, looking at adjusting for other factors, including improvement within four weeks, treatment within four weeks, and being admitted to the ICU. And it turns out having an abnormal MRI did not seem to pan out in terms of being associated with poor outcomes. But the frontal and occipital lobe lesions still do. So now I'm starting to have more individualized data of saying, okay, if you have these MRI lesions plus EEG, can I now give you a better predictive score? And so our next steps in looking at this is going to be looking at brain volumes themselves, right? There's a lot of volumetric, automatic volumetric measurements out there for brain MRIs and also lesion volumes. And so that's the next step that we are looking at. Because this is a qualitative study saying, do you have a lesion in this location? Yes, no. But now we can look at lesion volumes. Is the volume of lesions cause an issue? So now let's talk about optimal outcome measures. And I know this sounds maybe very straightforward, but there's a lot to it when you think about it. So what is an optimal outcome measure? It's a metric to measure and track outcomes. You're going to be like, yes, I already know this. Timing is also critical, right? Like when you measure the outcome. And especially in diseases like NMDA receptor encephalitis, trying to pinpoint when the disease onset is very, very hard. When you have these insidious little symptoms that are happening and people go back and think about it. And they're like, was that the onset of my onyemone encephalitis? Yes, no. And it's hard to know. And one of the things about the modifying Rankin score is that it's, you know, there's lots of, you know, pros about this, right? It's well validated. It's on the NIH common data elements. There's a really high inter-rater agreement. So if you have multiple people doing it, they're going to agree very, very highly together. And that's what you want for an outcome measure that you have different people doing it, performing it, and they agree. But this skews towards motor disability. This was a scale that was developed for stroke outcomes. And people have adopted it because of its many benefits, like I mentioned it. And it's less sensitive to change. So trying to get a step one point difference in between each of these steps is a huge difference, including cognition. And my patients with onyemone encephalitis, they don't have a lot of motor disability when I start looking at their outcomes. They have a lot of cognitive fatigue, quality of life, psychiatric impacts. So what are other outcome measures we can use? So there is a group in actually Korea who developed the clinical assessment scale on autoimmune encephalitis, or this case scales, because they recognize that the residual cognitive and neuropsychiatric symptoms are really commonly impacting our patients. And so they developed this 27-point scale where you get zero to three per item, and the items are listed here. So severity of seizures, consciousness, memory, weakness, psychiatric symptoms, speech, movement disorder, brainstem dysfunction, and then gait dysfunction. And the K-score has a higher sensitivity. So now you have a wider scale you're working with from zero to seven, so zero to six. So each change in point is going to be more sensitive to change with a patient and how they're doing. And it's actually been validated in other A-E cohorts. But the thing about this is that when you go back and you look at memory or psychiatric, you really just have a zero to three-point scale. So you're really not really capturing what's impacting our patients. And so one of the things that we wanted to look at and utilize is what's called the CALS, or cognitive and linguistic scale. So this is a 20-item scale that's been used in children with inpatient rehabilitation centers across the country. And this was actually developed by Beth Sloan at Kennedy Krieger. And this is initially used to track recovery and traumatic brain injury. And this score is actually between 20 to 100, 20 being low functioning, up to 100 is high functioning. And this is focused on mental status, emotional regulation, attention, language, and cognition. It takes about 20 minutes to administer. This is not a full neuropsych evaluation. It does associate well with the more validated neuropsych measures. One of the things I also really like about it, it can be used in disorders of consciousness. So you have somebody in the ICU, someone who cannot interact with you, you can still give them a score on this CALS scale. It's more sensitive to change. And then the other piece that's really important to think about when you're doing repeated measures, because you really want to know how well a patient is doing, is there's no practice effect. Practice effect is that if you do the test over and over and over again, your scores get better just because you're practicing it. It's not because you're improving clinically. It's just because you've practiced it and you get better. The MOCUS is probably a really good example of that, and that's why you have different versions of it, right? And so the CALS actually doesn't have a practice effect limited with it. So this was in coordination with Drs. Howard and Blackwell, who are two pediatric neuropsychologists at my institution. And so we looked at this, and we went back and looked at our 21 patients at that point who had both CALS, CASE, and MRS scores. So this is looking at admission and discharge from inpatient rehab. And as you can see here, the MRS improved over time. So lower MRS means improvement over time. Here, then we looked at the CASE, and again, they had improvement over time. Again, lower case means – lower case scores means clinical improvement. Then we looked at the CALS. CALS is a little bit different where it's flipped. So higher CALS means better clinical improvement. And so, again, we saw a clinical improvement. But I hope you're starting to see here when you look at these dots. There's a reason why I'm showing you the dots individually. There's this clustering of dots. There's a higher functioning group and a lower functioning group here. And so, actually, when we looked at the individual dots, there were three groups that emerged. So this is a busy slide, so let me orient you here. So when we're looking at the CALS, when you look at the dots, like the patients who started off at around 60, and they started off at 60, they improved a little bit, but they remained pretty high over time. And then you had this lower group that were between 30 to 40. So at admission, they were lower scores, 30 to 40. They had a dramatic improvement over time by the time they were discharged. And then you had this third group who started off in that very, very low scores, between 20 to 30, and they remained low over time. And when somebody's going to ask me, is it the length of time? Is it the timing matter for this? And it turns out timing of when you do this doesn't matter. In fact, the people who were on the lowest scale were in the hospital longer. And so despite being on the longer, they remained low over time. And so I thought that was very interesting to look at. I'll talk about the square. Somebody's going to eagle eye here is going to talk about the square in a second. But when you look at the MRS scores, either they stay the same or improved over time. Same thing with the case. So it turns out the CALS is more sensitive to really picking up clinical changes and clinical things. And not only that, right, now I can show you if you had a CALS greater than 30 at the time of admission, not only can I use this as an outcome measure, I can use this as a predictive measure. So predicted improvement by discharge with a sensitivity of 86% and specificity of 93%. So now I can use this not only as an outcome measure, but to predict is somebody going to do well. This square, let me tell you about the square. So there was a patient who came in who was functioning relatively well. She only had isolated psychosis. So we were going to do the workup and say, okay, you probably don't have NMDA. We're going to send you home. You're going to be fine. During the week in her hospital while she was waiting, she developed additional symptoms. Turns out she actually did have NMDA. She was otherwise improving much better and her psychiatric or seizures, movement disorder, all that stuff had been better controlled. But at the time of discharge, and this is one of the observations that one of the neuropsychologists had mentioned, she said, huh, the CALS got worse. But everything else clinically looks fine. So they discharged her and she came back the next week with worsening symptoms again. So I think that CALS was kind of heralding that maybe there was worsening of clinical symptoms. Again, that's one patient, right? So we have to validate this in a larger group. So speaking of the larger group, and so I mentioned CONNECT already. And then now I'm going to talk about our U54 funding work called ARISEN, which stands for Audit Immunity Rasmusens Inflammation and Status Epilepticus Research Network. So CONNECT was a prospective multi-center registry funded by the PERF that I mentioned earlier. And then I had an institutional K that helped support this work. And this is a prospective registry where we included patient and caregiver forms, clinician-facing forms. We are attempting an EEG and MRI central repository, a biorepository with biospecimens. And we actually now have 10 centers who are funded under the PERF, and we've enrolled 38 participants with autoimmune encephalitis through this mechanism. But our PERF funding was ending. And so I knew that was going to be a problem. And so in the meantime, while we were waiting to recruit and enroll patients or participants, we then developed this multi-center retrospective data registry. I mentioned that MRI worked already. We published a second paper, which I'll talk about later on. And now the data set has over 300 children with pediatric NMDA or someterencephalitis from 19 centers. We are now in the process of expanding this data set to include adults with autoimmune encephalitis. So if somebody here wants to help contribute data, let me know. And expanding to additional autoimmune antibodies related to AE in addition to NMDA. Because I needed to show we were a young network. A lot of us that were leading the network, very junior faculty. And so we needed to show proof to people that we could work well together because it was going to take us forever to enroll enough people to do anything with that data. And so then that led to ARISEN. So I knew the PERF grant was going to go away. So I put in for this grant for the U54. Did not think anything was going to happen for it. And then here we are. And so this network includes new neuropsychiatric symptoms due to inflammation. And so when enrolling participants who have autoimmune encephalitis, Rasmussen syndrome, and NORS, and that's in partnership with Larry Hirsch from Yale and Nora Wong from the NORS Institute, that we've combined forces to really start enrolling these patients prospectively. Here's our participating sites. We have 24 sites across the country who are involved. And then we have six affiliate sites who are interested in being an enrolled father of the network. And then this U54 grant involves three projects. For the project one is establishing prospective longitudinal clinical cohorts to really document the natural history disease in autoimmune encephalitis, Rasmussen, and NORS. Project two is doing better functional and patient-reported outcomes in these three groups of diseases because the whole point of the U54 grant is improved clinical trial readiness. People use the MRS. People are using the case. It's the extinguished trial led by Stacey Clardy, which looks at inobilizumab for NMD receptor encephalitis. They're using the case. They're using MRS as their primary outcomes. And then they are doing some exploratory stuff. But we really need improved outcome measures to really understand how this is impacting our patients. And then finally, project three, which is early biomarker discovery. So this is in partnership with Chuck Howe at Mayo and the Wilson and Pleasure Labs at UCSF. But we're actually going to identify early immunologic and novel neural antibody biomarkers, not only novel autoimmune encephalitis antibody discovery, but early immunologic markers to actually help you distinguish between these three diseases. And so TBD to be continued. As part of our U54 grant, I have a QR code if you're interested. This is a link to our website, which is bare bones right now, but does have links to the grants. We are offering pilot and career enhancement grants if you're interested in doing any work within these diseases. And that includes autoimmune encephalitis, Rasmusens, and or NORS. We are asking for a two-page LOI that is due March 6th. So if you're interested, go ahead. And then if you don't get it now, I will have it at the ending slide. But we are offering these grants to really encourage people to study these diseases. Okay. Next, let's talk about rates of autoimmune encephalitis in new onset psychosis in children. So there were two major papers that came out in the adult world, including this one from Joseph Dalmo's group looking at neuroinflammatory markers in first episode psychosis. And it turns out out of their 101 patients who were referred for a possible AE, only 20% fulfilled criteria for possible or probable autoimmune psychosis, but none of them developed it. And actually, it turns out 96%, so the vast majority of them were non-psychiatric, or sorry, psychiatric, and then only four of them were non-psychiatric, which ended up being some sort of autoimmune encephalitis. And then this is a multi-center study led by Owen Flanagan at the Mayo, who looked at 393 adults who had been referred to these major centers for possible AE. And it turns out 27% of them had been misdiagnosed, had been treated for AE, even though they didn't have AE. And so we wanted to look at how often this is happening in kids, because this was happening to us, where we would get a patient who comes in, new onset psychiatric symptoms, and people were worried that they were having autoimmune encephalitis. So this was led by Geffen Treeman, who is now an adult neurology resident at Yale, or finishing up soon. And so she led this effort looking at the rates of AE and our new onset psychiatric symptoms. So we had 24 children who had been referred for an AE workup, because of new onset psychiatric symptoms. Five of the 24 ended up having autoimmune encephalitis, and they all happened to be NMDA in this cohort. 19 had other diagnoses eventually. So 12 were considered primary psychiatric, and here were a few others. Two were some sort of complex migraine syndrome. One was mycoplasma-related encephalitis. There's a lot of debate about mycoplasma encephalitis. I'm not going to talk about it today, but just know that there's some debate about that, so take that with a grain of salt. One was also COVID-19 encephalitis. Again, there's some debate about what that looks like. One was DRESS syndrome, cobalamin C deficiency, and two unknown. I'm going to take a second here. The people I work with, including my trainees, are probably sick of me talking about this, but the cobalamin C deficiency is a story that's really stuck with me. This was a seven-year-old who came in. He had a few months of some gradual cognitive decline and some new-onset ADHD that the teachers had brought up to the family they were concerned about, but the family were like, well, he's a seven-year-old boy. He's fine. And he came up with a week of new-onset hallucinations and acute psychosis. And so he got evaluated. I mean, he's looked like NMDA, right? He smelled like NMDA or autoimmune encephalitis. He got worked up for it, and everything came back normal and negative. I was not on service, but someone had the wherewithal to send our genetic metabolic panel, which includes the serum amino acids and uricanic acids. And it came back consistent with cobalamin C deficiency. So he got treated for cobalamin C, and it was doing much better, and psychosis is gone. Turns out his older sister had been diagnosed with a primary bipolar disorder and had been treated for bipolar for a few years. Turns out she also has cobalamin C deficiency and got treated for that. So it's one of those things we have to think about other conditions and not just autoimmune encephalitis, right? Because we could have treated this kid with just steroids, IVH, whatever. Maybe he would have gotten better, maybe not, you know, and not have picked up on this. And it also not affected him, but it affected his sister. Just to mention, cobalamin C deficiency, you can still have normal B12 levels. So sending just B12 alone is not sufficient. And then, so this is the algorithm that Joseph Dommel's group had put together that we adapted for our pediatric cohort. So if you have first episode psychosis or FEP and new onset neurological symptoms, then yes, I think CSF testing is warranted. Then you go through the whole thing of sending the autoimmune encephalitis panel and all of those things. Or do they have evidence of neuroinflammation, CSF-specific neuroinflammation, right? Pleocytosis, all colonel bands. That's sort of more straightforward. I think this is the challenge that we all run into, right? What if they have first episode psychosis without other neurological symptoms? And so what Joseph Dommel's group and what we also explored in our cohort, can you get by without doing an LP? Can you start with an EEG, MRI, and just the serum panel and wait there? And it turns out if you have normal EEG, normal brain MRI, and negative panel, you don't necessarily have to tap everybody. And the other piece is that let's say all your initial testing is negative or normal. Have they tried other antipsychotics, antipsychic medicines that are not helping? At that point, then you can consider doing spinal fluid testing. And if that's not helping either, then start considering what other diagnoses can there be? Do they have cobalone C deficiency? So this is what they proposed, right? Serum, EEG, MRI first, then later on send the CSF. And when we looked at it in our cohorts, so let's say we did this in our cohort. They all got CSF testing. But let's say we looked at it. We were able to capture 100% of our patients. So we would have been able to capture all of the NMDA patients by doing this alone. They either had some abnormality either on their initial CSF or their initial EEG or MRI. Specificity was low, but that's okay, right? It's one of those things where you want 100% sensitivity. You want to try to capture all the patients possible. You might LP a few more people than you wanted to, but that's probably okay. With a positive predictive value of 68%, which is also okay, but the negative predictive value. So this is what you want. You really want to make sure you're not missing anybody with potential AE. It's really hard to convince, especially our primary PEDS teams, not to LP people. LP is relatively low risk, so you may get by about it. But let's say you're seeing somebody in clinic and you're like, oh, it's going to be a whole thing to arrange for LP. Can we start off with this first? And the answer to that is yes. Because this is an adult group two, I want to bring up this case report with somebody with cobalamin G deficiency. I'm hammering you overhead with the cobalamin deficiencies today. This was an 18-year-old who had come in with four years of cognitive difficulty and seizures. The autoimmune workup was negative, but empirically treatment, and she did not improve. She had PET testing. We don't do PETs often in the kids. I know a lot of adults, including neuroanologists, will use PET as some markers of potential inflammation. She did have some hypometabolism on PET and got more immune treatment without improvement. The initial metabolic studies were normal or negative that were sent, but she had whole exome sequencing confirming the cobalamin G deficiency. And she also had elevated plasma, hoax and cysteine, and then the CSF methylhydrotetrafolate. And then she was treated with leucovore and betaine and B12 injections and reversed her symptoms, including her cognitive symptoms. So think about this. Here's our second paper from our multi-center connect group that I mentioned earlier from the retrospective study. So how often—I showed you the first way. All comers with autoimmune or all comers with initial psychosis, do they have autoimmune cephalitis? Yes, no. Turns out maybe about 20% in our cohort. I'm showing the flip side. How often by the time a patient is admitted to the hospital, how often do they have only psychosis and nothing else, but they eventually are diagnosed with NMDA? And it turns out at the time of admission to the hospital, if you look at their initial symptoms, only 12, so only 5% had isolated psychosis. Everybody else had something else. Seizures, movement disorders, hypoventilation, speech changes, you know, something else. They had some other clinical symptom instead of just isolated psychiatric symptoms. And here's the kicker here. So if you look at their initial ancillary testing, right? Initial EEG, initial MRI, initial CSF pleiocytosis. 11 of the 12 had something abnormal on the stuff, right? When you met a patient, you're doing this stuff. This stuff comes back relatively quickly. It's the panels that take a long time to come back. So, you know, most of them had an abnormal EEG. Half of them had abnormal MRI. About, you know, 40% had CSF pleiocytosis. There was one patient who had a normal MRI, normal EEG, normal CSF profile, who came, who had eventually had an NMDA antibody, CSF. That was low positive. So technically positive. She had been discharged home from the hospital by the time they got that testing back. And her symptoms improved without immunotherapy. So could you imagine if somebody had given her immunotherapy inpatient when it happened? And then she got better. And then they're like, oh, it's because she got treatment. Turns out she improved without immunotherapy. So it's one of those things where if you have, hopefully this is showing, when you do the initial studies, if you have normal CSF pleiocytosis, normal MRI, normal EEG, you can wait for the antibody testing to come back. And they don't have the other symptoms. You can wait for the antibody testing to come back. Okay. Finally, I want to talk some of the work that we've done looking at MoGAD. I'm going to shift gears a little bit and leptominalencement. One of the things that we were exploring, and we ended up working with Owen Flanagan on, is looking at presenting symptoms of meningoencephalitis. So there are patients who came in with MoGAD who have fevers, encephalopathy up their weeks, have stroke-like symptoms. So we published a case report looking at leptominalencement in this left posterior quadrant that was led by Dr. Tuttmeyer, who was a resident at the time and now on faculty at Emory, where she came up with something that looked like a stroke and turned out to have MoGAD. A lot of them have increased opening pressure. They can have papilledema or maybe it's optic neuritis, but they can have very, very high opening pressures, 50s, 60s. And later on, they developed demyelinating features on their MRI, and that's when people realized it's MoGAD. There's a term called cerebral cortical encephalitis that has been turned, and then the Mayo Group also termed this entity called FLAMES, which is unilateral flare lesions in MOG associated encephalitis with seizures. And so we were curious, and actually this started when I was a fellow here at MGH. I've been seeing patients with Dr. Tuttmeyer with MoGAD, and we had this MoGAD patient who got admitted to the hospital with meningoencephalitis and fevers, and it was an aseptic meningitis, and we couldn't figure it out. And I was like, okay, maybe it's MoG, maybe it's not. And then I saw three more at Emory, and I said, oh, we have to look at this. So LME, it turns out, is predominantly observed in MoGAD. So this was led by Adam Golden-Gaston, who is a pediatric neuroradiologist I work with at Emory, and so we looked at this. So at CHETOA, at that time, we only had 21 MoGAD patients we looked at. Seven out of 21 or 33% had LME on their brain MRIs. It turns out zero of our pediatric MS and zero of our NMOSD patients had LME on their MRIs, and we've been able to validate this in a larger cohort. And so LME seems to be a neuroimaging, if it's present, a neuroimaging biomarker for MoGAD. So if somebody comes in with demyelinating-type diseases, you have LME, it's probably MoGAD. And this has been corroborated by the Mayo Group with Owen, and then Brenda Banwell looked at this in spine MRIs. So LME is more common in spine MRIs in MoGAD compared to the MS or aquaporin form. Then I was curious of the flip side. Let's say you have a brain MRI that has LME on it. How often is that going to be MoGAD versus now? And so this was led by Gabby Bowe, who is an adult neuromyology fellow at Emory, who's now stayed on as faculty. And it turns out when we looked at over 200 children with brain MRI scans with LME present, 5% ended up being MoGAD. There's a good proportion that was, it turned out to be some sort of infection, especially bacterial infections, oncologic. We had a few Sturge-Weber genetic things in there, too. It turns out 5% had MoGAD. So if you see LME, they're encephalopathic, you're not sure what's going on. Think about MoGAD. It's not technically on the MOG criteria, the International Consensus MOG criteria, but think about it. Okay, I'm almost done. So summary, we talked about auto encephalitis. If there's anything you take away from the talk, please, please look at the diagnostic criteria for both adult and pediatric AE. I have the references here. They're not behind a firewall. They're open access. So you can just Google it and you can find them for antibody negative AE. Please have positive testing that helps you with it. If it doesn't, think about other conditions like genetic and metabolic causes. And hopefully I've convinced you and shown you today some data to support. If you have isolated psychiatric symptoms with normal CSF, white cell count, MRI, EEG, you can wait to treat. We talked about the International Consensus Treatment Guidelines for NMDR. Again, the reference is here for you to look at. And then I've showed you some data to start looking at do EEG and MRI features predict outcomes in NMDR. Finally, MOGAD can present as a meningoencephalitis and leptomengial enhancement. I didn't talk about this. There's some primary immune dysregulation disorders. It turns out they can also look like this. So think about other causes. If it doesn't make sense, this is true, whatever you do in medicine. If it doesn't make sense, even if somebody else has diagnosed it, even treating this patient for many years, and that's something that a lot of my mentors here have instilled in me, including Dr. Krish, and I carry this and I teach my mentees and my trainees this. If it doesn't make sense, go back to the drawing board, think about it again. Okay. Finally, my really, really most important slide. I've shown you a lot of work that I've been fortunate to be a part of, but I have this whole team, and I can't even put everybody's name on here. So the NMDAR, which includes a lot of people from Emory on this work, including Christy Murray, who is MPI with me on the U54 grant, and Casey McCoy, who's project manager, a lot of research coordinators who have supported this. I have a ton, too many external collaborators to count. A lot of the cores at Emory who have helped me with this. We are partnering with a lot of patient advocacy groups to help support this effort. Here's my funding sources. Here's that QR code again to look at our ARISM website that talks about the pilot and career funding opportunities. And I'm going to stop here and take any questions. So thanks again for your time. Grace, this is outstanding. Thanks for all the work you do, and thanks for making us so proud of being here, your colleagues. And just hopefully we'll see MGB in that list as well of collaborations, and I think that's just outstanding. So a couple questions. One is whether you are foreseeing studying predisposition for this disease, as you show, a small percentage of folks with very theratoma will develop this, right? Correct. How can we understand why some people do and why some people do in that severe aspect? You know, more specific question is why you think patients with MOGAD develop leptomeningeal disease, since there's no MOG into that tissue. Do you think it's an additional antibody or it is some sort of spreading inflammation from the targeting of the MOG? Yeah. Let me talk with that question first. I thought you might ask something about that because of all the work that you do. So I don't know. I don't know why we're seeing that. We started doing more advanced—I didn't show this data, but Adam Goldman-Yassen has been leading this— where we're looking at more advanced neuroimaging in our MS versus aquaporin-4 and MOSD versus the MOGAD patients. And there have been some papers looking at the blood-brain barrier breakdown, and you can see differences in it on our advanced imaging sequences. And we are showing a difference in our pediatric MOGAD patients. Like, they're more affected compared to the MS, compared to the healthy control. So healthy controls are here, MS, blood-brain barrier is, like, here, and the MOGAD is more affected. And then we're also looking at advanced imaging techniques to look at the glymphatic system. So the glymphatic system is this hot topic in neuroimmunology and probably in a lot of areas of neurology, which I'd never heard of during residency or medical school or anything, but it's this hot thing. So the glymphatic system is the lymph system for your brain. And so there's a lot of immune trafficking, immune molecules, and all this stuff happening. And this is not just the blood-brain barrier. It's in this separate lymph lymphatic system that gets drained and all this stuff. So we're also looking at the glymphatic system to see, and we're showing impairments in the glymphatic system. Right now, our data shows the MOGAD and MS have similar glymphatic impairment compared to healthy controls. But I don't know the answer to that. Why do we see more LME? So, and then the other question was about genetic predisposition and, you know, the ovarian teratomas. And then, yeah, I don't know. I mean, I don't know. One of the things that we did look at, which I didn't talk about, that Jen, Dr. Lee, looked at, is that the participants who developed an MDA who had the ovarian teratomas, they are more likely to have neuroglial elements in their ovarian tissue. And so that's probably where it came from. But not all. There's other patients in the cohort who did not develop NMDA who had neuroglial elements. So there's a lot of questions about it. And also, what's the 1%? We know NMDA receptor antibodies are pathogenic. So what about this 1% that has the small, low positive serum titers? Like, why didn't they develop NMDA? And then we don't use NMDA titers to track disease severity or clinical recovery or anything like that because we know that they don't correlate. Again, Dr. Dalman's group tried to show, oh, if you have high, the CSF titers do correlate with outcomes. But if you look at individual patients, that is not true. You can have patients with high CSF NMDA titers who are clinically improving and clinically getting better. So why is that? So there's a million questions to answer with that. There's a few cases of this cobalamin deficiency that you mentioned. Yes. Those kids, did they have any pre-morbid symptoms like developmental delay, anything failure to thrive, anything else suspected of genetic metabolic disease? And number two, when they presented with psychosis, did they have any neurological features? Yeah. So, yeah. So for the cobalamin, the question was about the cobalamin C patients have any sort of heralding symptoms even before they presented. I don't believe so based upon, you know, talking to the family and from the charts. It seems like it was just the seven-year-old had a few months of symptoms before onset but didn't have other things. But as you know, there's varying severities of cobalamin C deficiency. So you can have cobalamin C deficiency as an infant, right? And those are the ones who are even prenatally. And those are the ones who have severe developmental delay, microcephaly, seizures, failure to thrive, and all of that. But in the seven and the 11-year-old, it seemed like there wasn't a lot about that. I don't know about the 18-year-old case, the case report I said. And apologies, I don't remember the other question you asked, the second question. Second question? Yeah. What was your second question? No. When they presented with psychosis, right? Yeah. During the psychosis, at that time of the vaccination psychosis, did they have other things like seizures, movement disorder, or any other? No, there was no other seizures, movement disorder. They had pure psychosis and no seizures, movement disorders, or other symptoms. All right. Any last-minute questions from our chat or from the group? All right. With that, we will thank Dr. Gambale one more time. And to anyone who's able, there will be a reception lunch upstairs in the Adams Conference Room on WAG-7. Thank you again. Thank you, everybody. Thank you.