 and scrxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx please note that everyone is in listen only mode. We have a music here at guest speakers today. If you have any questions for our guest speakers, you may use a chat feature, which is located at the bottom of your screen. You will have time for them after the presentation. Only a Blum Center staff and our guest speakers will see your questions. Please do not share any personal medical information or questions in the chat. If your personal information is not available, please contact us at Blum Center. If your personal medical question, please ask a doctor. Lastly, at the end of today's session, you'll be directed to a brief survey which would like to ask you help us complete. Your feedback is important to us as we plan future programs. Alright, so joining us today, we have Nancy Leventhal, Megan Bernichess, Emma Mannerville, and Kate Ziegelstein. They are clinical social workers who support the obstetrics and gynecology and fertility departments and Massachusetts General Hospital with Nancy as their team lead. Thank you. Join us today to give a talk on understanding mood and anxiety disorders of pregnancy, postpartum, and beyond. So please join me in welcoming them. Thank you so much, Amy. Nancy, as you can see, and I'm joined by my fabulous colleagues, Megan, Kate, and Emma. And as Amy said, we'll be talking about understanding mood and anxiety disorders in pregnancy, postpartum, and beyond. Just confirming everyone is seeing the slides. Is that right? Okay, wonderful. Thank you. Just brief, our team has no relevant disclosures to share for this presentation. Wonderful. Thanks, Nancy. To get us started, we wanted to review what our learning objectives are today, and that will be to develop an understanding of something called perinatal mood and anxiety disorders, also known as PMADS. You may hear us refer to them as that throughout the presentation. We'll discuss their definitions. We will talk about treatment options and also discuss additional supports and how to access them. One thing that we want to highlight before we get started is that we will refer to a variety of sources today. Some of those might use language such as woman or mother. And we just want to note that it is our intention to be inclusive of all birthing individuals. And further to note that mood disturbances in the entrance to parenthood can also affect non-birthing partners, but we won't focus as much on that today. Well, thank you so much, Kate. Just to start us off today, I want to really, we wanted to define what we mean by the perinatal period and perinatal mental health. Oftentimes, folks are familiar with terms like prenatal care, care during pregnancy, or a lot of people have heard about postpartum depression. But we really like the term perinatal mental health because it encompasses a much wider range. It's not a super specific term. There are a lot of different definitions of perinatal, the perinatal period. For instance, the diagnostic and statistical manual, which mental health providers use for diagnosing, defines peripartum onset as during pregnancy or up to four weeks postpartum. There is also a way of sort of thinking about the perinatal period, maybe in context of obstetrical care, where folks are connecting with an OB provider starting around eight to 10 weeks of pregnancy and up through about six to 12 weeks postpartum. But what we kind of want to contextualize today when we're talking about perinatal mental health is even broadening that definition to thinking about the time of trying to conceive, the challenges that can come with that, all the way up through about a year postpartum give or take. And the reason that we want to be broad and expansive in thinking about this period and then situating mental health within it is because this period is really unique and these unique features are what really help us clinically to understand how we can better support patients and how you can be empowered to support yourself. In this period, we are very familiar with the fact that hormonal changes are super present. I think almost every patient we interact with is curious about the role that their hormonal changes are playing on their mental health and well-being, something we talk about a lot. But beyond hormones, there's a lot that's also happening at this time. The physical changes of trying to conceive pregnancy and postpartum can play a huge role. We often think about how folks who climb into our clinic might be otherwise pretty healthy, able-bodied, you know, teen, 20, 30, 40-year-olds. And perhaps they've never had a period of time where they've experienced nausea for up to nine months consistently. The other physical changes that we're paying really close attention to are things like pain in the recovery postpartum. Oftentimes, pelvic floor pain can come up and that can exacerbate any mental health challenges that are coming up. So we really want to be attentive to those physical changes. Not to mention just our relationship with our body in this time. Our body becomes quite public and people often feel much more comfortable making comments that can be distressing, concerning. I don't know what to do with that. So we're definitely thinking about those physical changes on many levels. Of course, we all think about parents, new parents, being exhausted, but even starting in pregnancy and trying to conceive sleep challenges can start to shift and can really impact how we're able to engage with our day-to-day tasks and roles. It can be really upsetting to notice that we're not able to sleep and rest in the way that our bodies are craving. And of course, like most broadly, is this huge sort of transition and all of the many transitions that happen throughout. The social pressure on new parents is extreme. There's so much in social media, the media more broadly in our intergenerational patterns that comes up as pressure in this time. And we want to be attentive to what that changing role and changing identity is doing to our health and well-being. I think it's important to think about the perinatal mental health timeframe is quite broad because sometimes we even are connecting with patients around like four or five months postpartum as they're preparing to go back to work and how challenging that can be. Of course, all of this involves a level of heightened stress, different expectations that can really exacerbate any mental health concerns or challenges. And we would really be remiss to not mention as well that this can be a time of a lot of grief and loss. Oftentimes challenges with conception, challenges with miscarriage or even later pregnancy loss can be absolutely heart-wrenching and challenging. And it's particularly hard when it can be kind of private and the term ambiguous grief you see on this slide because we don't have a great language or understanding for it sometimes in a broader society. So we want to be like sensitive and thoughtful to the impact that that's often playing on our patients as well or anyone who's in this time of life. Thanks, Megan. I'm just learning. It's only been how many years since COVID. So with the perinatal period in mind, let's start by focusing on two terms that you may be familiar with, baby blues or PPD, which we call postpartum depression. This slide shows you some overlapping symptoms, yet they differ in severity and become persistent and disruptive with postpartum depression. Baby blues is a normative experience, important to think about. It's common and it's temporary. It happens right after childbirth when a new mom has sudden mood swings, feels really happy or sad, tearful and is crying for no reason. I hear a lot from patients, what might it look like when the baby's born? Will I feel connected in a way that I've seen with friends or on social media? Will the sky open up? And it's like big, ah, connection. And it may not feel so magical, but that doesn't mean that there isn't a connection. It's really personal. Some of the symptoms that fall under baby blues might be irritability, feelings of incompetence in terms of caring for your baby, feeling overwhelmed and questioning your ability as a new mom. How am I going to do this? How can I do this? Decrease appetite or poor concentration for sure. Again, all of which are very normal. This peaks about three to five days after delivery and it usually resolves 10 to 12 days postpartum. When it morphs into the postpartum depression, when it morphs into it, the depression or sad mood is persistent. And that's a really operative word. The increased irritability, tearfulness that we talked about in baby blues continues and is disruptive. It greatly impacts your experience. Loss of interest in normal activities again is persistent and pervasive, not wanting to leave the house at all, feeling guilty and worthless, exhausted and fatigued beyond the normal, postpartum shift, as well as a continued decrease in appetite. It's important also to consider that thoughts of self-harm or harm to others can manifest with postpartum depression. We think of consistent negative self-talk or perseverating about not being a good parent presents in postpartum depression. And again, these will be persistent in nature and beyond what we talked about in baby blues. Thanks, Nancy. I think it's really helpful to get an idea starting off about the differences and how we kind of differentiate between a normative experience and then where things fall into a category where we're a little bit more concerned clinically, right? So when we're thinking about, you know, a little bit beyond an expanding past postpartum depression, I think it's important to recognize that there's a little bit of a broader array of different experiences folks can have within this perinatal timeline that we've been talking about, right? So there's postpartum depression is one of those, but then there's also quite a few other mood and anxiety disorders that are really important to be talking about as well. So when it comes to PMADs, as we call them for short, right? We know that the stats show us it's about one in five will experience some form of a PMAD throughout their pregnancy or postpartum timeframe. So it's really common. It's one of the most common things. And within that one to five category, about 60% of folks will present with these concerns prior to delivery. So oftentimes we think and we focus so much on the postpartum timeframe, which is so vital and important, but there's also a whole nine months of adjustment and transition and impact that can be just as vital and oftentimes just as difficult for folks. So when we're thinking about these different disorders, it's important to kind of break them down one by one, right? So Nancy did a phenomenal job explaining postpartum and perineal depression kind of as a whole there. In terms of when that occurs, right? We know that this can be defined as occurring within pregnancy as well as that first year of giving birth. This is our definition working through ACOG, so the American Academy College, rather of obstetrics and gynecology. So most of these definitions here are based off of what our ACOG kind of colleagues define this as, but to just dive in a little bit more, right? When we're talking about anxiety disorders, so perineal anxiety disorders to start, right? It's more of an umbrella term, right? So there's a few different things that fall into this range that can include things like generalized anxiety disorder, which sometimes folks have heard of or maybe have dealt with before. There's also social anxiety disorder. There's also all sorts of kind of different panic disorders and what that can look like. And so for folks understanding anxiety disorders, it's important to recognize there's kind of a broader rate of how that might show up. So there's kind of symptoms or what this looks like, right, in presentation. All tend to center around being pretty easily or often worried, overwhelmed, feeling on edge. There's also often an element of different sleep disturbances, right? So perhaps racing thoughts, making it hard to fall asleep, or perhaps waking up in the middle of the night, unable to fall back asleep with all the worry that's going on. And when it comes to the panic disorders, there's also an element of panic attacks. So panic attacks can happen outside of a disorder, but for panic disorder, it's when they're coming up really repetitively and quite frequently. And panic attacks can be a really scary thing for folks who have never experienced them before, especially when it's coming up during pregnancy and postpartum, right? Panic attacks oftentimes folks for their first panic attack, we have people coming into the emergency department because they're very convinced and understandably so. They think they might be having a heart attack or some sort of really acute medical event. And so it's important to understand that when these are coming up, it could be really distressing for folks if that's the first time they're experiencing them. And then outside of the anxiety disorders, but somewhat in the same vein, we also have perinatal OCD. And so perinatal OCD, I think, is a little bit less known. Folks tend to not necessarily have as much experience with this unless they've known someone close to them who's experienced it or maybe dealt with OCD in the past. So with OCD, there are two core elements that kind of break down what it looks like, right? So we've got obsessions and we've got compulsions. And so for the obsessions, these are intrusive, really distressing thoughts. Oftentimes they're repetitive, they have a theme or kind of centered around certain subjects or kind of concepts in that way. And then the compulsion is some sort of action or behavior that's trying to combat them to stop the obsessions or to make those distressing thoughts go away, right? Understandably, if you're having a thought that's really worrying you or is really unsettling to be stuck with, you want to get rid of it. You don't want to be thinking about it anymore. And so when it looks like for different folks, right? This can happen within the pregnancy timeframe and it can also happen in postpartum. But how this can show up is it often looks like kind of a sticky brain as I've had folks describe it to me. Where an average person may have an intrusive thought that comes in, right? You have a thought, very common ones look like, what if I drop the baby down the stairs? Or what if I'm pushing the stroller and I just let go, right? Things like that. Those can happen in all sorts of normal experiences. But typically folks are able to say, that was an odd thought and then they can move on from it, right? Or, oh, I don't want to think about that anymore. And it's pretty easy to continue on into the activity you're doing. For OCD, there's a little bit more of this sticky concept, right? So it's glomming onto that and there's usually a bit more of like a value ascribed to it, right? So there's a little more of a separation sometimes around, oh my gosh, I'm a horrible person for having that thought. How could I think that? Why would my brain ever come up with that? It must be true if I thought it, then I must be thinking about doing that. When in actuality, it's really separated from your wants and your hopes and what you actually want to act on. They're entirely separate. Clinically, we call that ego-distanic, which is a fancy word for saying, it doesn't match up for what you're actually wanting to do or act on. And so when it comes to the different compulsions, right? Oftentimes people have heard or seen maybe in movies or the media about compulsions that are very visible, right? So we think of, you know, tapping a doorknob three times or repetitively washing your hands, checking the oven a certain amount of times before going to bed. And those can certainly come up, but I think it's important to recognize that for compulsions, there can also be less visible ones. So there's also mental compulsions that can come up. So it might be perseverating on a certain outcome, right? Having to think through every single exit strategy for a worst case scenario or perhaps repeating a certain phrase a certain amount of times back to yourself. There's also reassurance compulsions. So absolutely needing to have someone else's reassurance or input that you've done something right before being able to move on or have any trusting yourself. And the key part about compulsions that can make them so challenging is that they're not long-term relief. They're very short-term relief. So in that moment, it feels like that's the only thing you're going to be able to do to make that intrusive thought go away or subside. But that doesn't last long-term. So it's different than saying, I don't know if I have changed the diaper right and I'm really worried it's going to give them a rash, right? And you talk to a friend and you're like, okay, they said I've done it right. I called my mom. She said I did it right. I think I'm okay. It's different than that because it doesn't quite move on once you've gotten that reassurance to begin with. And so then when we're thinking about these other different disorders that we have up here, Nancy again did a great job talking about perineal depression, so I won't get too far into that one. But I think it's also important to be talking about PTSD through the perineal timeframe. So often when we're thinking about perineal PTSD, it tends to typically center around a traumatic birth experience. And I think it's important to recognize that birth in general is a pretty interesting transition if it's not something you've experienced before. And that's kind of in the normative category. We know this is going to be a large-life event. It's nothing that you've ever experienced before. But when there are different traumatic events or traumatic experiences within your labor delivery or early recovery process, that can also be very challenging. And so in this category, a lot of the symptoms tend to center around an avoidance, a hypervigilance. There tends to be a negative worldview, so a bit of a shift in how you kind of see the outlook or the larger picture of things. It can also feel like being keyed up or really like on guard at all times. And so things like panic attacks and some of the symptoms from anxiety disorders can kind of melt into this. It looks similarly in that way. And when we're thinking about that support, right, it can also show up really clearly when we're thinking about getting follow-up support after your delivery, right? So having to go back to the hospital, say, for the first time for that six-week visit, right? Or having to come in for extra blood pressure screenings or checks or things like that. And it's feeling incredibly distressedful to have to be back or to have to think about that. Or when folks want to hear your birth story and you do not want to talk about it, right? This can come up in many different ways, and it's really important to be thinking about it as well. And then lastly, we also want to make sure that we're mentioning postpartum psychosis, which is the least common perineatal mental health disorder. This includes, essentially, it's a sudden onset of psychosis following childbirth, right? It occurs in less than 1% of folks, so it's not very common at all. There's a lot of sensationalization of it that we hear about in the media and in the news, but it's actually incredibly rare. And then for the treatment and support of all of these disorders, we are incredibly lucky to partner with our perineatal psychiatry department. So that's run through our Women's Center for Mental Health here at MGH. And so perineal psychiatry is a great resource to help partner in treating and supporting all these different concerns. We're very lucky to have them. Thanks so much, Emma and Nancy. I think the framing that we're hoping to offer to you all, lovely participants in the audience today, is that's sort of how we are clinically thinking about these. I've seen a few good chats come in about baby blues. We're going to be so looking forward to answering your questions at the end of this presentation. But outside of the clinical language, we want to empower you with a bit more awareness of the signs and symptoms that you can look out for in your day-to-day life that might be an indicator to start to reach out and connect with a different level of support to help you manage this transition. What's most important and the biggest feature that we're looking at is the duration. Just like Nancy pointed to, things that are well beyond lasting for a few weeks, that's going to be an indicator for us. And we also think a little bit about the amount of time during the day that symptoms are lasting, as long as there's also these sort of fluctuations. We're interested in the intensity of each symptom. It's a feeling of sadness coming up that feels so overwhelming and insurmountable that you don't quite know how to crawl up from underneath it. Or is there a feeling of anxiety that doesn't feel like you have from your baseline coping skills and ability to calm the feeling and thought down? That would be something we want to pay extra attention to. We're also thinking about the impact on daily functioning. Just as Emma pointed out, some intrusive thoughts can come and go, but if they linger and they're impacting how you're behaving or what you're doing in your day-to-day, then we want to know about it. Let's see if we can connect with some other supports to help navigate this time. A few of the sort of categories that you might look at in yourself or in friends, family members, loved ones, as you're helping them to manage this transition are in these four categories. One is the things that we're thinking about behaviorally, withdrawing from loved activities or having more difficulty maybe going out and socializing with friends, particularly like in pregnancy trying to conceive. If you're having a noticing in that it's hard to bond with your baby in a way that you really want to, that's something that we want to pay attention to to be able to better support you in achieving that goal. We also think about some of the emotional components which I think have been well articulated so far, but this sort of feeling of persistence, sadness that doesn't necessarily feel like it has a good origin or a good story to it and just feels like it lingers in a way that we can't quite move beyond. Similarly, this overwhelming fear that paralyzes us that's preventing us from being able to take our baby out on a walk. I also think emotionally sometimes patients will talk to us about irritability and feelings of rage and frustration that feel so beyond their control and are not in line with how they want to be feeling towards their partner, towards their mother, towards their mother-in-law, towards their friends. We want to pay attention to that to help to take care of nurture and contain that in a way that feels a bit more at ease. Similarly, cognitively, we're really interested in those intrusive thoughts, what's the quality of them, what is the content and how long are they sticking around for. Is there any of that excessive guilt, worry, uncertainty about your identity as a parent? We sometimes will say to patients that your identity as a parent is only as old as your baby or even as old as your pregnancy. We would never expect a two-month-old to have all the answers, but somehow parents convince themselves that we need to be so perfect in this time. Is there a way that we can help to dismantle that and take some of that pressure off? Physically, we're really paying attention to what is the sleep quality like? Is anxiety keeping you up at night? Is it hard to fall back asleep even when you have a chance to sleep? Are feelings of needing to check on your baby preventing you from falling asleep? In pregnancy, are you so worried about birth that it's hard to sleep at night even when you have a chance beyond just waking up to pee often? And especially if your body or chest breastfeeding is your appetite still low, we want to make sure that during pregnancy, during postpartum, during trying to conceive, you're able to nourish your body. And really, if you take away anything at all, we want you to know you don't have to hit a crisis point in order to ask for or deserve help. I'm going to let Kate talk a little bit more about what that looks like, what ASCII PrEP looks like. So when and how to seek support? One thing I like to address in this period is what might be the disparity between expectation and reality. So many folks do enter parenthood in a planned and desired way. And not everyone, but many people do. And although some challenges are expected, many are not. These larger mood shifts can catch people by surprise and often make them feel like this is not how it's supposed to be. This is not how they were expecting to feel. And that added layer can make this particularly distressing for people and can have significant impact. So signs that you might want to reach out for more support. If you're noticing that symptoms are lasting beyond a few weeks, what you might see is a lot of a lability, a lot of ups and downs in mood. And if you're noticing that things are getting persistently worse instead of better. If you're noticing the impact on daily life or relationships, what many folks talk about is the impact on bonding or connection that some people will describe. You know, I can care for myself, I can care for the baby, but I feel like I'm going through the motions. Right? I don't feel like I'm really present. I'm not connected in the way that I had anticipated being. So if you're noticing any of that. And then we also might look to partner or loved ones, have other people mentioned to you that they're noticing a significant shift. I think having our mood reflected back sometimes by close people can be a nice way of keeping track of these things. And who might you want to talk to? It might start with those trusted family or friends. Maybe it's texting a close friend who's also in this experience in the middle of the night while feeding and just commiserating on how challenging this can be. So starting there might be a place and then ultimately you might get to providers. So your OBGYN, your midwife, your PCP, your pediatrician. This is a phase of life where you wind up at the doctor a lot more than you're probably used to. And in doctors' offices, you might be familiar with this screening tool mentioned below, the EPDS, commonly given in OB and pediatrician's offices. And depending on your responses to those questions, your provider might talk with you about your mood and changes and, hey, do you want to talk to a mental health professional? And that might be when you end up with one of us. It might be when you connect with a social worker in a medical office or ultimately might get referred to ongoing care in the community. And finally, we want to talk about helplines or warm lines. These are places that you could reach out to for support, such as postpartum support international is just one example. These will all be listed on our resource slide toward the end with the phone numbers and many of them are available 24-7. But ultimately, as Megan emphasized, at the end of our prior slide, we just want to talk about how seeking help is really a protective step. It's a responsible step. It's very brave. Folks can often get caught in judgment or even self-judgment about what will happen if I tell someone I'm not doing well or what will they think and what are the possible consequences of that. But we want you to know that this is a really important and brave thing to do and that we don't want you to lose sight of caring for yourself in the midst of caring for someone else.  andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx And so then often people will find themselves in a spot of, okay, I think I need more support or I think I need help What does that look like? Where do I start? What now? Right? And often if you're having a challenging time, you're already feeling a bit overwhelmed It can be kind of intimidating to think about what where to start What those treatment options might look like having to make decisions having to weigh your different options And so what we really want to do here is talk a little bit about what those treatment options can look like I think for folks who have had any sort of experience managing mental health concerns in the past That can often be a skill set in this sense that they present similarly So they're often also treated and supported similarly, right? So rather than it being this mysterious creature that just kind of comes out of nowhere We have no idea what it looks like or where it comes from, right? It might be something familiar So if you've experienced something like what Kate was saying noticing these changes or maybe your partner or friend might be saying You know, I'm worried about you. This is kind of like that time you're struggling with this, right? I think being able to recognize that we then think about what are the treatment options, right? So they can look a few different ways and I think when I'm speaking with our patients about this often I'll say that you know, it's not about what's the right or wrong thing to do There's no perfect guideline or exact decision of what to do when but it's more so finding the right fit That's for you. So whatever that support looks like. It's the best support for you as an individual in this time So we're gonna start, you know, kind of by thinking about logistical supports. That's typically where we start things, right? Let's kind of start at our foundational needs We're not thinking about our core needs that everyone needs to survive, right? Let's get to survival so we can get to a point of maybe thriving and feeling a little bit like our heads above water at a certain point, right? So thinking about those logistical supports often will start with sleep. Sleep is a huge huge huge huge aspect of how you're functioning, your well-being, your mental health, your physical health, your healing, your recovery Sleep is integral to everything, right? And so being able to get that to a point where it feels more manageable is often the first step What we talk about our perineal psych colleagues are often always focusing. That's like the first or second question What is the sleep like? Are we getting enough sleep, right? Because it could be really detrimental to your mental health at baseline when you're not getting that rest and recovery We also talk about child care, right? Suddenly there's a lot of caretaking tasks that you've never had on your plate before Even if you've had your first or your second adding a second or adding a third or adding however many it may be It's always going to be a massive adjustment to taking on that caretaking load And so thinking about how we build our village, right? That social support oftentimes folks will talk about Takes a village to raise a child, right? So thinking about either how we can expand on the village you already have, how we can organically create more of a village for you How we can kind of fine tune what aspects of the village aren't there or what we need to fill in those gaps can be a helpful spot to start as well And then beyond that there's therapy, right? Any sort of counseling or professional mental health support Oftentimes when folks are finding themselves in our office or getting connected to us, you know, if it's their first time connecting I'll often start by saying you're doing a great job because there's no wrong way to do this, right? So getting connected to a mental health provider can look like a Broad variety of different ways you find that individual Finding an individual you feel comfortable with that you feel safe and supported by is really the important part That can be connected to social worker in your OB office like us That can be a different mental health provider in your pcp office That can be a therapist out in the community a psychiatrist psychologist There's so many different names and acronyms. The important part is feeling safe and supported and then outside of a therapy there's also a broad variety of different medication options And so when you're exploring medication options Oftentimes there's some hesitancy or some fear or if it's something that you've never explored before you've never thought about before It could be overwhelming or intimidating And so that's why we've got great providers that are able to talk through those prescribing options with you, right? You can have a lengthy conversation. You can have all your questions answered. There's no silly question There's no question. They haven't heard before, right? And so being able to have that space to explore what feels like a good fit in this moment Doesn't mean that you're signing on for a contract of a medication for the rest of your life, right? Just talking about what feels helpful right now can be really informative to make those decisions and feel informed in that process We can talk about um when folks are meeting with those prescribers, right? It's often around what is safe during pregnancy? What can work and is safe to take while lactating or body feeding, right? And then outside of medications we also tend to recommend and really emphasize the importance of peer support groups There are so many different great groups out there And when we talk about these support groups, I like to say to folks that we're not looking to Replace your best friends or if you have a great family in the most loving caring understanding partner in the whole world That's great. And they're not living in your body 24 seven, right? So they're never going to fully understand what your experience is in that moment No matter how hard they try and how great they are And so we're not looking to replace this force system you have in place But being able to have folks that you can talk to where you don't necessarily have to explain what you're feeling Because they already get it to an extent, right? Being able to come into a space and feel less isolated There are support groups that are designed just for the birthing person We've got support groups that are designed for both partners We've got groups that are for everyone really under the sun You can find the blend that feels most comfortable for you And so then when we're thinking about getting connected to these resources I think the second most common thing that's coming up for folks is just like, where do I start right? Like if you're feeling overwhelmed if you're maybe in between providers You're not connected to someone or the thought of trying to find a therapist out in the community is just like a whole another mission, right? You can start with these resources on the right. They're really great jumping off points, right? Just to have a hub of information to go to so postpartum support international is phenomenal. They've got warm lines They have got support groups. They have got a provider directory for therapists that are specializing in perineatal mental health They're a great resource along with the national maternal mental health hotline There's also maternal mental health leadership alliance. They've got some great information and database resources And then the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists is also a great hub of information They've got a provider kind of centered resources as well as a great patient hub of information too So that's a great question Thank you, Emma. It's important to note that that list is not exhaustive Some key takeaways Perineatal mental health exists on a spectrum Postpartum depression is important, but it's not the whole story Early support, we know Improves outcomes for parents and families And most importantly, you're not alone and there is help out there Thank you all for coming. We wanted to check the time in terms of responding to questions and Let's look at the time. Yeah, we have time for questions, Amy Does anybody Kate did you want to take that on? Yeah, I'm just going to go ahead and put up our resource slide. Maybe while we talk about some things together Um, this is available These slides are available to you after this talk if you would like them Many of the things on the left hand side are hyperlinks that will lead you to resources And then we wanted to be sure to show the help lines that I referred to earlier Um, I'm going to pull up the chat, but I think you're still seeing my slides, correct? Okay, great. Um, so to get us started We have some two questions about the baby blues that I'm kind of going to throw out and mold as one here um One question is can they come back the baby blues after that initial period that we talked about when they occur And then the second question is can baby blues occur during pregnancy? this person said Not consistently, but occasional tearfulness or sadness that happens during the pregnancy If you do want to take this give me that your realm Let me just respond You know, I think I I saw something else that I think is important that I thought about is that You know, it's so anxiety provoking even without a history of anxiety or depression or anything To think is this normal? How do I know should I mention it? And We are happy to meet with folks who have OB providers here at mass general We're happy to be connected and we can normalize Postpartum experience or we can talk about getting further support Um, it doesn't mean sort of this long-term mental health connection of like, what does this mean for me? Let us figure it out with you if that's helpful Go ahead maybe in terms of I think maybe situated within that is this thought we were hoping to emphasize this like spectrum of You know the I think all the timelines that we presented are From different data sources and how we think about things but really like we know that the human experience is quite broad and periods of sadness are So so normal and it's inevitably going to be part of this transition But and it sounds like from both of the participants who asked these really thoughtful questions That it sounds like you're checking in with and attending to and being thoughtful about Oh, is this outside of my baseline? And so maybe that is a other frame of reference to think about like What is my typical experience with sadness? Does this feel Really different from how I operate outside of this peri needle time frame Um, I hope that helps answer your questions. Please feel free to um, You know Check back send another question to us if we can be a bit more specific about that in any way You also think about you know normalizing You know, we see a lot of folks in in the medical field or it doesn't even have to be could be any in any field And you know how to do your job well, whatever that might be You might excel and feel comfortable whether you're a nurse in a code or you're in you know In in another field and you're like I can do this with my eyes closed And then you have this baby And you can't fix it and you don't have your 10 colleagues To email or ask or grab and say come help me and that can be really isolating So feeling inadequate Um, and we'll help you kind of sort through that We also know that um mood disorders Some folks enter pregnancy with them others might develop during pregnancy and others postpartum um So in terms of the baby blues as nancy shared And as negan shared as well this looking at a spectrum looking at sort of a A shorter initial time frame postpartum for what we might call the formal baby blues But certainly we notice mood shifts that occur during pregnancy and then postpartum well beyond that initial phase And so depending on symptom severity, we might be talking about something developing into postpartum depression Beyond that initial timeline, but but again, that's dependent on symptom severity. So definitely shifts in mood are You know what what we um talk about with patients all the time um Okay, so We've we've addressed this a little bit um, but the next question was Is one who has dealt with and managed an anxiety disorder with therapy and low dose ssri and then becomes pregnant um And I think maybe they're saying they might have ocd Um more susceptible to developing a perinatal mood and anxiety disorder um I might jump in on this one. I think I I often discuss this with patients Kind of looking at it from the example of There are certain things in life and so many different factors that can make you more susceptible or less susceptible more prone more likely Unlikely to experience a whole bunch of different things, right? And I think when we're looking at having a history of different anxiety disorders or folks who might have ocd or have been managing that in the past There's often a fear of if this is something that's been a challenge for me in the past Am I going to be that person who develops it now? Right? It's a thought of I've been in a time in my life or maybe it's been harder to manage I've done a lot of work. I've put in the work and the time and the energy and the effort to get something to a more manageable spot I'm feeling really good and I don't want to feel like I'm going backwards or it's getting bad again, right? and so for this I often will say to folks that When you're thinking about kind of your likelihood, right? Having a history of an anxiety disorder or having a history of ocd does not mean you're contracted in to develop perinatal ocd Doesn't mean that you're absolutely locked in that you're going to develop perinatal anxiety, right? There's not that hard of a quick easy connection There are plenty of folks who have a long history of mental health struggles and don't have this come up during their pregnancy There are plenty of folks who have had no really strong mental health concerns or have never sought treatment before for anything in the past Then end up having this coming up during pregnancy or postpartum There's not as clear of a line in and so I like to see folks that again You're really not contracted into anything and the factors that we're talking about I think it's almost more helpful to just think about the same supports that have been helpful in other times of stress Or other times of mental health struggles in the past a lot of those supports and a lot of the treatment looks really similarly So it's not that you're entering a whole new Horrible exacerbated chapter of it. It might just look like reviewing those resources kind of sharpening your skill set or sharpening those tools thinking about what coping skills you have in place Thinking about if therapy has been helpful in the past Maybe getting reconnected to a provider preemptively, right? If you're on an ssri or medications been helpful in the past discussing that with your prescriber or thinking about what that dose might look like right I think coming at it from more of a Preventative preemptive sense and then if you feel you're at a point where things are pretty manageable and it's not coming up You can always start to kind of shed those layers afterwards Yeah, one thing I think that Emma is highlighting here is familiarity with accessing support So if you have an existing Existing mental health concerns, you might be more familiar with accessing support Maybe you do do some of those things preemptively Um, and so we might talk about that with folks as well asking Patients either on their own or patients and partners, you know What might be a sign to you that you're not doing so well as you normally would what might be a sign? um I might ask a partner like what might be a sign that you've noticed that your partner isn't coping as they usually do um helping to sort of pay attention to some of these things in terms of determining a time to access outside supports Um Someone asked do I talk to my ob to get connected with you all? um, so as as Nancy had mentioned if you are a an ob patient Um at mgh certainly reach out to your provider if you would like to see Um one of us if you are a patient elsewhere I would inquire with your team whether there are social workers available in the practice or if there are not Are they able to help you get connected with behavioral health support? A term you might look out for and if you're looking at therapists is uh the certification PMHC Which are therapists that have taken specialized training in the peri needle mental health time frame Thanks, Megan um Somebody asked this is my first pregnancy. Can you talk a bit more about the challenges? of women sharing their birthing experience um, I don't know if perhaps they mean discussing this with other people but feel free to um elaborate more on that question if you want to and I welcome my team members to talk about that I think I can step in on this one to you jump into um I think there's there's a lot that goes into um There's almost like a camaraderie and sharing birth stories that can kind of be prevalent in our Like even in intergenerational narratives the stories you get from our grandmas or our moms aunties whomever in our community um And then sometimes when things don't go according to plan It can be really jarring and shocking and and really hard to talk about Sometimes we'll talk with patients who want to make a birth plan about maybe like setting birth intentions or like hopes while also recognizing that there is a sense of Submitting to some degree of loss of control. I think a complete and unexpected loss of control can really be something that we notice is a feature of when folks come to us after and describe a sense of trauma or or deep upset from the birth experience um Please jump in colleagues if I have misspoken at all um But I've noticed in a lot of patients I work with that that a traumatic birth can be hard to talk about with loved ones after Um, and then holding it close can can make it feel can also sort of make it harder to then resurface or talk about Again, um something we know about trauma is actually like working through it several times can help us process it Can help it to linger a little bit less Not for everyone, but oftentimes Um, and it can be a feature of making it harder. It can certainly exacerbate like some anxiety stuff It makes it feel kind of precious to be with our baby Sometimes when things don't go as we expect them to in birth It also can impact our partners and our partners can feel deep worry for us too if they were Either witnessing or sort of present for that process unable to be by our side um And so those are some of the pieces that that we think about and talking about when it feels challenging to talk about our birth experience um and There's a lot of interesting new research about how to to think about and treat birth trauma um And I think for some of our patients too. We certainly spend a lot of time when we care for patients in pregnancy talking about um that balance of how to manage um The unexpected in in birth um, and we certainly work with patients too who are coming to us in a second pregnancy when perhaps they have worked through A challenging first birth and are now planning for a second and trying to help think about Um, particularly if there was like an unexpected c-section and you know, considering whether to do A vaginal delivery for a second time. There's a lot that could go into that. So it's a really thoughtful question I hope we sort of address it. There's a lot that we could get more specific about but You're wishing you all the best with your first pregnancy too Yeah, I think bouncing off of that um kind of I took the question almost in a very different area So I'll think about how I kind of theorized and I was reading it. Um But looking at you know coming up or approaching your delivery if you're currently pregnant and perhaps hearing Others share their birth experiences. I I was seeing it almost from a sense of A little bit of heightened anxiety, which is so normal. I think almost everyone has a little level of nervousness for birth I think if you didn't that'd be a bit strange, right? It's a new experience It's entirely new no matter how comfortable you might feel about it, right? um, and I think sometimes hearing others experiences, right? Or if uh, say a close family friend or your best friend or a neighbor is describing You know an experience that just has your jaw on the ground, right and thinking like, oh my gosh Is that going to be what I have to go through right or is that the norm like that's no gosh All I keep hearing is all of these awful stories or this this went on for hours, right? Like you kind of hear those more uh stark statements, right? I think remembering that When you're hearing those experiences, you're also not typically likely to hear from people that are sharing a really Really laid-back average worth experience, right? If someone had a real run of the mill birth, right in the sense that if everything kind of went to plan And it was pretty predictable in that sense and you know smooth-ish recovery as you couldn't expect in some way, right? They're probably not shouting it from the rooftops, right? And so I think keeping that in mind with perspective and knowing that preparing for your own birth and your own delivery, right? Your medical team is the best kind of resource you can think through this with, right? If there are certain things that they're concerned about for your delivery, they're going to be having those conversations with you in as much Advanced time as they can, right? If there's certain aspects that you heard, you know, my neighbor my sister my x y z had this complication, right? Ask them about it. Ask them what the plan is oftentimes our medical providers are so Exquisitely prepared they have all of the different plans for every single possible deviation From the norm or what that might look like they already have it all planned out There's all the protocols already in place and they're happy to discuss those with you So if there's things that are coming up that feel especially distressing or if you're just wondering if you should be concerned about that element They're happy to have that conversation with you too I wanted to back in thank you Emma and just say too as you were talking about birth I know we haven't mentioned dualism this presentation It's kind of beyond our scope But that might be another support you look into and think about connecting with and especially in terms of birth planning That's a beautiful resource for many of our patients and families too That's a really great point at dualism I would also add the childbirth education classes So your provider will be talking to those talking to you about those as you get a certain point in your pregnancy The reason they don't mention it on day one is because you can't even sign up until you're certain amount of weeks They had to make sure that there's enough room for everyone as they're approaching their delivery date So those can also be a great opportunity to learn the basics as well Thanks to you both. I think that was our final. Oh, we have one more How many weeks do you have? Okay, I think the question is how many weeks until you can take the childbirth education class? We're in the third tribe ester. Yeah, your old provider will start to talk to you about that I believe it's after 30 weeks Okay, I think that that is our final question for today Thank you all for a wonderful presentation. This was all extremely helpful You did get a few questions regarding the links to the resources shared on this particular slide I included in the chat the blumcenter email address. It's pflc at partners.org Feel free to send us an email and we'd be happy to send those links to you I also included the link to the blumcenter website if you're interested in viewing today's recording They'll be made available on the blumcenter website. I would give it about two to three weeks So we made available through there And simply visit, you know massgeneral.org forward slash blum python center. It'll be there All right, everyone. Thank you so much for joining us Thank you Take care You You You