 sniper180180180, sniper180, sniper180, sniper180, sniper180, sniper180, sniper180, sniper180, sniper180, sniper180, sniper180, sniper180, sniper180, sniper180, sniper180180, sniper180180, sniper180180, sniper180180, sniper180180180, sniper180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180180 it'll be made available on the Blum Center website at massgeneral.org forward slash Blum hyphen center please note that you are in listen only mode everyone has muted so they can hear our guest speaker if you have any questions or thoughts you'd like to share you can use the chat feature which is located at the bottom of your screen we'll have time from throughout the session only Blum Center staff and our guest speaker will see your questions and comments please do not share any personal medical information or questions in the chat if you have a personal question please ask your doctor lastly at the end of today's session you'll be directed to a brief survey which we'd like to ask you if it's complete your feedback it's important to us as we plan future programs okay so joining us today we have Carmen Alvarez Carmen is a certified positivity in relaxation response training facilitator by the Benson Henry Institute for mind body medicine she is also a certified workforce mindfulness facilitator by the mindful leader and a certified sky wellness coach by the international association for human values and has served as a reiki therapist at mass general hospital and brigham women's hospital in boston mass since 2018. she is a co-author of the book the happiness of coaching released in march 2024 and her book chapter titled happiness by choice Carmen shares her healing journey after loss and provides practical insights for managing grief and ultimately finding joy again Carmen serves as the director of physician and patient engagement at mass general brigham international patient services with attention to latin american markets and she is a member of the workforce well-being collaborative board at mass general hospital she joins us today to lead a session on beginning again in attention setting mindfulness practices for daily life so please join me in welcoming Carmen thank you amy welcome everyone i am so so glad and pleased to be here with you just i'm going to go ahead and bring up my slides um there we go so technically i cannot see you however i'd like to connect with each and every single one of you and say thank you for taking the time to stop by i cannot believe that it's already december it feels like amy and i were just uh discussing this earlier and it seems like uh december snuck up on us and so i don't know about you but usually around this time right after thanksgiving i start to um to really um think about oh it's the end of the year you know so maybe some different um perspectives come up um and so we're going to explore the range of emotions that come up during this this time of year the season the holidays um and then i'm going to offer some tools and some practical approaches for navigating so um what are we going to do together today i think that the session um which i hope will be as interactive as possible always looking forward to reading your comments in the chat um we'll cover three major areas first we'll explore different ways to navigate the holiday season with mindfulness and then we'll reflect gently on the past year together and i'll offer different perspectives for that and then at the end we'll set some compassionate intentions for the new year together so the invitation here is to listen to your own heart follow the gentle prompts that we'll have along the way and remain open and curious you're not forced to participate but i really encourage you to do so because you'll take away so much more from this session if you are open to the reflections that we'll be doing together during this time so having said that why don't we first take a moment to fully arrive at this moment i know it is noon time it is thursday we are in the middle of the week um so no matter where you're coming in from you probably are coming in from something else or maybe you're even multitasking so why don't we take a moment to fully arrive at this moment take a moment to settle so if you can if you're seated take a moment to feel your feet fully on the ground if you can both feet on the ground and feel supported feel the floor beneath you you can also notice your breath simply notice as it is maybe take a deep breath in if you're taking the moment to do so just allow your body to soften and just really be here so arrive as you are and if you're walking and listening in just simply fully arrive here listen in and take a deep breath breath together if you're doing so okay great so the season as it comes up the holidays can be a very complex time we all know the different range of emotions that can come in during the holidays this season can bring joy um it could be stressful it could be both um you can also feel anticipation right you're anticipating seeing family members um you could even be anticipating getting a nice gift i don't know um it could also be overwhelming right you're thinking about the list of things to do and um getting ready um also something else that we may not always think about but it's the social pressure right there are different parties and gatherings and um that could feel different for different people if you're an introvert that takes a lot more out of you um perhaps you know it could be draining for some people um the social pressure to go to to the gatherings and and even the family dynamics let's be honest right those family gatherings could be taxing so it's a mix of emotions and all of them are valid and so mindfulness helps us meet all of those experiences with compassion and with kindness um and from a centering approach and that's why we are here today so now as we begin let me ask you this how are you just take a moment to answer this um and then we'll do a poll here so that you can easily just tap on it and and answer and participate how are you entering this holiday season as you're thinking about getting ready and preparing so just the first thing whatever you want to say um just uh answer question one how are you entering the holiday season as you're entering the holiday season and the options are you feel excited overwhelmed neutral anxious grieving which is a very valid um experience for many mixed emotions tired or hopeful so just be honest and you can pick can we probably are some things you could choose one what will it be apologies everyone i didn't realize all of the poll questions are in this first one feel free to just answer the first question for now um yeah if you can so so if you had a chance to answer and if you're not able to the poll no question you can um chat the chat is driving i'm seeing it um so i'm gonna um so if you want to write anything in there feel free um all right and amy maybe we can see um i love seeing the answers okay so some of you answered you are excited some of you said you were overwhelmed lots of us are overwhelmed um yet some are neutral that's good um of course anxious and yet some of us answered we are hopeful i'm so excited to to see that that's wonderful so as you can see there is a range of emotions that come up and they're all valid every single one of them is valid what i'd like for us to do during this session though is take a different approach or a different perspective to how we're looking at the season and how we are approaching um as we go into into the the new this new season or this new time of the year so here's my question this is a question that i'd like to um ask myself um during this time of year time of year and that is what do i want to bring into this new season it's a very different question than the previous one what do i hope or want to bring into the new year i'm going to share my slides again so just take a moment for some self-reflection it is a different kind of approach what do i want to bring this is more about a quality not about a task um That is a very, very wonderful way of approaching the season. So that's the kind of answer that I hope for us to go towards. So it's a mindfulness approach. Calm. I see someone else say, perfect. Yes. So it is a reframing of the question that we are doing. And I'll show you why we're doing this, right? Of reframing from, oh my God, how do I feel about the season to, hmm, what do I hope to bring into this season? The reason we do this in mindfulness is because this kind of reflection helps us to shift from reacting, right, to what's coming, to choosing. It gives you a lot more empowerment, right, to the situation. Now you're able to actively cultivate emotional regulation. You allow space for mixed emotions with awareness, just like we did earlier. And you anchor in self-leadership, self-leadership. It gives you a bit of more power when you choose how you like to enter the season and what you want to bring for the season. So that's a beautiful thing, right? Because now we can reframe and really reflect on what do I want to bring. And I love the answers already, presence and calm. And if you have anything else that you'd like to share, please put it in the chat. I am always looking over and reading your answers. So the reframing gives you a bit more power back. This question works because it shifts us out of the autopilot, right? Like, go, go, go. I need to do this. So instead of reacting to the stress, we start choosing how we respond. So it helps us regulate our emotions. It gives you access to clarity and also ability to stay aligned with your own values, right? When you reflect ahead of time what you want to bring into this season. Hope and joy. Thank you. Thank you. This is beautiful. I love this. Thank you so much for sharing that. So exactly. So this is about setting the tone for ourselves and not performing for a perfect holiday. There is no such thing as a perfect holiday. But if you set the tone internally first, you can guarantee to have a very different experience. And so let's talk a little bit about this regulation of emotions, right? That we discuss a little bit. From reacting to choosing. And this involves our nervous system. And as you know, if you come here often to this space, we often discuss the nervous system. Because it's what regulates the emotions. It's how we experience the world, really, through our nervous system. So being aware of it and familiar with how emotions and how we react is very, very helpful and very key. In order to give you that understanding and that power back. So that is a very important piece. You know, usually we move from different stages of the nervous system. We usually go from, you know, regulated states. Can feel grounded, present, connected, right? The hyperarousal stage or state can feel like anxiety, tension, and overwhelm. And the hypoarousal is when you just go into, I am exhausted. I withdraw. I want to hide. I just, you know, want to shut down, as it says here. So, but usually as human beings, and this is very normal, we vacillate in between all of those three at any given moment during the day or any stage during our lives. So it is normal. But bringing awareness to these is very important. None of these are good or bad. I'm not saying they're good or bad. They're simply physiological responses. And the holidays often bring more stimulation and intensity to life. So regulating becomes essential. Being aware of how to regulate it becomes essential. Perfect. Now let's go into this a little bit more because I want to give you, again, just a visual of where we might want to intentionally be. As we enter into the holidays. Here you can see the range of stages of, you know, what we call the window of tolerance. Hyper arousal is, again, raising thoughts when you are maybe in a bad mood, right? Or you're reacting in a certain way. It's an activation, if you will. And some of us live perpetually here, right? Reacting to the external stressors from that perspective. Now below, you see the hypo arousal where you can equally be in a stressful situation. And so some people just simply go into shutting down, you know, low energy, flatness, I withdraw, and things like that. And both of those are the nervous system responding to stressful situations in life. Now the window of tolerance is where we are somewhere in the middle. Where we can be engaged. We can be thinking a bit more clearly. We are able to be more flexible. So we're taking in what's coming in. And rather than reacting, we take in, we're more present, as it says here, right? So we want to be in this middle window of tolerance. Again, neither one is good or bad. It's just an understanding of where we are. We don't want to be below the window of tolerance because that's, you know, obviously fatigue, numbness, you know. Mindfulness gently supports returning towards the center again and again. And that's why we are discussing ways today that mindfulness can help you stay in the window of tolerance during the holidays. So now here are some practical tools that I wanted to share with you that can help you navigate the holidays and also navigate your self-regulation in real time. So if you are in a meeting, in a family gathering, in any situation during the season that you find a bit stressful or even thinking about planning for the holidays can be stressful too. So these are very practical daily life tools that we can implement. The three breath reset, we're all familiar with that, right? Taking some, take, just hit the pause button, take three deep breaths to reset. You can also do the sensory grounding. We did a little bit of that earlier where you just simply notice your feet on the ground. Maybe feel where you're, if you're sitting, you notice the cushion where you're sitting, just ground yourself in the present moment. Hand to heart. We often do this together here during our sessions. That's another way that you can center in and self-regulate. You could do this anytime. You can just bring your hand over your heart and just center in. We can try naming the emotion. This is very, very key. Oftentimes when you name the emotion, it loses its power. So if you're feeling anxious about something, you can just say to yourself, hmm, I see that I'm feeling anxious about going into that gathering. Or if you feel sad, I am feeling sad today. That's just how I'm feeling. And just name the emotion. It automatically gives you back a sense of empowerment because you bring awareness to it and you're naming it. You're speaking it. So I really, really highly recommend that. It's so easy to do. And it's very powerful. Micro boundaries. You know, walk into a situation to self-regulate. And if you know you can tolerate 20 minutes of a gathering, then, you know, politely come in and just know when you need to say goodbye. You know, just know your limit. How long will you stay at the gathering? If you're going to stay longer, just know, just do micro boundaries like that that give you a sense of control over the situation. Okay. Or maybe stepping outside. That's a great idea. Yeah. Pausing, leaving early. Any of those tools work really, really well. Now, what I'd like to invite us to do here is to do a guided kindness exercise. Something that I think will help us really take in as we walk into the new season. And as we walk through the rest of the session now. Let's do this for two minutes. You don't have to participate fully if you don't want to, if you're not comfortable. But I invite you to do that and be curious and be open. It's a very short and gentle practice. So, if you feel comfortable, I invite you to close your eyes for this. It's very, a lot more powerful. Or you can leave your eyes open and maybe find a place to focus in. And bring someone to mind. Someone you care about. Someone you love deeply. It could be anyone. A family member. It could be a friend. It could be someone at work. It could be someone you saw passing by today. Just someone to mind. Then, once you do that, let's just simply offer a simple wish for this person. From your heart. What is a heartfelt wish for this person? You can wish them love. You can wish them well. You can wish them happiness. Warmth. Just think about it. Offer them from your heart a simple wish. Good. Just notice how wonderful that feels already. So, now that we've done that, let's expand the circle a little bit more. And bring that sentiment. But bring it bigger. Let's think about our community. Maybe your neighborhood. Maybe your entire family. Maybe your team at work. Or your expanded circle. Think about your expanded circle. Whatever that is. And bring that sentiment to them as well. And together we wish them happiness and warmth this season. Hope. Joy. Love. As you were saying. Calm. And presence. And presence. You can even picture everyone's faces smiling as they receive your wish. And notice how this expands in your heart. Your chest area. There should be an expansion as you're just, you know, extending this well wishes to others. And now as we're closing, I would like to take that same sentiment and now offer that to yourself. Say to yourself, I wish you love. Happiness. And comfort. And support. Whatever it is that you want to offer to yourself, go ahead and do that. You can even put your hand over your heart like we were discussing earlier while you do this. And notice what happens. Good. And now gently you can open your eyes again. And I can already tell that your heart rate most likely slowed down. You feel more calm. Some of you are smiling, I'm sure, as you went through this exercise. And overall, you just feel more centered. I'd love to hear from you if you can in the chat. How was this exercise for you? There is no right answer, no wrong answer here. It's okay if you fail differently. I would love to hear it. No one else can see your answers. I would just love to hear how this experience was for you. But I wanted to offer it because it's something so simple that you can do at any moment. And then I want to, you know, take this with you. If at any moment during the season you feel like you've had too much and you need to recenter, this is such an easy way to come back to center. I'm going to read the comments that you're saying, I thought of someone I was in conflict with and wish them security. Oh, that is beautiful. Absolutely beautiful. I love that. And you know what's really beautiful about this too is that science studies have shown that when you do this, when you wish someone else kindness, or when you do something in kind to someone else, that person benefits, but also so do you. So that benefit of doing something nice for someone is not just for someone else. Your heart, your body, your nervous system, everything registers in you as well. So it's something nice to do. So again, it's just a beautiful, easy, easy way to do when you want to come in and center during the season. So now here's the other poll that we had there, the other question that we had in the poll. And so I don't know if we're going to be able to bring that up again to see where we are now. So now let's shift, if you will, now that we are very centered. And I would like to know, when you think about your last year or this last year, 2025, what do you tend to focus on first? So let's just imagine we're looking back at the year. And please answer honestly. And while you do that, I'm going to read some other comments. Someone else says that they wish for good health for someone. And I feel better doing so. Absolutely. That's what's beautiful about the exercise. It's so simple, yet so powerful. Thank you for sharing that. So now we're shifting into reflecting about the year now that we are very grounded. So let's take a look. What comes up here? So take a look to reflect and answer this question. This gives us a sense now of how our minds tend to reflect. And then we're going to do another reframing again, like we did earlier. All right. So let's see some answers. Okay. All right. So, okay. Wow. This is wonderful, you guys. The majority of you are already thinking about this in the right way. Because the majority of you answered how I grew as a person. This is great. I love this reframing, right? Some of us, of course, are still like, you know, how I compare to last year. What went well versus what didn't, right? That's very human. And some of us are saying, I don't usually reflect. I'm just trying to make it through. So that's absolutely fair game as well. Good. So thank you so much for the poll for this, Amy. So most of us tend to think about what we accomplished versus what we didn't accomplish, right? So sometimes this time of year can bring up anxiety around what did I do this year? What did I accomplish, right? So it could be that sort of framework. So I would like for us to, you know, reframe how we're thinking about this using mindfulness. So a mindfulness approach reframing here will take us from evaluation to reflection, right? So we're not evaluating ourselves, you know, as a performance, but rather we are reflecting. We're going from judgment, right? Like, oh, I didn't do enough. No, I was supposed to do this. I was supposed to run a marathon and I didn't. I was supposed to, right? To learning. What are the lessons that I take away from this? Self-critique. Who here is, you know, we all do this, right? We self-critique. Self-compassion is what we are inviting with this practice. And resolutions, I mean, here we go. We're about to enter that space and we'll do some of that together. But it's not about the resolution for the new year, right? It's about an intention, which is very different than setting a resolution. So this is what we are inviting for ourselves right now, this reframing. So now that we've looked at that reframing, what is one word or a phrase that captures your year? So now it should look like, oh, if you think about this past year for yourself, think about it. What would you say was the theme of your year? Was it resilience? I was resilient this year. Rather than saying, oh, several things happened. Just say I was resilient, right? It was growth. Maybe it was patience. I grew in patience, right? Learning. Learning. There's tons of learning I am taking away from this year. Renewal. New beginnings. Or I gave my chance the opportunity to think about starting again. This is what we're doing today. Maybe I became softer around a topic or a conflict someone brought up. Okay. So thank you so much for sharing. So if you want to share it in the chat, what you're thinking, someone shared patience is what they. And then someone else says growth, personally and professionally. I congratulate you. That's wonderful. And thank you for sharing. That's beautiful. This reframing is so beneficial because we go away from judging or about a performance or an accomplishment, right? From something external to something a lot more subtle, something a lot more personal. So resilient, someone else says, I am so happy to see that. Yes, I am resilient now. Starting over, you know, starting new, growing through different challenges. That's wonderful. So that is a way that you can take any year. It doesn't matter what kind of year you've had and reframe it into something positive. Something that captures your learning and how you're growing. So we don't have to look back to score ourselves. We look back to understand ourselves. That is the reframing. And please share this with anyone else as we, you know, walk away from here today. If you resonate with this, share that with someone else. And so now we walk into, now that we've had that reframing, we do come to the time where we're thinking about, well, we begin again. And why are we doing that? We're going to pause, breathe, begin again. And in foundational mindfulness teaching, we, you know, we use it to pause and reframe ourselves. So every moment offers a fresh start. Obviously, we bring awareness. This is what we've been doing in all of these exercises today together. You bring awareness to the emotions, to how you are thinking about your year. You bring compassion to yourself and others, understanding others. And at this time, the begin again framing is no pressure to correct. Right? So it's not about correcting something. It's just simply a pause and an opportunity to reframe, yeah, growth and learning. Someone else is sharing in the chat. Thank you. I'm always looking at the chat. So please keep doing it because I absolutely love it. Yeah. So what I'd like to offer is that December is not about keeping score, but it could be a start. You know, the idea that you could start, it doesn't also, it doesn't have to do with December. It's just a pause. Obviously, we all come to December and think about it because it's the end of the year. But the idea here is that with compassion, not perfection, you can take the pause, just like we did earlier, to reflect on what this year has brought to you. Advent. Yes. It's a pause. Just take the natural pause, not to keep score, but to understand. Advent. This is what December really, truly is about. And that is the invitation that this whole entire begin again framework invites us to take. So now let's talk about self-kindness versus self-improvement. And I want us to take a look at this because usually around this time of year, myself included, everyone is thinking, okay, you know, I am, you know, come January, I'm going to do what? Go to the gym. I am going to start working out. Whatever it is, right, that comes to mind. This is the time of year where we're thinking, I need to be better. I need to, and we start thinking about self-improvement. You know, I need to do better. But I'd like to invite you to reframe again and go from self-improvement, instead of saying I'm going to do better, I need to, you know, to self-kindness, such as what we were doing earlier, to support yourself. Support yourself and others. So mindfulness aligns with compassionate motivation rather than perfectionism or self-improvement. So it's an invitation to bring compassion to yourself and to think about this stage of the year or, you know, December, January in a very different way. Rather than how can I be better or do better, it's just how do I support myself better? So this is a really great graphic here that I thought might be useful for us to go through together. So instead of saying what is wrong with me is I tried my absolute best. How could I let this happen? I'm a human being, just like everyone else, right? Rather than saying I can't do anything right, just be kind. It's not about perfection. And so on. But this gives you a way to reframe these little thoughts that come up, right? This is kind of mean to say a little child could do this better, right? But actually this happens. We could be very, very mean to ourselves sometimes. So it's just a reframing. Just be mindful about how you're talking to yourself. And let's shift from, again, from the judgment and the self-improvement to the acceptance. Okay, so now let's reframe January. So we're talking about December is the end of the year. And then here comes January. I don't know about you, but it starts to feel very, like a lot of pressure. I start to feel a lot of pressure. You know, setting goals. What am I going to do in the new year? So to me, you know, January is not a place to self-correct. It is a place where you give yourself another chance and begin again. From a mindfulness perspective, that's just a pause. Learning and then begin again. So that's January for me. And that's what the invitation for you today as well. So as we go into it, I'd like for you to take a moment to answer the last full question that is going to come up. And which is, what quality do you most want to bring into the new year? We're doing two things here. We're thinking about a quality rather than a goal. Right? And as you're bringing it into the new year. So just like we said earlier, it gives you agency. It gives you the power and the leadership. The leadership to choose the quality that you most want to bring into the new year. I'd love to see what you're thinking, what you choose for yourself. And by the way, I really wish and hope that all of these qualities are ones that you bring into the new year. I wish that for you and for myself and for all of us. I wish more self-compassion, joy, courage, patience, presence, clarity. All of those for you. So thank you for taking the time. Let's take a look at the answers and then I'll share. Clarity is a big winner. So a lot of us want to bring a lot more clarity into the new year and a lot more presence. And, you know, obviously patience. Good. I'm glad that we're being intentional about that. And self-compassion. Thank you so much for choosing that. I wish that for you as well. Self-compassion is so, so key. And once you practice self-compassion, it's like a muscle. It will get easier and easier to do it the more you practice. So I congratulate you for choosing self-compassion, all of us. So you see now we are not choosing a goal. I'm not saying I'm going to lose 10 pounds. I'm going to go to Greece and I'm going to buy a, you know, whatever. This isn't about doing. The reframing for January, again, we're just pausing and now we're thinking about the quality. What do I want for myself? What is the internal quality? What is the quality that I want that comes from me that I want for the new year? That is very different. And it's something that we can all get around, right? It's no pressure because it's something you're feeling, something that you have agency over. So I'm reading all your comments here and there's a lot of you saying more calm. I'm going to bring more calm. I hope, you know, I know you will. Hope, enjoy, calm and happiness. Yes, we can all do that. You see, once you make this decision and you speak it, there's nothing stopping you. And this is exactly what I would like for us to do is to think about a quality for the next year. Thank you so much for participating. I thank you. I know that sometimes it's not easy to do that. So now, as we're closing, almost getting to the end here. So let's do a bit of setting compassionate intentions. So, you know, the reflection prompts for 2026 can maybe look like something like this. How do I want to feel? What supports who I'm becoming? And I love this idea, right? I am proud of who I am becoming. We are all in a constant state of becoming. So that's why compassion is so key. It's not about perfection. We're constantly becoming. So think about that. Who are you becoming? And what do you want to nurture in yourself? You could say, I am a very kind person. I want to nurture that. I'm very generous. So think about that. So these are very different goal settings or intention settings for the new year. I hear, I don't want you to think about what you need to accomplish or how to perform or what you need to. No. For 2026, simply reflect on how you want to feel moving forward. What supports who I'm becoming? Think about everything in your life should support who you are becoming. If you want to continue being someone who has ease, clarity, courage, presence, and self-compassion, then what are all the activities and everything in my life that supports who I am becoming? These qualities already live within you. So you're simply choosing to nurture them. Wonderful. I'm continuing to read your comments, how you feel about this. So now let's do the last reflection here as we're thinking about this together, now that we've come to this reframing. And I invite you to, again, if you want to close your eyes, feel free to do that if you feel comfortable. But put your hand over your heart. And take one very slow inhale. And a longer exhale. Now I'd like for you to offer your intention to yourself. You know, the intention we were just reviewing. Can you offer that in silence to yourself? My intention for myself and who I am becoming is. Do that with so much love. This is what you're going to walk away with and what you're walking into and bring into the new year. I'm giving myself more self-compassion. Thank you. Thank you for participating. Thank you for giving yourself that wonderful, warm intention for 2026. As you can see, it's very different doing this in this way than setting a goal for the new year. You're still obviously welcome to do that. But I think, and I hope you agree, that having done this for yourself, you're going to be much well prepared for the season, for the end of December, and for the new year. Thank you for doing that. So the closing message here is that, honestly, we can begin again and again anytime. At any moment, we can choose to do that by just pausing and bringing ourselves to that present moment. Choosing presence, as someone said earlier, choosing presence over perfection. Choosing compassion over pressure. And every time choosing intention over resolution. So it's not about the resolutions. Now it's an intention. You have that intention for yourself and for others. So what a beautiful accomplishment. Beautiful. Thank you so much. So now as we're closing here, we only have a few minutes. I wanted to offer some resources. I wanted to say that here at MGH, we have the EAP, the Employee Assistance Program. On the website has a ton of resources. We also have the MGH workforce will be in collaborative, where we are constantly offering different resources to the workforce. Right here on the screen, you can see if you want to take a picture of this. This mindfulness on the go are really, really fun and easy things you can take with you. And some of these are super fun to do with your kids. By the way, kids get stressed during Christmas or, you know, the holidays as well. So please practice some of these with your kids and I'm sure they'll find it very fun, some of these. Also, take a minute to download. If you point to your camera to the QR codes here, these are the resources that we're offering that you can take, that you can use at work. We have resources such as, you know, Headspace, mindfulness apps that are available to us. We also have the MGH Body Program, which is great, where you can buddy up with someone and keep each other accountable on your mindfulness and self-kindness and self-love or your gratitude practice. Right, we've talked about that before here. The Going Home Checklist is wonderful to do with your body as well. So please take a look. The QR code here will take you to the page where all of these resources are available to you. And Amy and I will also make sure that you have it on our newsletters or everything that goes out as well. So I just wanted to thank you again for participating and setting these new intentions and for living intentionally, having intentional living, as it says here. I'm going to stop sharing now so that Amy can close us out. Thank you so much, Carmen. Thank you, Amy. I'm reading all the comments. Yes. Yes, the recording will be available. I'm going to, Amy will tell us how that happens and where it will be located. People are asking where the slides and the recording will be. And thank you. This recording, as well as our previous sessions, they'll all be made available on the MGH YouTube channel. We have a BlumCenter playlist, but the easiest way to access that is by visiting the BlumCenter website. I included that link in the chat. Once you're in there, click on watch past webinars and that will direct you to the BlumCenter playlist with the recordings. And I know we have plans to also share any resources we shared in this session. We'll list them within that video recording where we have that session description. We'll post those there as well. You're also welcome to visit our website as we plan future upcoming well-being sessions. We'll make those available on the BlumCenter website. Yes, and I want to take a moment to wish all of you a wonderful season, a wonderful December and January, as we set intentions together. Regardless of your experience, I know that for some of us, it could also bring some grief. So some of us are navigating grief during these days. And so my heart goes out to you. I know that we're all having different experiences. And so thank you for being here and just remember to continue being kind to yourself. Thank you, everyone. Take care and see you all in the new year. Bye. Bye. Thank you. Thank you.