 and scrxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx org, forward slash Blum Hyphen Center. Please note that you are in listen only mode. Everyone has music from here at guest speaker today. If you have any questions for a guest speaker, you may use the chat feature, which is located at the bottom of your screen. We'll have time from the end. Only Blum Center staff and our guest speaker will see your questions. Please do not share any personal medical information or questions in the chat. If you have a personal medical question, please ask your doctor. Lastly, at the end of today's session, you'll be directed to a brief survey, which would like to ask you if it's complete. Your feedback is important to us as we plan future programs. Joining us today, we have Dr. Catherine Hanley. Dr. Hanley is an attending physician in geriatric medicine based at Massachusetts General Hospital and an instructor in medicine at Harvard Medical School. She's the clinical director of CHIME, an innovative cognitive health consult clinic serving patients and families. Her expertise spans decades of clinical practice, teaching and leadership, mentoring trainees and driving improvements in geriatric service delivery and cognitive health. She is passionate about patient care and focusing on what matters. She joins us today to give a talk on understanding dementia with a spotlight on Alzheimer's disease. So please join me in welcoming Dr. Hanley. Thank you so much, Amy, for the invitation and for that introduction. Happy snow day, everybody. I would normally have really enjoyed seeing you in person, but at least we have the opportunity of getting together this way. So I'm gonna share my slides. And Amy, let me know if you see what you're supposed to see. Looks good. All right. So this is the title slide, understanding dementia with a spotlight on Alzheimer's disease. The objectives today are to review cognition and memory and common fears that people have, go over the evaluation for memory, review memory impairment and Alzheimer's disease, initial guidance and treatments and how to improve the odds for successful aging with some useful resources at the end. So what is cognition? It's the ability to understand, learn new things, communicate ideas and perform complex tasks like decision-making and problem solving. And it's really common to worry about memory and to ask yourself, maybe, am I getting Alzheimer's disease? Oftentimes people ask, you know, or wonder, where did I put my phone or my keys or my glasses? And where did I park my car? Sometimes I forget what I'm doing or even where I'm going. Maybe I've forgotten a name, somebody's name in the store or an appointment. And these are all normal feelings and experiences. But what if what is going on is more than just a normal feeling and experience? So I wanted to share, when is a good time to seek advice? If you have concerns about memory or the memory of somebody close to you, please make an appointment with a physician or your doctor. Why should we do that? Well, first, it's important to see if there is a problem and if so, how to address it. There are many things that it can interfere without our cognition and memory, not just dementia. So just don't go, don't go all the way to saying, I have Alzheimer's or I'm worried about Alzheimer's. These things all can interfere with how we think and remember. Sleep is really important. It's the time that our memory is consolidated and we can have better quick opportunities for recall. Mood really plays an important role on how we take in information and are able to recall it. In particular, depression and anxiety. There are lots of medications that can interfere with memory and most physicians know which ones those are, but patients don't. Sensory deficits like hearing impairment and visual impairment or vision impairment can interfere with how we take in the world. Undertreated or untreated medical problems can interfere as can tobacco and alcohol. So when seeing the doctor or a nurse practitioner when talking about memory, they're gonna wanna know basics. What's the nature of the concern? Tell me about how long this has been going on, the timeline, what in particular are you noticing? Are there any new medical problems or medications? And what about things going on in life? Are there any new stressors, challenges or changes? Is the concern one of yours or from somebody else? And if it's somebody else, please bring them to the appointment so they can participate in the conversation and share their experiences with the provider. Sorry. As part of normal aging, our brain will get smaller and shrink. With that, it will be slower processing speeds. So instead of a new automatic update on your phone or your computer, these processors are a little bit slower. You can still recall details, facts and names, but it just might take a little bit longer. And it's the same with performing a task. You just might not, it just might not be as quick as it used to be, but you can still do it. So you're still wondering, am I getting Alzheimer's? Well, let's talk about first what mild cognitive impairment is. We often refer to it as MCI, mild cognitive impairment. And it's a diagnosis when somebody has noticed memory deficits in the day-to-day or in a cognitive test, but they're still able to function independently. People with MCI often still work, drive, entertain, maybe even take care of the grandchildren. And they can, however, because of the memory deficits, they might need to use, be more of a lion on memory tools, like a date book, a calendar or a pill box. But also on the flip side, even if you do use these tools, it doesn't mean you have MCI. And MCI is not the same thing as dementia. With dementia, the difference is people can no longer manage tasks independently. For instance, important things like medication management, paying bills or balancing a checkbook, grocery shopping and cooking regular meals, making and keeping appointments, and challenges with driving. Sometimes there might be a new fender bender or missing a sign. There are several types of dementia. So when we think of dementia, a healthcare provider will think of this list. Alzheimer's disease, cerebrovascular disease, Lewy body disease, Parkinson's, frontal temporal dementia. So dementia is an all-encompassing term that can be caused by any one of these things. Alzheimer's in particular is really important because it's the majority of cases of dementia. Cerebrovascular disease is a dementia related to years of elevated blood pressure and cholesterol. And oftentimes somebody with cerebrovascular disease might have a step-wise decline. They're fine and then they're not. They're fine for a while and then they're not. Lewy body disease is noted for people with sleep disturbances like sleep wake cycles or bad dreams. They might have hallucinations or difficulty with visual spatial and executive functions. Executive functions meaning things like multitasking and planning and executing. People with dementia related to Parkinson's disease, I've actually had Parkinson's for more than a year. Frontotemporal dementia is demonstrated when people have significant personality or behavior disorders. And then there's a common term called mixed dementia, which can be a combination of any of these. When testing for cognitive impairment and evaluating that, there's the medical informant, the physician talking to the patient, but also the informant interview where the physician will, hopefully a care partner or loved one has come to the appointment and they also can share their perspective on how things are going at home. And some of the things that people will ask in that evaluation are ADLs, which stands for activity of daily living. These are the things that you need to get up and get out of the house on a daily basis, getting dressed, bathing, toileting, grooming and eating. We also are curious about the instrumental activities of daily living, things that are a little bit more complex that you need in your daily living. In order to get through a week, like shopping, cooking, cleaning, laundry, finances and transportation. Usually if someone's getting an evaluation for memory, they'll actually have a memory test in clinic. There are two popular ones that we use. One is called the Montreal Cognitive Assessment Test or MOCA, and then there's the RUDIS, the Ralland Universal Dementia Assessment. Oftentimes the MOCA is used as a first choice just because it's more commonly used, but if there are differences in language, particularly if English is not somebody's native language, we'll choose the RUDIS. Or if somebody has not made it through high school, we'll choose the RUDIS. As the name indicates, it's a little bit more universal. And in these memory tests, there are certain domains which we think about how someone's brain works or their cognition. At testing, excuse me, testing attention and concentration, language, calculation, executive function, which is the multitasking and planning I mentioned, memory, visual spatial skills and orientation, meaning what day is it, where are we, that kind of thing. And let's recall for a moment the fact that these items interfere with our memory, so we'll ask questions about those too. Sleep, mood and stress, medication, the need for hearing aids, under or untreated medical problems and tobacco and alcohol. Sometimes at this point, you have a sense, you know why someone's not doing well. They're sleeping two hours a night, or they're severely depressed, or they're on a medication like Tylenol PM, so the Benadryl in the PM is really messing up how they're thinking and being able to perform. So not everybody needs to go beyond this step. Perhaps this is where we stop, fix and then reassess. Oops, excuse me. But if there's, we don't have a clear answer, I'm gonna go back for a second. If sleep and mood are not the answer or we just don't know yet, we might have to do some more things. So if appropriate, further testing is warranted. Such as, oh, such as blood tests, like a TSH, which is a thyroid test, B12, a comprehensive blood count or CBC, which looks at white count hemoglobin platelets. A BMP is a basic metabolic panel, which is your sodium, potassium, glucose and kidney function. And LFT, which is liver function tests. Sometimes imaging is needed. And the preferred image is an MRI, but if some people can't have an MRI due to metal implants of some kind, excluding titanium, a CT scan is warranted. And those tests are very useful because we are looking for things to exclude. Has there, is there a tumor? Or has there been a big stroke? Are there microvascular changes that are noted? And then also one thing that we're all very interested in is volume loss. Because as I mentioned earlier, our brain shrinks. We wanna see if this shrinkage is appropriate for someone's age. Is there a uniformity to it? Or are there some lobes of the brain that are more, have greater volume loss than others? There's also an FDGPET, which is a test looking for the accumulation of amyloid, which is one of the features of Alzheimer's disease. And then there's something called neuropsychiatric testing, which is advanced memory testing that can take several hours. So if somebody is, so just know in advance that this can take several hours. So not everybody has the stamina for memory testing like that. But neuropsychiatric testing is very useful when we're trying to tease out whether somebody has a mental health problem causing their memory or is it a cognition problem? So neuropsychiatric testing can really tease out, this is severe depression, if it's not already obvious. The other thing that, other areas in which neuropsychiatric testing are useful is if somebody's native language is not English and the testing that we don't feel like has been adequate enough to assess their memory. Also, sorry, the dog is about to come in the room. Okay, my interruption has stopped. Neuropsychiatric testing is also useful. There's some sort of disconnect between how somebody is performing on a test and how somebody is performing in clinic. Let's say we've had a great interview, the patient is able to tell how their day is, how what their daily life is like, what living is like, what they're interested in, but their testing is not very good. And if the physician is surprised or the nurse practitioner is surprised, wait a minute, why did they test so poorly but they're doing so great? That is another suggestion that neuropsychiatric testing might be in order. Speaking about, or with our spotlight now on Alzheimer's disease, I had mentioned something about amyloid. Well, you can see on the left panel is a normal brain, but on the right panel has two features that are common in an Alzheimer's brain, the neurofibrillary tangles and the amyloid plaques. And there are several phases of dementia and one is a newly appreciated phase called the preclinical phase. And it's considered preclinical because people or somebody with evidence of neurofibrillary tangles and amyloid plaques isn't showing any signs of memory impairment. They're able to perform their tasks at work and at home and nobody is the wiser that something's going on. Then there are, then if Alzheimer's has been diagnosed, as we mentioned earlier, memory impairment that prevents somebody from managing independently, there will be a mild, moderate and severe in stage disease. The symptoms of Alzheimer's disease and also some of the other dementias can be apathy and or depression, apathy where somebody's not as interested in what they used to do, whether it's a hobby or a TV show or just going out having coffee with friends or just like, I don't know, I just don't feel like it. That's apathy or depression, I think we all can recognize what depression is and that can be an early sign of Alzheimer's disease. People can have increased anxiety, partially because there's this sense that something's not going right and just don't know what it is and that makes people more anxious. Also the idea that just increased anxiety can be a feature. Forgetfulness, trouble with word finding, trouble with short-term memory, meaning you've just told somebody the appointments at three o'clock and then five minutes later, what's the appointment? And then missing social cues, maybe subtle hints that someone's, suggesting that we do or don't do something or imagine you're at a cocktail party and someone's like, no, don't say anything. And you sort of miss that clue too. So these can be kind of non-specific, very common in any of the dementias. So this would be an early sign. As dementia progresses, there can be problems with general routines and routines and things that seem like simple tasks, like getting dressed. Sometimes a shirt will be put on inside out or the button's wrong or one layer over top, another that isn't quite right. There can be weight loss because people forget to eat, they don't recognize that they're as hungry, maybe they've forgotten how to prepare something, even like a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. So weight loss is another feature and falls due to inattention, usually. Disrupted sleep wake cycle is something that's really important. As we mentioned earlier, sleep can interfere with memory. And then when we do develop a dementia, sometimes people just have, they need more tired during the day and want to take a nap and then the nap sort of rob somebody of their consolidated sleep at nighttime. Or if any of you out there know somebody with dementia where they begin to wander and fiddle and do those kinds of things, really when they should be asleep. So a disturbed sleep wake cycle is definitely a feature. Then there's also hallucinations or delusions. Hallucination is seeing or hearing something that's not there. For instance, sometimes people can see little children or little animals in the room or maybe even a relative that's passed away. A delusion is confusing something that really is there with something else. For instance, a coat rack might appear, with a coat hanging on it, might appear like a man. So that's a delusion. I had a patient the other day in clinic who has hydrangea, the shrub in her yard and the ball of the hydrangea, she thought was a person. She thought that was a face. And then there's paranoia where you're worried that somebody's entering the house or that somebody's out to get you or that there's some infidelity with the spouse. So these would be along the lines of moderate dementia. And so how do we treat this? Dementia, first of all, is really hard to treat. It's really hard to treat. It's a challenge for obviously family members, but it is also for the medical community. We have this class of medication called colonesterase inhibitors, which might be familiar to some of you. Dinepazil or erycept is one of the standard medications we try. There's also rivastigmine and galantamine. And these medications are used to try to slow down the progression of the disease. Imagine there's a slope of a line or an angle like in a triangle. And if this is the normal trajectory of memory loss, we try to flatten it out just a little bit so our endpoint might take, we might get to the same endpoint, but a little bit longer. Common side effects of these medications are abdominal pain, then leading to weight loss, and also a slower heart rate. So if somebody has, whose blood pressure or heart rate is a little on the low side to begin with, I might forego this medicine. As mentioned earlier, one of the things that can mimic dementia and also be an early feature of dementia is depression or anxiety. And sometimes, in fact, oftentimes a physician or a nurse practitioner might start an SSRI or an anti-depression or anti-anxiety medication, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor medication. To see if treating the dementia or, sorry, treating the depression or the anxiety might improve the memory and the functioning. These are the three medicines that the geriatrician would approve of. As Amy mentioned, I'm a geriatrician. And so sertralenus oloft, citalopram or cilexa, eschatalopram or luxapro are the go-to medicines from a geriatrician standpoint on how to try to alleviate some of these symptoms. And we usually will try doses lower than let's say a 40 or 50 year old. There's another class of medication called an NMDA receptor and that medication is Mementine or Nemenda. And this is usually tried as Alzheimer's has progressed a little bit. It's no longer mild disease, it might be moderate. And then, as I mentioned before, sometimes people can have really troubling psychosis or the hallucinations or delusions. We reserve these medications for when somebody is really plagued by the paranoia or the hallucinations. When somebody is at risk of harm to themselves or others because there are significant warnings with these medicines. I will say I see lots of commercials on TV about behaviors of dementia and just giving mom or dad one of these medicines. But we have to really think deeply about medications that we use because sometimes they can cause harm themselves. So it's a risk reward analysis. Nowadays, there's a relatively new medication called Lecanimab or Lecambi, which is considered a disease modifying agent. And in years past, we did not treat MCI at all. Dinepizil and Memantine, those are not indicated for MCI. So you might know that you've got some memory impairment, but MCI doesn't necessarily mean somebody is going to progress to dementia. And also MCI does not necessarily mean someone's gonna develop Alzheimer's. So for people who have been diagnosed with Alzheimer's, which requires perhaps some added testing by a neurologist, then they might be eligible for a medication called Lecanimab. Lecanimab is unique in that it is an IV infusion that requires serial MRI imaging to look for side effects of this medication. Edema and bleeding in the brain are the things that we're looking for in these MRI images because if there's been either the medication is halted or paused for a time. There is evidence that medications like Lecanimab or Lecambi show improvement on memory testing. There's a disconnect though between the improvement on the test and how someone's doing in real life. So while they might be testing better, their mocha score might have gone up a point or two. What the family or patients are noticing at home is that there really has been no change. So I'd like to switch gears right now for thinking about what we can do now because there's a lot that we can do and all is not lost. So I want all of you out there to take note on these, maybe take some notes on these next couple of slides because this is really, really important. And the first being exercise. I'm not asking you to go run a mile. I'm not asking you to, you know, sweat it out at the gym seven days a week, but we all, myself included, can probably do more than what we're doing today. So let's start from today and think about what can I do that's a little bit more than I did yesterday? Ideally, it's 150 minutes a week of exercise that can be a combination of, you know, doing the peddler in your chair or doing online exercise program, walking in the neighborhood, or if you're even in better shape, going to the gym. But...  but doing what you can to get your heart rate up, breathing a little faster, that can have real important impact on the anatomy of your brain. It can actually improve one of the lobes of your brain, the hippocampus, which is more specific for Alzheimer's disease. The hippocampus can actually get a little larger if you're doing some real cardiovascular work. There is a program at MGH called the Dementia Care Collaborative. I've got another slide at the end for resources, but they've got an exercise program there. Another thing that you can do is work on your diet. Something I'm sure most people have heard about the Mediterranean diet, where you're using olive oil instead of vegetable oil. You're thinking about nuts, more plant-based protein, more fish and chicken than red meat. I met a cardiologist the other day. I think it was probably back in the 80s where they talked about pork being the other white meat. He's like, pork is not white meat. Think about reducing your pork and your red meat and increasing your fish and your chicken and your tofu and other plant-based proteins. Then, alcohol and tobacco. If you smoke, please figure out a way to stop. Call your doctor. There are lots of ways to manage that, but smoking globally interferes with your health. Then, as far as alcohol goes, I would suggest starting to cut down. Ideally, there's no alcohol, but we can't always ask people to be tea totalers for the rest of their lives. People like a glass of wine with their birthday or maybe when they are entertaining, but the idea is not a daily glass of wine. If you do have a beer, a glass of wine or a cocktail every day, think about five days a week instead of seven. Then, after five days, a couple months later, you might realize you haven't missed that Sunday and Monday drink. Maybe cut out Tuesday. The goal is that you cut back such that you're not feeling deprived. So that you will have better sleep and better functioning overall. Another thing that you can do is remaining or staying social. If you're not really a social person to begin with, do your best to expand your network a little bit. Join a monthly group. Consider going to a senior center or your council on aging. Maybe start a book club. Do something a little bit beyond what you're already doing. If you are the true extrovert who goes out and has coffee and plays golf and does all sorts of things, please continue doing that because that interaction with others is really important. So is exercising your brain. Sitting and watching TV all day is fine because there are some fabulous programs out there. But maybe mixing it up a little bit with some games, whether real board games or games on a phone are good. So is playing a musical instrument. Maybe learning a new skill or a new language. And in fact, actually, I think I saw this yesterday on Facebook. There was an advertisement by the New York Times. The five day brain, my face is in the way, the brain health challenge. Where every day, Monday through Friday, there's something to do. And talking about Tuesday, the mind diet, Thursday playing a game. These can be fun and little quizzes for yourself. So I dare you to do the Friday brain health challenge suggested by the New York Times. Let's see. What else is there? Get your vision and hearing checked. There is a direct connection between hearing loss and dementia. And the reason is because if you are not taking in the information from, you know, you're not hearing the information, you're not registering the information, you're not being able to recall it and use it. And then if you're, you'll be less engaged in the community you're with. And then slowly your brain will shut down a little bit by little bit. So please, if anybody has suggested to you that your hearing needs and evaluation, please do that. Hearing aids nowadays, there are so many different ways to getting hearing aid, whether it's iPod, you know, iPod earbuds or whatever with your Apple device or a hearing aid from Costco or going to Mass Eye and Ear. Although those are great places to get your hearing amplified if needed. And the devices are so discreet nowadays. I like to think of myself as very observant and sometimes I'm not even aware that somebody is wearing a hearing aid. There's another quiz that you can do just like the New York Times five day challenge. There's the brain care score developed by somebody here at MGH. And I've put in the URL there, but if you just Google McCants Brain Care Score, there's about 12 questions or something like that. And that, I think that's a fun quiz to help you start thinking about if you're not already. What you can do to enhance your overall health. Another thing that you can do is consider seeing the geriatrician. We love, you know, we assess memory all the time. And in fact, as Amy mentioned, I run a cognitive health clinic. It's called Chyme. And there we, you know, we evaluate somebody's memory and we assess how things are going at home with an informant or a spouse. And we provide resources if things aren't going well. And speaking of resources, I have a couple more places that you can investigate online. The Alzheimer's Association has a wealth of information about all, you know, about memory. About it doesn't have to be about Alzheimer's. They've got information on care support. They've got information on staying active and staying healthy. The Massachusetts Alzheimer's Disease Resource Center or MAGRAC, I think I forgot an A in there, is a really great resource also and will include information about studies that might be going on. And one of the places that I mentioned earlier is the dementia care collaborative. It's a terrific website that is for not only patients, but caregivers and information on how to stay active. So with that, I would love to entertain any of the questions that have come in the chat. I'm going to stop sharing my slides so that Amy and I can have that conversation. I'm not sure. Please let me know. I don't see the chat right now. So please let me know if there are any questions. Thank you, Dr. Hanley. If you have any questions for Dr. Hanley, feel free to enter them in the chat. So I know you covered a little bit about nutrition and exercise. Do you have anything else you would like to include this individual who's asking about best practices for keeping their brains healthy, such as the Mediterranean diet? You talked a little bit about getting the heart rate up, so cardio exercise. What are your thoughts on strength training and then also learning new things and helping with brain health? I'll tackle strength training first. Any kind of exercise that you can do is great. Strength training is great for bones, bone strength, so I think that's great. So some of these things aren't necessarily for brain health, but for overall health. As a geriatrician, we see people who fall. And so strength training will help prevent falls and also may lessen the impact if a fall does happen. And so that's where I'm mentioning the bones. And what was part two? Something about diet. The Mediterranean diet and any other tips? Yes, so I'm not a nutritionist, so you might be able to find more information online than with me. But essentially, more of a plant-based diet is better. Less red meat is better. Olive oil, nuts, anything with color. That's one thing that I didn't mention. Blueberries and strawberries are going to be better than a banana. Brown rice is better than white rice, so trying to get away from white foods necessarily, except if it's chicken or fish, and lots of color. So fruits and vegetables with color. Thank you. And I appreciate Amy putting in the link for the Brain Care Score. I think that's a, you know, I took that test a year or two ago. I think it's fun. I should probably do it every year just so I can remember what the elements are. But I highly recommend it because it does highlight that our medical problems that we have, because everybody's got some need to be optimally managed, whether it's hypertension, high cholesterol, thyroid, you know, any of your medical problems that you've accumulated throughout your life, having those be optimally managed is great. And then the Brain Care Score kind of brings that back to the forefront. And that link that I provided brings you to their page. It kind of gives you a little bit more about the Brain Care Score. And then as you scroll down the page, they'll actually take you to the page to take the actual test. And they also provided links to the other resources that you provided towards the end of your presentation. We have a question. Oh, go ahead. Oh, I was going to say, I see something there about family history. Yeah. And, you know, we can't get away from our genes, which can be, you know, worrisome, because it's probably something that you think about a lot, you know, that person had a parent with Alzheimer's, am I going to get Alzheimer's? So not necessarily is the answer. And I wonder if that parent, unless they had an autopsy, was the dementia Alzheimer's 100%? Back in the day, the way we confirmed the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease was through sampling of the brain postmortem. After death. So that's why I thought it was really important to highlight some of these things that we can do, because we can't change our genes, but we can change how we're living right now. And so the more you can do for yourself, whether it's an exercise, diet, weight loss, stopping smoking, staying socially engaged, getting your hearing aids, and any brain activity that you can that's just making you feel like you're working a little bit, I think is great. Thank you. And there was like another question regarding tests. We have an individual, both parents had a form of dementia. What age should they ask to be tested? And would the MoCA test labs, PET scan be the first line to get done? Okay. So you're talking about, well, I'm curious how old we're talking. Maybe that person, can you just, if you're in your 40s, 50s, 60s, or 70s, that would just help guide me with my answer. And I'm going to say, if you're in your 40s or 50s, unless you're showing early signs of a memory impairment, I wouldn't bother with testing. But it's nice. Okay. So 54. So at 54, you could consider getting a baseline memory test. See your primary care doctor, get a MoCA test, and just see how you do. My suspicion is the normal range is 26 and above. I'm very certain you probably would score in the normal range. What you could also do, depending on how much this is bothering you, is getting a, doing the neuropsych testing. You are young enough that you have the stamina to do it. And you actually might think some of these, I mean, there are quizzes. They might be kind of fun. You know, the testers telling you a story, you've got to, you know, answer questions about the story. And getting a baseline for that might be really useful. Also, the neuropsych testing might highlight whether or not there's something else going on, whether there's depression, anxiety, you know, a learning difference, something for you to get on top of now. One of the values of neuropsych testing too is they make recommendations for workarounds. You know, just about everybody needs, you know, we have our, you know, our phones here with all the numbers we need, with our date book there, but there are other tools that they recommend that might be helpful. And it also might provide a really, a lot of reassurance for you that you are okay. And then again, I can't say enough about exercise and eating well and taking care of yourself. Let's see. We have an individual who's asking about the test. If they have always been not so great at math, do the tests expect you to do well in them? Oh, so there's only one section that has math and, you know, it's doing a calculation a few times. Sometimes, so getting that baseline, I think, is good. And, you know, the tester can always make a note that, you know, you're not great at math. There's also other tests to do, like the rudas is another opportunity. If there's an area that you know you have difficulty. Let's just say somebody has got dyslexia. Gee, I don't know if I'm going to give them the Mocha test because the clock might be backward and, you know, something else might be misplaced. And so that's not fair. That's not giving them the benefit of the doubt in terms of how well they're functioning. And so that's another instance where neuropsych testing might come in handy. I gave the example earlier where someone's performing well in life, but they kind of, you know, they didn't bomb the test, but, you know, they didn't do well, you know. And so maybe you're feeling like you're going to bomb the math section. Well, let's do something that you can speak to your strengths. So maybe a different test might be the thing for you. Sure. And for the neuropsych test, is that generally done with, can that be done with your PCP or only with a specialist? Very good question. Thank you. A neuropsych, a neuropsychiatric mammary testing is performed by a PhD. And since I'm at MGH and in Boston, there are people at MGH at Brigham at McLean. All of these places have a department, a neuropsychology department, where they perform these testings. And it has to be ordered by a physician, whether it's your primary care doctor or, you know, a neurologist or something like that. And neurologists use the neuropsych testing just like a GRI attrition or primary care doctor would. Thank you. One of the things that I didn't include in a slide was when to refer to a neurologist. Part of the reason why we've started this clinic in geriatrics is because our access is pretty quick. And you can begin going down that memory road if you have concerns about yourself or somebody else. You can begin to get the information that's needed, the blood test, the imaging, the neuropsych, and even a presumptive diagnosis from a GRI attrition before waiting the 12 months or whatever it is to get into a neurologist. So you don't always have to see a specialist per se that can add unnecessary wait time. But when there's a question of the diagnosis or when more nuanced specific testing needs to be done, that's or the infusion therapy, the little cannon pad, that's when you need a neurologist. So if somebody's talking about, you know, cerebral spinal fluid biomarkers or other blood biomarkers right now, those are not available to the primary care doctor or the geriatrician. Some of those things are not even, you know, widespread among neurologists as it is. So there's a lot about information about those things and the news. There's a lot of excitement about what's ahead in discovering dementia and treating dementia, but we just have to hold our horses for a little bit longer. All right. So while we wait to see if there are any final questions in the chat, do you have any final thoughts? You'd like to share with the audience, Dr. Hanley? Well, I was just noticing that somebody mentioned alcohol in the chat and yes, there can be alcohol can interfere with memory and functioning. And sometimes people just need, well, to cut back, but also have some vitamin supplements that can really help with that. So if anybody, what I really encourage people to do is to see your doctor on a regular basis, optimize what you can for your existing medical problems, because again, we all have them, and do what you can about, you know, eating well and exercising. You mentioned vitamin supplements. Are there any specific vitamins they should be focused on? Well, for people with a B12 deficiency, that in particular is the vitamin I'm talking about. People who've had long-sending alcohol might be low in their B12, but also people who don't metabolize B12 very well, they don't absorb it and they've got very well, even though they might have a very good diet and sources of B12 in their diet. So having a B12 level checked would be a good thing. I used to work with a geriatric pharmacist in my former job and, you know, he didn't really believe in supplements. So more is not necessarily better. And so having that conversation with your doctor, I think is a good thing. The other thing I didn't put on a slide, which I think I will for next time, is all those advertisements for, you know, memory enhancers and things for your brain on the TV or online that you get without a prescription really don't do anything. So please don't waste your money. Like with the commercials all the time, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is too good to be true. Yeah, like previgens, one of them, please just don't waste your money. But in the end, I assume you would advise if they do want to consider anything, please have that conversation with their doctor first. Yes, absolutely. Yes, I appreciate that clarification. Yes, and come see us in geriatrics. You know, we love talking about memory and older adults. So. So I don't see any additional questions. So I think that we can end a few minutes early. Yes, thank you again, Amy, for this opportunity and for the Blum Center for the invitation. And yeah, it was great. Thank you. And for everyone joining us. Thank you so much. Thank you everybody. Hopefully you found today's session helpful. As I mentioned, today's session is being recorded. It will be made available on the Blum Center website. Let me pull that up and I'll share that link in the chat, but it's massgeneral.org slash Blum Center. There you can view a schedule of upcoming programs as well as the recordings. All right, everyone. Thank you so much. Take care. You  naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n