 and scrxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Please note that you are in listen only mode. Everyone has a mute. We can hear guest speakers today. If you have any questions or thoughts you'd like to share, you may do so in the chat, which is located at the bottom of your screen. We'll have time from the end. Only Blum Center staff and our guest speakers will see your questions. Please do not share any personal medical information or questions in the chat. If you have a personal medical question, please ask a doctor. Lastly, at the end of today's session, you'll be directed to a brief survey, which would like to ask you to help us complete the feedback as important to us as we plan future programs. So joining us today, we have Catherine McCoola and Alex Vaskin. We are chaplains and spiritual care providers with the Spiritual Care Department and Massachusetts General Hospital. They joined us today to give a talk on the role of a chaplain and spiritual care provider in the hospital setting. So please join me in welcoming Catherine and Alex. Thanks Amy. And thanks everyone for joining us. I'm going to go ahead and share my screen so you can take a look at what we'll be talking about for the next hour. So Catherine, Alex and I will share a little bit more about ourselves. Just making sure that my screen looks the way it should to both of you. Okay, wonderful. So as Amy said, our topic today is what does a chaplain do besides pray? As you can imagine, that is a question that we receive often. Just a quick overview. We're going to be talking about what is spiritual care? What is a model for spiritual distress? Really, what is spiritual distress and how do we understand that and care for that here in the hospital setting? What is the difference between a chaplain as a clinical provider versus a religious leader that we might encounter in our communities outside the hospital and sometimes inside the hospital? Some anecdotes from patient care that Alex and I will share, which share all throughout, hopefully, and then some closing thoughts. So as we get started here, the MGH spiritual care department includes seven full-time multi-faith providers as well as three proteams who practice many different religious and spiritual traditions. As Amy said, I'm Catherine. I'm a critical care chaplain here at the hospital. I cover a few of our ICUs. When I can, I'd like to go back into GenMed and some surgery floors as well. Alex, do you want to introduce yourself? Sorry. Sure. Hi, everyone. My name is Alex Baskin. Yes, same with Catherine. I'm one of the chaplains here at MassGenerals. I cover oncology floors here at the hospital. Both Catherine and I have been working here for a few years and did our training within the MassGeneral Brigham system. Thanks, Alex. Amy, are you noticing my screen looks a little weird or is that just something I'm seeing? I do see that it's a little glitchy. Okay. Can you hear me okay? Yes, your audio is fine. Okay, let's run with that. I'm afraid to touch the camera in case I lose you. So bear with me. Okay. So we're going to be talking about what is spiritual care and how that relates to our patients and the other folks that we care for here in the hospital. And sort of necessary to talking about what spiritual care is, is to ground ourselves in an understanding of what spirituality is. And naturally from that to what religion is. So I have a couple definitions here that I will read out loud. And Alex and I can discuss these a little bit more. So on our team and largely in our field, we define spirituality as a dynamic and intrinsic aspect of humanity through which persons seek ultimate meaning, purpose and transcendence, and experience relationship to self, family, others, community, society, nature and the significant or sacred. Spirituality is expressed through beliefs, values, traditions and practices. That's quite a mouthful. A simpler way that sometimes I talk about spirituality or explain spirituality with my patients is spirituality is the connection that we have to ourselves, to the people around us and to something bigger than ourselves. I also want to mention too, we're talking about these terms, providing definitions for these terms, but different people use and understand these terms differently throughout periods of time, even today, different communities, different understandings and relationship to these terms. So laying the groundwork for how we're going to talk about this today, but also acknowledging that there's a very wide spectrum of use and relation to these terms and ideas. So, if spirituality is sort of the big umbrella, one of the ways that we might experience our spirituality or practice our spirituality is through a religion is through the lens of a religion. We might define religion as one of the ways, as I said, that we experience or express our spirituality. Each religion offers a unique framework for guiding affiliated individuals. In some religions, it is simply enough to believe in God, while other religions place greater emphasis on practice. Some religions focus more on the individual, others emphasize the community. So, it's helpful to bear both of these definitions in mind when we're going back to the question of what does a chaplain do in the hospital, what does the chaplain do besides pray. We are tending to the spiritual needs of our patients, and oftentimes that might include religious needs as well. And often many times it doesn't. Alex, anything you would add before we keep going? Um, let's see. I mean, just to underline what you said already that this is one way of understanding it, different by these terms, this is a model that we use to apply to our context and to try to get some tread on what's easily a slippery slip. You know, this is what we are waiting into some of, you know, life's most complex questions. And so just as a way to try to get a handle on it here is some frameworks. Obviously, we could talk all day about just this slide, but we need to have something kind of practical. So, so that's where we're using this. Yeah. And to kind of understand that in a different way or look at it in a different way, we'll go to our next slide. Yeah. So this is, this is like the metaphor that that articulates the same point. So we're going to have to go back to high school geometry for a second, but all squares are rectangles, but not all rectangles are squares, right? A rectangle has four sides, but a square is when all the sides of the exact same length. So, all, so yeah, in this sense, we think of religion is to spirituality like a square is to erecting. So religion is a common way that people is a common form of spirituality, but it's not the only kind of rectangle out there. There's others as well. So another way to say that we can look at the next slide. And I'll give an example as well is that, so we might have one person over here in this, in this room in the hospital over on this floor, and they have this kind of wide expansive spirituality and their religion is one part of that. And we might have this other person over here in this other room, this other part of the hospital where, you know, their spirituality is mainly composed of their religious tradition, right? So there's people we see all the time. I mean, I can think of someone specific. I was who I've met a few times here in the hospital who she's involved in, you know, in a Protestant church. When I ask her about it, when I tell me about your spiritual, I say, you know, I go to this church, I kind of go out of habit. I like having the community. But when, you know, I say, well, what's kind of spiritually meaningful to you? She tells me all about hiking throughout New England and trying to hike as many peaks in Vermont and New Hampshire as she can. And like, that is where she really lights up. Like that's doing something spiritual for her, her connection to the outdoors in our region. And then I might talk to this other person who I say, tell me about your spirituality. And she says, I'm Catholic, you know, and this is not to stereotype, Protestant, first Catholic, straight, but just to say, hey, life is where she's getting her spiritual meaning from. And that is what, you know, when I'm asking about, you know, how that shows up in her life, how I can serve her, like what's really supportive is receiving the Eucharist, receiving communion here in the hospital regularly. And so the way we're showing up is how to arrange that for her or praying with her or because, yeah, for her, how she makes meaning, how she connects with herself and others in community is through the Roman Catholic Church. And that's working for her. And for this other person, it's working, but there's a lot more to say there as well. So it's just to give some example of how these things relate to church. Yeah, thank you. So we're going to go to our next slide, which sort of illustrates why all of this is relevant in the hospital setting and why it's relevant to have spiritual care providers as part of the interdisciplinary team. So operating under that definition of spirituality, we have the connection to the self, the connection to others, the connection to the sacred. Oftentimes when we are in the hospital, those connections can become weakened, strained, severed, changed in some way. And spiritual care providers are the specialists trained to respond to that kind of distress that we would call spiritual distress. Alex, please. Sorry. Oh, you're good. Yeah, so I mean this is, this is the point we really want to underline. Like what I would say is in our, in our presentation, if there's one thing you remember, we want you to remember that chaplains, which is, which is a word we use interchangeably chaplains, spiritual care, that spiritual care providers are specialists trained to respond to spiritual distress. So we were just defining spirituality and spiritual distress is, and we'll say more about it now. We'll say plenty about it, but it's when your spirituality is disturbed in some way or when there's some issue or break, something blocking you from feeling into or connecting with your spirituality, which is totally normal. And as a part of the human life cycle, we can't always be just smooth sailing. And like Catherine mentioned, it's spiritual distress is especially prevalent on serious illness when dealing with life threatening conditions with dealing with having to be hospitalized. You know, we have this, this study that we have here that we're through research they found that spiritual and existential distress was especially prevalent was highly prevalent in patients with cancer. And we have good reason through our own experience to know that that's probably true for most serious illnesses. Catherine, do you want to walk us through the different domains of spiritual distress. Sure. So starting from that first level disconnection from self. As you can see here may include not limited to expressed feelings of shame guilt, love self esteem. Divine quote punishment discussed toward or alienation from one's body or deepest being. Some maybe more tangible ways that we encounter that in the hospital is a sense of feeling out of control. Like there's this lack of control over the physical or mental function of a person. You know, I'm used to being like this and now I'm like this. I don't know who I am when I'm like this. Or I don't recognize myself. Sometimes that might show up in the form of a reconciliation need needing to forgive the self. And, and truly all of well many of these. It's a Venn diagram for a reason and that many of them relate to the other areas as well. So disconnection from others may include express feelings of abandonment by one's family or community withdrawal from relationships, loneliness and isolation. Something that comes to mind for that one is, you know, the question at end of life of how am I going to be remembered will I be remembered. And by who. Sometimes there's withdrawal from relationships. On a patient side, sometimes there's caregiver fatigue and withdrawal from that there's so many things that can have stream the connections that we have outside of ourselves. The language that we hear a lot is I don't want to be a burden to others. So, kind of really examining that dynamic the relationship between the self and others. It's certainly an area of distress and certainly one here in the hospital. And then disconnection from the sacred or something bigger than ourselves, which may include express feelings of abandonment by or anger toward God, or a higher power. Loss of direction or interest in highest values, deep and persistent doubt, inability or unwillingness to engage in practices of one's tradition or spiritual self care. I hear this category in the language of questioning of, you know, why, why would God do this to me or how could this happen how could the universe let this happen. And sometimes when that's happened we, we feel disconnected from practices or community that usually ground us. Sometimes it's physical disconnection because we can't be in our sacred spaces or the spaces that make us feel most connected to God or the sacred. So all of these connections are so valuable to whole person health and also at risk when dealing with some of the issues that Alex was talking about and certainly coming into the hospital dealing with that. Would you add anything before I go to the next one. I wonder if we want to give an example of just just just something from our own experience. So people can imagine a patient experiencing spiritual distress here in the context of their hospital city do you have something off hand or maybe I can think of something. I'm thinking of a family who I supported a couple of years ago now. And there was a lot of distress, these parents had flown in from overseas. Their child adult child was very sick in the ICU, unable to communicate verbally. And the parents were really upset because there had been for some time, estrangement and disconnection in their relationship. I think it felt more than natural to them to come and be here for their child for their loved one. That element of their connection that element of their relationship that was tense and had conflict was impacting the way that they were there at the bedside and what was coming up for them. And, you know, it wasn't something we were going to fix it's not something we could fix period but it is something that we could acknowledge that I acknowledged with them and explored with them. And I can remember in the room, the physical distance between dad and this patient. As he was sort of processing this and the only thing that did shift was the closeness that dad was able to move a little bit closer. As he was talking about the grief of their relationship and the uncertainty of how it would unfold now, given what his daughter was going through. That's great. That's really sad and beautiful, complex, you know, just highlights how hospitalizations are, you know, often a kind of crisis and kick all this stuff up and things aren't always as smooth, fairly smooth like a hallmark film. Like, families are complicated and a lot of families are experiencing a strange mental now your loved ones in the hospital but it's not a smooth relationship and and there is an element of that that's yeah that that feels spiritual and in the The way in which we can find meaning in family or or lose meaning in family. Yeah, thanks so much for that me I think we can go to the next slide. Okay. So we're going to talk a little bit about this question of chaplains as clinical providers versus religious leaders, because often we are mistaken for religious leaders, and many of us might function as both. There are some of the other colleagues here who are gained in their traditions and lead community congregations or local chapters but here in the hospital are functioning as something different. And we have a couple different examples is to the right of how these things kind of compare and contrast. So, the first one. Sure. So religious leaders might make personal or community communal statements of belief they might. They speak on behalf of the tradition or the religious tradition, whereas spiritual care providers listen for and sort of uplift the beliefs that we hear from a patient. So we don't tell people what to believe we listen for what they believe. Religious leader may advise their followers on what to believe or offer answers to questions and a spiritual care provider validates and explores the question with their patient. It's pretty, I wouldn't say that's pretty self explanatory. But it feels so important to because like, we don't have the answers. That feels important to me, you know, that we are with people who are asking really big questions all the time, why is this happening to me. And, yeah, we explore the question, and we have a lot of different ways in on that, but we don't claim to have some authoritative answer generally. I want to share that story we were talking about earlier. Sure. It's related to this one. Yeah, you're right, it does. I was telling Catherine about a patient I saw. So, you know, this, this whole presentation is what is the chapter new besides pray. Now, we do pray plenty of times, you know, that's that's not never you visit but in lots of our visits. There was a patient I saw. Who had pretty advanced cancer, and she was very connected with a with a religious community like a pretty conservative religious community. And I met her a few times and every time we met, she she wanted to press, you know, the main thing she wanted to do she was often a lot of pain we weren't able to have long or really deep conversations, but she say sit with me. Can you pray for me. Sure. I pray with her. We did this a bunch of different times. We were building more trust and connection. And then there was a visit. You know, after we knew each other for a few weeks, it was a long hospitalization. When I came in to visit her. And suddenly she was asking all these questions that I hadn't heard her voice before, like, like, you know, like, why is this happening to me. It has got forgotten me. We've been praying together and nothing's happening. Things are getting. And what's going on. And it's important for people to have outlets to express questions like that, you know, doubt religious doubt is normal and is a part of most people's kind of faith development. And I was able to, you know, through the way we listen and provide a space as a chaplain, give her that space that her religious community. It might not be their strength. You know, different spaces provide different functions to people. And she was well supported by this really vibrant community. And, yeah, some communities are better and worse at holding down and honoring down. And it's it seemed like, oh, I'm able to provide her this opportunity to flesh that out and to be heard and to have it be honored. And it doesn't change the fact that she's, you know, a woman of deep faith and she's a lot of the human and ask these questions to and so that's the kind of space that, you know, a hospital chaplain can provide that not all religious leaders and religious communities are often that well set up to provide. Yeah, and I feel like it speaks to the rapport that you built with this patient to create a space that she could go into like that. Because that often requires deep trust and vulnerability. Next on our list here, a religious leader may be asked to come pray and perform some sort of ritual or right. A spiritual care provider will use an assortment of interventions, including prayer and ritual to spiritually support patients. In my training as a chaplain, I remember my educator often inviting us to think of the visit as the prayer. Sometimes we're very quick as young as new chaplains as young chaplains we want to pray, we want to pray. And I think it's surprising maybe to hear that and more visits than not I don't I don't pray, or that's not the first thing or the second thing that patients ask for. And we're using an assortment of tools that we have to support patients, whether that's exploring practices that they have adapting practices to the hospital. And exploring some of the existential questions and concerns that they have. So there are a lot of tools at our disposal that we use regularly. Can I say one more thing about that? Please. Yes, a beautiful concept that you know the whole visit the whole conversation the whole time sharing time together is a prayer. And this idea just like when we're when what we're doing looks formally like prayer. It's important to distinguish, you know, a religious leader or a religious peer, you know, a friend from someone's religious community visiting praying with them. Often in religious communities prayer can function like almost like a statement of faith. I mean, many prayers are, you know, sometimes almost like cataclysms where you're kind of reciting what, you know, what's believed together. Anyway, there's a lot of different kinds of prayer, but but the distinction between what we are doing. Often if we are playing with a patient, the reason we're playing with a patient is because through conversation, we've discerned that that's something spiritually meaningful to them. And so this is an intervention we're offering that supports them. That's kind of why we are able to pray with people often if we don't have the same exact faith or theological framework. You know, we're all all of us hospital chapters or multi faith providers on a regular basis we pray with people of many different religious traditions and backgrounds or none or multiple. And it's not that important to me and to most of us that we necessarily share the tradition. You know, I'm comfortable praying in a way that makes sense with this person in front of me. And I have a way of understanding what it means and which parts I connect to. And that's why it looks pretty different, I think, than prayer in religious community. That's such an important point. Alex, I think goes back to the point you made earlier about different spaces, different functions. And our ability to provide care for people of a lot of different backgrounds. Sometimes patients do say to us, you know, I really need to share this with someone who believes the same thing that I do. And we're fortunate on our team to have people in a lot of different traditions or spiritual homes. We also work very closely with a lot of local clergy and religious leaders to find support for people in ways when patients do need that. Because for some folks that is critical. That is an aspect of the care that they need. So it's, you know, we're doing the dance of meeting them where we can and then also figuring out how else we can support them with the people around us. So to summarize, a spiritual care provider will not push religion, which is a pretty punchy line. But we will not push religion, we will not, we will not be persuading or sort of like depositing or inputting belief or ideas or believe that into our  or patients' hearts, minds, and spirit. A spiritual care provider will work with a patient to mitigate spiritual distress through a variety of creative means. And it feels important to say creative means that we have discerned with a patient will be meaningful to them. It's informed by the conversation that we've had with them, the time that we've spent with them. Yeah, Alex, would you add anything? Yeah, I think I would add that sometimes someone, let's see, like someone might call us in, a family member might say, oh, can you go talk to, we see the question in the chat. We're going to have time for questions soon, and we will address that in a minute. Thank you so much for that question. Sometimes someone will say, oh, can you talk to this person? They're not sounding like themselves, or some of the things we describe in spiritual distress, like they need to be more connected with their religious background, or their religious tradition, or something like that. We are not naive, and we do not think that we are naive. We are not naive, and we do not think that religion and spirituality are the answer to everything. And we don't think of our job as being like, oh, you're off track, we need to get you back on track. Many people have a lot of trauma related to religious traditions. Many of us share that. Many of us have our own, many of us chaplains, have complicated relationships to religion, as a matter of fact. So we are not, it's just to say, we don't push religion, because we don't think religion is the answer to everything. It's not like we think, oh, we need to get you this thing, and it's going to solve all your problems. We're more interested in joining you and listening, and having a conversation, and figuring out what could be supportive right now, what could make this a little less crummy. Also, it's hard. It's hard to have a serious illness. It's hard to be in the hospital. We don't have a magic wand. We're not going to pretend to. So yeah, just to, there's a lot of nuance and sensitivity that I think sometimes people will know or assume, and might think that we just have this kind of cure-all approach, or that we have stars in our eyes about how we're going to say one thing, this person's going to reconnect to the religion of their childhood, and everything's going to be better. Life's a lot more complicated than that. That's making me think of a patient encounter where I'll go in and meet with someone. This happens with regularity, I would say. I'm sure this has happened to Alex, where you go in and sit with a patient, and they'll start to share about what's been going on for them, or how they're feeling, or what they think, and then they say to me, well, what do you have for me? So tell me what you think. And I do think it's an invitation for exchange, of course, but I do think it's one of those places where we do get mistaken for religious leaders, or we do get mistaken for people who will be able to posit some kind of pearl of wisdom. And I think the most effective intervention that we offer in those moments is to say, gosh, I wish I could say something that would make this all better, or change this, or, and to turn back to the wisdom that the patient has already shared with me, or shared with us. It really is this sort of stance of humility, or spiritual humility. That's mandatory for our work. Mandatory for walking alongside the people we're caring for. Yeah. We're going to turn to some anecdotes now. We thought it might be worthwhile to share a couple more stories about folks who we've provided care for. And as we've been doing this whole time, we won't be sharing any patient information. We'll be honoring our patient's privacy, continuing to honor their privacy by not disclosing anything. And identifying information to them. Do you want to start? Sure. The story that when we were, Catherine and I were talking about, you know, this presentation together popped into my mind, was a patient I saw who had a health emergency leading to his hospitalization. It was very unexpected that he had to be hospitalized. He had, yeah, he was suddenly feeling terrible, and had this neurological condition where he needed despinal surgery. And he was in a lot of pain before the surgery, he was in a lot of pain after the surgery. And he was living a very full life. He's middle-aged. He's active in his community, and with relationships, and is really somebody who thinks of himself, and is a giver, and shows up for people, and is very active, and very caring. And suddenly he's basically stuck in bed, can't move, has to be receiving care, is hospitalized for a couple of weeks, totally flips how he understands himself. Religiously, spiritually, he's someone who was rooted in a religious treatment, a Unitarian Universalist community. He also had spent a lot of time in a Buddhist meditation community, and meditation was a big part of his life. That's a spiritual practice he had. But he found, with this new condition, and in the hospital, he just, he tried to meditate, and he just couldn't. It was like, he was just, his mind was everywhere. He was in a ton of physical pain that was new to him, and it was really, really hard to access this spiritual practice, that he had, but he just couldn't quite access it. And I met with him a few times, one other chaplain on our team did, and just being able to be there with him, to meditate with him, for five, 10 minutes at a time, to offer some guidance. I got in, I talked to him, he was like, yeah, he just said, that's what I needed. I couldn't do it myself, I just needed someone else to help me get there. Someone who knows a little about this kind of thing. So, yeah, he was in a kind of distress, not able to access practice, and we helped him access it. It helped, it didn't solve everything, it was still a rough time, but he also was extremely appreciative, and made it a real point of saying, you know, I couldn't have gotten through this hospitalization without you guys. Yeah, so, the expectation that sometimes we have of ourselves to be able to do everything we normally do, when we're here, when we're dealing with illness, especially serious illness, it's so moving to hear him get to access that again, with the right support. I'll share a story about a patient who I worked with, who had been fighting cancer for some time, and had come to the end of a treatment road, and with her team determined that she was going to decline further treatment, and focus on comfort, focus on the dying process, focus on the end of her life. I met with her a couple of times, and she had shared a bit about the tradition that she was raised in, that no longer felt like home, and hadn't for some time. And the sort of non-religious reality that she had, identity that she had, was very meaningful throughout a lot of her life. She shared a lot about the values that she raised her family with, and the things that sort of guided her in her day-to-day life and relationships. But when it came to end of life and dying, there was this hole or this gap that she felt. She felt very poignantly the loss of this tradition that had been meaningful to her as a young person. And she felt just sort of at sea, you know, I'm no longer this, what do I do now? What's the container for how I go through this portion of our lives? And we spoke a lot about that, and I surfaced the grief and distress she felt about that loss, as well as the grief and distress about what was coming, and not knowing how she wanted to be honored, not knowing how she wanted any kind of service or grief process for her family to go. And I was able to draw on a lot of the values that she had spoken about that were true for her. And on the one hand, really validating the place that she is in, this space of sort of maybe a quote-unquote, structure-less space, while also echoing back, mirroring back the structure that she had in fact built in her life out of deeply held values and beliefs. And we were able to talk about how she wanted those things to show up for her at this time. Yeah, I remember being very moved from that conversation. And truly, I mean, by the grief of how our spiritualities and our practices can change throughout our lives and the implications that that has at different moments in life, not even just at end of life per se, but at big transition moments. What can that mean? It just highlights for me, people have these big questions, and they don't always know where to bring them, have a space to bring. Yeah. That's one thing we can offer. Yeah. You got another one? You know, I do have more, but I'm just noticing even the time and wondering if if we want to go to the next slide and then have time for questions. Great idea. Let's do it. Do you want me to jump in? Sure. Okay, so to conclude, we'll do some myth-busting because it's totally normal that there's lots of misconceptions about what a chaplain is. Everyone has a complicated relationship to religion and spirituality. Some of us are positive, some of us negative, often a mix, and so we kind of make a lot of assumptions or projections. So let's see. Some things that people commonly think about chaplains is, you know, the whole impetus for this thing was people think that we just come in and pray. We've learned today already that that's not the case. And another thing people often think only there when someone's dying. You know, sometimes you walk into the room and people think it's a scary thing for us to even be there because that must mean I'm dying and maybe that might not be the case, or people certainly might not be, you know, thinking of that as the case. So it's like, I don't need a chaplain, I'm not dying. You know, we hear that a lot. And also to say, people are always in choice, you know, if a patient doesn't want to speak to a chaplain, we honor that. That's fine. But there's a lot that we do besides praying, besides just being there for death and dying. Chaplain is not necessarily highly religious themselves. I mean, it might be, but we might not be. Some people think that they picture us and they imagine someone kind of sanctimonious or whatever. I don't know. And sometimes they're surprised that we have a great sense of humor and that we're fun and easy to be around. So that's a common misconception. And one last, there's probably lots of myths we could bust. But just to say, sometimes people think that the chaplain is kind of a volunteer, or just like a nice person, which we might, I think we're nice people, but we're professionals, we are part of the medical interdisciplinary team. We have a lot of training and credentialing and schooling to be where we are. So that's worth understanding. So those are some of the myths we thought about naming and busting. Do you want to talk about some of these indicators for consulting a chaplain, Katherine? Yeah, and that will kind of segue us to this question that one of our attendees asked in the chat, which we thank you for. So in light of all of these myths that have been busted, when should I consult a chaplain? You'll see here on the right a number of moments or stretches of experience that someone might go through while being in the hospital. And these would be a great time to consult a chaplain. Maybe you're feeling flooded by negative or confusing emotions. There's a lot of trauma, grief, or loss that's overwhelming. You might be struggling to find hope or meaning or wondering why did this happen to me. You could consult us when there is a significant new diagnosis or a change in the care plan, or if you feel the need for additional emotional support. If you need religious support, maybe it's certain sacraments or certain prayer or other ritual practices. And also, you might need support thinking through difficult moral and ethical decisions. Which we can sit with you in and discuss further. The best way to request a spiritual care provider, I would say nine times out of ten is through your nurse, through bedside nursing. Your nurse here will be able to place a consult for us or to page us and get us there pretty quickly if needed. And right now we are largely only available to patients who are inpatient in the hospital. So unfortunately, we are not able to extend into the ambulatory and outpatient setting on the whole. There are some limited exceptions to that, but I would say generally speaking, our focus is on the inpatient population. Would you say that's true, Alex? Well, a notable exception is that we have a half-time chaplain who's in the outpatient center. So patients specifically in that outpatient space at Mass General have some coverage. So if you were coming in for chemo infusion, you could ask your nurse during that infusion if there's a chaplain available and they would have a way to connect. But for the most part, at MGH, and this is largely true through MGB, the spiritual care departments are quite lean. We are not staffed as much as we wish we were. And so we are mostly here for folks who are admitted to inpatient units. And we have another question about, oh, sorry, Alex, go ahead. I was just going to say we have another question about virtual availability. We do sometimes talk to family members, especially on the phone. Certainly if we're caring for patients in the ICU and maybe they're not able to talk with us in that moment, we might reach out to family to assess if there are any spiritual needs or ways we can support them. But generally speaking, the spiritual care we're providing day to day is in person with our patients or with staff or loved ones. We have another question. Yeah, yeah, it's a good one. Question from a nurse. How do we respond to patients who have fear and anxiety about medical procedures and that's a barrier to care? That would be a great time to consult a chaplain. And the truth is, everything is unique. The work we do is not cookie cutter. I was saying to Catherine before this, this is why I don't think we're easily replaced by chat GPT. Because, I mean, the honest answer is patient is fear and anxiety. I would listen. And we have a pretty robust training to listening well and listening for what's behind what people are saying, what the fear is really about, what it's touching on, and giving people a space to express it, to have it validated and normalized. And to be having as least of an agenda as possible. So maybe the way it shakes out is the fear and anxiety is so intense that it might actually be more important not to go ahead with this procedure, even if it's needed for some medical indication. That needs to be possible as a way for things to shake out, to even be genuine in hearing someone out, I think. And maybe eventually we get to the root of things, and it's not even really about this procedure. Or maybe it is. And maybe there's some way we can support, maybe we can do something creative together. Maybe just getting to speak about it is in stuff. Sometimes we are kind of liaisons, you know, conveyors of information or advocates between patients and care teams. So there's no one way to answer that question because it's so unique to the individual. But I do think that there could often be a role for a chaplain in a case like that. And I agree. I agree wholeheartedly. The other thing that just makes me think of, yes, of course Teresa, it was a great answer, Alex. It's just, you know, we know that often when our patients are going through things that are scary or sad or syrup grief, anxiety, fear as you're talking about, they can also, they can often bring up those experiences from things that we've gone through in the past. That might not even be happening in the present, but the emotion, the energy is still there. And so as Alex said, just taking the time to explore that and tend to that a little bit can help get to the heart of what's going on. Yeah. Any other questions? Well, thank you everyone for joining us. Thank you, Amy, for having us. It was a pleasure to be with you guys today. Thank you so much for your time, Catherine and Alex. And for everyone joining us, thank you so much for joining us. Hopefully you found today's session helpful. As I had mentioned, today's session is being recorded. If you're interested in being in the recording, it'll be made available on the Blum Center website at massgeneral.org.com. I also included that link in the chat. Thank you, Amy. And thank you to the Blum Center. That really does a lot of great programming so people can understand this complicated medical system. Thank you so much. Take care. Bye, everyone.