 s the Maxwell and Eleanor Blum Patient Family Learning Center at Mass General. Today's session is part of our Blum Center Well-Being Series, our Spring Edition. Before we get started, I just want to give a few items with you all. Please note that today's session is being recorded for educational purposes. If you're interested in viewing the recording, it will be made available on the Blum Center website at massgeneral.org forward slash Blum hyphen center. Please note that you're on listen only mode. Everyone has music and hear our guest speaker. If you have any thoughts, comments, or questions you'd like to share, you may do so in the chat which is located at the bottom of your screen. We'll have time for them throughout the session. Only Blum Center staff and our guest speaker will see your comments and questions. Please do not share any personal medical information or questions in the chat. If you have a personal medical question, please ask your doctor. Lastly, at the end of today's session, you'll be directed to a brief survey which we'd like to actually help us complete. Your feedback is important to us as we plan future programs. All right, so joining us today we have Carmen Alvarez. Carmen is a certified positivity and relaxation response training facilitator by the Benson Henry Institute for Mind Body Medicine. She is also a certified workforce mindfulness facilitator by the Mindful Leader and a certified Sky Wellness Coach by the International Association for Human Values. Carmen is also a certified Reiki master and has served as a Reiki therapist at Mass General Hospital and Brigham Women's Hospital in Boston, Mass since 2018. Carmen serves as the Director of Physician and Patient Engagement at Mass General Brigham International Patient Services with attention to Latin American markets and she is a member of the Workforce Well-Being Collaborative Board at Mass General Hospital. She joins us today to lead a session on Reset and Renew and Mindful Transition into Spring. So please join me in welcoming Carmen. Thank you, Amy, for the lovely introduction and I'm so happy to be here with all of you to officially welcome Spring. It is past March 21st. Today marks a very significant transition in the year, so I'm so happy to to share all of that with you and Amy and I both in honor of this wore pink. So we're both wearing our little pink attire today to celebrate spring and I'm so happy that also the weather is collaborating and it's nice out here in Boston. So everything is working out just perfectly. So this is part of our monthly series and some of you are repeat visitors here and I am so happy to could say see you in parentheses. We cannot see you for privacy, but I feel that some of you are our regulars and so welcome and if you're new, welcome to this series. These take place at noon most of the time so it is a way for us to share our lunchtime together. Sometimes we do hold these on campus in the evening so if you're ever on campus after work, you know between five and six and you like to stop in for a session, we would be so happy to see you there. So we've made it to March. Unbelievably enough, finally we are in spring mode. So welcome to this session. So what we will be doing together today is we will explore some aspects of spring as a natural new beginning and we'll see historically why that is that we have that connotation. We will understand a chronic stress and the effects on the nervous system and that all is very relevant given things that are going on today and our day to day stress. We will also learn simple breath and awareness practices that can restore calm. And finally, we will also be setting intentions for the spring together. So I hope this sounds lovely. And so why don't we get going. So first, I'd like to ask you, what do you think of when you think about spring? What comes to mind? Oh, first, hold on. I wanted to do a centering moment first before we get into that. So let's take a moment to fully arrive here together while we enjoy this lovely photo. So let's take a breath. Maybe we were rushing from other meetings or coming to wherever from wherever you were. So why don't we just take a moment to settle. So if you can and it feels supportive to you and safe, you can close your eyes for this. If not, you can just look at the lovely picture. Let's take a moment to see you. Let's take a moment to see you. Let's take a deep breath in to fully arrive and feel your feet supported where you are. Notice your breath simply as it is and observe it. And let your body soften like perhaps your shoulders are up to here. Let's intentionally allow your arms and your shoulders to relax and arrive simply as you are now. let's take a closing breath and with a big smile you can open your eyes welcome back now when you think of spring what does that make you feel like and what do you think about it so I'd like to make a little poll and I think Amy I think is this the one that you bring up I would love to get your participation since we are in virtual mode for this one it is so important that we get your comments in the chat or that you participate in the polls with us so that it really feels like an interactive session since I cannot see your lovely faces so you should have a poll on your screen right now how do you feel about spring I'm very curious this could vary but in general maybe it's just a new season you know we are in New England we go through different seasons some people see it as a time to clean the house and some people just see it as a wardrobe change which is always lovely perhaps you're just happy to have warmer weather and perhaps you look at it as a true new beginning a chance to renew and reset love to see where we are here in that spectrum just take a moment to reflect and just pick whatever you feel is the strongest pull for you now all right I think we can take a look to see thank you for your responses of course it does not surprise any of us here that being from Boston we are in New England most of us I think the winning the most votes went to finally warmer weather of course we're so happy to have the warmer weather some people did say time to clean up and and a smaller number of you said that it was a new beginning so I'm so glad that we're here for this session because hopefully by the end of today you'll see March in this time of the year as a truly new beginning to the year or as the start of the year depending on where you are in that belief system so let's see it's a chance it's like it's a nice chance to reset so let's look at spring as a new year I have to share this with you and hopefully you find it as interesting as I do so spring is historically and ecologically considered the true new year so it is the marking of a time of rebirth renewal of course it's also the start of the agricultural cycle in many cultures in what is called the vermal equinox so it's typically March 20 to 20 21st marks the spring new year for us in this hemisphere brings the balanced light and the warmth of course that everyone here loves but it's also celebrated in festivals all around the world as the new year I don't know if you knew that so what are the access of the spring that are new year traditions historically the timing so even going back thousands of years millennia ancient Romans originally began their calendar in March did you know that it was not until after that we adapted a calendar that houses look at January as the beginning of the year for millennia the new year was marked in March to coincide with what we see in nature which is when nature renews itself so cultural celebrations followed suit in that as well so many cultures still aligned with the new year with the spring equinox right so it's celebrated all around the world in Chinese New Year as you know is often affiliated with this you know it's the spring festival and it's after after January February is early March. also symbolism is a symbolism of renewal because spring represents nature's revival influencing traditions and um and things like cleaning the house the removal of the old and welcoming the new so this is where all that comes in and so truly when we look at spring um I'd like for you to think about it as this is the beginning of the year it's the beginning of a lot of things in nature um and so let that sink in and uh if I invite you to um maybe adapt it as a sentiment of renewal as well um and we are in very complex times um right now there's a lot going on in the world so a lot of anticipation there's a lot of overwhelm um we have social pressures we there's family dynamics and they are right now um mix of emotions going around as we know so I am hoping that through our session here today and through these practices that you will arrive at some calm and also that together we can set intentions for the spring that feel more like a breath a deep breath a reset a renewal if you're feeling tired by everything that's going on around us this is a good time for us to reset and renew and mindfulness helps us meet this experiences with compassion which is what we always always um drive here through this series okay so grounding moment so let's take a grounding moment so let's take a grounding moment here once again if you just arrived welcome in let's take a slow breath in through the nose and a gentle exhale through the mouth feel the chair supporting you and let your mind to let your mind to let your mind to let your mind arrive we just covered some perhaps new information about the spring in a different perspective about the spring as a new time of the year as the beginning of the year or maybe as a as an opportunity to reset and renew considering everything that's going on in the world and considering that at least for us right now we are well into the new year right in 2026 this march perhaps so you had intentions that you set in december going into january for for 2026 and i don't want to ask you how those are going but regardless of how it is going i'd like to invite you to to reset and renew as we move forward it is a chance to start new there's a lot of stress that comes with the external factors that are surrounding us right now and also maybe stress related to your day-to-day life stress is defined in this way at least in mindfulness this is the mind's vacillation or movement between past and future typically the past is associated with nostalgia right or regret or sadness perhaps and the future is related with um anticipation anxiety and worry i would think that there is a lot of a combination of these things going on right now and that is causing us stress whether you acknowledge it as stress or not it is creating a lot of stress and your body reacts to this right we learn about the relationship between the mind and the body in these series we talked about it quite a bit last month and and it's in uh in january as well notice where your mind is right now what emotions are coming up for you as we discuss stress and what's going on where is your mind did you ever notice that some of your stress could be um past something that happened perhaps something happened even this morning or yesterday or last month and you're still thinking thinking about it something that happened that has hurt you or that was a regret or that is sadness these things have a way of popping back in all the time regardless it's interesting how it happens we'll talk about the nervous system but it could also be future in anxiety regardless of that just acknowledge how you feel right now in the chat i would love for you to take tell me how your breathing is were you holding your breath how's your breath um nowadays when you think about stress and what's causing you distress is it deep are you holding your breath is it shallow if you were observing that during the grounding moment i'd love for you to share how you notice your breath is at this moment just to be mindful and observant i wanted to share with you something more about stress so many many real reflection notice where stress lives in your body this can differ for all of us some of us as you know hold stress in the jaw some of us hold it in our shoulders um some of us in our chest um it could also be stomach issues right how many people have um tummy issues that are related to stress and sometimes it's even unconscious so awareness awareness is the first is the beginning of that release that's why i'm always bringing us to awareness through these sessions it is so important to be aware we can do a quick body scan together if you like right now so taking a deep breath in just sitting here just be quiet and comfortable play where you are you can close your eyes if that feels comfortable to you bring your attention or your focus to from the head to the toes i like to start with the toes so take a look close your eyes bringing the attention to your toes your feet a state leg on the ground your legs scanning very lightly to see anything where is the stress just bring that attention to that body part you don't have to do anything else and even if your mind wanders just go back to your body what's going on in my body right now how is my stomach how is my shoulder my shoulders how is my chest what's going on with my jaw what about your eyes what about the head sometimes there's tension there just take a breath and do that and note anything interesting about where stress might be living in the body sometimes and studies do show this now that simply bringing attention to where the stress or the tension is in the body allows it allows it to release or to ease at least once it gets noticed and it knows that it has your attention and releases a lot of the time these things you know a little ache here and there it's just your body bringing your attention to something that needs attention right pay attention to me so in the chat i'd like for you to participate a little if you love i love seeing your responses when you feel stressed where do you tend to notice it first and you may have noticed this through the body scan or you may already know this about yourself so if you like um i'd love to read your comments when you feel stressed where do you tend to notice it first i i hold my breath myself personally and then i get a headache so um oh your back um and someone else says definitely my shoulders someone else's shoulders a lot of us hold tension in the shoulders absolutely and i'm surprised i haven't seen um too many uh headaches a lot of us hold it on our uh tension in the the head as well thank you for for sharing that and continue to write in anything that comes to mind but the back and the shoulders for sure but again a little trick that has been backed by science if you take a moment to scan the body in silence whether you close your eyes or not bring attention to your breath breathe in slowly bring that calm and in your mind slowly scan your body bring your attention to those areas where you know you have tension and do that for five minutes of three breaths it will begin to release it is your body saying to you thank you for paying attention to me thank you for listening so let's do that together that's a great trick so now that we've done that and we've brought that attention to the body i'd like to discuss going from reacting to choosing right right now we simply brought awareness to where tension lives and we haven't explored any reason why um now i'd like to be a little bit more mindful about it understanding the nervous system so the nervous system has existed from the beginning of of our existence right many years ago um the nervous system is what would uh keep us on high alert and keep us safe and our brain is designed to keep us safe so many years ago when we lived out exposed in nature and we could have you know a tiger or a lion come and eat us up at any moment our brain was designed to be on alert for that and keep us safe and then we can eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat and eat as if you are in danger, and which then causes your body to react as if it needs to protect you and keep you safe. Okay, so a regulated nervous system, you experience, you know, you feel grounded, you feel present, and you feel connected. When your nervous system is in hyperarousal, meaning I need to be out and alert, something may be happening, that's when you feel anxiety, tension, or overwhelmed. It is a perception of danger. And now danger here can come in many different ways. You know, danger doesn't have to mean now that we are going to be eaten by a lion, thankfully, right? But danger could mean I missed my deadline, or I won't be able to finish what I needed to finish, or I won't be able to, right? Nowadays, these are the kind of dangers that we face. And so that's what your brain is perceiving as danger. And that's what causes your brain to be in hyperarousal, your nervous system is dysregulated. It could also go the other way, it could put you in haupo arousal, which creates numbness, and it creates this feeling of complete shutdown. And that's when you feel exhausted and burnt out. So let's study this a little bit more. So understanding the window of tolerance, there is, you know, this window of tolerance between being on hyper, where you are on high, high alert, and then the other way, when you are completely burnt out, and you can't even move. We don't want to be on either one or the other, we want to figure out for each of us where our window of tolerance exists. So being able to modify that response when we want to give you that sense of choice that I mentioned before. And the reason why I'm discussing this is because I want to eventually, during this talk, I'll get us to setting intentions. And we don't want to set intention from a place of hyperactivity or, you know, high alertness. I want us to get to the point where we are in a regulated window of tolerance so that we can set intentions that fully support and are aligned with who we are and who we want to be. Does that make sense? So the window of tolerance is a concept coined by Dr. Dan Sivo to describe the optimum zone of arousal for a person to effectively manage and cope with their emotions. Now, it's important here to note, again, is that that could be different for each of us. We all have different triggers and triggers, what triggers your nervous system is very specific to each of us. And it's because throughout our childhood, what we perceived as danger, whether it was missing the bus, or your parents got divorced, or you lost a loved one, or your dog died, or like what represented danger and sadness or loss of safety to you growing up, those then become what your brain perceives as triggers. So as you grow and evolve, your brain may still be out in the lookout for these quote unquote triggers now that it perceives as not safe for you. And so that can be different for each of us based on your own individual life journey and experiences. If you have any questions or comments about any of this, please write it in the chat. I'd love to know how you feel about that. So understanding all of this now with that awareness and knowing that we can bring in tools to allow us to regulate our nervous system or at least our reaction. If you understand your window of tolerance, what you're able to do is modify the response to these triggers that your brain perceives as danger. So here's a little bit more. I wish this picture was a little bit more clear. But we can go through the bullet points. So in hyper arousal, for example, what happens when you're in hyper? You have raising thoughts. Have you ever been there? I mean, please raise your hands, right? If you have raising thoughts that do not stop, you may feel like you are in a bad mood or you are way your sense of hyper activity, you know, in other responses. So everyone recognizes this. I think most of us live there. Now, in the hyper arousal, you have low energy, like I said, you lack motivation. And you withdraw from wanting to be with people or be in activities. It also means avoidance, right? Where you are unable to tackle your tasks or have that conversation or any of those things. avoidance of any kind means that your nervous system has been triggered and your response, because it perceives danger, is to avoid, is to not have that conversation, is to not... Does that make sense? Okay. Now, in the window of tolerance, again, we feel grounded. I'm not saying that the perception of pain or perception of fear or danger goes away. It just means that you bring awareness to it at least enough to find a way to be more present, right? To find a way to ground so that you can be more flexible. And that gives you choice, which is where we want to get to. So here's some real time self regulation tools and how to regulate. So for example, if you feel angry, you could share how you feel with a friend. You can shake it off. You can yell to allow, you know, that response to disparse. Maybe. If you're anxious, you can take a really, a nice walk, which I do all the time. It's really wonderful, especially in this time of year. You can bring attention to your breath, as we often do to ground. And you turn off the alarm system, if you will, when you bring the attention to your breath, it automatically puts you in the present moment, which in part sends a signal to the brain to say, she must be okay, because she's bringing attention to her breath and she's breathing in a way that does not signal that she's about to get eaten by a lion. She's breathing somewhat normal. So everything must be okay. And then all of that response gets shut off. So that's what the breath does for us, breathing in the present moment does. If you have those recurring thoughts that you're unable to stop, just do some light movement. You know, the walking again can really help with this, or you can stretch or you can call a friend, anything to interrupt it. So, you know, if you like something that you like to do for fun, just do that. And you know, anything that will allow you to stop it in the moment. Now, when you're comfortable, which is that this is a good way, you know, good, good place to be when your nervous system is regulated and you feel comfortable. Regulate a friend or a child, you know, share their wealth with others. So if you feel comfortable, call a friend, share that compassion with other people, bring more awareness and more empathy to everyone around us. You can also, once you're present and feel comfortable, you can do yoga, you can create art, which is so wonderful. You can sing, you can cook. All of these things will immediately bring about a sense of happiness and groundedness. The other way you can regulate your breath is like we said, regulate your nervous system, as we said, with the breath. So you can take the three slow breaths to reset. Orienting, simply take a look around you and start naming what you see and looking for wonderful things. I see flowers, I hear the birds outside, anything that brings you to the present moment. You can also do the sensory grounding, as we did earlier. You can bring a hand to the heart. We're going to be doing that later. You can name the emotion. You can simply say, I feel anxious or I feel whatever it is you feel. I feel sad. We need to name these things. And also set boundaries. Set those micro boundaries that are important to each of us and safeguard your nervous system in that way. Okay, so now that we've covered that as a foundation, I'd like to ask you, what is a reset? I'd love to get your thoughts in the chat. Any definition? Who wants to share? What is a reset for you from your perspective? Okay, so according to the dictionary, our reset is to set, adjust or fix a new or different way. Okay. Hmm. To start fresh, Lisa says, start fresh, new beginnings. Yes, I mean, that is definitely in the context of today's talk, how we are thinking about reset for sure. In general, it just means to either set or adjust or fix a new or different way, a perception or a way of thinking, or it could be an action, of course. But that is why we are here today. We are setting or resetting intentions for the spring. Thank you. So a grounding question for all of us is what do I want to bring into this new season? And that is to be a quality, not a task. So don't say only I'm going to clean the house, buy myself a new wardrobe. I'd like for you to take a moment to think as we go into this new season, especially now that perhaps we are all thinking of it as a new beginning, a new opportunity to start fresh. What do I want to bring into this new season of my life? In general. Take a deep breath and think about it. We have a new opportunity. Maybe you got a little derailed since January. This is a new beginning. More positive thoughts. Yeah. Letting go of negative ones. Good. That is a beautiful, beautiful intention to bring. Someone else says that they want to bring more understanding for those who may not think like I do. Good. So understanding and more empathy. We all arrive at where we are because of our life's journey. Whatever you have gone through that makes you feel or think about something in a certain way is not the same life experience for someone else. Right? Right? Maybe you choked eating an apple when you were little and now you think apple is bad. Well, maybe someone else thinks apple is delicious. Right? So, yeah. So I like that intention of bringing more understanding for those who may not think like I do, of course. Beautiful. Thank you so much for sharing that. So what does this do when we reflect about it in this way from a quality perspective, not a task? It allows us to recenter our agency. It creates inner clarity for ourselves. Right? Perhaps you didn't walk into the talk thinking about setting intentions in the spring that have anything to do with positive thoughts or understanding for others. But maybe you are here now. That's how you're thinking about it. And I celebrate that. It supports intentionality. It gives you agency to set intentions. Intentionality. Intentionality, by the way, doesn't mean perfection. You're allowed to be human and to mess up every day. That's okay. We all do it. But having the intention. At least being, having the awareness to observe and reset, redirect. Right? That's intention. Be, have the intention. And, of course, it expands as well. Your perception of safety, your psychological space. It gives you agency. And it gives you more of a choice. That's why that question is so powerful. The way that I'm asking is because we are shifting from reacting to your life. Things are happening outside. Not looking so good. Maybe work. Maybe, you know, my health. Whatever it is that is happening for you right now, it is taking you away from reacting to choosing. It's allowing you to cultivate emotional regulation. At least awareness. Awareness is regulation also. You make space. Allow space for mixed emotion. Again, it's not about perfection. You can feel sadness and happiness at the same time. Not at the same time. But they can coexist. You can be happy about something positive that happened at work today. And at the same time, still hold grief for a loved one you lost. You know what I mean? It's not about, none of this is perfection. Regulation is not perfection. Regulation is allowing, allowing yourself to have that range of emotions. To bring observation. To bring awareness. To bring awareness. And to bring intentionality to how you choose and how you adjust. This also allows you to anchor in self-leadership. The more you choose, yeah, this could be micro. Tiny, tiny things that you choose along the way. Build your self-leadership and confidence. Thank you so much for sharing in the comments. So setting compassionate intentions. How do I want to feel? Let's think about the emotions. What supports who I'm becoming? Again, because this isn't about being perfect, you're not a finished product and there is no expiration on you. There isn't a set time for when you have to be X, Y, and Z. You are perpetually evolving as humans. You are perpetually becoming. So what supports who I am becoming? This makes room for us to say, I set intentions in January. Everything happened since January. Those went out the window. That's okay. That's okay. We are here today. You're restarting and you're still becoming. And maybe you are doing really well with those intentions that you set. And so you want to nurture those and expand on those. So let's think about that. But everything you do as we set the intentions, we must do it with compassion. Start to think about where we are now and where we want to go. In mindfulness, you know, the idea of pause, breathe again, begin again, it's all about, that's what we're all about. We use this a lot in mindfulness. And spring is a natural point in time for us to do that because everything around us is reminding us that it is a new start. You see the birds, the flowers, everything come alive again. So it's a reminder that everything happens in cycles and that there's an opportunity to rebirth, to be born, you know, to give birth to new perceptions, new ideas, to start again. So every moment offers a fresh start. It offers awareness and compassion. And there's no pressure to be correct at any moment. Everything can begin again. Thanks, Spring, for that. Okay, so here we are. Why don't we think, take a look at some mindful transition into Spring. Here's some mindful intentions for Spring. This is a checklist that I put here for you. You can have your own, but if you'd like to write some of these down and take this on for yourself, be my guest. And if you have one that's not on this list, I would love for you to put it in the chat. Embrace new beginnings. Hopefully we are doing that today through this chat that we're having. Let go of what no longer serves you. Stay present with the changing rhythm of nature. Create space for growth, both internally and externally. Slow down to appreciate the small moments of change. Change is the only constant in life. And so accepting it and appreciating it is the best way. Practice grounding as you connect more with nature. Nurture your creativity. Maybe you do something fun in the Spring. Maybe it's time to garden. You can plant your flowers. So maybe you've been doing that already. But there's so much that we can do now. So much more, right? It's a different season. So nurture your creativity. It gives rise to inspiration. Use the extra daylight to expand your sense of possibility. Maybe the sunset is much later. And so it allows you to walk around the river until later. Maybe now you feel like going to that yoga class after work. Or maybe now you can go to that dance class that you've been wanting to go to. The sky is the limit, right? We have a lot more daylight. Listen more to your body's needs as well. It changes with every season. And again, and finally, let go of perfection. Allow things to unfold naturally. Let's see. What else? Someone said in the chat, create more space for people who I value and are meaningful to me. What a beautiful intention. Create more space. Sometimes we go through the motions of the day-to-day. And we think to ourselves, I don't have time. Right? I have this to do. I have that to do. But the reality is, is that if you prioritize something and you set that intention to make that space, you'll find it. You'll find the time. So I love how Lisa says, create the space for people I value and who are meaningful to me. Beautiful. Yes. Be intentional about these things. Beautiful. Thank you for sharing. So I'd like to do a closing practice together before we set more intentions together. Thank you so much for coming along, exploring these new concepts of spring as new beginning. Right? Exploring the history of spring as the new year. New calendar year. And expanding your perception about the nervous system and stress. Expanding your perception of compassion and how we set intentions for ourselves. So now let's do this practice together. So that you can maybe continue setting some private intentions for yourselves. Individual ones. I invite you to close your eyes if that feels comfortable for you. And then bring your hand to your heart. This is optional, but I really find that it makes a difference. Bring your hand over your heart. Take a deep breath in through your nose. Expand the belly as you breathe in, by the way. Deep breath in, belly expands. Exhale through the mouth. And do this slowly. Now bring attention to that hand over your heart. Feel the warmth. Maybe the weight of the hand on you. And notice. Notice what that reminds you of. Does it feel nurturing? Does it feel loving? To have that hand over your heart? Does it feel supportive? It may sound interesting. It's your own hand over your own heart. But your heart reacts as if you're getting a hug. So hug yourself. Feel that love and support. Let's take a slow inhale. In a longer exhale. Oh, God. that everything begins again. Gratitude for the knowing that is not about perfection. But instead, it's about presence. It's about awareness. It's about empathy for yourself and others. And gratitude because it is a gift to begin again and again and again. Take a deep breath in and exhale. There's so much gratitude towards yourself now for being here, for taking this little break and for setting beautiful intentions for this new year, for this new part of the year, this new season. And now think about the intentions that you want to set for yourself and others. From your heart, what is your intention for yourself? The rest of the year, we have a new beginning. Take a deep breath in on that and exhale with a smile on your face. And then what intentions do we want to set for others as well? As some of you are already saying in the chat, intentions for others. Take a deep breath in on that. And exhale as you set that intention in your heart. Good. As you close now, take a look at the beautiful intentions you've set for yourself. Give yourself a hug. Give yourself thanks for this new beginning. We'll take our last breath together. Inhale through the nose. Exhale. And with a big smile on your face, when you're ready, you can begin to open your eyes again. Welcome back. Welcome to spring. Welcome to the rest of the year. Welcome to your new intentions. Welcome to the rest of the year. Welcome to the rest of the year. I'm going to give each of you a minute. And if you feel called to share with us, I would love to hear in one word or a phrase. Tell me what captures your intention for the new season. Maybe you chose resilience or growth, patience. Learning. Learning. Softening. Love. Joy. You can scan this QR code with your phone. If you'd like to participate in this, that would be really fun. What you do is you scan the QR code and it will take you to this link that I put down in the slide. And you can put it in there. And what it does is that it will create a cloud of words later that we can share with all of you. So hopefully we'll have some to share. That will be fun. Carmen, would you like me to pull up the screen right now as people enter them in? Sure. Okay. One more. Let me give this a try. Yeah. So we'll take a look at it and see if you see responses to make sure that it's great in the cloud. But I want all of you guys to and enter as many as you want. You use your phone to bring up that QR code and then enter it in there. And we can see. And then others, or maybe Amy can enter in as well. Someone is saying acceptance. Wow. That's a big one. And then creativity. Yes. More creativity. Acceptance is a big one. Acceptance, creativity. What else? Creating space for others, right? More understanding and hurt. More empathy. Oh, lovely. I can see here. Oh, it's changing. Okay, let's see. I see more gratitude. Faith. Compassion. Creativity. Wonderful. Wonderful. Wonderful. Thank you so much for sharing. Thank you so much for being here. I think we're running out of time. So I'm going to share my screen and share with you what's coming up next if you'd like to join us next month. So quickly here. I think we're here now. Yes. So let's choose. The closing message is choose presence over perfection, compassion over pressure, and intention over resolution. And so what's coming up next is in April. We are going to discuss meaning, purpose, and the science of fulfillment. What does it mean to live a purposeful life? What is my purpose? And what brings meaning to my life? And how do I get there? There's a lot of studies on this, you know, fulfillment, fulfillment, enjoyment, and we've explored some of that here. This will be more about meaning and purpose. So join us next month as we explore that very topic. It's going to be Wednesday, April 22nd, in the evening. So it's to make sure that we, that some of you can join us in the evening as well. I always want to share that there are a lot of resources provided here to our community by the EAP. Thank you. And the MGH overall. Please connect with me. You can send me an email. Or you can DM me on Instagram if you like. Or you can send me an email as well. Thank you again for being here and setting those lovely intentions. And happy spring. Thank you, Carmen. And thank you so much, everyone, for joining us today. I also entered in the chat the save date for our next session as well as our Blum Center link. That will take you to the Blum Center website where you can view the schedule of upcoming events, including this one, as well as the Zoom link to attend it. On that website also has a section where you can watch past webinars. So as I mentioned, today's session is being recorded. Give it about a few weeks and it should be available through there. Thank you so much, everyone. Hope to see you next month. Take care. Take care. Bye. Bye. Bye.