 tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri tri dot org forward slash Blum hyphen center. Please note that you're in listen only mode. Everyone has music here at guest speaker today. If you have any questions for our guest speaker, you may use the chat feature, which is located at the bottom of your screen. We'll have time for them in the end. Only Blum Center staff and our guest speaker will see your questions. Please do not share any personal medical information or questions in the chat. If you have a personal medical question, please ask your doctor. Lastly, at the end of today's session, you'll be directed to a brief survey, which you'd like to ask your help us complete. Your feedback is important to us as we plan future programs. All right, so joining us today, we have Amelia Henning. Amelia is a staff midwife and the director of breastfeeding and lactation at Massachusetts General Hospital. She completed her midwifery education at the University of Pennsylvania and a fellowship in breastfeeding and lactation medicine at the University of Rochester. Amelia is responsible for all OB provider and outpatient staff breastfeeding education at Mass General. She also staffs an innovative mobile postpartum clinic aimed at reducing disparities in maternal health outcomes. Her special interests include supporting physiologic care of the Dyad, lactation education for healthcare providers, and fourth trimester care. She's here today to give a talk on creating a supportive environment for breastfeeding families. So please join me in welcoming Amelia. Thank you so much, Amy. I'm happy to be here. Breastfeeding is probably my favorite topic, other than my family, possibly. And I really love the opportunity to help the people who love someone figure out how they can best support that person with their breastfeeding and lactation experience. A couple of quick things. I don't have any financial disclosures. I always like to acknowledge that our own personal experiences influence how we experience things with other people. And with breastfeeding and lactation, it's one of those topics where that often happens. And so sometimes just figuring out, oh yeah, that happened to me and that's coloring how I am going through this with someone else or what I might tell them can be helpful. And all the photos that are here are used with permission. And I think the people who allowed us to take their pictures and to use them for teaching purposes. And then just quickly, a word about language. When we talk about breastfeeding and lactation, it is difficult to not use terms that are gendered. And I do throughout this lecture, I most commonly use breast and breastfeeding. Sometimes I'll say lactation. They're pretty interchangeable. All the concepts are applicable to any person who's lactating, regardless of what their gender identity is. And in best practice in real life interactions, it's best to use the individual's preferred terminology. So I'm going to start with a question. Before I ask this question, I'd like to know a little bit more about who's listening today. So if you are open to it, in the chat, if you would just write in what your role is. Are you currently pregnant? Are you breastfeeding? Are you expecting to be a grandparent? Are you a partner? Are you a friend, cousin, doula? What kind of person are you coming to this lecture? Let's just give you a minute. Somebody I work with has done amazing little tricks with Zoom. And one of them is what we call a Zoom waterfall. So maybe we can get a waterfall of people putting their responses in. All right. We've got one who's pregnant. One who's clinical research staff. Great. Supporting patients. All right. If you feel like it, put in some more of who you are. The next question is, does it really matter how we feed our infants? We certainly know there's a lot of discussion about it. People tend to have strong opinions and emotions that go along with those opinions. And you might hear a lot of different things and quite varying opinions about whether or not it's important. There was recently a guest editorial or opinion column in the New York Times entitled, Formula is the answer to marital equality or something like that. I strongly disagree. And I think you're going to know, let you know that, yes, it really does matter how we feed our infants. There is a big difference in both health outcomes and other outcomes when an infant is fed with breast milk or human milk versus when they're fed formula. How many of you know that breastfeeding has an effect on the health of the baby as well as on the parent? It's tough because I can't see show of hands here. So it's a hypothetical question, but you can think about it. Breastfeeding is the most amazing process in the way that it affects the two people. We call the parent and the baby a dyad. And there's not really any other situation outside of pregnancy and the breastfeeding period where that's true, where we have these two interdependent beings. And breastfeeding does things for the parent and it does things for the baby. Breast milk protects infants from infectious diseases. While they're young and they're breastfeeding, it is the most optimal nutrition. It changes throughout the stages of breastfeeding and lactation to meet the needs of the baby at that time. If a baby is born preterm, their parents' milk will look different than it does when the baby is full term. And it'll look different at four weeks postpartum than it does at four months postpartum. There are specific things in breast milk that contribute to healthy brain development. We know that it actually makes a difference in survival rates of infants. The other cool thing about breast milk and breastfeeding is that it doesn't only have effects when you're doing it. It has effects for years and for some issues, lifelong effects. So the children who are breastfed for at least four to six months, particularly if they're exclusively breastfed, but we're seeing more and more that it doesn't have to be exclusive breastfeeding to have these effects. Those children have lower lifetime risks of things like obesity, asthma, and heart disease. Those are three of the major chronic health conditions that affect children. And then for the parent, we also see that it has lower rates of breast and ovarian cancers and has an impact on their metabolic and cardiac health. So lower risks of diabetes and heart disease later on in life, just because they breastfed for six months. It's the coolest thing. So how does human milk and formula compare? They both will provide nutrition for the infant and babies can grow very well on formula. What they have in them is quite different. Human milk is a living substance. It has a base of carbohydrates, and those are mostly technical terms, lactose and oligosaccharides. It has specific fats that are particularly good for the brain development and neurologic system. Vitamins, micronutrients, different kinds of proteins. The big thing that it has, one of the big things that it has that formula does not have are those live antibodies from the mom that help to develop the baby's immune system. We're learning more and more about how the gut is connected to our immune system, and with that connection, we're finding out more about how these specific substances in human milk affect the infant's gut and how that changes their immune system. Like I was saying before, both while they're breastfeeding and for many years afterwards. Really, human milk is a designer food. It's the first personalized medicine. It's tailored nutrition. Formula is generally, most of it is whey-based, or there are different types of formulas that can be broken down a little bit, maybe more casein-based. It might be partially hydrolyzed if the baby has an allergy, or a soy protein isolate. Goat's milk formula base is very popular right now. Most of that comes out of Europe, and it's thought to perhaps be a bit better for the digestive system. You can see there's a variety of carbohydrates, but most of formula in the U.S. is based on corn syrup solids, as well as rice starch. And the fats come from different types of oils, palm, coconut, soy, seed oils. And then there's a lot of marketing that goes into formula. And, you know, they may try and put things like pre- and pro- probiotics, you know, various things to enhance the formula. We don't know that those actually have a positive impact on the development of the baby. And so it's really important to choose a formula based on what your baby needs, you know, mostly around, is it a clean formula? And if your baby has any allergies, but really don't pay too much attention to the marketing. And I need to be clear that there are times when formula is needed. We know that human milk is the most normal way of feeding our babies. It's how our bodies have evolved to feed our infants. And so because of that, it is the most specific and, like I said, tailored nutrition for the infant. But it's not always possible to give a baby breast milk or to give a baby a full diet of breast milk. And so formula may be needed. We just want to be clear about what we're talking about. I like to say breast milk is really the first superfood. I don't know of a more amazing substance. But breastfeeding is also so much more than food. It's not only about feeding your baby to give your baby nutrition. There's a lot of bonding and development that happens through having a baby who is breastfed, particularly when the feeding is happening at the breast is when we see more of those effects. And we're finding out a little bit more, too, about how some of those effects are just mostly about the interaction between the parent and the infant. And so learning about those things and then applying them for when you are bottle feeding can help to have some of those same effects. There are a lot of other things that are included in breastfeeding, too. It's not always easy. Like I alluded to before, there are a lot of different emotions attached to breastfeeding. People can have different feelings about their breasts and about how their breasts are used. Some people really love it and some people do it because they know it's the healthiest thing for their baby, but they don't really love it. And that's OK. It's not free. Sometimes people like to say that breastfeeding is free and you have to pay for formula, but it's really not free. No one's time is free and it takes a lot of time to breastfeed. It's a big investment of the laxating parent's body to breastfeed, whether they're feeding at the breast or using pumping. And it's not always easy and it doesn't always work. And that's one of the areas that your support comes in. We know that when people feel supported in how they're feeding their infant, they are more likely to succeed at meeting their own goals. And we know that about 60 percent of families in the U.S. don't meet their own goals for how they want to feed the baby. So your support really does matter and will make a difference in how breastfeeding and lactation goes. So we're going to talk about five different things that you can do that can help your loved one or friend or patient hopefully meet their own goals with breastfeeding. So starting during pregnancy is find out what support looks like for them because it's not the same for everybody. And I'm going to talk about this in a little bit more depth in the next slide. The second is learn about breastfeeding and lactation. So you're doing that already by coming here this evening. And I will also share a list of reputable sources online to use to help you learn more about breastfeeding and lactation. And then the third thing is do some research to find out, OK, wherever my loved one is, what are the supports in their area for breastfeeding? And get it all ready for them. Do some of that work for them. And then if it's possible for you, give them the gift of I did the research and these are the places you can go. And if you can give them the gift of here's a gift certificate for this lactation consultant to come to your house and work with you in the first couple of weeks after you have your baby. The support in those first few days and first weeks of delivery are critical for how breastfeeding goes. And so much of the time having someone come to the house is going to be easier than going out. And if you've already supported them and said, here, this is my gift to you, they will be very grateful. So I talked about find out what support looks like to them. There are some great resources online. One organization I really like is called the Fourth Trimester Project. Their website is newmomhealth.org. I'll put that in the chat. And they have some really nice tools for helping to plan for making support in the postpartum period work for you. So I'm going to focus on that. They have a lot of other resources about all kinds of different things that people encounter in the postpartum period, including breastfeeding. It's very reliable, good information. So this is one of those great sources to use. I also appreciate that they have their website available in Spanish. And that can be a very useful resource as well. But when I talk about find out what support looks like to them, you know, it means getting to know your loved one with, you know, what works for you. Because it doesn't look the same for everyone. You know, do you want visitors or do you really want to say, you know what, I need you to be the gatekeeper and, you know, just be there to do these things and don't have a bunch of people come in the house until I'm ready. You know, does it mean I want you to, you know, come over every day or really I want to be left more alone. Do I want you to talk to me or just share things with me? What are the things that I need to be able to be well in the postpartum period? And one of the things I like about this site is that it talks about all the different things that you have to think about in the postpartum period. I think in general, we don't do a great job in this country of supporting new families. And this is a great way to help support the new family. You know, what do you need and how can I help you get what you need? Number two, food. And mama is going to be making milk for her baby. And she and her partner both need to be fed. And I always think you need at least three adults to take care of a baby. And one of them needs to be taking care of food. You know, lots of different ways to do this. You know, if you're a cook and they have space in a freezer, make meals ahead of time and freeze them. You know, bring them over. You can give them, you know, gift certificates to food delivery. You can drop food off on the front steps. You know, hey, I left a casserole on the front steps with instruction for how to use it. But don't go on the house and say, oh, I want to do this. I want to visit. You know, as much as we tell people you need to rest in the postpartum period, if they have too many visitors, they're going to feel like they have to act like they have it all together. And that's very stressful and doesn't help to support people in the postpartum period. A person who is breastfeeding or lactating does need more calories than even when they're pregnant. You need about 500 calories more when you're pregnant than you do when you're breastfeeding. Sorry, switch that around. You need about 500 calories more when you're breastfeeding than you do when you're pregnant. Hydration is important. I never want people to feel like they have to, you know, sort of drown themselves trying to drink so much to make enough milk. You do not need to drink milk to make milk. But you do need to stay hydrated. And people will find that they're more thirsty during the especially in the early postpartum period. And I really encourage people to drink to thirst. One of the ways that you can help to make this easy for your breastfeeding person is to kind of help them set up like a station. You know, maybe there's one upstairs and one downstairs. If there's, you know, if they live in a larger place, smaller of an apartment, you know, maybe it's like, okay, I got a basket by the bed and, you know, another station in the living room. And you might have a basket with some non-perishable snacks in it, a couple of water bottles, a place to put your phone and your breastfeeding pillow. Whatever they need to be comfortable. And just make it really easy. Snacks should be, you know, nutritious, high calorie and high protein whenever possible. But also should be things that they like. And hydration of any kind. You know, whatever they like to drink is fine. It, you know, lots of water is always ideal. But, you know, if they're not big on water, other clear liquids that are low in sugar are great options as well. Number three is sleep. Sleep is such a big issue in the postpartum period. Anybody who's had a baby or helped to take care of a baby knows that sleeping like a baby means really short sleep cycles. Babies sleep, you know, it's just how they're wired. They sleep for short periods of time. Their stomachs are tiny in the beginning and they need to feed frequently. Babies need to eat generally every two-ish to three-ish hours. Sometimes it might even be more frequently than that. But in general, it averages out to eight to 12 times every 24 hours in those early weeks. And that's about how often a person needs to either breastfeed or pump in order to make an adequate amount of milk. See, the body responds to what you're telling the body through either feeding at the breast or pumping. When that milk is removed from the breast, it sends a message to the brain. Yep, you need to make more milk. And so if that's happening eight to 12 times every 24 hours, in most cases, the body will make enough milk and your baby will be fed adequately. But how to do that and actually get sleep? It can be a challenge in the early postpartum period. I encourage people to think about sleep over the course of 24 hours. It's not only going to happen at night. And helping the new parents, but especially the birthing and lactating parent to get as much rest as possible, especially in those first two weeks, will go a long way for their recovery. So they may have stretches of time overnight, you know, where they're able to get some sleep and then they're up for a while. Really encourage napping. And in order for somebody to nap, other things need to be taken care of. So remember that when we get to the next slide. Things that you can do to help somebody sleep at night. You know, so if you're a partner or you're someone who's going to be around when that baby is, you know, has arrived in those first few weeks, you'll offer to take the baby. But again, before you just take the baby, you want to have a conversation with them about what works for you, what's important to you, what are your priorities. Generally, in order to support breastfeeding, we want the baby to come to the parent and for them to breastfeed. If they're pumping, then that might look a little different. They might get up and pump and go back to bed. But either way, that means somebody else is fetching the baby, bring the baby to them, change the diaper, burp the baby, soothe them back to sleep, wash the pump parts and the bottles, get the parent to drink of water. Basically, someone else does all those other things so that the lactating parent can breastfeed or pump and then go back to sleep. That's one of the best ways that we can help to support breastfeeding. Oftentimes, you know, people kind of think like, well, isn't it easier just to give bottles overnight? And while that may seem helpful, oftentimes, if the parent's goal is to breastfeed, to give their baby their milk, then taking the baby away isn't necessarily going to help them meet their own goal. And so we want to remember that we're trying to support this new family in meeting the goals that they have and figuring out how can we best support them on that journey. I do not recommend the devices that help babies to sleep, like a very popular one right now is called the SNOO. While it seems very attractive that, you know, you can put a baby in and it shakes and it wraps the baby up and it can help them to sleep longer. What we find from the from the just simply the breastfeeding perspective is that it can actually make babies sleep too long and they're not waking to feed frequently enough. And so, of course, that then can affect the parent's milk production. And in the long term could affect the baby's growth and weight gain as well. Whether or not those things have an effect on neurodevelopment of the infants, I don't know. And it'll be very interesting if it ever gets studied. It doesn't mean they should never be used, but I generally don't recommend them. Typically, we do recommend that the baby sleep in the same room as the parents for the first four months. And that's partly because it reduces the risk of SIDS. Sometimes a parent doesn't sleep so well if they're in the same room as their baby. And so that might mean that another parent or caregiver sleeps in the same room as the baby and the birthing lactating parent actually sleeps somewhere else to get more rest and the baby is brought to them as needed. And then the last way that you can think about protecting sleep is consider, you know, offering something like a certificate for a night nurse or a night nanny. They can be really effective, particularly in situations where that protection of sleep is really important. So that's a lot of people that are very important to the parent's well-being. You know, we have many, many people who have mental health issues like depression or anxiety or other mood disorders. And we know they are significantly worsened by sleep deprivation. There may also just be other medical comorbidities, you know, other health conditions that are significantly worse if a person doesn't get adequate sleep. And so especially in those situations, someone like a night nurse or a night nanny can be very helpful. The biggest thing is that then the new family, expecting family, needs to have a conversation with that person about their expectations. And remind people that that person is working for you. They may have a ton of experience and they may have ways that they want to do things, but you are hiring them and they need to do what you need them to do. And in order to protect breastfeeding, it's really important to let that person know, you know, I don't want you to give a bottle until you check with me. Please bring the baby to me first. And, you know, I'm going to breastfeed or I want you to give a bottle of my pumped milk, but this is how much milk I want you to use. Whatever it is that will benefit the birthing and breastfeeding parent best is what they should do for them. Oh, I think we went over all of this. And then the Academy of Breastfeeding Medicine is another great resource. I'm going to put them in the chat too. They have a few patient-facing like handouts that are online. They're open, you know, open access. And one that they have is on physiologic care of the infant. And I think it's really helpful for people who are breastfeeding, you know, to read this because it presents a little bit of a different framework for how we're caring for our infants. One of the things that's encouraged is what we call baby wearing. So using like a wrap or a carrier during the daytime. And that allows the infant to be comforted by being close to the parent or whoever is carrying them. But lets your hands be free and lets you do a little bit more. There's a with physiologic infant care, which also translate to physiologic infant feeding. We rely on the baby's cues to help us know when the baby needs to eat. And those are called feeding cues. And they will help you to give your baby what your baby needs. And that will help you then to produce as much milk as you need. And generally, we call it responsive feeding, responsive parenting. And this can help to essentially to improve the baby's well-being altogether. And we'll find not all the time, but oftentimes babies are more settled and organized when their behavior cues are responded to appropriately. All right. Number four. Remember I mentioned napping? So it's typically, for I'd say for most people, it's hard to rest if you know there's a whole lot of things around your house that are not getting done. And so the fourth thing you can do to help your loved one succeed with breastfeeding is help out with the house. You know, things like just do the dishes. Don't ask if I can do the dishes. Just go do them. Either do the cleaning or hire a cleaner. You know, I'm going to gift you house cleaning for once or two months or whatever you can do. Same with laundry. Just throw a load in. Fold it. Put it on the couch. You know, put it away if you know where things go in their house. Or offer a service for laundry. Taking care of these really basic things allows the parent to do the healing, the rest, and the focus on breastfeeding that they need to do to be able to get off to a good start. Seems kind of basic. And, you know, it's not going to look the same for everyone. Maybe, you know, some people want things done a really specific way. They don't like other people touching their things. So, again, it's one of those things that you can find out as you're, like, getting to know what works for you, what is helpful to you. And having that conversation ahead of time is going to make it so much easier in the postpartum period. Now, I was going to say everybody loves to hold a baby. Most people love to hold a baby. And that can be very helpful. But sometimes the new parent just wants to be able to hold their baby. And just being mindful of what's helpful to you. Do you want me to hold the baby? Or do you need to have the baby? And you need me to bring you a meal. Again, it's that centering. What does this new family need? Under the note of taking care of the house, I want to talk about pumping a little bit. Pumping is more and more common. And even with someone who, you know, is planning to primarily feed their baby at the breast, it's likely that at some point they're going to do some pumping. And some people are going to end up doing most or all pumping, whether that's by choice or because things are not going so well with feeding at the breast. Pumping is a great tool when a baby's not feeding at the breast. For some people, it is a way to give them a little bit more like freedom, flexibility, control over the process. And it works better for them. It creates a lot of dirty dishes. Basically, one person is going to do the pumping. And obviously, that's going to be the lactating parent. They should not also do the cleanup. You can kind of think about it like a lot of people have a rule that whoever makes the meal doesn't clean up the meal, or at least that's an ideal. One person is, you know, doing the work of pumping and producing the milk. Somebody else should do all the rest of it. So again, with supporting the overnight, you know, that if that person is pumping overnight, that might mean, all right, here's your, you know, clean set of pumping supplies. It's all ready to go for you. As soon as you're done, I'll take it, label it, put it in the fridge, and wash the parts. It saves a lot of time because pumping takes a lot of time. You know, generally, it takes about 20 to 30 minutes each session. If you're exclusively pumping, you're doing that at least eight times every 24 hours. And all of those parts have to be washed thoroughly and need to be sterilized once a day. And that can be through the dishwasher, boiling them on the stove. They have kits you can use for the microwave as well. So it's a lot of time that's spent on it. So I really encourage you to have that in your framework that if they're pumping, oh, I'm going to wash your parts here. It's all ready and clean for you. You can also buy them extra sets of pumping parts so that, you know, if they've got three sets, then they don't have to wash them as frequently. And then the last one is really encouragement. And then also know when to get help. Your encouragement really does matter. You know, like I said, having the support is a significant factor in whether or not people are able to continue breastfeeding. And some of that can just be the basic, like you're doing an amazing job. You're feeding your baby. You're producing milk for your baby. Listen, your body grew this baby. And now you're continuing to grow the baby on the outside and acknowledging how much work it is and how amazing it is that they're doing that. And then also reminding them it's not always going to be like this. It's not always going to be as hard as it feels right now. I'm telling you, those first two weeks after you have a baby are really tough for most people. And you kind of lose perspective in the postpartum period. It feels like this thing that I'm doing now, it's going to be like this for the rest of my life. Some people towards the end of pregnancy feel like, oh, I'm going to be the first person to be pregnant forever. I'm never going to have this baby. So just reminding people, you know what? This is right now. You're eight days after having this baby. You know, we're working on breastfeeding. You're exhausted. We're going to figure this out. We're going to get through this together. I'm here with you. And then asking, you know, how are you doing? Like, how are you feeling really without an expectation of you had a baby, you should be happy because emotions are really labile, especially in the first week postpartum, first two weeks. But for some people longer than that and really making space for people to share how they are really doing can go a long way. And that can be in regards to breastfeeding too. You know, how are you feeling about it? You know, is it going the way you thought? Do you feel like this is what we should keep doing? Do you want to reassess? And then asking, like, how can I help right now? Like, what is it that I can do that can help you right now? If you know or you have an inkling, just do it. Don't ask. It can be so overwhelming to be asked. But if you don't know or you know that this person, they want to be able to tell me, just ask, what in this moment, what do you need? Things that don't help, and I hope you won't say, is make sure they're getting enough. I don't know if your baby's getting enough when they feed it the breast. How do you know if they're getting enough? They feed it the breast. You can't see the milk. Or, well, I did it like this. My friend said, do it like this. I don't know. My mom always said. And the big one is, wouldn't it just be easier to get formula? It's not helpful. And then the other thing is knowing when to get help. Because breastfeeding doesn't always work. And especially, you know, right now, we have more and more people getting pregnant at older ages and with other health conditions. And many of those things can also relate to breastfeeding and, you know, people can have a harder time breastfeeding.