 g.: Well, Thank you, everyone, g.: Thank you, everyone, g.: Thank you, everyone, g.: Thank you, everyone, g.: Thank you, everyone, g.: Thank you, everyone, g.: Thank you, everyone, g.: Thank you, everyone, g.: Thank you, everyone, g.: Thank you, everyone, g.: Thank you, everyone, g.: Thank you, everyone, g.: Thank you, everyone, g.: Thank you, everyone, g.: Thank you, everyone, g.: Thank you, everyone g.: Thank you, everyone g.: Thank you, everyone g.: Thank you, everyone g.: Thank you g.: Thank you g.: Thank you g.: Thank you g.: Thank you g.: Thank you g.: Thank you g.: Thank you g.: Thank you g.: Thank g.: Thank g.: Thank g.: Thank g.: Thank g.: Thank g.: Thank g.: Thank g.: Thank g.: Thank g.: Thank g.: Thank g.: Thank g.: Thank g.: Thank g.: Thank g.: Thank g.: Thank on developing Hoppington as a dementia-friendly community. As Barbara said, my presentation will last about 40 minutes, so there'll be plenty of time for questions. Please put them in the chat, and I would recommend putting your questions and your comments in the chat as they come up. Don't wait for the end because you might forget some of them. So please do that, and we'll be having more than enough time to answer all of them. When Lenore first asked me to present, we discussed what would be valuable for the attendees to hear and learn. She kind of gave me a profile of who attends these regularly scheduled webinars on different topics, and our conversation resulted in three goals. My first goal is to provide information and knowledge that you may not be aware of, and when you're involved in a program, you think everybody knows about it, and then you realize that's not true. Next, I'll share what I learned being a care partner and in my work with Dementia Friends and in my involvement with Hoppington's Dementia-Friendly Community Initiative. Finally, I'm hoping to generate some inspiration, although that's a tall order Lenore gave me to inspire people. Inspire people to drive some action and involvement. When I taught salespeople in my corporate career, I always reminded them that knowledge is good, but putting it into action and getting positive results is really the end goal. We know sometimes the biggest and hardest jump can be from knowing to doing, and we all probably know of people who are really smart but haven't really had an impact on the world or their life like the way they want it to. It's all about action. I'd rather have a person with one good idea that actually gets it implemented than somebody with 10 ideas that doesn't get anything implemented. I'll feel that I've succeeded today if I can help highlight the positive impact we all can make on the lives of people living with dementia, their families, and community. On the right side of the screen is my agenda, so I've got to tell you a little bit about my volunteer journey. I really hate talking about myself, but I think it'll give you some context for the rest of the presentation. Then I'll give you an overview of Dementia Friends, the program, what it uncovers, who goes to it, and what people get out of it. Then we'll take a segue into what is a Dementia Friend Community, and how does a Dementia Friendly Community, and how does Dementia Friends become a part of that Dementia Friendly Community and help the community become Dementia Friendly. We'll always focus on benefits and the value, and at the end, guess what? There will be a call for action from me to everyone on the call. I've been involved in community service most of my adult life, since my wife and I moved to a small town in Connecticut in 1987, seven years after we got married. First, I was a treasurer for a tri-town youth service bureau, one of the first youth service bureaus in Connecticut. In fact, we became friendly with the man who is now living with dementia, who started the youth service bureau movement program in Connecticut, and he's a real inspiring individual. I still remember my first presentation. I had to go in front of the select boards of three towns, tri-town youth service bureau, and ask for money. It was my first public presentation. I really understood why people hate public presentations. Since then, I've learned that they're not as bad. In fact, I really enjoy them, but I was sweating through my clothes. Then I became an active interviewer for my alma mater. I always like interviewing new college kids. It kind of keeps you young, staying involved with the college scene. After moving to Hoppington, I participated with other adults and high school students for many years in a home repair ministry called the Appalachia Service Project. We took kids, high school kids, 9th to 12th graders and adults. At one time, our group was 168 people, and we had almost 20, we had 20 vans going to Appalachia to help people fix their homes, fix their trailers, but more importantly, to minister to them. And I learned how to accept people, who they are, where they are, how they are, because that's one of the tenets of Appalachia Service projects. And we can really apply that also to how we should relate to people who are living with dementia. After retiring in 2019, I looked for other ways to get involved in my community and give back. I participated in some senior center activities, and then I was asked to join the Hoppington Council on Aging. So my involvement with the Council on Aging helped me better understand the issues facing seniors. I mean, I've already been through caregiving for my mother and helping my wife care give for her dad, and then her mom was still alive at that time. But this involvement really helped me understand the issues in depth. And I was asked by Amy Beck, Hoppington Senior Services Director, to start an initiative to achieve one of her visions, which is to get Hoppington certified as an age-friendly and dementia-friendly community. One of our first priorities was to increase the awareness of dementia and help break the stigmas associated with the disease. And I'll go into those later in the presentation. This led me to take the Dementia Friends chaining in 2021, in the fall, and start to lead sessions in 2022, right when COVID started to break. Like many of you, most of you on today's webinar, dementia has impacted my family and my life. When I was caring for my mom and helping my wife care for her parents, I didn't know much about dementia or what I could do to be more sensitive to the needs and situation of a person with dementia. I made so many mistakes. I still remember my mom asking the same question over and over and over again, and me getting upset and angry because I didn't know what to do. In fact, when I start off my Dementia Friends information sessions, I tell the attendees that one of the reasons I do these is because I wished I knew what I know now when I was taking care of my mom. I would have been a better son and care partner. So one of my goals in doing Dementia Friends sessions is to make sure that fewer people go through the same situation that I did, that people have the information so they can be better caregivers and care partners. I learned a lot by attending and supporting many memory cafes at the Hoppington Senior Center. People living with dementia love singing. They love laughing. They love dancing, telling their stories, and enjoying the company of others. I remember sitting next to one gentleman who was like mid-stage dementia, but he knew every word to every song that every type of musician we brought in, whether it was a folk musician, a rock musician, and you could just see him smile. So I really love these. For me, it was enlightening and very enjoyable to spend time with my Memory Cafe friends each month. I think I had as much fun as they did, and maybe sometimes even more fun. I also had a unique opportunity that helped me round out my understanding of people living with dementia. I got to spend an hour with people living with dementia who were all men, while their care partners attended a monthly support group. Our time together reinforced how much we had in common, not how different we were, because four people had dementia and I did not. We would laugh and talk about classic cars, what we'd like to have for Thanksgiving dinner, and other events in our lives as friends. I learned about their hobbies, their time in military services. It was just so much fun. Plus, I heard from their care partners when I saw them in the community, or when they picked up the person living with dementia to go home, how much this social interaction impacted their loved ones throughout the day and afterwards. They came home smiling. They came home more talkative. So I really enjoyed our time together, and so did they. I've also experienced pain, the pain and heartache, when the disease would reach its end and take another one of my friends. I also saw the strength and resiliency of their care partners as they supported their loved one on their journey. I learned a lot about life, the challenges that all of us face, and what could be done to support each other on each person's unique journey. Life may not seem fair at times, but I know that it's always better when we work together to make it the best it can be. During my journey, I've been very fortunate to have a fellow Consul on Aging board member at the time, Patch Rodawa, who said she was going to join today's call. She was my mentor, my advisor, my sounding board, and supporter. Pat has been very involved with the dementia community, including being a long-term care partner, establishing a memory cafe in Hopkinton, and starting both in-person and virtual support groups. You know, through this journey with dementia, you do meet some very extraordinary people. Since the start of 2022, I've been blessed and happy to be able to conduct many Dementia Friends sessions in and around Hopkinton, and reach out to so many people who are now Dementia Friends. These people are helping to spread the key Dementia Friends messages to their extended family, friends, and colleagues. The Dementia Friends movement started in Japan 20 years ago. That makes sense. Japan has a high percentage of senior citizens, people living a long time. And we'll talk about who gets dementia, and we know it's not just totally aligned with age. So it started in Japan 20 years ago, when it was formalized as a program in the United Kingdom in 2013. People always ask, how many Dementia Friends are there? Well, we know there's over 20 million globally. As I checked last, a day ago, there was 241,341 in the U.S. and 2038 in Massachusetts. And you're probably saying, Sam, how can you get so specific numbers? That's because the organizations that support the program in each state report these numbers up since they've been in business. Yeah, so these are great numbers. 20,000 new Dementia Friends in Massachusetts since we started the program. But with almost 7 million people in the state and 330 million people in the United States, there's still a lot of work to do to reach more of the population. So every state has an active Dementia Friends program, which has a supporting, sponsoring organization to manage it, nurture it, grow it, and evolve it. Jewish Family and Children's Service is a sponsoring organization in Massachusetts. Beth Salzberg, who is on the webinar, is a great resource and does an awesome job leading Dementia Friends in Massachusetts. Like I said, you meet some really wonderful people in your journey. A Dementia Friends information session focuses on the impact of the disease on the person, their family, and the community. Rather than the medical aspects of the disease, I provide a reading list at my Dementia Friends information sessions. And there's several books on there I refer people to if they really want to understand the brain, how the brain is impacted by the various diseases and all the chemical changes and physiological changes. So it's not to focus on medical, but Dementia Friends goals are to raise awareness, provide information which will make a difference in how people interact and support those living with Dementia and break the stigmas associated with the disease. So during my time doing these sessions, I've learned that people have limited knowledge of Dementia. People are sometimes shocked when I tell them that Dementia kills more people each year than breast cancer and prostate cancer combined in the U.S. People also don't really understand or appreciate the difference between typical aging and Dementia. Many people still think that a high percentage of people over 65 will be diagnosed with the disease, rather than about the 11% of adults over 65 who are diagnosed with the disease. So 11% seems like a high number, but the good news is that 89% of people over 65 won't be diagnosed with the disease. So what are some of the stigmas Dementia Friends wants to break? One of the stigmas is that people with Dementia can't successfully interact with people who don't have Dementia. Many people in the early stages of Dementia report that their friends have stopped calling, visiting, asking them to do things that they used to do together, like go for a walk, go to a baseball game, play cards. People living with Dementia have been shunned, like someone who has a communicable disease. This increases their feeling of isolation and can start that terrible cycle leading to depression. Break the stigma related to the cause of disease is another important goal, so that people living with Dementia aren't embarrassed that they have the disease. Typically, nothing a person does causes them to get Dementia. Dementia affects people from all walks of life. You can have as many undergrad, masters, and PhDs, and you're still liable or likely to be part of the group that gets Dementia. It doesn't differentiate. So people who have cancer aren't embarrassed that they have cancer. So why should people who have Dementia be embarrassed and then withdraw into themselves? And this all wraps up into breaking the stigma that people living with Dementia can't enjoy life anymore because of their cognitive impairment. Now, Beth hosts a Champion Check-In call every quarter. I wanted to just tell a short story about what happened on the fall Champion Check-In. We had a man, very well-spoken, passionate man, who was living with Dementia, and he was there to tell us his story of being what did he notice before he was diagnosed? How did he get diagnosed? Some of the treatments that he's taking, he was on some of the more advanced treatments that are being worked on by so many organizations. And I waited towards the end, and then I asked him the question that I wanted to get an answer to. Tell me what happened when you informed your friends. I was hoping he was going to tell me this wonderful story about his friends embraced him and still took him to baseball games and went outside to play cards and went out for ice cream and had lunch. And he said, no, unfortunately, my friends have dropped me like hot potatoes. Made me very sad because that's exactly what Dementia Friends is trying to attack. I have been uplifted, though, by seeing advertisements on TV for the Alzheimer's Association over the past couple of months. So maybe we can start bringing this message even more out of the back room and into the light because that's the first step. So there's still a lot of work to do. A Dementia Friends information session lasts 60 to 90 minutes. I schedule mine typically for 90 minutes to provide time for more sharing, discussion and questions. I've sometimes had to shut mine off after 90 minutes, but I've never had to end one early because people did not want to talk. In addition, to English, the presentation is available in eight other languages. There are also seven additional English versions for specific audiences such as high school students, which I just did, the LGBTQIA plus community, and people with intellectual development disabilities, for example. Beth and team have done a great job at creating extensive speaker notes would make it easier for people with various levels of experience with dementia and public speaking to feel comfortable doing it. Remember, what's the thing that people fear most? It's not death, it's public speaking. But with the speaker notes and the champion guide, you can actually read them the first time you do it, and they're really good. You don't have to be a dementia expert. Like I mentioned, I did a session last Friday for high school students with three high school seniors who had taken the champion training. I was so happy when I met with them to do a pre-up workout, and I asked them, how much do you want to do? And they said, all of it, which was really great. So they were very excited. Did they do it perfectly? Nope. But who cares? They did it. Everyone had a good time. We ran an hour and 15 minutes. And they're now super excited to get better and do it again at least one more time before they graduate. So that was just a super experience. So during the session, we bring information and we also tell some stories. One of the stories that I think is so impactful is the bookcase story. The bookcase story explains how dementia may impact a person's ability to do math and higher level functions, but not their ability to enjoy a walk in nature or going out for ice cream. Love and emotions always remain on the lower level of a person's bookcase long after complex reasoning, skills and understanding on the higher shelves of a person's bookcase are lost. Think of it as you started out as a child. The only thing you knew to do is things we can't talk about on the call. And then you started learning how to dress yourself and feed yourself and tie your shoes. And you loved your parents and you loved your friends. And then you went to school and you learned to read and math and then you got a job and learned a career, et cetera, et cetera. So when the bookcase shakes, like in an earthquake, stuff at the top falls off first. The stuff at the bottom remains for a long, long time. You know, I really experienced this all the time when I took my mother-in-law out for ice cream. She was at a local facility and she loved to go for a ride in the car, take her out for ice cream. And she just, we chatted about, she had to sing for windows on houses, the style of windows. So we would drive around all the neighborhoods from the small house neighborhood to the big mega mansions. And she just loved it. And did I worry that she wouldn't remember the next day? Not really, because she was so happy that day and it had such an impact on her life that day. There's also a small exercise, an exercise that can be done either with the big group or breaking the small groups. I've listed all the steps in the daily activity, such as brushing your teeth. We do this to show how complex life can be and how people living with dementia may not be able to do everything that they used to do, but they can still do a lot. You know, but when we, when I always use an example, I said, let's take brushing your teeth. What's the first thing you do when you brush your teeth? And they would always say, get the, put the toothpaste on the brush. And I go, nope. How about find the bathroom? Then you got to find the switch. Some bathrooms have the switch on the outside. Some bathrooms have the switch on the inside. And one of the reasons we do this exercise is not to just show how complex simple things in life can be, but how we have to be respectful of what somebody can do for themselves and honor that. And that really improves a person, a person living with dementia, self of feeling of self-respect. And here's an example, making a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. They may not remember where the peanut butter is or the jelly is or the bread is, but if you bring that to them, they can still open them up and make the sandwich themselves. So it's important to still give people who are living with dementia as much freedom and liberty as they can handle at the state of their journey. So everything in a dementia friend session supports a deeper understanding of the five messages. Dementia is not a typical part of aging. Dementia is more common as we get older, yes, but not everyone develops dementia. It is possible for younger people to develop dementia too. Dementia is caused by diseases of brain. Alzheimer's is one of them. If you have Alzheimer's, you have dementia, but there are other types of dementia that we go over. Dementia is more than memory problems. It affects thinking, communication, mood, and personality, and doing everyday tasks. And as we said before, one of the key messages I like to emphasize is people can live with dementia, especially in early and mid stages. Symptoms may remain mild for a long time. Of course, things can change. And there's definitely more to the person than the disease, than the dementia, just like there's more to a person who has cancer than the cancer. People leave a Dementia Friends information session having learned more about dementia, feeling better equipped to interact with and support those living with disease, and knowing that they are not alone on their journey. That's so important. I created, with input from other communities and organizations, a four-page list of organizations, websites, books, literature, resources, and support. And I also provide brochures and literature from many dementia support organizations to show the attendees what else is available to them. Attending the Dementia Friends Information Session might be the first step for most people, but it shouldn't be the only step, since there's so much help and information available today, especially considering what it was like when I first started taking care of my mom. Every Dementia Friends Information Session is different. I've done sessions with as few as four people, to as many as 39 people. In fact, I should modify that. I've done a Dementia Friends Information Session for one person. Due to a scheduling conflict, we had a whole group of people that did not come, and I had one person who did come. And she had a, she was really in a pickle. She had a mom who lived out of state, was showing signs of cognitive impairment. She didn't live near the mom. She had a brother in Oregon who really didn't have any interest in supporting the mom. So I spent 90 minutes with her. And she left knowing where she could go to to get support. Ages of attendees, they vary from eighth grade Girl Scout group. That's the earliest, early youngest group I've done a session for to very senior citizens. Locations have been senior centers, libraries, churches, schools, apartment buildings, independent assisted living facilities, just about anywhere. There's no charge for Dementia Friends Information Session. While every Dementia Friends Information Session is different, the attendees have a lot in common. They know somebody who is showing signs of cognitive impairment, who has been diagnosed with some form of dementia. You know, I listed the categories or the cohorts of people who might attend the session on the slide. They have lots of questions or are eager to get answers. They are excited when they find out about all the resources and support that are available to them. They definitely want to share their story and experiences and learn from others. And they leave knowing more, feeling more hopeful, and understanding that they are not alone on their journey. I think that's one of the key benefits to attending a Dementia Friend Information Session. Lately, there have been more people at my sessions living with dementia. It's been very interesting. Sometimes they come with their kids, and the kids will come up to me before the session, and they tell me, don't mention to anybody that my mom was just recently diagnosed with dementia. She's here to hear what it's all about. Others come, and they're really happy and looking forward to sharing. Some have spoken out about how wonderful it was that so many people took time out of their day to come to learn about the disease that's in that's impacting them. And that these people are here to learn how they can be more sensitive to people living with dementia, like them, in order to improve their quality of life. They definitely feel loved. And an advertisement, my next Dementia Friends Information Session is 11am, Saturday, March 14th, at the Hopkington Public Library. You can call the Hopkington Senior Center at 508-497-9730 to register. So now let's segue from what is a Dementia Friends Information Session to where that fits into helping a community become a dementia-friendly community. Dementia Friendly America defines 10 sectors, you can see them on the slide, that should be, that must be addressed in order to have a dementia-friendly community. Some like transportation, housing, and public spaces are the same as the dementia, age-friendly domains defined by AARP in order to be part of their network of age-friendly states and communities. People typically ask me early on, Sam, how is a dementia-friendly community different from what already happens in our town? We already have a dementia-friendly programs at our Senior Center. I reply that Consuls on Aging slash Senior Center do a great job with awareness, education, and programs within the walls of their Senior Center. The dementia-friendly community is meant to take down the walls and extend the message, the mission, and vision across the town into its organizations, both public and private, and into all of its activities. For example, in a dementia-friendly community, bank employees would know how to identify people with a cognitive impairment so they could service them appropriately and also keep them safe from fraud, which attacks seniors at a much higher rate. First responders would have information on homes with people with a cognitive impairment, so they would be better prepared when arriving. Town planners would understand how to design facilities, buildings, and outdoor spaces to better accommodate people living with dementia. In summary, everything in the community would be viewed through the lens of what would make it easier for people living with dementia and their families to thrive and remain in town. It would be like having a trained Senior Center staff member or a trained dementia champion be a part of every committee, business, and organization to advocate for the needs, rights, and requirements of people living with dementia and their care partners. And yes, I have done dementia-friend sessions for town employees in Hoppington, and will continue to do them because then we might have somebody on the inside who has that information. One of the ways to get more of the town or city involved in a dementia-friendly community initiative is to focus on the benefits of just about everyone. Everyone benefits when their community is dementia-friendly. People participate in and take advantage of more local organizations and activities developing and keeping a vibrant community. More residents decide to stay in town because it's a good place for them to live. The word gets out and more people want to move into town. And with more people staying and more people coming in, businesses have more customers and they do better. And so do all the civic service organizations and every organization that looks for volunteers from the community. People that work in local government and employees of local business have a more positive experience because they've been trained or will be trained. And overall, the quality of life increases for everybody. It's really a win-win-win for the person, the caregiver, and the community. Dementia-friendly community has to involve as many parts of the community as possible in order to be successful. This is like, obviously makes sense. Dementia-friendly community is a part of the community. When we kicked off the Dementia-Friendly Hopkinton initiative, the first step was to recruit people from each of those categories on the left side of the slide to form an action team. It helps recruitment if a key town official or leader comes out supporting it, because if they're supporting it from on top, it makes it easier for us to get volunteers and recruits from the bottom. Dementia-fripping people are a part of the community. We would like to have individual meetings with representatives of each category. So a meeting with the town government, the police department, the fire department, the health department to tell them what this initiative will mean to them and how it can support them and make it easier for them to do their job easier and better. And then you can get someone to volunteer to be part of the action team. It takes time to create community buy-in, of course. Becoming a certified dementia-friendly community is a marathon, not a sprint. Dementia-Friendly Massachusetts provides extensive resources and support to help a community become dementia-friendly, including a step-by-step guide to getting it done. I found that municipalities that are certified dementia-friendly communities are happy to be interviewed and share what they've done. Understanding their best practices and pitfalls to avoid will significantly reduce the time it takes to get a new program up and running and improve the probability of success. The action team will create an action plan after assessing the needs of the community and identifying the gaps in those 10 dementia-friendly community sectors that I showed you on the prior slide. Many action plans are available on the Dementia-Friendly Massachusetts site. As with most plans, it's important to have some quicker-to-achieve goals, some quick wins, so that action team members in the community can see some success and positive changes. Action plans should be reviewed and updated yearly as the journey to a dementia-friendly community continues. Remember, it's a marathon, not a sprint. Avoid action team burnout by continuously recruiting new members, especially volunteers. Currently, 144 of the 355 Massachusetts towns and cities are certified dementia-friendly communities. This is 41%, and you can check on the Dementia-Friendly Massachusetts site, and I have the URLs on a future slide to see if your town is one of them. 41% is getting close to half of the communities, which is great, but there's still a lot of work to do. An active program to provide Dementia-Friendly Massachusetts site, and it's a key step to spreading the word, providing knowledge, and growing awareness. An active Dementia-Friendly Massachusetts site, and active Dementia-Friendly Massachusetts site, and growing awareness. An active Dementia-Friendly is then a key component of a community Dementia-Friendly community initiative. I really can't see a community who would be certified Dementia-Friendly without a program to keep educating and making more people aware. Dementia-Friendly has a big impact. Has a big impact on people living with dementia who share their story? This can be very inspiring. Sharing at a Dementia-Friendly Massachusetts site, and can make a difference in how they approach their lives and how they feel. People living with dementia who share feel heard, understood, and loved. Getting positive feedback from care partners and their families makes the time and effort to conduct a Dementia-Friendly information session worth it for me. Care partners leave knowing that they are not alone and knowing where to go for additional support and help. Care partners. The last activity in a Dementia-Friendly information session is a call for action. While no one will come to your house in 30 days to see if you've done it, writing what you are going to do differently after attending a session does create a personal commitment and makes the community a better place to live in when you achieve it. Here's a couple of examples of actions that other Dementia-Friends have chosen. Stay in touch with a family friend who lives with dementia and be more patient when we talk. Help my father complete a task instead of doing it for him. Be patient when I'm in line at the store and someone in front of me is having a hard time counting their money. Boy, we are. Many of us are type of people, you know, go, go, go. We got to get in the store and get out to get home. And that's not being sensitive to the needs of all. And talk with a worker friend or a co-worker about what I learned today. Knowing that the attendees to Dementia-Friends information session will become ambassadors in the kingdom for people living with dementia is a wonderful feeling for the presenter. It keeps me going. Last slide. One step, one person, one family at a time does make a difference. Attend and bring others to a Dementia-Friends information session. Dementia-Friends Massachusetts also hosts regular virtual sessions if an in-person session is not available in your area. So there's the link for Dementia Friends Massachusetts and you go to the link and you click on find a session. You can become a Dementia Friends champion. As I said, no special training or knowledge is required. There are experienced Dementia Friends champions who would love to mentor and help new champions get started. I've also heard of Dementia Friends information sessions taking place at a family gathering, a birthday party, and before the Thanksgiving meal. Those are all true stories. I did not make them up. Once attendees tell others about the session, you will get more requests for additional sessions. You can become very creative. Experience and enjoy a memory cafe. It sure was wonderful for me. It can change your attitude towards the life of people living with dementia and expose you to a whole new world. And you're going to have a lot of fun doing it. If you want to know where Dementia Friends, excuse me, where memory cafes are in Massachusetts, you can go to Dementia Friendly America and you click on the Dementia, the Memory Cafe Alliance. And lastly, maybe some of you feel inspired to fan the flames and start your town on the road to becoming a dementia friendly community. Many directors of your local senior center, your local consul on aging are looking for a volunteer to step up and get started on helping the community become a certified dementia friendly community. Or looking for more volunteers to join the existing community initiative. Everybody has skills. You don't have to be a public speaker. You can be an organizer. You can be someone who can attend to one of the other sectors in that 10 sector diagram. So contact the director of your local consul on aging. I just know that together we can make it better. And with that, Barbara, I'm going to turn it back to you. Stop sharing and open it up for questions. Ahem.