 al'Russell Museum, at Mass General Hospital. All right, thank you, Mark. My name is Sarah Alger. I'm the director of the Russell Museum here at Mass General Hospital. Sorry, welcome to everyone in the room. I must say a surprising number of people in the room considering the weather tonight. Thank you very much for your bravery and to everyone who is on Zoom. A quick plug for our next two lectures before I introduce tonight's speaker. On February 10th, we are going to have The Hospital's Archivist Lucy have the hospital's archivist Lucy Ross, who we work with very closely. She'll be presenting the fairy godmother of health information management, Grace Whiting Myers. And before you think to yourself, oh boy, health information management, Lucy really brings Myers's story to life. Myers was a librarian here in the, I believe the 30s and the 40s. So I hope you are available for that. And then in March, exact date to be confirmed, we will have Dr. Robbie Goldstein, who is the current Public Health Commissioner for Massachusetts, talking about the history of public health here in Massachusetts. Just a housekeeping note for those on Zoom, use the Q&A function to ask questions. We'll be monitoring both the room and the Zoom for questions. And then with that, I'd like to introduce tonight's speaker, who is a repeat lecturer for us. Dr. Thomas Hine is an attending physician in the Department of Medicine here at MGH. Welcome, Dr. Hine. Sir, is it safe to say if people start coming and they need more seats, they're bringing up the chairs or something? Grace. Well, thank you all for being here on this frigid day. And hopefully this will be a fun thing. Please just let me know if you're having a hard time hearing me. The visual is very important. So get in a spot where you can see the screen, because that's kind of the focus of this. It's all about art of observation, but on slides of paintings. And similarly on Zoom, if there's any issues, please let us know on the sooner side. So you can see my quotations there. No conflict of interest to report. And the images are mostly from the public domain. And just in case this talk tickles you a little bit, just to say that I'm not the only one who delves into this. And for myself, it's been one of a few of my little scholarly hobbies. But just to say if like, you're in the Department of, I don't know, whatever it is, neurology. And you're like, Oh, that was kind of cool. Could you want to like talk about art and neurology? The answer is yes, I probably could. I've got so many of these pieces I've picked up over the years. So I've done sort of like the grand rounds or the equivalent they are of all these different disease sort of systems or specialties rather. So I'm focusing today on infectious disease, seemed appropriate sort of post pandemic and whatever. So and then I think on the call maybe going to depend on two dollars and like Dr. Katz, Joel Katz and one of our infectious disease colleagues over at Brigham women's and he and I reclibrating on some of their art medicine stuff over there. So anyway, it's just a way of saying like, if if you like what you taste, there's more of a banquet. All right, so this is what we're going to do. This is sort of an unusual and hopefully fun and entertaining and you guys get involved and kind of shout out your answers and get a little rowdy type of talk. So it's sort of like a case series in which we're going to talk about both published and unpublished. I've got these little blue stars and if anybody's like, you know itching to publish something you want to work and make a publisher that's great. I pretty kid pretty busy with three little kids but I'm happy to delve into it with somebody. And then I've organized it by pathogens, right? This is how infectious disease doctors think. Viruses, fungi, parasites, bacteria. So that's how the screen is structured. And then I was like, started to give some clues and so the picture and I'll say, well, what do you guys think? And that's when you can just like shout out an answer. And then similarly, seribili monitoring the Q&A. So like it's the A2, you can give an A. So if you're out there with Dr. Katz or Dr. Ryan and you think it's, you know, whatever, Leshman-Iasis, then feel free to pause at that. And if somebody gives me that feedback, I'll say, well done. Otherwise you'll have to just feel warm in your heart that you did it if I can't read those. And then so doing we're going to view there's like quite a few articles, believe it or not, written on this sort of niche field and some of the benefits of this exercise, which we'll go through this, but like, you know, there's a lot of positive things about what we're about to do. But of course, there's some limitations of trying to diagnose something based on a canvas from 500 years ago. But I think hopefully we'll all walk away with a little deeper appreciation of the medical humanities, especially medical history and innovation, which is what this whole rest of the museum is about. All right, so here, here, let's jump right into it with the smallest pathogen viruses. So this is Mosaccio, one of the early important members of the Renaissance. And this is the scene. So obviously, this is mostly Renaissance Baroque Europe, what we're talking about. So lots of scenes from Christianity in the Bible and so forth. And here we have the scene from the Acts of the Apostles from the Bible in which St. Peter is walking along and people who were just had the shadow fall on them were healed, we're told. And here's one figure that looks beyond just sort of like a, you know, stereotypical sick guy or, you know, paralytic or so forth. There's pretty unique features that really suggest this is a real person. So first of all, you can look at his hands, which are kind of droopy, and his legs, which look like thin. So that's atrophy. And then atony means they're kind of droopy, not very strong. But it seems like he's able to hold himself up. And in fact, he's on these little crutches there. And so it's almost like, you know, pre wheelchair, but this is how he's pulling himself along on the ground. So there's some chronicity to this, right? This is something that happened last week. This is going on for a while. Now we can go, we can think as neurologists, this first one is a little bit more complicated, but hopefully you'll bear with me here. So neurologists work through the neuro nervous system, like where could, where could the disease be? Well, the upper motor neurons like cerebral palsy, so we all have friends or family who have cerebral it's more spastic, right, where your limbs are kind of brought in. He's not that he's more flaccid. Myopathy is usually more proximal, like your shoulders, like you can't comb your hair anymore, so point out a myopathy. So we're kind of narrowed down quite likely a lower motor neuron disease in this particular area of the spinal column. Anyone have a hazard, I guess, when this might be? Just shout it out. Polio, great. And there was the hint if you needed it. So there's a polio word of all the iron lungs, right? This was a big deal for a long time. So arguably, according to this person who wrote in Lancet, this may be the earliest depiction we have of polio, the polio virus. So pretty fascinating, I think. All right, we're going to move to another. This is actually two portraits next to each other. Pretty remarkable. So this is a 16 year old who is going to become Duke and seven days into his illness, this was he looks like this sort of like rash on his face. And then two days later, he looks like that, right? That's like the right response. Interestingly, a few years earlier, he looked fine. So whatever it is, it's been more cute. And a year later, he looked fine. So whatever it is, it was an acute illness that looked bad and got better. Anyone have a hazard guess what this would be? There you go, smallpox. So the way that we learned hopefully we're still teaching medical students that smallpox is like a possibility if Lord forbid the way the world is going right now, but you know, it's locked in a couple of labs in the world. And if we ever got smallpox, we didn't know what it looks like, because it's such a big deal. But namely, unlike chickenpox, where you have lesions that are like someone more crested, someone just starting this, they're all the same, they all look the same uniform. So that's how you know, it's smallpox. This was like the most successful vaccine campaign ever. You based, for example, a part in this photo, the kid on the left, no vaccine, the kid on the right had a vaccine. So again, that smallpox, by the way, vaccine, a little tidbit, that's from the Latin for cow, right, like vodka and Spanish. So the idea is the first vaccine was for smallpox, this terrible disease that they got from cowpox. So that's how Jenner did it in England at the end of the 18th century and transformed kind of life for humanity forever afterwards. So we're going to start kind of as we're going along, we're going to review some of these like kind of take home points. That doing this, which is fun, and I encourage you to go to museums and kind of look for disease, that's what I tend to do in my days off. But it tells you about these rare forgotten diseases, right, because we're basically getting a snapshot of hundreds of years ago, which by the way, looks a lot more like Sub-Saharan Africa today, where they maybe don't have an access to all these vaccines. And we hopefully appreciate the role of vaccines and sanitation. And you guys go to Robbie Goldstein's talk in a couple of months, he and I went to residency together. All right, so in the same vein, anyone has a guess what this is? That's a great idea, measles. But again, there's sort of this uniform disease, lesions over the body, and this isn't a trick. This is also smallpox. Okay, so there'll be some repeats. Okay. In particular, just this is such a terrible disease. And particularly here in the quote, New World, where there was no prior immunity. So I'm not going to read this whole thing, but you know, basically, we have accounts of just how terrible it was, and just populations wiped out, and infrastructure destroyed. So yeah, smallpox, a terrible part of the whole European discovery story. All right, we're still in the quote, New World, but obviously now more modern times, this one's a little tricky, so I need to get more hints. But this is an episode of blank disease in Buenos Aires. So you can see the mother, very tragic. Some of these are very tragic and trying to take home like how good it is, we don't have these anymore, or can generally vaccinate against them and so forth. But there's a father who's dead in the bed, there's a mother who's dead on the floor with a baby, like looking to breastfeed, very tragic. And we know the Buenos Aires is relatively sort of tropical climate, where there's lots of mosquitoes. And typically this starts as a flu like illness, so you have like normal chap there on the left, and then the second pain is got more like flu like illness, and then he's jaundice, and then like hemorrhage, hemorrhagic fever, terribleness. Anyone want to guess what that is? Well, that was a great idea. Dengue is a very, very good idea. I missed that. I like all these different fevers, yeah, hemorrhagic fever. So again, this is, I think all those would be reasonable. In particular, this is called an episode of yellow fever in Buenos Aires. So, you know, I try to like make it yellow, look yellow. But obviously there's a number of things that can cause jaundice and bleeding and so forth, hemorrhagic fevers like these. But also, like, you know, if you're traveling to New York, you can get a yellow fever, actually, and thank goodness. So there's a bad outbreak in 1871. There was a bad outbreak in the 18th century in Philadelphia. I mean, this was a recurring theme when mosquitoes were kind of getting out of control in various areas. So yellow fever, there you go. And in fact, these two doctors died of yellow fever shortly, like not too long after this painting was done. All right, again, this is a bit of a stretch, but I'm in viruses and I want to at least include this virus. But this is mook of the scream, oh, fame, but this is self-portrait with blank disease, 1919. So this is like during the throes of his illness and like shortly thereafter. And you can see the year that should be like the main flu. So tons of people died from Spanish flu. And right now, too many people are dying from the flu. So we've had a pretty bad flu season so far. So this is self-portrait with Spanish flu. And a note like less than 50% of people are vaccinating. I get, you know, co-vaccine fine, COVID is like a cold for most people nowadays, but flu is like the flu, we can vaccinate. But anyways, so that's my little scream, vaccinate please. But anyways, so that's Spanish flu. All right, so that was viruses in artwork. We're going to keep moving and fungi. I got a lot of slides, if you don't get all of them, that's cool. So this is Moorizio is one of my favorite painters, but this is Thomas Villanova giving alms. You can see the various sort of people who are poor using walking sticks and so forth. And if you zoom in on this child, you can see he's got alopecia or hair loss with these sort of circular crusts. You know, I guess what that is. Yeah, I heard it. Yeah, Tania, ringworm, great. So Tania Capitus of the Favus or honeycomb, honeycomb sort of subtype because it kind of does like honey, like crusty appearance. Basically, this is I think his way of taking home like, people really look like this, he really helped these poor people and they were really poor. So, you know, just a way of saying it helps us interpret the artwork. We know what's going on there. Okay, Goya, before he kind of went crazy and showed paintings of people eating their children, had some very nice paintings before then. So this is some kids climbing a tree. And again, we've got, this is like a labor list, but a similar thing where he's got Tania Capitus on this child. Bucket list, I want to go see this piece. But, you know, apparently it's this wonderful piece and a chapel attached to what was a hospital, done in 1516 by Gunavald, Eisenheim Altarpiece. And it's got like several layers to it, like some altarpipidics do. And this sort of frontal, as you first come, very moving crucifixion. And if you really zoom in, you see that like this is different than many other crucifixions and that the way the body is kind of more like greenish. And there's sort of like all these sores all over. And then you can look at his hands and his feet just really like contorted. So you can guess if you like, there's no clear diagnosis that I've been aware of some, oh, I should also mention. So as you open the triptych is what this is called, like to show the next layer and show the next layer, it actually, and presumably he planned this, but as you kind of open it, it's seen almost like amputates off the arm and the legs of Jesus. So getting at, so some people thought maybe this is syphilis, because again, this is 1516. This is after syphilis came to the new, from the new world to the old world. So it was rampant, could be. And certainly in that hospital, I'm sure they're treating patients with syphilis, but doesn't quite fit with all those things. So just put that in the back of mind. So something that like causes greenish and like maybe you eventually need to amputate limbs and whatnot. So if you look at the other layers of this particular piece, in particular, we'll zoom on this area. But so this is St. Anthony. And this is actually in like the hospital slash monastery of St. Anthony. So one of these, like one of the very first like Abbots, fathers of monasticism, very important, often times pictured battling demons or doing healings and so forth. But next to him, there's this particular figure who just seems not doing well. The rest probably more bond, what have you. And so look how, look at that belly looks like, you know, maybe that's societies, but you could also imagine me this bowel ischemia, like dead bowel, right? Like not doing well. And he's got all these skin lesions all around. Again, this is the monastery of St. Anthony, also known as the hospital with brothers. Anyone want to hazard a guess what I'm trying to get at with with that first piece in this one? This is pretty tricky. Yeah, chicken box, I don't kill you like that. Usually not. Yeah, gangrene, we're getting there. I know, Sarah, does anybody, anyone guess it out there? No. All right. So they treated what's called St. Anthony's fire, which is actually going to be one of two things, maybe more of a cellulitis, but usually this is ergotism. Now, this isn't quite infectious disease because it's basically more of a toxicosis. So you eat the spongus that grows in like rye seeds, and accidentally, and then you like nearly die because this, the ergot, the sort of fungus that's there has this vasoconstrictive quality. So basically vasoconstriction makes your arteries go like that, and then there's not enough blood, and then things get gangrenous and ischemic, whether that's your bowel or your arms and legs, and you have to lop off arms and legs. Interestingly, it can also affect the brain. So hallucinations are pretty common, apparently. And so LSD or shrooms are sort of all related compounds to this particular mushroom. So, you know, it's possible, for example, some people positive, like some of these, honestly, kind of like more tripped out paintings where there's, you know, all these demons and stuff, was that kind of referencing the hallucinations some of these patients would have? Anyways, pretty interesting, I think. We don't see that much, fortunately. Another piece that somebody wrote, published in the FAIROS, so that's like the AOA journal. So here's several people here who are missing feet. Maybe there's some facial deformities or maybe a congenital deformity. I'm not going to belabor on this because I don't really feel particularly impressed with any of these. Maybe leprosy, maybe ergotism again, maybe polio, but I don't really explain where they're missing hand feet. So I don't really know. It seems like someone was eager to publish something, but anyways, there's that piece. So we're going to understand the limitations of what we're doing. These are all hypotheses and something more or less far-fetched. Okay, moving now to parasites. So this is sort of the title piece for today. So this is Caravaggio's sick Bacchus and a self-portrait. You can visit this in Rome in the Galleria Borghese. And so we know, you know, quite a bit about Caravaggio and what was going on this time. So this is after he moved from Milan to Rome to like, you know, get more, you know, this is Rome was like the place to be at the time, but not long after he got there, he became quite ill and he was hospitalized. All right, so let's look at the painting. So this is like after he was hospitalized after he got better type of thing. Whatever it is, it was probably pretty acute, right? If he were to go out for a while, he wouldn't have like this normal musculature, he'd be more wasted away. Also, we know in later portraits, he looked normal again. So a few years later, here is, here's this theme of dressing up like Bacchus and drinking alcohol, I guess, but looked normal and looked nice in pink and whatever. So if you look at his face, and I can like verify this because I had the pleasure of going to Rome not too long ago and like seeing this, but you see a couple of things. First of all, he looks relatively yellow or jaundice, whether it's his eyes or his skin. And then his conjugal type eyes, so the sort of pink part of her eyes and his lips look pretty pale, which is sort of like, you know, the poor man's way of saying anemia. So we've got anemia plus jaundice after moving to Rome. So what do you guys think that is? Yeah, the title of the talk, Malaria. Great. So people have talked about different things, Q-fever, brusillosis, but common thing's been common. Malaria seems pretty common, pretty likely. So malaria, this parasite has been with us some ancient times, the sort of the nemesis of humanity, but brought by mosquitoes, it gets inside of our red blood cells, and then it bursts open the red blood cells. So that bursting and just like a bruise, it looks yellow. So the idea is when the pigment and then makes red blood cells red, breaks down, looks yellow. So that's the jaundice. And then if you burst enough red blood cells, you get anemic, hence the anemia and the pallor. So I think that's a pretty reasonable hypothesis. So people also talk about hepatitis, like hepe, that can make you look pretty yellow, and then you get better. So I mean, who knows, but interesting. Well, because we're talking about Kodamaju, I wanted to take one step further. So this whole like fascinating field of paleo pathology, where people like go and run like PCRs on bones from the pharaohs or more recently or whatever, which is I think just so fascinating. But they did one of these studies of like, how did he die? So they think, you know, he Kodamaju was a controversial figure and, you know, got involved in a lot of fights and, you know, had friends, he had enemies, etc. So we're not 100% sure exactly, like, you know, if the tumor is buried, it is really him, but it seems most likely it is. Anyway, so they did, like DNA, PCR analysis of the skeleton and sure enough, that's like full of staph aureus. So staff like as a staff infection that is, you know, another nemesis to humanity. But so we know that he was wounded in a fight in Naples several days before. So certainly makes sense, like historically, that here you get some wound and several days later, you know, the staff, there's pre-anabotics, it goes over his body to die some staff. So he survived malaria, but not staff. Interesting. All right, so now we're doing more of these learning objectives. We're learning more about these artists. And also, I think, you know, looking very closely at these different paintings and ellipses and so forth, we're helping to hone our own observational skills. So this is a quick tangent, sort of a plug for some of the work that the folks in the Arts Humanities Initiative, of which I'm one, but are doing and whether here in the Harvard area or in others. But basically, they've done a number of studies that we have this current crisis, right? So all the medical students and trainees and frankly, even attendings, we spent all the time in front of screens. And we're pretty good at like interpreting like an MRI, but goodness gracious, we floss these skills of like just doing a good physical exam and help hitting a liver and a spleen, etc. So we're just looking and spending time with the patient and not having our back as we're typing, etc. So the question is like, I was trying to figure out how do you try to bring the student back to the bedside and really spend time and really hone your observational skills and hone their physical skills. Well, one thing that's been tried is to do basically these medical school courses or electors or so forth in which you'd actually go together like with a team and look at artwork and talk about artwork. So for example, the study in Yale where they did basically an art observation course and actually like helped people's observation skills, which is pretty cool. So there's this whole thing called VTS of visual thinking strategies in which you can see a bunch of studies at different locations that have shown that this can help basically again, improve people's observational skills. And then these sort of other added benefits, again, these aren't like obviously hard science studies, but you know, increase time to ambiguity since, oh, we really know what did the artist mean by this, etc. Increase in empathy, increase in mindfulness, increase in communication skills. I would say, but PS, what we're doing right now isn't quite VTS. We're like trying to diagnose paintings with disease, which is like a fun little side thing. VTS is more like, let's go look at a painting or pick your painting and let's just kind of talk about it, not necessarily specifically trying to diagnose things. So, but anyways, so this is fun stuff. It's a worthy goal that's been now reasonably well studied. Okay, tangent over back to the paintings. So this is Maria Stiorelli, who when she was only like 23, he painted this painting in 1887. Again, not really specific, so I need to get more hands, but basically there's a farming community that lives outside Rome and Eric called the Pontian Marshes, sort of southeast of Rome. Anyone want to have a guess what this is? But the person in the bed is, is who looks a little bit maybe John is just suffering from. Again, I'm not trying to trick anyone. This is malaria. So again, how would you know that? I don't know, but just putting all the malaria cases together. By the way, malaria is from the sort of Latin for bad air. So before they figured I was in mosquitoes, which is more modern discovery than you might think, they just thought it had something to do with the bad area around swaps and and so forth. Somehow it gets you sick. So the Romans couldn't even colonize this area because they're just everyone dying from the malaria in the area. So it wasn't until basically modern times in the 20th century that they were able to kind of get all the marsh strain and so forth. And then the Nazis flooded again, and we had to redrain it. So anyways, but the Pontian Marshes continue to be an issue. And again, you can see another just how devastating this is. And malaria, if you Google like what kills more people than any disease worldwide, malaria is like depending where you're at either number one or number two. So it's just been this terrible plague. All right, when I'm switching continents and centuries, I wanted to throw in stuff that isn't just sort of European centric, but I had the opportunity to go to a conference in ultrasound, a tropical ultrasound in Peru. And I got to this awesome museum called the Museum Lorca, which is in Lima. And it's got hundreds of these really cool pots about a big that many of them show disease. And it's very clear they're trying to depict disease real people with these. So and it's all online. So you can go like Peru's these online if you like to a museum Lorca. But anyways, in this particular piece, so this is sorry, the Moche culture, which is a Northwestern Peru, this is again, somewhere between the fifth and eighth centuries or so is when they flourished. So this is pre-Incan, obviously pre-Columbian, pretty, you know, pretty impressive detail sculpture, etc. And in this particular piece sort of seen in two different views, there's some sort of ulceration of the nose, you can say the nasal cartilage been destroyed, as well as the upper lip, exposing the gums there. So this is what it can look like in real life. So this is an infection endemic to Peru comes from sandflies. Want to guess what this is? It's a little bit more like next level, lechmeniasis, very good. So not something we see here much at all. But lechmeniasis, which has various different forms and can be as endemic in South America, it's also endemic sort of around the Middle East, etc. is again, it's a parasite that's carried by mosquitoes and can cause pretty devastating things. And could also be syphilis. Remember, I mentioned that syphilis was like it was in the old, it was in the new world. So this could be more advanced syphilis, certainly possible, unlikely leprosy. Again, some of these paleo pathologists thinks that leprosy is unlikely to have been in the new world. It was more of an old war thing. There's more, I don't know if this is the same patient, they look pretty similar just with different sort of head garbs on or different patients. But I think more of the same. This to me looks like that muco-cutaneous lechmeniasis. All right. And again, if you wanted any more like, you know, fuel for getting fired up about this, but like, I published a few, a few different pieces in some of this different stuff on the Moche pieces I published about the, helped publish with it with a nice group, but about like genetic disease in this pottery. So just a fun thing. Another reason that this is a fun topic that many, many journals want something other than just like the hard science and a fun little artistic piece is sometimes appreciated. All right. We're now back to Europe. Now in 17th century, this is in the Duomo of Milan, beautiful cathedral. And so St. Charles, born male, was a bishop and little cardinal, was very important for Milan, he's buried there in the Duomo. And so we have all these paintings around that kind of celebrate his life and after his life, famously during one of the terrible plagues that devastated Milan and northern Italy, he kind of like stuck around, helped take care of people and actually survived. But so he was kind of always associated with taking care of the six. After he died, so there's kind of like a statue of him or a vision of him or something, he was like invoked as again, this idea that Catholics can pray to a saint and the saint asks God and God will provide the healing. So this is what's going on in a couple of these pieces now that the show. So you've got this woman who seems to be asking for help. And the people who are there attending to her, clearly one thinks this is very malodorous, you can see the covering on the nose. Looks like probably just the one leg, so unilateral edema and it's purplish, ulcerations, it looks like pretty gross, right? This is sort of necrotic. And in fact, I'm not going to read this whole thing, but basically, there's a quotation about what's happening here, it is like necrotic, like the tissue is truly dead, and even the nerve nerve are dead. So we call that elephantiasis is basically what can happen is the lymphatic tissue, which is kind of helps drain all the fluid in our body back up towards the heart. If that isn't working, things can kind of just fall out if I heard or seen an elephantiasis, one or two legs are very big. All right, anyway, so that's all the hints I'm going to give. So what's an infectious disease that could cause an elephantiasis and then maybe get infected like with a bacteria or gangrene after any ideas? More common, like, again, more like Middle East, North Africa, but certainly could be seen in Italy, especially in those days. A little tricky. A filariasis, again, very rare, but right around here, never see it, but basically, again, another parasite, caribamasketo, infects those lymphatic system so that it's not working well. So basically, it gets all swollen up and things that are swollen up tend not to do all against fighting infection, they get mixed, they get etc. And so they can gain greener superinfection, which seems to happen here. They can also chronic inflammation is also increased as the risk of cancer. So that's called Stuart Trev syndrome. If you have, again, this lymphedema, etc. So maybe that, I mean, the quotation talked about cancer, but who knows exactly how specific that is. So there's Stuart Trevus syndrome. So, and then if you keep going on the...  alomol, you'll see a similar piece. I'm not going to belabor it, but same idea. Looking for healing and it's painful when it's swollen and it looks, it's called the miracle, the gangrenous leg and in the end, what? But you can tell the foot is very swollen. So again, maybe there's philoriasis that led to this swelling that predisposed to infection, maybe something else. Clots can lead to one leg being swollen and that can have problems, et cetera. All right, 14th century now, so we went back a little bit and I thought it would kind of continue this idea of legs. So St. Cosmus and Damien, these are the patients and some doctors, fourth century from Syria and they were martyred and they were known as the silverless ones, like they're a treat to the poor that have been taken. So I thought there were a lot of parallels there to like pediatricians and primary doctors today who are like silverless and sometimes feel like they're being martyred. But anyways, side point, they were famous for this story legend of that they actually took, there was like a dead person and they took the leg and then put it on and like transported it and it like functioned. Obviously something very miraculous. And so you can see that leg there. And again, that's not just like nonspecific, oh, I'm gonna draw a leg that looks disease. Like you really get a sense that the artist had seen a leg like this because again, it looks quite damnant. So look at the healthy leg on the gentleman on the bed. Like that looks pretty normal. So whatever it is, it's affecting just that leg. And again, you could think of the same differential diagnosis, phylloarysis, some sort of superfection, DVT, et cetera. All right, all right, same doctors, same operate, transplant operation, 15th century now. This is a Catalanese, so Spanish painter. This is looks quite different though, right? You have these sort of circular lesions. This is a little edamadis, a little swollen compared to the other one, but not much. So this looks quite different. Anyone that has it, I guess what this could be? Now it's perfectly possible that this is just like venous ulcers or particularly arterial ulcers. Although you don't usually have like multiple like that. So again, more common maybe in like the Middle East or South America. Anyone that has it, I guess. There's a couple of MDs in the audience. All right, well, this to me, and I asked Ed Ryan, who's our top disease expert, who may be on the call right now, but this to me looks a little bit like Coutainous Luscious Maniasis. And in fact, so this top photo is one that I took from during some medical mission work in Peru, but it causes these chronic, pretty well-circumstried sort of circular oval lesions. And again, we can treat it, but they couldn't back then. More common in areas where they have a sand fly. So they called it Aleppo boil from Syria. Again, Kazas and Damien were from Syria. So maybe that's a stretch, but the Jericho boil. But again, this is a Spanish painter. So certainly conceivable that there could be sand flies in the 15th century and there. So I think that's interesting. All right, so here I'm covering all these like pretty rare diseases. And certainly, so I've done talks like this for medical students. I think this is kind of a cool way to teach. You know, rather than just like, hey, memorize these slides, memorize these CDC charts, whatever. Yeah, there, it looks like it gives them a story of a context to it. So maybe that's another benefit of this exercise. All right, this is the Pinodecchi, the body. So body is a port town, port city in Italy. So St. Rock is known as the patron saint of plague victims. And so oftentimes you see him with pointing to a bubo, which is basically an inflamed lymph node for bubonic plague. So sort of the patron saint of black death or bubonic plague. And you'll see him to kind of point to or showing, well, I've got this little lymph node in my thigh. You know, kind of like I'm the patron saint of this disease. Sometimes it might be open. So here you see in this marble statue that there's kind of like pus draining out of this, you know, infected lymph node. But this looks different. I mean, maybe that's pus, but that's like the most weird looking pus I've ever seen. So what do you guys think? Looks like a worm, right? So I totally love this article that I happened to pod. It looks like a worm. And so there's something called guinea worm disease, which again, we don't see much around here, but that's draconculiasis. So draconculia means little dragon. So basically it looks like this trigger, sorry, some of these are gross. I should have said that at the beginning if you guys don't like gross stuff, like I could try to tell you a trigger warning, but here's a worm. And so interestingly, these worms, when they get inside, so like it takes a long time for it to like grow, you know, gets inside of you, it slowly grows, and it's like an intense burning sensation apparently. And the way you treat it is you get this little stick and you have to very, very slowly like wrap it around. If you go too fast, it breaks in half, and then like it can grow again. But they have again these sort of circular lesion you can see that's coming out of, which again, doesn't look too dissimilar from what's going on in the sky's thigh. You think, okay, he's from body, IE this poor town, so certainly possible, somewhere more tropical coming back or something like this. More fun factoids, all hypotheses, but in the book of Exodus, you have the story of Moses and all the people who are infected by these, or being tormented by these fiery serpents, fire and serpents, and then the way that they're cured is by, Moses puts a bronze serpent up on a staff. Staff wrapped around, I don't know, is there some burning, maybe there's something there. And similarly, the rod of asclepius from Greek mythology is again a snake wrapped around a staff. So could there be something connected to how they figured out how to cure this terrible little worm? I don't know, but people have talked about that. Okay, all right, so far so good guys. Hopefully they had fun. All right, so this is the last category, bacteria. Rudan's the thinker. So this statue has made its way all the way around the world, right? Many different cities have it. So I thought in all seriousness, tell me is that I'm kidding, this is a joke. But he's been on that throne for a long time, so you don't know. So I thought maybe this is, you know, Manizuma's revenge, which, you know, is a real disease. So basically typically Eucalype, but the idea is the old world came and like knocked out a huge amount of population of the new world with smallpox, et cetera, and in exchange when sort of non-natives visit South America, et cetera, et cetera, Central America, Mexico, and have something with infected water that they get equalized. So that's why it's called Manizuma's revenge. Clearly smallpox is much worse, but all right. This is an anonymous Italian artist, 1831. And so 23 year old woman, and I don't know if there's any parents of little ones in the audience. I think this might be just a pre and post young kids with colic, because this is a before and after, just like this is what you were before, and then you had a kid with colic for a few months, and you look like the right, but it's not that. So all jokes aside, this is a healthy woman. And then later, just four hours before she died. So very quickly deteriorated. So she looks cyanotic, right, bluish. And she looks, if you can kind of see all these sort of like new wrinkles and so forth, she looks kind of sunken in, like dehydrated basically. Again, I don't expect you necessarily to like grab this because there's not major other signs, but any suggestions about bacteria that can cause hyperboleic shock and kill you pretty quickly? Cholera, right? So this is like from like a textbook describing what cholera can look like. Just terrible, death by diarrhea. So thank goodness for sanitation and clear water and all that sort of thing. All right, so here's another piece of cholera. This is, I flipped it out so you can kind of see. Interestingly, so this is called this cholera to blame, but there's something called dry cholera, very, very rare. But typically cholera is just gallons and gallons of water diarrhea, and that's how you die. And you just need lots of IV fluids until your body can get rid of it. But something called dry cholera is if you have this complication where basically your gut isn't working, doesn't move, then you just kind of swell up with the fluid, and then you die that way, which is also terrible. So anyways, this person apparently had dry cholera, and again, looks sort of cyanotic and so forth from the circulatory shock, because all the fluids going, like not in your bloodstream, but into your gut, which won't help you. All right, this is just touching, painting it's actually was like used by the Royal Academy of Surgeons, et cetera, et cetera. There's no obvious diagnosis here. There's clearly a child who looks sick, but I'll just, just as a fun little aside or maybe point it, but basically this is inspired by the artist's one year old son who died, typhoid fever on Christmas. And like, I guess the artist was just really impressed by the, you know, physicians care and so forth. Again, they couldn't do a whole lot back in those days. Of course, typhoid is also a vaccine preventable. This is just like a little aside, as I'm actually intramascent pediatrics alone mostly do medicine, but it's just, go to like Mount Auburn cemetery. These are from Mount Auburn cemetery. It's so moving to me. I'm not going to be political, but I'll just say that vaccines are very good to prevent people from dying, especially little children. So just the number of graves you'll see at these older cemeteries of like, oh, here's our baby died at one or three months or it, you know, three years or whatever. So the under five mortality from things like typhoid fever, diphtheria, et cetera, et cetera, was very high. So anyways, all right. We're now moving on to different infectious disease de la Santa Humilita. So you will see in the upper left, if you know your iconography, but that looks like St. Francis, he's got sort of the Franciscan robe and the sigmana and the hands on the side. So St. Francis and some other attendants are helping these sick people. Some people pause and maybe this is black death. I want to give it, it's not black death. Because you can see then some of the noses of some of these patients, about three of them look like they're pretty ulcerated, like they've been kind of like, not off the cartilage there. And they're also carrying these little clappers, like wooden clappers or maybe they're bells. Sometimes they'd carry to make noise. How's it guys what this is? Sorry? Leprosy, great, yeah. So in his St. Francis, and the other clue is St. Francis is very famous for taking care of lepers, like actually kiss them, et cetera, to like make them feel loved. Also known as Hansen's disease is the modern term. So of course this is from like ancient times, like Leviticus and Egyptian, hieroglyphs et cetera make reference to lepers. You know, sort of terrible, disfiguring chronic disease. And that really made them societal prius. So you don't, you know, obviously you don't know exactly how it's spread, but you know if you stay away from them, you won't get it. More in the same vein. So this is in the British Library in London, but basically a gentleman who is begging. So some good, my gentle master for God's sake. So he's asking for money and he's missing a hand and a foot. There's kind of advantage there, but the actual hand and foot are missing. And again, ringing a bell, like I'm coming, like don't get too close to me. Just a terrible way to live, huh? And again, there's more of these, but this thing called a saddle nose deformity, where again it destroys some of the cartilage here. So it kind of looks more like a saddle or like Leonine faces again from chronic leprosy, aka Hansen's disease. Again, a little less, yeah, just continue. And then this actually made, so the my last case of leprosy, the sort of title of clinical infectious use journal, but you can see that clearly this isn't just stylized. This is somebody seeing people that with leprosy and this is what they look like with the, you know, natocardilage destroyed, et cetera. And this is a picture I took actually in India, like people still haven't leprosy. Fortunately, it's pretty rare, but it still happens. You can see again some of the things that we were just talking about. Again, before Goya went a little too crazy, so one of his earlier pieces, this is Lazaro de Dormez, and it's also known as El Garatillo, which means like the strangler, which is probably a plan words, because it's almost like he's strangling this guy, but it's also referring to the disease process that he's actually trying to help this kid. So this is, if you look inside, this is probably what's inside there. You don't wanna hazard guess what that is. Diphtheria, very good. So diphtheria is back when we did vaccinate against it. We'd see it in pediatrics and basically it causes pseudo membrane, kind of like closing off the back of the throat, making it hard for a child to breathe. My dad talks about how there's a kid with it, so my dad is pediatrician. Like just as a resident, like just barely interpolating the last second child with diphtheria with like, you know, this tiny little airway. If you don't get it, like the child's dead, so it's scary stuff. And in fact, five of six boys, children died in childhood. So we're very grateful for that D and D tap that we don't have to see that much anymore. Okay, Cloorsies Museum in New York City is just so great. But if you walk through, you'll see this. Oh, look at that. Gonna hazard guess what this is or who this is. Uh-huh. And so what is the disease? Yeah, perfect. So we talked about it a little bit earlier, but this is a bubo, this is an inflammatory bubonic plague, St. Rock is a patient who's playing victims. So, you know, classically it would maybe be more in the groin and anguinal lymph node, but that's a little risque. So it'll kind of show the upper thigh, which, you know, it certainly can appear there as well. So again, you can, you can find like, I just give another example of the same, but this is Tintoretto, St. Rock in the hospital, again, caring for play victims. And you can see all these lymph nodes, some by more anatomically correct for where there's lymph nodes than others, but you get the idea. Okay, this is kind of a cool historical piece because this is possibly the first time that this disease was like ever documented, was in this piece and it ran along with like an article or like a poem about it. So this is a, Dewey, this famous engraver, it's called Man with a Pox 1496, again, cover of clinical infectious disease. I wanna guess what this is. Syphilis. Now, how do you know that? Dr. Fendas. Hand. Perfect. So there's not a lot of rashes that actually appear on your palms and the soles of your feet. Syphilis is one of them. And again, this is sort of after 1492, Columbus sailed the ocean blue and therefore syphilis came back and sort of spread like wildfire. So this new disease popped up and sort of captured the imagination of many people. So it's brought from the new world and then spread by wars are going on at a time and soldiers doing things that they shouldn't, I'm sure. And so it's very, however you wanna like sigmatize who brought it to you, you call it the Spanish disease or the French disease, the Italian disease. Go ahead. The battle of Naples, they say more of, it kills more people than the actual battle of Naples. There you go. The French against this, I think I guess this is the Naples lead. Yeah. If anyone in Zoom land, basically one of our attending physicians who was talking about how in the battle of Naples that syphilis probably killed more people than the guns and swords did. More of the same. So more of the gallorum, the galls, the French. So again, as the entire body is affected, you see people who are like barely closed who's like referenced, maybe there's some risque going on or STDs that are, but they're syphilis. And in the old days, what did you do? How did you test your stuff? Looked at the urine and you tasted the urine. Gross. But that's what the guy's doing. That's when they're gonna have an aphrologist around and I call a console for that one. I'm not so good at that, but I know something is. All right. Going back to Mochi pottery. This is again, roughly eight century-ish. A little, again, like, sorry, this is like not Rated G, but this sort of erotic poetry, erotic pottery rather. So you see these raised general lesions around the genitals of buttocks somewhere on the torso or on the arms. Who knows? But maybe this is secondary syphilis. Again, syphilis was in the old world. So it could totally be HPV, like maybe. It doesn't usually go up on your torso though. So that'd be kind of weird. And there's something called Viruga Peruana. I've never seen this, but apparently it can cause these large sort of circular spherical kind of blood filled lesions. So like maybe, although, yeah, I don't know, but somebody published on that. Okay. I'm gonna do a couple more syphilis cases just again because this was such a thing. There are certain diseases that were just such a part of life that we don't have to worry about much anymore, but were, I think, could have spent a so on. But this is Merige-Alamot. So there's these seven pieces that this French artist did, basically as a satire, and like syphilis is all over that, basically. So for example, here's a gentleman showing this doctor who's on the left wearing kind of the greenish coat. He's like, basically these pills aren't working for me. And this is a mercury pill. So yeah, the fire, I'm working for you, but that's where they try back then. And then everybody's got signs of syphilis. So they just do this sort of stylized black spots as if that's syphilis. But more specifically, you're gonna see the satin nose deformity in the doctor in the bottom left, where again, it's kind of the chronic syphilis, tertiary syphilis is destroyed his nose. And then you've got this girl is kind of wiping a sore on her lips, which may be in an earlier stage of syphilis. And then if you continue again, there's more of these pains, but just to show a case of congenital syphilis. So you've got frontal bossing. So the face, the head, the forehead looks a little billet out again, that saddle nose where it looks kind of like concave and then the kind of bull-legged. So that's classic for congenital syphilis. One more example of syphilis for funsies. This is Moomk, it's called inheritance. It's also called, I think it's called, what's it called the syphilitic child. So again, you see things that match up pretty well with what we know that congenital syphilis looks like. This is why every pregnant woman is checked for a syphilis and they're blood testing prenatally, so that we don't see this much anymore, thank goodness, because it's terrible. So you can kind of see this woman just like weeping over her devastated child. All right, this one's pretty interesting. I'll buy it, it's a bit of a stretch, but I'll buy it. So this is Jan Steen, doctor with his patient. So you've got a doctor and this patient's like not lying down, which is a typical thing for sick patients, but kind of sitting up and she does look like she's got kind of this glistening gloss and maybe she's been sweating in febrile. He's checking her pulse, so maybe her heart rate's a little fast. Looks like her hand is a little swollen. No, I'll buy that, looks a little swollen and red. So that's arthritis. And then again, orthopnea is when you feel shorter breath when you lie flat. Ortho means straighter flat, like orthopedics. So she doesn't want to do that, she wants to sit up so she can feel shorter breath. Anyone has any guess what this could be? Put all those together and an infectious disease mindset. Post-infectious disease mindset. Yeah, so close to it. So rheumatic fever, so something that's reactive to a infection that we had. So basically nowadays we probably give too much antibiotics, bless you for strep throat, but there's a small risk of getting something like this if strep isn't treated, less so in the serotypes that we see here in the United States, but more common in other places. So maybe she had rheumatic fever, which basically is this post-immune complication of strep that can cause all the above, heart failure, arthritis, et cetera. Like from the heart valves, it is a heart failure. All right, I wanted to throw at least one Egyptian piece. So this is what I could find with it. I think likely infectious disease. So here's a gentleman who's got quite a bent spine, Eric, you can kind of see it's going like this. Anyone know what this is? Or this could be? Yeah, so this is a patient that I saw in Ethiopia. So this definitely still happens in the world. And it's basically a disease that it's like malaria. It's like been with us forever and it's terrible and it kills so many people. Although unlike malaria, we, how to say it, like a lot of people just kind of have a dormant because it just kind of lives in hides in our white blood cells and our macrophages. But if you Google what's the kill more people than any disease in all of human history, TB is what Google will tell you is number one. Certainly it's what most people more people are infected with anywhere in the world. Right now, a fourth of the world is infected with TB, like here in 2026. Now they're almost all latent, which is me and like, it's there, it's not causing problems. But anyways, so tuberculosis of the spine is also known as POTS disease. And again, fourth of the world is infected right now. Obviously a much higher percent back in the day and even higher during the industrial time as well. Now you have really crowded conditions and these timents and everyone's in factories copying each other, et cetera. So POTS disease, pretty interesting. This is Rembants Vashiva. Again, sorry, I said I'm rated G here, but here we go. So this is a lot of people have studied and thought what could be going on because this breast looks like a little asymmetrical, a little kind of like there's a bulge there and there's a bulge there. It doesn't look like a sort of a, like the other breast looks more sort of symmetrical. And so what could be going on? You can see several people poached on this. Some people thought that this could be breast cancer. In fact, they used it in advertising in Australia for breast cancer, but that doesn't work because she lived nine years after this painting. So if you had POTAR orange, which means like orange skin, which is like inflamed, advanced, bad breast cancer, making the skin look like an orange skin, you're not gonna live for nine years. So she in those days. So probably not bad, but it's nice to have an ad campaign for cancer training. That's great, get your mammograms. No, more likely I think is tuberculosis. I'm going to the TB theme for a little few slides here, but basically TB is something you'd have chronically that would cause swelling, wouldn't kill you in a moment. And whereas for example, if this was more just like a mastitis, that's more acute. And therefore you probably have more, you wouldn't be wanting to sit there and getting your painting painted. So I'm looking at the clock here. I'm just gonna kind of zip through the rest of these slides so I have times for questions at the end. Here's another breast looks like symmetrical. Maybe this is chronic mastitis. This is more TB complications possibly. Maybe this is scoffula, that's a TB of the neck area, but it could just be that this guy has a scar from the sword duel, but anyways, scoffula is also known as the King's Evil. There was an idea that the King could touch and it would be healed. More paintings about TB just emphasizing how terrible it is. But basically this pulmonary TB killed lots of people, killed this painter a few weeks later. Munch, his sister died of it, he survived it and sort of for a brahant and he painted several paintings about this. But interesting about TB, there's also this idea of like, and during the Victorian times, there are romantic age of it being more like attractive. There's what's called consumption, right? And so it kind of consumes you. So you look sort of thin and you have a pallor and there's more delicate and weak. There's something like a track, you know, this is the air of corsets and everyone's like, looks very white, but like very pink cheeks and stuff. So maybe pink, cause you're having fevers every day. But it was very interesting that there was kind of this like, ying and yang about TB in that particular era. And some artists that actually made them feel more creative with the sort of TB fevers. But anyway, so you get an idea of like people painting TB almost like this is a pretty thing. This brings me I think to my final slide. Yeah. Oh, so we understand how different times diseases are viewed in different ways as the art helps with. So this is Christina's world, a pretty famous piece by Andrew Wyeth and who lived here in New England. And we know about this woman that basically she had this, from childhood, this sort of severe progressive neurologic disease, you can see that she has some joint. See how her illness has like for like claw hands there. And she actually later in life just crawled around. She didn't want to use a wheelchair. This is how she wanted to move around. And actually she went to what was then called Boston City Hospital. So now BMC, she went there for a week. They couldn't figure out what she had. He said, I guess keep on living as you've been living. And so she did. Then Andrew Wyeth saw her like crawling around in the grass outside of his home. I think it was in Maine and he asked for permission and painted her here. So people posit different things. Chalk and Marie Tooth is a neurological disorder. Well, they usually you see that more in like the feet, maybe polio, one person throughout chronic Lyme, which I don't know, chronic Lyme usually like arthritis usually affects like the big joints, like the knees, that like the hands. It seems a bit of a stretch. So we've appreciated in this exercise, the limitations of trying to diagnose post humanously and from hundreds of years away. But hopefully we have a greater appreciation of this exercise and of the people who come before us and helped medicine and modern society to be free of many of these terrible diseases. So that's my talk. And just another reminder, like there's much more of where this came from. So if there's something you wanna like, oh, come talk to our oncology group about whatever, like I could do this work. Let's talk about that, that'd be fun. That's it. And I'll take any questions in the last few minutes we got. Okay. I'll start with two things about sick caucus from online. One was somebody noted that the paintings on loan to be in a thing right now. Oh, wow, look at that. And then there was a question. Do we know if the near was ever cleaned since the near can serve cause sort of yellow over time and wish might change your perception of what the disease might have been? That's a great question. So if anyone didn't catch it, the question is, a lot of these paintings, the restoration techniques over time have obviously got much better. But sometimes they're just like the way they would kind of try to preserve pieces. It would be this kind of relatively like yellowish darkish veneer. So could that be the reason this looks more jaundice? I don't know specifically about that. Again, I'll just say I've seen this piece in person and I think I've seen the other piece in person and one looks a lot pinker than the other. I don't know if there was different restoration techniques or not, but yeah, it's admittedly, I'm not too sure. It'd be interesting to ask a artist or an or someone unfamiliar with the restoration of that piece. Any questions? Greg, some final thoughts. Have you seen any samples of just some of my students? I'm thinking that's a worldwide disease or the almost parasite mediators. Yeah, the question is not justo, just a semenosis. There was one painting I almost, you can tell I had to like take some thought. Well, I mean, so justo, if I'm recalling correctly, so I can get infected to the liver and can then go through your GI tract and cause terrible hemorrhagic vomiting. You die from that if I'm recalling correctly. There was a painting of somebody vomiting blood. I think it was in that setting of the seven in Milan in the Duomo, but it seems so not specific. I couldn't tell that was justo or something else. But the answer question, no, I haven't thought of any justo paintings, but no. Yes, no. No, I haven't, no, definitively no. Yeah, yeah. Someone asks, is there a collection of medical arts to visit in New England? Does anyone put together that tour? No, although I've done a couple of times a tour by me in the MFA. Let's go see the paintings that have disease, but no. I mean, you got to hear the Russell L.History Museum. You guys have some nice artwork downstairs, but I'm not aware of anyone that specifically clusters it. You'd have to go searching for it, which is fun. So go to your local museum and look for it. Someone asks, are there any artistic dupe patients of pertussis? Mm, whooping cough. Again, I think that'd be hard to find. You find somebody who looks like they're coughing and turning blue at the face, but I'm not aware of that. Other questions in the room? Okay. All right, well, with that, thank you again. Dr. Hines is fantastic. Thanks, guys. Thank you.