 and scrxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx session is being recorded for educational purposes. If you're interested in viewing the corning, it will be made available on the Blum Center website at massgeneral.org.com. Please note that everyone is in listen only mode. You have been muted so you can hear our guest speakers today. If you have any questions for our guest speakers, you can use the chat feature which is located at the bottom of your screen. We'll have time for the chat. If you have any questions, please ask your doctor. Lastly, at the end of today's session, you'll be directed to a brief survey. Would you like to ask us to help us complete? If you're back, it's important to us as we plan future programs. All right, so I'm going to turn it over to Rob Dunn who will get us started. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. the presentation today. I think in recognition of American Heart Month, which happens every year in February, we wanted to talk about the ways that healthy eating guidance in context of cancer treatment overlaps with healthy eating guidance for other chronic illnesses such as cardiovascular disease. So, without further ado, I'll pass it to Martha. Awesome. Thanks Amy and thanks Rob. I'll just share my slides here. All right, is that showing up for you all? Yep, looks good. Excellent. Let's get started. Here is today's agenda, which as Rob stated, centers on balancing diet guidance for people receiving or recovering from cancer treatment with diet guidance for heart health. Nutrition and cancer care. If you've attended any of our previous webinars through the Blum Center, we've primarily focused on managing the side effects of cancer and its treatment. And today's topic really enters the realm of nutrition for wellness and survivorship. And during active treatment for cancer, our primary goals as registered dietitians are to help patients with weight maintenance, preservation of lean body mass, and symptom management in order to optimize tolerance of treatment and improve quality of life. So, specific guidance for managing malnutrition, poor appetite, nausea, taste changes, and difficulty swallowing is currently available on the Blum Center's YouTube page in case anyone would like more information about these topics. For cancer survivorship, we draw many of our recommendations from the American Institute for Cancer Research and the World Cancer Research Fund. We have identified 10 pillars for the prevention of cancer and its recurrence, and six of these pillars are specifically about nutrition. The first nutrition related pillar is to eat a diet rich in whole grains, vegetables, fruit, and beans. So these foods should ideally form the bulk of the diet. Practically, I tell patients to aim for about five half cup servings of fruits and vegetables daily and then weave in whole grains and plant proteins throughout the meals they're having. So for example, if we're thinking about whole grains that might look like oatmeal at breakfast, whole wheat bread at lunch, and then some sort of grain as a side at dinner like bulgur, farro, quinoa, etc. Then the next pillar is to limit consumption of fast foods and other items high in primarily saturated fat, starches, or sugars. So these would be items to consume infrequently. Then they recommend that patients limit consumption of bread and processed meat. I usually tell patients if they do consume red meat to try to limit it to about a serving a week and avoid processed meat as much as possible. Next is to limit consumption of sugar, sweetened drinks and try to consume more plain water or seltzer if carbonation is enjoyable. Then limit alcohol consumption. This recommendation is because the body metabolizes alcohol into a compound called acid aldehyde that can cause DNA damage. And then finally, they state do not use supplements for cancer prevention. Ideally, supplements would be used to correct a nutrient deficiency, support bone health, or supplement certain dietary patterns. For example, a vegan diet may require certain supplementation. And I also want to note on this point that there is no supplement known to prevent cancer or it's recurrence. In terms of the survivorship recommendations, our colleagues Ashley Dravium and Carol Sullivan recently gave an excellent talk through the Blum Center called paving the way with every bite nutrition as a tool for cancer survivorship. And that provides a deep dive into these pillars, as well as specific ideas for how to implement them. I believe that talk is also now available on the Blum Center YouTube page if anyone is interested to learn more. There are many reasons why heart health is particularly important for people with a history of cancer. Cancer and cardiovascular disease share a number of risk factors and mechanisms, including oxidative stress and inflammation. The key takeaways here are that people with a history of cancer have a significantly increased risk of cardiovascular disease compared to the general population. And this risk is largely attributed to treatment toxicity. Emerging research also suggests that a history of cardiovascular disease may influence the risk of developing cancer. And so this image summarizes that potential bidirectional link. On a bright note, lifestyle behaviors are some of the best ways to prevent cardiovascular disease. So what does that look like? In terms of nutrition, the American Heart Association recommends a diet that emphasizes a variety of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. And this is a diet that focuses on healthy protein sources. So that will primarily be lean animal proteins like fish, seafood and poultry that is unprocessed, as well as plant sources of proteins like legumes and nuts. And then there is the encouraged consumption of liquid non-tropical vegetable oils. So these are really going to be your heart healthy unsaturated fats, things that are liquid at room temperature. Minimal processed foods, minimal added sugars specifically for men. The American Heart Association suggests limiting added sugars to 36 grams or about nine teaspoons a day. And for women, that recommendation is a limit of 25 grams or about six teaspoons a day. And added sugars will be listed on all food labels. Additionally, encourage minimal salt, usually a maximum of about 2300 milligrams daily, and then limited or preferably no alcohol. Other lifestyle considerations include regular exercise. They specifically suggest two and a half hours of moderate or 75 minutes of vigorous physical activity each week. And then they recommend that people avoid tobacco products, get adequate sleep, achieve and maintain a healthy weight, which is going to look different person to person, and manage cholesterol, blood sugar and blood pressure. And those targets will likely be individualized as well based on guidance from healthcare providers. Now let's put this information together. It may already be clear that the survivorship and heart health guidelines are almost identical regarding nutrition. The key overlaps are to eat a predominantly plant based diet, focus on lean protein sources, limit calories from saturated fat. This, we didn't get into two specifically early on, but the American Heart Association specifically suggests that less than 6% of total calories, which is about 13 grams of saturated fat on a 2000 calorie diet, come from saturated fat. So, to provide an example of what that might look like on a plate, that's about a six ounce rib by a steak, a tablespoon of coconut oil, or two or three slices of full fat cheese for the whole day. And then limiting calories from added sugars, we discussed the specific guidance there and avoid alcohol. And of course both guidelines do encourage physical activity. I included here a picture of the new American plate, which the American Institute for Cancer Research created, because I think this provides a helpful visual to put this guidance into an actual meal. Here, two thirds or more of the plate contains vegetables, fruit, whole grains or beans, and then one third or less includes a healthy animal protein such as poultry. The idea is that this framework can be applied to all meals for the day. So for example at breakfast, that might be an omelet with eggs as the animal protein, but then including a bunch of vegetables as well. During active cancer treatment, guidance may vary. So first, certain cancer types and treatment regimens are associated with what's known as a state of hyper metabolism during which the body's energy and protein needs increase significantly. Patients with hyper metabolism may need to eat a lot more than usual simply to maintain their body weight. And in this case, it might be easier to consume calories from dietary fat and fluids. Certainly if people can start with heart healthy fats like olive oil and avocado. That's an ideal calorie booster. But some people may need butter, ice cream, full fat dairy products and sugar sweetened beverages, which are quite caloric in order to prioritize weight maintenance and that is okay. Eating during active treatment is all about balancing priorities. In terms of fiber, tolerance might vary, particularly if someone has GI issues such as constipation or diarrhea. And finally, physical activity is typically at the discretion of each patient's treatment team, people recovering from surgery or with other specific contraindications may need to take it easy. So I want to provide some more specific guidance around protein. On active treatment, 1.2 to 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight is typically adequate to maintain muscle mass. And we encourage people to choose well tolerated protein sources. So that's really going to be any protein food that appeals and doesn't cause GI upset. So for some people, 1.2 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight is typically adequate, but this of course varies based on age, medical history, personal goals and activity levels. So for someone who's very active and trying to rebuild muscle, they may need a bit more than that. And again, the focus should be on trying to get protein from lean and plant based sources. And also, for heart health, as of 2024, the American Heart Association recommended the previous recommended dietary allowance or RDA, which was 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight with a focus on lean and plant based sources. The 2026 dietary guidelines for Americans that were just released now recommend a new RDA of 1.2 to 1.6 grams per kilogram. So it remains to be seen whether the American Heart Association will update their guidelines. If you want to note that excess calories from protein do still get stored as dietary fat and can contribute to weight gain. So for someone who isn't physically active, this recommendation could be on the high side. And as always, we recommend speaking with either a dietician or a healthcare provider to understand the best protein goal based on your individual health history because there can be a good amount of variability that goes into place in making these recommendations. So fiber, for active treatment, we typically say include fiber rich foods as tolerated. So what does that mean practically? If someone is having diarrhea or loose bowel movements, we'll encourage them to increase their consumption of soluble fiber from foods like oats, rice, potatoes with the skin removed. And we'll typically advise them to omit non-starchy vegetables if they have poor appetite, abdominal pain or diarrhea. For cancer survivorship, the American Institute for Cancer Research advises 30 grams of dietary fiber each day to lower cancer risk. In the talk that Ashley and Carol gave, they had an excellent slide about how to hit this 30 gram goal. So I would encourage people to check that out. And ideally this fiber is coming from a variety of whole grains, fruits and vegetables. Finally, for heart health, the American Heart Association recommendation is pretty closely aligned with that of the AICR, and they do specify that fiber should ideally come from food sources and not supplements. To wrap up, we'll share a few practical tips and tricks. Here is what I would consider a gold standard day when energy is good and symptoms impacting nutrition are mild, which could be a variety of different things. It could be fatigue, GI issues, nausea, etc. On that type of day, we would recommend preparing well-balanced, predominantly plant-based meals and snacks. And if able, making some extra servings to safely store for lower energy days is always helpful so that there's a little stock in the fridge. That might look like a Greek yogurt parfait in the morning with blueberries as the fruit and oats as the whole grain. Some carrot sticks and red pepper hummus as a plant-based protein and vegetable snack. A Greek salad with roasted chickpeas in the afternoon, wheat pasta with pesto, Brussels sprouts, and frances of salmon in the evening. And then maybe a bowl of Cheerios with some low-fat milk and sliced banana as a later snack. We broke this into mini meals in case people are having lower appetite, but these meals could certainly be combined to make three larger meals if someone is feeling good and doesn't need to follow a smaller, more frequent meal pattern. And then for a more gentle day, if energy is lower and nutrition impact symptoms are causing more challenges, we would recommend choosing easy-to-prepare, small, frequent meals, ideally with heart-healthy fats. I want to note too that it is always better to eat something than nothing at all. So if any of these options seem overwhelming to prep, anything that you can grab is better than not eating. Quick oats might be an easy go-to breakfast with a scoop of some nut butter, maybe some sliced fruit. And then at lunch, that might look like some crackers with tuna salad, carrots, a drinkable low-fat yogurt from the fridge could be an afternoon snack, a cup of low-sodium soup in the evening, and then maybe some Cheerios with milk and banana before bed. I also want to share a few additional resources. The American Heart Association, American Institute for Cancer Research, Harvard Nutrition Source, and EatingWell are all a wealth of resources. They've got recipes, plans to help implement some of these recommendations, and good write-ups on a lot of hot topic nutrition questions with really evidence-based sources. So I would encourage everyone to check those out. And I wanted to pull the new American plate back here too, because I think it is a really helpful anchor when putting meals together that can help simplify things a bit. We do encourage patients of the Masch General Brigham Cancer Institute to request an appointment with our team of registered dietitians. We see people at the Boston, Danvers, Newton-Walsley, and Waltham locations. Here are our references, and we'd be happy to take any questions. Awesome. Thank you so much, Martha. That was a really, really awesome overview. I will open it up just with a question that I hear patients kind of grappling with all the time, which is, you know, during active cancer treatment, they are often engaging with dietary guidance that might run kind of counter to what they've been told for most of their life. You know, where their dietitian and their oncologist is kind of encouraging high-calorie foods or foods that maybe don't have as much nutrient density, micronutrient density as previously they've been recommended to eat. How do you kind of go about walking patients through the differences between healthy eating for most of their life and healthy eating in context of cancer treatment? Yeah, that's a great question. I would say I usually tell people that it's all about priorities, and I try to encourage them to think about the acute concerns versus the more chronic lifestyle concerns that they may have heard about throughout the lifetime. So, for example, someone who's lost a significant amount of weight and might be at risk of acute complications for malnutrition should prioritize weight gain, and that might need to include foods that aren't traditionally thought of as healthy. But in that scenario, the risk of malnutrition is going to outweigh the risk of eating maybe, you know, less heart healthy fats for a period of time, because we really need to just address what's going on in the immediate and allow them to continue treatment. That's just a specific example, but that would be one way to frame it. And then if we can move them later on towards some of those healthier foods, again, that's the goal, of course, but I think it really all boils down to the immediate priority. I'd be curious what you tell people, Rob. Yeah, that's, I really wouldn't have said it any differently. I find the phrase that I'm saying a lot is that healthy eating takes a lot of different shapes over the course of our life. And, you know, the majority of the time the priority is eating, you know, a variety of fruits and vegetables, having a high fiber diet, consuming lean protein sources, and then sometimes across your lifespan, there's periods where that doesn't necessarily fit. And during active cancer treatment when malnutrition is much more of a concern, I often try to help patients feel free to include foods that previously they might not have, you know, when they were only prioritizing cardiovascular health. I see a question that just went into the chat, which was, are there any suggestions on foods that help with inflammation from medication treatments? I can start this one. Inflammation is something that happens across a real gradient. There's low grade inflammation, then very high grade inflammation. Often high grade inflammation is not modifiable through food, diet, or other lifestyle measures. That's more something that your oncologist and your other, you know, medical providers will work to make sure that your body is responding to treatment in a way that is not provoking excess inflammation or pain, fevers, infections, things that can be complications of active treatment. So, kind of low grade chronic inflammation, we know that a healthy diet pattern kind of outlined in that cancer survivorship diet or a hard healthy diet. Foods like fatty fish, a variety of fresh fruits and vegetables, maintaining your weight in a healthy range. All of those help fight against kind of lifestyle driven inflammation. But in the context of active treatment, I want to make patients aware that there's no one food that you should be prioritizing to reduce your inflammatory burden. And similarly, there's no one food other than I would say alcohol that you should avoid due to inflammation. Would you say anything different about that, Martha, or add anything? No, I agree. I think certainly, as you stated, Rob, for the kind of chronic low grade inflammation, if someone's on a maintenance therapy, for example, this heart healthy diet pattern that I wanted to call out to earlier, really, is essentially a Mediterranean style diet. People may have also heard of the dash diet or dietary approaches to stop hypertension. When you look at them all closely, they're essentially recommending the same pattern. Those all align with the sort of classic anti inflammatory diet that would encourage whole grains, vegetables, fruits and beans, and then limiting foods that are higher in saturated fat, starches, added sugars, etc. Yeah, exactly. I think when we look at diet patterns, you know, kind of assigned to different disease groups, whether it be cancer or cardiovascular disease, more and more we're thinking about neurologic health and like long term brain health. The guidance for almost all of those conditions from a diet perspective is almost identical. There may be slight differences here and there, but the core tenets of those diet patterns are really, really the same, which is nice when we're when we're thinking about trying to pursue longevity across like a couple different disease groups. I don't see any other questions in the chat, so please feel free to add them in over the last couple minutes here, but I'll just I'll just add a comment and then Martha, feel free to add your insight. Oftentimes, in the midst of active cancer treatment, what I find patients are having the hardest time integrating from the more kind of classic heart healthy diet is those very high fiber foods, particularly foods that are high in fiber and low in calories like leafy greens roasted vegetables, very fibrous cereals. Sometimes those can be irritating from a GI perspective in context of active treatment. And those are the types of foods that a dietitian might advise you to limit the portion sizes of if they're making you uncomfortable, or if you're continuing to lose weight. Is there any other kind of category of foods, Martha, that you feel we should add there? No, I think that's the main one. And understandably, I think that's the one that people feel the worst about not being able to eat because it typically is the core of this really otherwise healthy dietary pattern. But even for some people who might not be as sensitive if they can modify those foods to some extent like cooking and peeling their produce, having vegetables in a smoothier soup, it might help. So, definitely worth experimenting with ways to sort of pre digest those foods a little bit. Absolutely. Absolutely. And we're almost at the bottom of the hour. So I see this last question in here and I can address it. It's, thank you all for submitting the questions. It's for added sugar. You know, guidance around added sugar, would that include items like sucralose or other kind of non-nutritive sugars or sweeteners, rather? I think the guidance and the data around the cancer risk profile associated with zero calorie sweeteners like sucralose is emerging. And at the moment, we don't tell people to avoid non-no calorie sweeteners in hopes of reducing their cancer risk. Certainly we know that added sugar and through adding sugar increased body weight or increased abdominal adipose tissue or belly fat, those are risk factors for cancer long term. We don't see the same correlations with the zero calorie sweeteners, although certainly that's something that researchers are spending time investigating. Amy, we've reached the bottom of the hour and I'm not seeing any other questions applicable to everyone in the chat. Thank you, Rob. Thank you, Martha. Thank you. Thank you. I have shared a couple of links in the chat. Martha mentioned our recent paving the way with every bite, the nutrition webinar that we held last month. So I shared the recording in the chat, so you're welcome to access that to view the recording as well as save the date. For our next session, it's going to be on managing diarrhea during cancer treatment. It's going to be a month from now, so Monday, March 2nd at noon. And the website to the Blum Center is also in there. That way you can get more information on that session as well as the Zoom link to attend it, as well as upcoming sessions. Alright, everyone. Thank you so much for joining us. Hopefully you found today's session helpful. Take care. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.