 a gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift gift Dan Fowler, who's the Chief Medical Officer for RAPA Therapeutics, about the RAPA 501 EAP for ALS. Next slide, Catherine. Great. And we, so the other person at the RAPA Therapeutics company that we want to acknowledge is Brian Radecki, who is the CEO of the company and really, really committed to this program, really committed to developing RAPA 501 for people with ALS and has been an incredible partner to Dan. And I've had the pleasure of working alongside them on this EAP, but also on the clinical development program. Next slide. So I want to take a few minutes and just explain sort of what RAPA 501 is. These are T stem cell infusions and they're autologous and we're doing this in people living with ALS. So there's a process for making and infusing these cells. Autologous means they come from the person who will be infused. So they're coming from the person with ALS who enters the trial. The first step to all of this is that people enter the trial as participants and their T cells are harvested through a process called apheresis. Now we don't just take off T cells. This apheresis consists of a blood draw that goes on for a number of hours. The blood goes out through an IV to a machine that holds on to just the white blood cells. The white blood cells are the ones that fight infection. Now it doesn't keep enough of the white blood cells to make people immune suppressed, just enough that we can make the product. So those white cells, whatever they may be, all these different white cells are collected through this very standard clinical process called apheresis. And then those cells are shipped down to the rapid therapeutics manufacturing facility. And there the T cells, all T cells are isolated. Now I want to be clear, it's not the regulatory T cells that are isolated. It's all T cells that are isolated. And they go through a process called de-differentiation. That means all the T cells become sort of a deprogrammed, kind of very naive kind of T cell. And they're all sort of similar at that point. And that's done through epigenetic reprogramming. So there's no sort of genetic manipulation that's gone on. And that's RAPA's therapeutic process for the cells that they've put together based on many, many years of research. And then there's what's called re-differentiation. That is, we make all of these T cells, different kinds of T cells, helper T cells, killer T cells, regulatory T cells. We make them all into sort of naive T cells. And then they go through a process to make them back into a kind of a regulatory T cell. But it's a very, it's a very naive kind of a regulatory T cell. And it shares some properties with other kinds of T cells, effector T cells, to make it a very resilient T cell. So it's, they're grown in a way that make them want to stay as, as these kind of naive regulatory T cells. And that's different than just having regulatory T cells, which can switch into killer T cells or helper T cells when they're infused back into the, to the, into the patient. So once those T cells have gone through de-differentiation, re-differentiation, they're then parsed out into doses and they're frozen and they're shipped back to the site. And then the site takes those frozen cells. And when the participant is there in the infusion center, they, they thaw the cells, reawaken them, and they're put back into the body and they act as anti-inflammatory cells. Next slide. So I've talked about some of this, but this is a little bit of an overview of sort of how that process of de-differentiation, re-differentiation sort of happens. And it has to do with blocking the mTORC1 and 2 pathways, selecting cells that are metabolically most fit. This is sort of allows us to have the, the strongest T cells that go back into the body. There is a process of removing checkpoints and making these T cells into sort of kind of naive, we call them T stem memory cells. This gives them a long lasting property that's different than just Tregs. This is, this is the step that makes them less like, more likely to survive and less likely to convert back into some other kind of T cell. And then there are certain cell surface markers that then begin to appear that make them particularly anti-inflammatory and, and good at reconstituting the immune system in a, in a positive and healthy way. And that is the final step in making these RAPA 501 kind of cells, their, their final, in their final state. So we often shorthand this to a, to sort of a Treg program. It's not really just Tregs that are going back into the body. It's these, it's these sort of highly engineered RAPA 501 cells. Next slide. So with that in mind, we want to just update you on, on status and, and we make these, these slides and then we continue to progress. And, and actually this slide is just a, just a little bit out of, out of date. And I'll tell you how at the very bottom, but we, we screened 62 participants. There were a few people who, who screen failed. Um, 57 of those people, uh, uh, enrolled in the study. They underwent aphoresis. There were two that left the study prior to aphoresis, um, and, uh, never had the aphoresis because of disease progression. We're targeting people who are later in the disease. And, and that became, uh, it became apparent that the, the protocol was, uh, too onerous, uh, unfortunately for two participants. Um, and then, uh, there were, um, there were 55 who went on to have the aphoresis of those three did not actually, um, get the drug in a way that would make them evaluable. We wouldn't be able to sort of evaluate the, the effect. They didn't, they didn't have the cell infusion or didn't get enough of it for it to be valuable. Um, and then there are, um, at the time of the slide, 49 who had had at least one of the RAPA 501 infusions. I think that's actually all 51 now have had one. We may, we may still be waiting for one to have, have an infusion. Um, but all of the aphoresis are done. And, um, this is more than our, than our original goal. We originally got a grant to, to do, uh, 40 participants. We got an expansion grant to go up to 50 and then we, we expanded beyond that by finding some efficiencies in the budget. Next slide. Uh, and, and Dan, I'll hand over after this slide, but I just, we, we wanted to acknowledge the 11 11 really excellent centers who have put together their expertise as, uh, in ALS, along with the, um, expertise in the hematology units in their, in their hospitals and their institutions to really put this novel cell therapy in action. And it really is bringing together a number of different sites, or pardon me, different teams within the site, um, to, to, to really approach this very novel therapy. Next slide. So Dan, do you want to talk from here? Dan Fowler Yeah. Uh, thank you, James. Um, Dan Fowler from Rapa Therapeutics. Um, pleasure to be here today. As, uh, individuals on the call may know, the expanded access, the act for ALS has two main objectives that, uh, we brought to bear when we, uh, wrote this protocol and implemented it. Number one is, uh, access. So we wanted to treat individuals who were not eligible for other trials, including, uh, the conventional Rapa 501 trial in earlier stage patients. We define that by individuals with, uh, pulmonary vital capacity of less than 50% of normal, uh, predicted normal. So a very advanced respiratory situation. The other main objective for the EAP, uh, coming out of NIH is there must be, uh, high level research, intensive research to go along with extending the treatments to patients. And as James says, this is an immunotherapy. So our main goals were on the immune system to understand, uh, what's going on in these advanced, uh, ALS patients. And also, um, are we able to move the needle by putting in these, uh, Rapa cells? The next slide. This is, um, just a, um, more detail of what, uh, James talked about that the patients come in for screening on the left. We do an apheresis procedure to collect some of their immune system. We manufacture those cells in the incubator. They're frozen. Then they get shipped back to the treatment site, uh, the 11 sites that James mentioned that we work with. These cells are shipped to those sites and then thawed and infused on four separate occasions. Each, each, uh, infusion separated by about six weeks. And then the patient goes on to, uh, have follow-up visits and we measure, many of the key outcomes, uh, that are, uh, classical for ALS studies. And in addition, uh, we added in a lot of research, uh, studies and, uh, remote monitoring, monitoring through everything ALS organization. Next slide. This is an example, I believe is one of James's patients who on the left came onto the study with low, uh, slow vital capacity, about 45%. And it's predicted that, uh, individuals will have a continued decrease in these values over time. Uh, the X, uh, axis here is months on study. And in this patient, the breathing test went up and kind of stayed, uh, at the same level or slightly higher through the duration of the study. And we've seen this pattern on, uh, many of the recipients. Obviously it's still early days, uh, of evaluating all of the data, but we're cautiously optimistic that we're, uh, preserving some pulmonary function. But this is one of our key metrics, uh, for the study. Next slide. We don't have a lot of time today to go over, you know, so, so many immunology data and so forth, but one of the, uh, purposes of this study, uh, one of the objectives was to develop with origin data sciences and AI driven. So, uh, prognostication of survival. So we know in ALS that there's some heterogeneity, even in, uh, patients with advanced stage disease, some are predicted to, to live a little shorter than others. Some may be a slow progressor. So we developed a model with origin where we then in this, uh, slide, our most recent cut of data was with 34 patients where the model predicted survival. And then what's plotted here is the actual survival on the top, which is the wrap of 501 recipients. And you can see it's early days. However, um, cautiously optimistic that the survival is improved relative to the AI generated prediction, the virtual controls. We also have been looking into other databases, uh, so-called real world data or data of, uh, other patients that are not on our trial. And we collected 650 and more, uh, individual survival data. This is a group of patients that's in the PROACT database who, uh, we selected them on the basis of them having less than 50% uh, breathing capacity as well. There's also a lot of caveats to this. Obviously it's not a control group, uh, within your own study, but it's the best we can do. And, uh, a key thing going forward is to further improve these models and to, to look at these, this information in the full, uh, set of all the patients we treated. The data will, uh, mature over the next six to 12 months. Uh, next slide. So the last, uh, slide I believe here is the next steps. Uh, we call this the wrap of 501 EAT 1.0. And, uh, the goal is to finish all of the infusions as James mentioned. All of the patients, uh, that, that are allocated to the protocol have been accrued. So we don't have any further screening slots, unfortunately. Uh, so the goal now over the next year is to finish up all of these infusions. Uh, one or two patients are still, uh, waiting to get their first infusion that'll happen in the next week or two. And then we have to analyze all of the data and pull it off, pull the whole picture together. In the meantime, down the middle, uh, as you probably know, uh, we're hopeful that there will be another grant mechanism for funding. And, and we are intending to make an application, uh, to the NIH for a, um, continuation of this program. We'll call that the EAP 2.0 if we're, uh, optimistic, uh, about that. But that's our intent. And the data that we have generated will be very useful in, uh, trying to make a compelling case, uh, that this program should be continued. And then on the left, the important point here is we've learned so much about this, uh, subset of individuals and we're cautiously optimistic that this should actually be a, uh, part of our product development cascade where instead most companies focus on the early stage of disease. We're very interested in working with the regulatory bodies to try to evaluate RAPA in the, uh, advanced stage of ALS. And then I think that was the next slide is maybe opening up to question and answers. Thank, thank you all for your attention. Yeah. Thanks. Thanks so much, Dan. Um, so I think what we'll do is, uh, take a few questions. Um, it's always fun to talk about this with you and sort of, you know, go over soup to nuts, you know, what's the, what's the process for making the cells and then, um, you know, how do we think they might help? And, and then, and then finally, what's the design of the CAP? Um, and I just would underline that, you know, the EAP is designed with these dual missions in mind, and we really are learning a lot about, you know, um, how you, how you run an EAP, um, what are the features that are going to make it successful? And then we look forward to so much of the biological data that will come out of this, um, as well as all the clinical data. Um, uh, okay. So we'll turn our attention to, to some of the questions. Um, uh, and I, I'm not, I don't know that we'll be able to answer all of these, but we can, uh, we can certainly go back to our data and, and we should, and know that people will want the answers to these. So one is what percentage of, of participants had sporadic versus familial ALS and slow, were slow versus fast progressors. Um, and that's a, that's a really good question. Um, I don't know that we have that tabulated right now. Um, James, I believe, I believe the, um, hereditary form is somewhat less than 10%. We we've had some, but it would be in the five to 10% range, which is what we'd expect. Yeah. And it's in terms of slow progress or phenotype, when we look at the origin data on the virtual control, because that predicts their actual survival, I would estimate that 25 to 33% of the patients would fit into the slow progressor phenotype. That's, that's great. And, you know, one of the things that becomes a little bit challenging in an EAP is it's different than an observational study. So we, we can't actually look at what happened and say who is slow or fast, because we might be doing something to make people into slow progressors. In other words, if it was an observational study, you'd just look and say, well, here's how many percentage of the people in our study went slowly. They are the slow progressors and here's the number that went fast and they're the fast progressors here. It may be that, um, you know, those percentages are altered. We hope that those percentages are altered by the, um, by the treatment that everybody has received. Um, okay. Um, and let's see, um, there's a question. When, when do you expect EAP to, to start enrolling? Um, and I guess I would start the answer to that by just saying that this is, you know, EAP two is, you know, we, what we want to do is, um, propose that in a grant and, and then, uh, and then, you know, hopefully we could, we could have funding for it. Um, and then, you know, hopefully quickly hit, hit the ground running. Um, these grants are usually funded, usually funded, uh, in the autumn, at least historically, that's how it's been. We don't have a formal, um, RFA or request for applications that we can, uh, look at and say exactly what their timeline is. Dan, did you want to add anything to that? Dan Riffman Yeah. I would just say we would be cautiously optimistic that the proposal that NIH would release a, um, application in the next short time. And then there's obviously there's competition, there's other people applying, and then there's, um, six to 12 months would be a, an optimistic if, if we get the funding and can get, get back on track, I would say. Dan Riffman This is a, uh, here's a question, Dan. Um, Will patients be tracked past the end of the study in order to understand durability of the effect? And is there any prior data or expectations about this? Dan Riffman It's a good question. Uh, we follow survival, uh, on the protocol. We put in an amendment so that we, the, um, survival of the individuals can be followed. So we're going to make a great attempt at that, but the grant has a, a pretty strict three year, uh, cutoff time. We'd like to follow longer, but it, we're going to be running right up against the NIH milestone in terms of that. The question about the durability is a very good question. I believe that there, uh, should be good durability. We've had, uh, some of the early patients that, uh, had some breathing improvement. They seem to be stable, um, over time, uh, from communications, uh, that we've had with, uh, with the investigators. The immune system, uh, as you know, when you get a vaccine, uh, it can last a long time, even the lifetime of an individual. And we engineer these, uh, cells as James was saying to have some stem cell properties. The stem cell can divide, um, uh, in a very durable manner. So we're hopeful, uh, that there will be a durable effect, but more studies will need to be done to actually prove that about the, the optimal timing and duration of therapy. Yeah, that's great. Um, it would be, it would be exciting to see this as the clinical development program goes on just so that just for sort of everybody in terms of definitions, we sometimes talk about clinical development program, and that really encompasses all of the trials and the EAPs that are done under one program to guide that program toward learning more about it and also toward, uh, hopefully, you know, with success, eventually regulatory approval. So it's kind of that family of EAPs, trials, phase one, phase two, phase three, um, that hang together. So, um, we, you know, look forward to continuing the EAP and as well as the clinical development program. Um, so there's one question, why, why were some, uh, participants chosen for, for round two to sort of have a round two and some not, and I'll take a first crack at that. You know, um, we, we did want to have a, when we expanded the project, we saw an opportunity to see how people would, would do if they had more extended therapy, the people who were selected, it was, um, a lot of it was, was simply timing people who were ending this, this, you know, their first round of the protocol in the window that we, that we only had a few months to enroll for that, for the, um, expansion phase. So it was people who were ending, um, and then were able to, to kind of continue on, um, uh, because of the timing of their completing round one of the, of the EAP. And that was really the main determining factor. Yeah. I would just add to that, James, the, uh, the retreatment was made possible by the supplemental funding, which I believe was about 12 to 15 patients. And only a certain part of that, which was three patients could be, um, included in this retreatment cohort. And that's what you usually see in a safety feasibility study is, is this even possible? What are the, uh, side effects and so forth? So that's why we were somewhat limited to, uh, only three patients. And those were the, the first three patients that, uh, had came off and were referred back to the study. We, we would, I, I personally believe it's an important, a very important, um, topic of retreatment. I think patients that are thought to maybe get benefits should, uh, ethically, you know, every attempt should be made for continued therapy with the caveats. We don't know about the durability and the timing. Uh, but it's definitely something that we're committed to, uh, including in this new application, for example. There, there are a number of questions that come together, Dan, to really, um, that ask about the clinical development program. What has been the effect of this EAP? Has it had an effect on your thinking about the overall clinical development program? Um, and if so, what is that effect and where, you know, where do you see the clinical development program going for people who, you know, sort of fit the parameters of an EAP, but also people who are earlier in the disease? Kind of a broad question. Yeah. The, uh, it gets into a lot of different issues, right? The EAP, um, really woke us up to the fact that the immune system in these individuals, that's part of the, what we're studying is very dysfunctional, uh, perhaps even more so than earlier stage patients. So if you're doing an immune therapy like RAPA 501 and you're trying to reconstitute the immune system and provide more balance, it's probably the, the patient group that, where you might see a signal of efficacy easier than if you're going into the early diagnosis. The early diagnosis is also complicated by the fact that, uh, in a lot of research, you're looking for a survival advantage. And in cell therapy, that's very important because we're, we're kind of limited in the scope of our research to do, uh, 50 patients or a hundred patients on a more definitive trial is a very, uh, labor intensive and costly maneuver. Whereas if you're doing an infusion or a tablet, uh, you, you, you know, in, in ALS studies, sometimes the, uh, patient numbers can get up into the couple hundreds. Uh, so you really need to see a very large effect size when you're doing cell therapy. And, uh, I believe that the advanced stage ALS is, is probably the right place for us to be. That's not to say that we're not interested in moving it up earlier. Obviously, if something's working, you want to get it to individuals before, um, more, uh, quality of life is compromised. Yeah. And, and, um, you know, there are some people who are sort of asking about, you know, future plans for placebo group, for larger studies, for studies in people who are earlier versus later. I wonder if you could just comment on those things and what your process will be for, for those. Yeah. Um, the, uh, control group is important. Uh, I was impressed with our collaboration with origin data sciences on this AI modeling. And I believe that is the future. Um, now there's a gap between what we believe and what, you know, researchers believe, and maybe what, uh, is accepted by, by other individuals in regulatory positions and so forth that have maybe a more conservative view of things. So, uh, and we're, meeting with regulatory individuals all the time and going through these, uh, aspects, we're certainly willing to, uh, consider randomized, uh, controlled studies. We, we understand that's the gold standard for all therapies, but in, in, uh, ALS, particularly advanced stage ALS, it's, uh, a very, uh, complicated situation because there are no real, uh, therapeutic options. And, uh, uh, and we're very cognizant of that when we make these decisions. So it's an evolving landscape, James, and as you know, and we'll, we'll do our best to navigate it and try to get the funding to support all of these issues or all of these, uh, landscapes that whether you're talking advanced stage or moving up to earlier interventions. Yeah. Uh, there are a couple of, there's one question. I'll, I'll just take that. The question is, is the ultimate goal to slow down progression or, you know, we have people regain function. And I think that's probably a spectrum. You know, I think if we could slow progression enough, then it might give the body a chance to recover some of the, uh, to, to, to sort of re-innervate some of the muscle with existing motor neurons. So, um, it may be a matter of degree of slowing. Um, when we power trials, we're, we're often thinking about slowing and how would we detect it? If, if, uh, if a, if a drug or an intervention in this case, cell intervention was powerful enough to halt progression or reverse progression. Um, we, we think our, our trial design would pick that up. What we want to do is think about how many people do we need to test this in, in order to detect a, a small, but meaningful, uh, slowing of progression. And that's why we, that's why you hear us talk about slowing of progression as kind of how we've, how we've designed the trial. It's because we want to know what's the smallest meaningful, um, effect that we could pick up and anything above that we would also be able to pick up. So that's, that's kind of why we, why we talk about that. Um, uh, there's a question about how many of the, the participants were bulbar onset. Um, and I don't know that offhand, Dan, you might have that number. Yeah, it's a, it's about a, at least a third, I believe somewhere in that range. I think that's right. I mean, you know, again, the, what we see for sporadic versus familial, for bulbar versus limb, uh, they, they follow kind of what we know about the disease. Um, I think male and female is roughly like that too. Correct. Treg levels before and after therapy, what's the plan for looking at those and, and how will they be important? And what are the nuances of these not being exactly Tregs? Yeah. Yeah. The nuances are, uh, these things are very, in my opinion, very difficult to define. Uh, you need to, uh, and also the, the Treg numbers are just a small part of the puzzle. I believe, um, the, uh, there's a lot in immune dysfunction, right? Um, ALS starts as an inflammatory disease. So the immune system is not supposed to be in the brain agitated by, uh, degenerating, uh, tissue, but it does get that way in ALS. The more we learn about, uh, different models. And then the, when the immune system gets activated to the tissue damage there, uh, there's a hyper inflammatory stage where you see excessive inflammation. And then we know for many other diseases, then it becomes more complicated after that, where you can actually see some immune suppression and, and then individuals are not able to respond to, to normal things like viruses and bacteria. So that's a open question, uh, James is to what degree it does ALS resemble some of the other diseases, the autoimmune diseases like lupus or MS. And I'm, I'm on the side where it resembles them after doing this study, uh, with an open mind and doing all these measurements. I believe it really does reflect a little more on the autoimmune side than a pure degenerative, uh, condition with a little involvement of the immune system. So I think it's part and parcel and measuring Treg cells. It hasn't been too fruitful for us. Uh, we do measure them, but we like to focus on the more global aspects like what is the vast repertoire of all the T cells, the clonality and what are the immunosuppressive or inflammatory markers. So more of the downstream events where kind of the loss of Treg may be led to these events, but it's hard to find that signal. Uh, the, one of the reasons is that we draw blood to measure these things, but a lot of the action is going on in the tissue. So it's, you're, you're sampling the blood and you're trying to make these conclusions, but it's tricky business because a lot of the action is really going on in the tissue that, which we are not able to sample. Yeah. Yeah, that's right. Um, I, you know, I, I sometimes think when I, when I think about all the complexities of the immune system that I went into neurology because it was relatively straightforward, um, clearly, clearly that's not true, but boy, there's a lot of complexity in the immune system. We have more questions here. I want to be careful about time. We did get started a little bit late. We've run a little bit late. Um, we have a few more questions and we'll try to get back to, to those people who asked the questions. I guess I'll just say quickly, there, there are a couple of questions about people who've been exposed to, um, to RAPA 501, either, um, in the EAP or in the trial. And, you know, is it possible that they would have access to an EAP in the future? And I guess I'll say that, um, we, we, you know, modeling this off the previous EAP, it, it was okay for people to have had the RAPA 501 treatment in the past. There wasn't like an exclusion that said, if you've been exposed, um, you can't be a part of the EAP, um, in the future. So that's important. There was a question about whether we involved people who had C9 or F72. And, uh, the answer is there, there, it wasn't, we didn't specifically enroll people with C9, but they certainly were, were a part of the project, um, and will continue to be in the future. Um, and then I think with that, we should probably, um, uh, pause and, and Dan, thank you for being such a partner in this, uh, and, uh, just a stalwart in the world of ALS really moving this program forward meticulously, um, looking for the biomarkers, looking for the clinical effect, thinking about what the clinical development program ought to be. Thank you, James. And thanks everyone at MGH has been a fabulous collaboration and thanks particularly to all the patients and caregivers who, uh, are real, are the real champions here of, um, needing investigational therapies and, um, improving the research. And I think this EAP was very enlightening to us and we, we hope to keep, uh, keep learning more. Great. Thank you. And thanks to all the site investigators as well. That's true too. It's been fabulous. All right. Thanks so much. Have a good.