 Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann Mann by NIH through the Act for ALS program. And I thought it would be important, and CLEAN thought it would be important to share some information that we are learning from that population of people living with ALS that were not clinical trial eligible that enroll in an expanded access program. And it's kind of an example of how we can learn concurrently from an expanded access program while we provide access for an investigational product. So that's kind of how I'm going to frame all of this today is that expanded access is, especially the NIH-funded programs, are a little bit different from traditional expanded access programs. And it has both the ability to provide access, but the funding doesn't just provide access for potential investigational therapies that are under evaluation in ALS. But it also helps us build an infrastructure, help us learn about the biology of the disease, and help us explore potential biomarkers and potential clinical outcomes that can make our clinical trials better in the future. So if you go to the next slide, I kind of wanted to start with where we were in terms of NIH-funded expanded access programs that are ongoing now. And of course, I've highlighted the CNMAUA program, which is what I'm going to talk about today. Of course, we have other EAP programs. And this is about the time that we are going to start hearing more data coming out from these programs. You know, it takes time to collect all the information. All of these programs have enrolled very rapidly, so there's clearly a need for these types of programs for our community in ALS that complement clinical trials, which help us explore the efficacy of an investigational product. But here, I just wanted to highlight that I'm just going to, because I'm the principal investigator and we have some data to share, I wanted to take this opportunity on this platform to share some of the data, especially since a press release was released in December of 2025. And we did receive a lot of questions about that press release and wanted to provide more granular or detailed data to help understand the information that was derived from the expanded access program specifically. So if you go to the next slide, I put this up here really to show people, although it's on NIH Reporter, you know, and people say, what kind of research projects can you do in expanded access? When we write the grants for NIH funded expanded access program, it's like an NIH research grant. So you have to actually explain a primary aim, which in this case was really to understand the safety and efficacy of CNM-AU8 in non-clinical trial eligible people living with ALS. So they didn't have any other opportunity to explore investigational products and they were interested in doing so. But it's not only that, but built within this particular project and all of the projects have research aims and specific hypotheses aside from exploring the drug itself being examined in that grant project. So in our case, you know, we were collecting exploratory clinical outcomes, including in addition to the traditional outcomes that we collect, like ALS functional rating scales, survival, breathing. We were able, because of the funding, we were able to look at biomarkers and especially candidate. Candidate biomarkers means biomarkers that have shown some preliminary evidence in the literature of being either related to mechanism or related to disease progression or survival, but needs more data to validate it and to understand it. So we were able to do that. And that's not something that clinical trials, so companies, especially small companies, if they have a clinical trial, these are not things that they would do because you would want to include, you want to be efficient with your resources, typically in a clinical trial scenario and you're trying to get a drug to market. You don't include these things because those are not what's weighted in a regulatory evaluation for approval. We were able to, and we are continuing to employ predictive algorithms with origin data sciences to predict outcomes and see how that tool works against this different population because our predictive algorithms have been tested against kind of clinical trial earlier onset individuals with ALS. And of course, the other thing that was very interesting from my perspective was looking at feasibility of remote enrollment and participation. There was a poster that I presented in a couple of other presentations where we highlighted the baseline demographic. About half of the participants were enrolled in brick and mortar or clinics and the other half of the participants were enrolled virtually. And the demographics were pretty similar, except that the people who were enrolled virtually were a little bit further along in time of symptom onset or duration of symptoms. But the key difference between the population was that the people that were enrolled in the virtual setting actually had a higher area deprivation index, ADI. What that means is that the people that were enrolled virtually were from, were socioeconomically disadvantaged and more information is to come with that. And the geographic isolation was far higher in those enrolled virtually. So we measured how far and distance they were from a research center. And there was a huge difference between the people who were enrolled virtually. We even had one patient enrolled in Alaska where we had to get people out on ferries and airplanes to get home assessments done. But that person was so thankful because they had never actually had a chance to talk to anyone familiar with ALS or ever had an opportunity to participate in any kind of experimental therapy treatment. So in that way, I think the feasibility of remote enrollment, we've learned a lot. If you go to the next slide, what I wanted to talk about a little bit is the details of learning about biomarkers from an expanded access protocol. So in this case, we have expanded access participants. These are non-clinical trial people living with ALS who were enrolled. Everybody received treatment. So if we want to look at a biomarker like neurofilament, or if we want to look at survival, or if we want to look at ALS functional rating scale, you need to control it or compare it against something. And so what we did is we were able to use the answer ALS dataset, and we were able to match them with baseline characteristics that can bias, say, survival analysis. So that's like the natural log of neurofilament, or the age, or the sex, or bulbar onset, really is all months from onset. And of course, the change in functional rating scale over time, these can bias treating any kind of effects that you might see in survival. So if you go to the next slide, just to show you how we can do these analyses. So in an expanded access program, all the participants that were enrolled at the time are exposed to CNM AU8, 30 milligrams. And then what we did was try to find a match propensity, matched control from the answer ALS dataset. And so once we got the dataset of people who had baseline measures and people who had post-baseline, and in the expanded access protocol, I can say that some of the folks that didn't have post-baseline neurofilament was because we just couldn't get people out there, and it's mostly the virtual participants that we had trouble with. But essentially, we were able to build a full analysis set of 291 participants. And if you go to the next slide, what we looked at was, you know, okay, we have the control dataset from answer ALS, and we have our dataset from expanded access. We actually looked at the background variables to see if those cohorts, after we did the matching, was there a difference? And so the expanded access protocol, expanded access protocol enrolled participants that were slightly more advanced in disease, and that's expected because remember, they are not clinical trial eligible. And so we matched pretty well at age of baseline, the slope of change of the ALS functional rating scale, the proportion of people treated with Rilizol, and their symptom onset location and sex distribution. Otherwise, everything in the natural log of neurofilament at baseline was pretty comparable between the people in the expanded access cohort and the folks that we matched them with from the answer ALS database. So if you go to the next slide, the press release was talking, that was released in December, talking about information gathered from the expanded access program. And this is an example of how an expanded access program can provide supportive information to a drug that's actually being evaluated in a clinical development program. And so, you know, obviously, CNM-AU8 has gone through two phase two placebo-controlled clinical trials where we really do evaluate the efficacy of the drug. From our expanded access program, we're able to provide additional data that could be supportive and additional information for a more broader cohort of people living with ALS and additional information about neurofilament. So in this particular evaluation, we looked at the expanded access cohort compared to the answer ALS propensity matched cohort, and we did see that the participants treated with CNM-AU8, 30 milligrams, had a significant difference and lowering of their neurofilament when we look at it as measured as area under the curve. Now, area under the curve is kind of a new way of looking at neurofilament, but our pre-specified NIH grants have research plans. The research plans have pre-specified analysis plans. And so our primary endpoint to look at this with propensity match controls was at week 36. We did look at week 24 because the placebo-controlled trials that were done in the HEALY program, so this was Regiment C, was at the endpoint was week 24. And to see if this was consistent, we actually went ahead and looked at week 48 change and the area under the curve looked consistent. So we saw a consistent difference across week 24, week 36, and week 48. So we're going to look at week 48. If you go to the next slide, I think the additional information that we gathered, if you just click the slide, I think we can talk a little bit about other changes. There you go. So this, go back one. So the, yeah, there you go. So this is the all match. Thank you so much. I'm talking faster than the clicking. The plasma neurofilament change, this is essentially looking at neurofilament change versus the answer ALS match control. So this is everybody. And when you look at that, there was of course a lower neurofilament level in the CNM AU8 30 milligram. Again, we see it, it's not statistically significant at week 12, but at week 24, you get the p-value at 0.1752, and then week 36 and week 48. And so the week 36 AUC difference is actually what was the analysis. And so there we did not see the statistic, we did not see that statistically significant change, but we saw a difference. So if you go to the next, this is in the non-ball bar, and actually go back, that particular set cohort is the non-ball bar. So it's the limb. But if you go back one more, there should have been a ball bar. No, I guess not. So go, this is the all, so in the whole cohort, ball bar and non-ball bar, there is a statistically significant difference of the area under the curve of the neurofilament. But the following slide is the non-ball bar set right here. So are we going, yeah, this is the non-ball bar set. So if you go to the next slide, this is the forest plot of the subgroup analysis that were pre-specified. Thank you, Catherine. And so here, if you look all matched, so the entire dataset, if you look at the entire dataset from the expanded access protocol and the answer ALS matched controls, you see a difference that favors CNM-AU8 in terms of the neurofilament change as measured as area under the curve, and then also in the ball bar onset. And remember, I told you in the non-ball bar onset, we didn't see that same change. And of course, these numbers are small. Remember, this is an expanded access cohort, and we're using matched controls. So there can be some variability here. And then we did see a difference on age and background treatment of Rulizal. So, you know, we see kind of overall in the overall matched controls, if you take the whole dataset, compare it to the answer ALS, there was a difference in the neurofilament. If you go to the next slide, I think one of the questions I got from the last webinar I gave is why area under the curve. And so I just wanted to kind of discuss a little bit about why we even looked at neurofilament in the expanded access cohort. And partly, it's some of the interactions from the company with the regulators. There was some discussions about trying to see if there's any information you could gather from an expanded access cohort, and whether that could provide additional information about neurofilament and even mechanism. And so area under the curve is usually more informative when you're correlating with survival in ALS because ALS is dynamic. And as a lot of us in the community has learned, neurofilament can fluctuate pretty dramatically in ALS at different phases of disease, but also with other variables, right? So if someone has an elevated neurofilament and you get COVID, that can make your neurofilament go up and then come back down. Or if you fall and break a bone, that can cause your neurofilament to go up and then come back down. So there's some variability in noise. And remember, and this is an expanded access cohort, so you are capturing very different presentations of disease and very different progressions of disease because these are the non-clinical trial eligible cohort. So neurofilament can be very variable. And so the conceptual analogy I try to explain to people is, you know, if you look at baseline neurofilament, that's a single snapshot, right? So you measure it, you get a mean or an average, and you get a snapshot. It's just a picture at one point in time. So if you think of neurofilament as a smoke from a fire, a single measurement is like how smoky the room is right now, but you can't really tell how big the fire was. But if you measure area under the curve, you're actually getting a picture of the overall burden of neurofilament over the course of the disease during or over the course of observation. So that kind of tells you if you do the conceptual analogy, it tells you how much smoke filled the room over the whole night so you can get a better idea of how big that fire was. So that's kind of the conceptual kind of simplifying the concept of area under the curve. I hope that helped. I mean, I have a statistics degree, but I'm not a statistician. So if you go to the next slide, I also get questions about, well, you know, the press release talked about glial fibrillary acidic protein. And what's that? Well, glial fibular acidic protein, often referred to as GFAP, has had mixed kind of publications in ALS in terms of whether it's really good as a biomarker. And it's tough because it's a marker of astrocytic reactivity. What does that mean? Astrocytes are the support cells of the motor neurons and they become reactive. And when they're reactive, they become inflammatory. So they can release kind of this GFAP and other inflammatory markers, but they activate in different phases of the disease. So the hypothesis and the reason why we looked at it is actually just coincidentally around the time of looking at neurofilament, a publication came out from Korea looking at GFAP as a potential survival biomarker in an advanced population of people living with ALS. And that's just the cohort that usually traditionally enrolls in an expanded access program. So the hypothesis was that maybe we might see an effect on GFAP expression because CNMAU8 improves the bioenergetics in the environment of the cells and reduces oxidative stress and kind of helps with inflammatory signals. And so we decided to look at those GFAP as another marker. And so this is just, I put this in here as another example of how the NIH funded expanded access program provides an opportunity for us to understand biology and biomarkers that we would otherwise not be able to do. And so if you look at the next slide, we were able to look in our cohort. And so we did much like we saw the lowering of neurofilament area under the curve, we also see lowering of GFAP from baseline. And it was concordant with the neurofilament changes over week 24, week 36, and week 48. And so this kind of made sense for us when we're looking at CNMAU8 and its potential mechanism of disease. But it also gives us some more additional information about maybe using this biomarker in a different, more advanced cohort of people living with ALS and maybe using it in other EAP programs depending on the investigational product. So this is like learning science as you do expanded access through this NIH funded mechanism. If you go to the next slide, this is just conclusions from the analysis dataset specifically from the expanded access cohort. So again, remember in this EAP program we provided CNMAU8 30 milligrams. Remember in the Healy Regimen C program there was a testing of the 30 milligram and the 60 milligram dose. But in this program we were doing the 30 milligram dose. We did see the effect of neurofilament area under the curve lowering from baseline for week 24, week 36, and week 48. And remember even though we saw a difference in the entire cohort compared to the ANSR-ALS propensity matched cohort, we didn't see a significant effect in the non-bulbar onset versus the bulbar onset. And that's just remember this is an expanded access program. We're doing propensity matched controls. It is providing some supportive information to help the primary clinical development program being developed by CLEAN. And again, as we learn information about neurofilament and how it behaves in the more advanced cohort and with the treatment with CNMAU8, we also gathered information about GFAP and both the changes in neurofilament and GFAP were concordant and consistent across this particular cohort. So we're learning some new information because we were able to implement this expanded access. So if you go to the next slide, I'm going to round third base and go to home to try to give you some information about ACT for ALS. But before I do that, I wanted to make sure we thank all the participants and their families for participating in the expanded access cohort, both virtually and in clinics, and definitely answer ALS for providing the dataset and also the staff and the principal investigators in this project who have worked really hard. We had to do a data cut because of the requests for more information from regulators. And so that's not typical in expanded access programs, but we were able to do that and they did a great job. And of course, we are very grateful for NIH and ACT for ALS for providing the support for the learning the biology in this more advanced cohort. If you go to the next slide, I just wanted to say a few things about ACT for ALS. So the impact that it has had on our community and our research infrastructure, especially for clinical trials and clinical research. So a lot of people focus on the fact that ACT for ALS provided funding for access to drugs in an expanded access mechanism. But I want to emphasize a couple of other things that ACT for ALS does. So if you click through, there's three other points I want to make. So go ahead and click. One is the public-private partnership. Why is this important? You know, people say, oh, you know, it's just money for public-private partnerships. What what difference does that make? It makes a big difference because one, it allows our community to come together and organize priorities. So including people living with ALS, researchers, scientists, and the government entities involved, prioritize where the gaps are. Tell government entities and funding entities where they should prioritize funding and try to get, and this includes not only just in research, but also in clinical care and Medicare. So trying to realize what areas do we need governmental help for funding clinics or caregivers or transportation, things of care, home care. So these are things that are very important to bring coordinated attention to our community, to the gaps that require governmental assistance. The second point I'd make is that the rare disease action plan, so the FDA published an action plan. We have the NIH strategic working group that had a working group plan that was published, and we also had the national academies do their thing. So there are documents that now live in the space that help direct NIH and other government agencies like CMS so that they can help to provide and fill gaps in the future and create strategies to do so. And the last thing I'll point out is that Act for ALS does have a grant program to help fund research in basic science in addition to what we already have existing in the NIH that's allocated as dollars for basic science research and also money at the Department of Defense for basic science and also early pilot studies. So if you go to the next slide, just a few more slides here on innovation and scientific rigor. So expanded access, I've given a ton of talks, you people are probably tired of hearing me talk, but expanded access is traditionally for people with a serious life-threatening condition that have exhausted all options and are just looking for an option beyond what's available as an attempt to treat their disease. So usually research is not involved. But the NIH funded expanded access program, I feel like it's almost a misnomer to call it an expanded access program. It is required, since it's allocated through the National Institute of Health, it is required that we have research aims and we ask a hypothesis and we answer a question. So when you're looking at the dollars distributed for these projects, it's not just about how many patients get drug. If you think about it conceptually, there are people getting the drug, but you can think of small embedded projects within each funded project. So, for example, in our project for CLEAN, we also did virtual enrollment. So we tested how to do fully decentralized, fully remote enrollment and collection of data. So that could have been a grant in and of itself. Looking at neurofilament in an advanced cohort could have been a basic science grant or a translational grant in and of itself. Looking at GFAP in an advanced cohort could have been a grant in and of itself. So the dollars don't just go to just a person getting access to the drug. Many of the other projects, including the CLEAN project using CNM-AUA, looked at novel outcomes. So there's digital outcome measures, there's longitudinal clinical data and biomarker samples being banked. There's one of the things that's really, I think, understated is the fact that all of these EAPs, including the EAP that I just talked about, collected clinical information and samples and deposited into a central repository. And of course, the CLEAN expanded access program also is evaluating the feasibility of using virtual synthetic controls, which is also coming. So the data, this is the time where you're going to start seeing data from all of these programs that were funded around the same time. If you go to the next slide, scientific research. So I've said this many times already, but I think one of the things that people don't realize is that in all of the expanded access programs from start to finish, all of them require collection of data and clinical information to be sent to a central repository that is maintained by the NIH, which is scalable and sustainable, and it's centralized. So what that does is standardize the way we collect the information, standardize the way we're collecting samples. And they're all labeled, there's a standardization for the labelization using a global unique identifier called a neuroGUID. All of this information will then just get put into the central repository called Biosend, and that includes information that's collected through our natural history study called all ALS. So these are all synergized together. And in addition, taking into account existing repositories and complementing what's already out there that were smaller scale. And then they will be available through something called a knowledge portal, where all information and samples will be freely accessible to all researchers in ALS and outside ALS to enhance open science and free sharing of information. So there's no university controlling the data or no organization holding it. The government, NIH will be housing that data. And in ALS, there's so many new biomarkers, so many new protein expression studies that are looking at ways to kind of calculate ALS risk or diagnose ALS better. But they need large repository that are longitudinal, and it's very hard to do in a small disease space or a rare disease space. If you go to the next slide, the infrastructure. So what have these programs kind of built out? So as I mentioned, the Clean EAP has built an attempt at fully remote enrollment. This is very important because there's not that many clinical trial sites. There's a growing number of clinical trial sites, but there's a lot of clinical trials. So trying to figure out how to distribute these across the country or doing it remotely so that we can continue to focus on clinical trials at our academic centers are really important. Predopidine has actually helped to bring up some smaller centers and get them clinical trial ready. RAPA, RAPA's EAP has helped to increase the number of centers across the country that can actually do cell therapy in ALS. That's much more complicated than many people think. And so we have learned to create this infrastructure. So the funding for this has not only helped to provide access for drugs, explore clinical research like biomarkers and exploratory outcomes, but it's also kind of, if you think of the dollars, they've actually invested in the building of the infrastructure for research in ALS, especially in the United States. So if you go to the next slide, I just want to show, so as the Niels co-chair, we tried to ask sites about how EAP has impacted them. And so we did have 50% of our sites report that getting an NIH-funded EAP or participating in one has helped build that site's capacity for ALS research as a whole. So again, going to the point of building infrastructure and capacity. And then also, if you notice on the second panel, we asked, was this your first EAP? And 25% of sites reported that this was the first time they've ever offered expanded access to a person living with ALS. So increasing the breadth of things that can be offered to people living with ALS. And if you go to the next slide, I think one of the most important things is that initial investment for ACT for ALS for expanded access, such as this clean EAP, it allows a site to participate in that EAP, but it becomes an infrastructure. So that investment becomes an infrastructure for efficiency in the future, to reduce cost in the future. So the sites that were participating in EAP, then we asked, have you participated in, are you participating in all ALS, the natural history study? And a majority of sites, we were able to leverage those existing centers to use them for all ALS. And so I think I just wanted to show how the infrastructure has been helped by these expanded access programs here in the United States through ACT for ALS. And if you go to the next slide, I'll just leave it with many of you are already familiar with all ALS. But as I mentioned, there's the centralized repository, the Biosend repository, and the knowledge portal. These are all synchronized with all of the expanded access programs as well, so that there's one centralized, again, repository for basic science research to do their job, to look at new validated targets and mechanisms and do their studies with these samples in the future. If you go to the next slide, all ALS is one of the largest natural history studies that look at people that are symptomatic, at risk, and also healthy control individuals. And it also synergizes with existing databases that are already there so that we're not trying to recreate the wheel. It is not an easy undertaking, and it is not a cheap endeavor. But it is something that was sorely needed by our community to understand the biology of ALS in a more broader scope. And if you go to the last slide, and if you're already tired of me talking, this is the last slide just summarizing how ACT for ALS has impacted and been transformational for our field in terms of creating those partnerships and creating attention from government agencies to look at ALS and other neurodegenerative diseases. And, you know, I think one of the key criticisms I've heard is that, you know, we wish there were more slots, and I wish there were more slots per program. But frankly, when we get the GAO report and see that more than 700 people have been treated through this, sure, there are many more people that want to be treated. But before this, the largest EAP was about 200 or so people. That was the Amalix EAP. And before that, there was just very small single center expanded access programs. And if we didn't have this mechanism, you know, there might be a reduction of the number of slots, or there may be alternatives where companies may charge you for the actual expanded access program, and it might not be as accessible as it could be. So, you know, we have to be thoughtful about how we kind of do this, and it can always be improved, and I think there's always room for improvement. All ALS has been kind of one of the beautiful outcomes of ACT for ALS in terms of providing this large, sustainable, scalable, natural history study. And I think most importantly, it's catalyzed the field to really build that infrastructure and really think about the science concurrently while we're giving drug for people. And this is true for clinical trial programs, too. Like, when we do a clinical trial, we've got to think about the drug efficacy, safety, and then sneak in some exploratory outcomes so that we can continue to learn and make our trials better and more successful in the future. So with that, I'll conclude, and I will try to take some questions. I have some team members here to help, but I wanted to kind of get an opportunity to clarify. There was a lot of questions from the press release from the Expanded Access Program kind of give you detailed information about neurofilament in an Expanded Access Cohort and being treated with CNM-AU8 30 milligrams and also the new information about GFAP and try to explain the context of all of that in ACT for ALS. So with that, I'll try to see if we have any questions. And actually, there's a great question here that I think Dr. Greenberg can help me with. Dr. Greenberg is from Clean, and there's a specific direct question about what is the mechanism of action for CNM-AU8? How does it help bioenergetics of a cell? So if you have some thoughts to add to the discussion of mitochondrial function, NAD, any of that information would be helpful. Absolutely. Wonderful job, Jensi. Really appreciate the update you gave. Basically, in cells, the mitochondria act as power plants for the cell, and there is a cascade of protein events that have to occur to generate the energy the cell needs called ATP. And one of the critical events that has to occur is the conversion of NADH to NAD. And this is an energy-intensive process for the cell. What CNM-AU8 does is basically enter the cell and convert NADH to NAD on behalf of the cell. So it's increasing the energy production capabilities of the mitochondria, and this sets into motion a cascade of events that protect neurons from dying under certain stressful situations. Thank you so much. I also got a clarification question here. And I think I'll take this one. And, Ben, if you have anything else, let me know. But the question is, does NFL decrease – is the NFL decrease better in the bulbar or the limb onset ALS? And I'll just start by saying, when I showed you the data, I explained that the bulbar onset had a statistically significant difference, but the limb onset did not. And remember, the numbers are a little bit small, but the effect were similar. And, Ben, I don't know if you want to explain – I think we handled this at the last webinar. Someone also pointed out the same thing about the difference of bulbar versus limb onset and the effect for neurofilament. Yeah, from our perspective, we think the important analysis is that when we take the full enrolled population, what we see is a reduction in NFL. And we see a benefit – what we're observing to be a presumed benefit clinically for patients. Unfortunately, in all these populations of study, there's always an imbalance between individuals who have bulbar onset or limb onset. And in many of these studies, the imbalance has been significant. There are many more of one category than another. And so it's made it a little challenging to draw firm conclusions. Does the site of onset drive the responsiveness of an individual to this drug? If you ask me, based on all the data we have, I don't think we've confirmed that. I think there are going to be, like any medication, responders and non-responders. But the predictor of that I don't think is going to be in the difference between limb versus bulbar. Yeah, I agree on that one. And then there's a question here, just a simple question, since I'm the principal investigator of the Expanded Access Program. There's a simple question of whether this is open for enrollment. And at the current time, what I will say is it's fully enrolled. And so we have actually expanded the original grant. As you can see, it's published on NIH Reporter was for 100 folks with ALS. And so we did expand it without changing the scope of the budget to approximately 180, although we're a little bit over on that. So right now we're fully enrolled and we've tried to accommodate as many people within what we could do. So that's the status at the moment. The other question I had here, and maybe, Ben, you could help me because I don't know if I've seen the data for the ALS-FRS change. But the question is, when you look at CNM-AUA 30 milligram group compared to propensity match controls from the answer ALS, was there any change in ALS-FRS, do you know? Yeah, there appears to be, although the data of the separation of the curves isn't as pronounced as what we see for survival or breathing capacity. So there is a separation of the curves for ALS-FRS. And going back to the mechanism question, Ben, since I have you here, you know, I have a couple of questions that are the same where people are asking if NAD precursors, when they're purchasing and taking it, are they the same? It's a common question, actually, and I think it's a fair question to ask in this scenario. Is taking NAD precursors the same as a CNM-AUA? Yeah, it's a spectacular question. And in my read of the data, the answer is no. Because if you take a precursor, the precursor has to get into your body, get to the cell, and then the cell has to expend energy converting the precursor to NAD. What's critical about CNM-AUA is it requires no protein or energy input from the cell to change NADH to NAD. It's a catalytic reaction on the surface of that crystal. And so the cells benefit from the CNM-AUA without having to expend any energy. And so we haven't seen the same data for NAD precursors as we're seeing for CNM-AUA. There's several questions here from many people about these findings from the Expanded Access Program and FDA impression. And, of course, we can't speak for the FDA and how they'll take any kind of information. And what I will say is that any kind of regulatory review really requires information from a controlled study, first and foremost. So, as I mentioned, CLEAN has already completed two Phase II placebo-controlled clinical trials. So, they have concurrent in time comparators. This is an Expanded Access Program. And, as I mentioned when I first started, the Expanded Access Program, obviously, everybody gets treated and we don't have a concurrent control. But what we did was try to do the best we can with what we call propensity-matched controls to help us understand the changes in neurofilament. So, what it does is provide us with supportive information. So, I think the biggest information we got is the safety and tolerability of this drug. It's very safe and very well tolerated, even in the more advanced population or cohort of people living with ALS. And we see some changes in neurofilament. Now, how that'll be, you know, that's information that's supportive and will provide information in conjunction with the already controlled experiments that were completed. And how that will be perceived by regulators is up to them. And remember, they will always look at all of the data. And I think in these times it's always hard to predict. But it's always helpful when a product is safe and tolerable. And then it's up to them to decide how they take the information. The other question is, is the Phase III study planned to proceed? Do we have any? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, our goal, our commitment at CLEAN is absolutely to proceed with a Phase III study that is always tied to having the funding available to do that study. So, we are very much looking forward to our conversations with the FDA over this concept of accelerated approval of a product, where, based on the NFL data and the independent data sets from controlled trials and the outstanding work you've led with the expanded access protocol that gave a wealth of additional concurrent information, our hope is to be able to have an accelerated approval that would allow for both access to the drug on a broad basis and a global Phase III program to prove in a very large, controlled, randomized trial the effects that we believe we're documenting in these multiple Phase II programs in the EAP. So, and I can just add to that is that, remember, there's the Phase II studies that were already completed, and ultimately, the Phase III study will need to be conducted for definitive evidence, right? So, I don't know if people are following what the FDA is doing right now, but ultimately, there will be a requirement, as we did with Relivrio. We know anything that comes through in Tofersin that received accelerated approval, ultimate evidence of efficacy will come from a Phase III clinical trial. And so, the other questions, there's a couple of technical questions about mechanisms. So, someone is technical who's asking questions. Is CNM-AU8 a small molecule, and does it cross the blood-brain barrier? Ben? Yeah, it does cross the blood-brain barrier. It's a very small, small molecule. This is a nanocrystal. It's as small as they get. And we've done MRI-based studies in different populations showing that within 12 weeks of starting this drug, you can see the NAD-NADH ratio change within the brain of an individual. And so, we've got both animal data as well as human data to show that that change is happening. Thank you. I think there's always questions about the mechanism and, of course, NAD precursors with CNM-AU8 and, of course, how they affect the bioenergetics of the cell. What I will say, and I think we're at the time almost, so I just wanted to make sure that we – I think we covered most of the topics. There's a lot of questions about FDA, and I think it's too premature to have any conversations in detail because we just don't know. It's really up to them to decide how they take any data from anything, really. You know, the definitive – you know, in general, when we're talking about investigational products, our definitive answers always come from a controlled, phase 3, placebo-controlled trial. But, of course, innovation in the field has helped us to get there faster. And so, what I wanted to highlight was, obviously, the information. There were so many questions about the press release that came in December from the expanded access program. So, I wanted to share in more detail and have people have an open, transparent ability to look at the data for themselves and really understand how these expanded access programs are not just providing drug, but actually providing information that we can learn about how it behaves in a more advanced population. And also learn about the biology of ALS or the mechanism of an investigational product. And lastly, what I will say is that how the Act for ALS funding, which is up for reauthorization now, is something that has been transformative for our field. And the hope is that, you know, this was a start and that we'll make it better with all of the feedback from the community going forward. So, I think, from my perspective as a clinical trialist and someone who's at an academic center, it has definitely had a good impact on the infrastructure for ALS resourcing to provide investigational products, not only just for expanded access, but also for clinical trials, and for me to understand the drugs that are in development now better. So, with that, I actually want to thank Dr. Greenberg for helping me answer some of the questions from the CLEAN perspective. I want to thank the Healy team for allowing us to share some of the data coming out of the expanded access. And I'm hoping the other programs can also have an opportunity to share updates from what they're learning about their programs beyond just the investigational product, just so everyone can see that the information we're learning is not just about, you know, the product itself and the impact on a more advanced cohort of people living with ALS. But helping us learn to build the infrastructure for ALS and also learn about new outcomes and biomarkers. So, with that, I will conclude unless, Catherine, if there's any questions I missed. I did just want to ask, I know there are a lot of questions of people wondering, you know, how do I stay on top of news for next steps or potential future opportunities related to CNM AU8? So, do you have advice for people in our audience who, in the interim between now and our next webinar, how they can stay on top of the latest news? Yeah, I'll start. Ben, you want to start or you want me to start? Go ahead, Juicy. Yeah, I'll take this. So, what I will say is that obviously, if there's any information that is very important and, you know, the term that they say is material for a company, they have to put it out in a press release. Press releases can be a little confusing because it's meant for an investor audience. It's not a scientifically peer-reviewed information to give to scientists and researchers. So, there's different purposes for different publications. Press releases do give you updates on information like the neurofilament change. They might give you information about regulatory authority interactions. And it is really meant, press releases really meant towards to be facing the investor audience. When there's important information, we will try to share it in webinars. We have actually put out information, especially about that virtual enrollment and getting to people who are socioeconomically disadvantaged or really far and never having an opportunity to participate. We actually share that at the Niels meeting. We've done it again at a couple of meetings to share that kind of baseline demographic. And, you know, actually there at the MDA, which was just this week, we shared some information about IGF BP7, which is a new biomarker. So, we're learning some more information and we're trying to share as much as possible from the scientific platform. But the press releases will come if there are any changes or updates from the regulators or if there are any changes from the company themselves. They'll put it out. But the scientific interpretation will come from those scientific presentations going forward. And, Jun, if I can just add, so CLIN has had a long history of working with ALS patient agency organizations. And so, we try to proactively partner up for announcements via wonderful colleagues at different foundations, particularly if there's an FDA decision relative to access. But importantly embedded in that question is about clinical trials and even if there are new EAPs or programs, always remember that every study in the United States is listed on clinicaltrials.gov. And you can set up a profile. You can list ALS as the indication of interest. And you can check back in to see are there any new opportunities to take part in clinical research. So, this EAP was listed on clinicaltrials.gov when it was finally open for enrollment. So, it's a great resource to use. You know, I see this last comment here. I wish I had known about this EAP. Are there any other EAPs? And I'm just going to thank you for the comment, number one. Number two, I'm pointing it out because, you know, this funding mechanism has really opened the door for expanded access programs to complement our primary clinical trial programs. And so, when you ask the question about other EAPs, the other EAPs will have opportunities for other EAPs if we have reauthorization for ACT for ALS and continued enthusiasm of clinical drug development programs to go through the pipeline once they have preliminary signals to keep our pipeline, you know, being developed and pushing our basic scientists to find better targets and better ways to kind of approach ALS therapeutics. So, better drugs in the pipeline, pushing the pipeline that we have forward, and then trying to create a funding mechanism, not only for basic science, right? So, I talked about the DOD and NIH, not only about clinical trials, which will be government funding and industry-sponsored funding, but also expanded access, both from sponsors who will do that on their own and through ACT for ALS from NIH-funded mechanisms. So, that's my piece, I guess. Thank you so much for the opportunity. And if there's anything else, Catherine, I'm happy to take any last lingering questions. I will let you two go for the night. I'll certainly follow up if there's questions that come to me after this webinar. But Dr. Greenberg, Dr. Andrews, thanks so much for being here. And to our audience members, thank you for driving these conversations forwards. And we'll see you next time. Thank you so much. Have a great night. Bye. Thank you.