 enormkumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumum and Regimen I. And we're joined by Dr. Chris Freitag and Sharon Tamir from Neurizen, and they're going to kind of walk us through a lot of the background and the reason that we're doing this and sort of how the testing is going to guide us to an answer about this drug. So really exciting to talk about a new webinar. As you all know, the Healy ALS platform trial has really been an effort of the entire ALS community coming together from the beginning. And this has meant people living with the disease, people living in the community, advocacy organizations, industry partners, our team here at the Healy Center, and numerous, numerous philanthropic supporters from around the community. So just incredibly exciting to take this next step. Dr. Chris Freitag- Next slide. Okay. The Healy platform trial is really built on this idea that we can change the way that ALS trials work, and that we can do better, and that we can do these trials faster, more efficiently, reduce the placebo burden, make this a better experience for everyone, and really find answers to ALS faster. We think we can reduce the time to finding a new treatment by as much as half, reduce the cost by a third, and then reduce the placebo dramatically by really having a randomization scheme that is three to one, whereas some trials are as much as one to one, putting a higher percentage of people on placebo. Next slide. Over the last five years, we've built a sort of network of sites that are part of the Healy platform trial across the United States. We've tested seven drugs. Three of those have offered expanded access. We have 88 sites. There have been over 1,300 study participants and 25,000 study visits. We have amassed almost 300,000 biosamples that we can go back to to study this disease, come to better trial designs, to find new biomarkers, and actually to prepare for new regimens to explore new biomarkers as well, which is really, really important. We have almost 1,000 people working on this trial across these 88 centers, so really a big team. We've also presented our results many, many times, both from the regimens, but also to say, how are we doing this? And I'll say that we have a lot of meetings behind the scenes from other disease areas that are looking to bring efficiency to their disease area and are learning from our team and our sites and our community about how we've done this. That's been incredibly gratifying as well. Next slide. One of the things that we've been committed to from the beginning as well is sort of learning and adapting and continuing to do that across the platform trials so that we think we have good ideas for how we can be more efficient today, but we also know that tomorrow we'll have more of those ideas. And the more we can adapt and sort of incorporate the best ideas of tomorrow, the better the trial becomes. And we've made some changes to do this better. So we've moved to a nine-month study duration. It used to be a six-month study duration. That's the randomized controlled trial part portion, the portion with the placebo. After that, it's followed by an active treatment extension. The reason for the longer randomized controlled trial is because we know from the Tofferson study, as well as from some theories about how long these drugs take to work, that having a nine-month follow-up gives us a much better chance of finding a benefit and finding successful drugs and being able to, when a drug is really successful, being able to prove that and get regulatory approval. Our inclusion criteria have been updated slightly based on a reevaluation of our data to say, what is the most important criteria for seeing the signal through the noise? And so we've gone to two years since symptom onset. That makes a difference in how much statistical power we have in these trials. Our visit schedule has become, has incorporated more remote visits. We learned to do this during the pandemic and we're incorporating that into our visits now. And we have new biomarkers that we're incorporating, some of which you'll hear about today, I think, to make this trial as powerful, in some ways exploring new biomarkers, in some ways relying on important biomarkers to give us answers. With that, I'm going to, I'm going to hand over to my co-investigator, Mike Weiss. Mike Weiss Thank you, James. So the multi-platform trial operates across a network of ALS Centers of Excellence in the United States and there are 81 sites that are participating in Regimen I. And this, the QR code and web link can take you to the site map and the contacts just to find one that may be close to where you live so you can participate. Next slide. Kathryn Small is our patient navigator for, for the overall Healy platform. And patient navigation is a resource for people, people living with ALS and it allows for the Healy to provide information about the Healy website, community webinars, ALS, ALS link emails, and Massachusetts General Neurology's social media platforms, LinkedIn, Facebook and X. And the QR code and, and, um, web link on the left is, would take you to the Healy ALS platform trial news and webinars page. The middle one, community webinars signup page, and the one on the right, the ALS, an ALS link email list signup page. All right. So I am one of the co-leads of this regimen with Dr. James Berry. I'm a ALS clinical trialist, director of Neuromuscular Diseases Division and, and co-director of the ALS Center of Excellence at the University of Washington Medical Center in Seattle. And Dr. Berry is the Averill Healy Endowed Chair of ALS and the Chief of the Division of ALS and Motor Neurone Diseases at the Mass General Brigham. Our industry partner is Neurizon Therapeutics and the drug, the study medication, the NUZ001. And this is going to be expanded upon in just a moment, but just in a nutshell, what this drug is, we, is thought to do is inhibits mTOR and promotes autophagy, which is sort of the garbage disposal of our cells to get rid of unwanted proteins that aggregate and specifically TDP43 aggregates and promote neuroprotection. So now I'm going to turn things over to the Neurizon team to expand on this in much greater detail. And Chris and Sharon. So Dr. Chris Freytag is the Chief Medical Advisor and Sharon Tamir is the ALS Program Lead. And I'm going to let them take over at this point and talk about the drug. Sharon Tamir Thank you, Michael. So hello, everyone. My name is Sharon Tamir and I'm here along with my colleague, Chris. This was presented representing Neurizon Therapeutics. We're truly honored to speak with you today about NUZ001, an investigational therapy we are developing for people living with ALS. Our goal today is to share the science behind this drug and explain why we're so hopeful about its potential. Let's move to the next slide, please. So at Neurizon, our mission is to advance the groundbreaking science to reach a new horizon in treatment for neurodegenerative diseases. We know how urgent the need is for new options in the ALS community. And every piece of research we do is driven by the goal of making meaningful difference. Next slide, please. Today, we will walk through three areas. First, why TDP43 biology is central to ALS. What we have learned from our preclinical lab work and phase one human studies. And lastly, how these findings have led us to our current phase two clinical trial. To understand how NUZ001 works, we look at a protein called TDP43. In most people with ALS, this protein moves to the wrong part of the cell and begins to clump together into harmful aggregates. These clamps act like roadblocks that contribute to cellular stress and the breakdown of motor neurons. Let's move to the next slide, please. So think about your nerve cells as having a natural trash clearance system. In ALS, these TDP43 protein clamps are a major driver of damage because they block those endogenous clearance pathways. This leads to transcript, uh, transcript, uh, this regulation, which is just a technical way of saying the cells internal, uh, instructions get scrambled. NUZ001 has been shown to enhance autophagy by, uh, suppression of the mTOR signaling pathway and can significantly reduce the TDP43 aggregation addressing the core pathology of most patients with ALS. Next slide, please. So here we, we can see how NUZ001 boosting the cleaning crew, if you will. NUZ001 is designed to fix this by entering the neuron and binding to its target instead of just treating symptoms. It, um, switches on and, and strengthens the cell's own internal disposal system like the proteosome and autophagy. By boosting these, uh, neuronal cleaning pathways, NUZ001 helps the cell clear out those toxic, uh, roadblocks. Next slide. So this slide shows part of our preclinical proof of concept. Um, we've seen, um, this work in the lab using advanced motor neuron models when we applied a stressor that normally causes proteins to clamp. NUZ001 was able to prevent that clamping from happening. This showed us that the drug can actually protect the cell's internal environment. If you look here on the left figure, you can see that TDP43 aggregation was enhanced with inhibitor of proteosomal function. In this case, what you see here is, uh, marked as MG132. Uh, we use this system to test the effect on, uh, NUZ001, NUZ001. And we're very pleased to see it reduce the TDP43 aggregation. Um, based on, um, preclinical success, we, uh, moved into our, uh, first, uh, clinical study, um, called MEND study. And I will pass it over to Chris to walk you through the clinical experience. Thank you very much Sharon. Uh, that's, uh, a great introduction segue into, to the topic that I would like to elaborate on a little bit. If we could move to the next slide. I think we can skip straight to the next one after that. So, um, uh, I, uh, have the pleasure of, of talking you through, um, our experience in, in patients with, or in, um, people suffering with, with ALS, um, and living with the disease. And, uh, the, the, our first venture into this was with the, uh, MEND study. And then this was followed by an open label extension. Um, so, uh, the MEND study itself was, it was an open label multicenter study conducted, um, uh, in Australia. Uh, and it, it was then followed by a compassionate use program and then a open label extension study. That's why the design is, is a bit busy here. Um, suffice it to say that we, we tried, uh, as you can see here, four different dose levels, two milligram per kilogram, then four, then six, and then 10 milligram per kilogram. Those were the four doses that went through. And this were, these were two cohorts of patients, uh, in, in, uh, which, in whom we, we increased the dose, um, progressively. So we ended up in the dose that was really the highest dose, uh, ended up being well tolerated. Uh, and as we go through the results, we can show that it's a, it was a good decision to, to end up with that, with the option of having the, the, the highest dose and following that through. So 12 participants were on the study, um, 10 of those participants rolled over into the open label extension, uh, study in the end. So we have patients now who've, who've received the drug for a considerable amount of time. Um, the recommended phase two dose that was selected was the highest one, uh, 10 milligram per kilogram. Uh, and, uh, I'll talk you through a little bit more on the next slide, please. Um, so in this open label extension, this is where we got to really generate some longer term data of this, this product in, in, uh, uh, patients living with, with ALS. And, um, the safety and tolerability is always foremost when you first go into studying a new compound, uh, in, in patients or in, in humanin general, even for the healthy volunteers, your focus is very much on how well, well, this product may be tolerated. And, um, for a disease with the severity of ALS, um, we have a, um, comparatively, uh, low number of serious adverse events over a prolonged period of time, uh, five serious adverse events. And, uh, of those none were considered to be related to treatment. Even the adverse events was a very manageable amount of 25, uh, events that were reported with, uh, with three of them related to treatment. We had no participants withdrawing from the study due to ill effects, for instance. Um, and, uh, these, uh, report, these, uh, adverse events that were reported as possibly related. Now they were raised liver enzymes, um, that, that subsided on their own. So, so this is a blood test, um, that, which one can see increased values. Um, there is sometimes fluctuation in these values. Um, but in this particular case, the levels went up and, but then settled down again, despite continuation of the drug. Um, then we have, um, two patients who reported increased hair growth and one with a dry mouth at night. These serious adverse events were polymyalgia rheumatic and, uh, a pneumonias and lung, lung infection, respiratory failure, soft tissue injury, and, and a suicide attempt in which a patient took an overdose. Neither of these were reported as related to study drug. Um, there were alternate causes, uh, for all of these events that, that I've just listed up. Um, we really found nothing unexpected in this, um, open label extension, which is the longer term, um, exposure versus what we had already seen in, in the MEND study. Um, and today there are still three participants receiving, uh, treatment and the TGA is the Australian regulatory body. Um, there's a special access theme whereby these patients can continue, uh, to receive and use that zero zero one. If we move to the next slide. Some interesting findings came out of this long-term, uh, treatment. Um, what, uh, we did was look at the data that we generated in these, um, 12 patients, admittedly, only 12. That's not what you'd call a really very powerful, uh, number of, of patients to, to throw into the ring, but, um, nonetheless, 12 patients, um, gave us very, very valuable data. Um, when we look at motor function, as most of you are probably aware, we use the ALS FRS R to, to determine the values and to put a numerical value and number onto motor function to evaluate that. Um, we see that both groups, both the actively treated group, um, um, uh, and, and a comparator group that comes actually, uh, from a very, very large database of, of untreated patients. So the black bars are the untreated patients from the PROACT database that you may or may not be aware of, but it's a very large, um, uh, collection of data in ALS patients. And I have to say this database is the envy, uh, of other patient groups, uh, because it's, it's very freely shared and is made available. Um, and to have to have such a rich, uh, basis on, to which one can compare, uh, emerging treatment data is very, very valuable. So this PROACT database, um, consisting of, of, many hundreds of patients, um, it was, um, matched controls were selected. And in those matched controls, they're 360 patients. So this is where the numbers get a lot higher. So you get a real feel for, for what would usually have been expected of these 12 patients, how their disease may progress. And if you look at these matched, um, controls, um, there's the, the black bar on the left-hand side, um, you can see how, how that expands and reaches further down, uh, in terms of drop of ALS FRSR numbers. And the drop is quite a bit shorter in the, on the right-hand side with a red bar. And these are patients receiving NUZ001. And the, the difference there in, in terms of rate of decline is 31%. Looking at this low vital capacity SVC, which we just group under the term respiration here, um, it's a very similar picture where the, the 420 that age matched and not just age, but otherwise matched controls from this large Proact, um, ALS patient database, um, shows an expected deterioration rate. Um, and then that is compared on the right-hand side in the red, I guess I can call that red box, um, on the right-hand side, uh, the, the treated patients with NUZ001. And there, the difference is 43%. So there's a, a marked slowing. If you look at these numbers, uh, that is reached through treatment with the product. We go to the next one. Here we can see, um, uh, uh, again, based on these controls that we get from the Proact database, um, survival probability. So how many patients, the patient's, um, mortality of the duration, um, with, uh, for how long the patients stay alive. And if you look at the, the four colorful curves on the left, um, these are similar. I would encourage you to look at them all more or less as one curve. These, these are based on different assumptions, um, where, which are, which are explained in detail, um, in the, in the little footnote. Um, but in general, the trend is for a much, uh, increased rate, mortality rate, uh, in the groups of, of patients with, with ALS, um, compared to what we see, the big, slightly fatter, uh, black bar on the right-hand side, uh, shows a much more delayed, um, uh, evolution. And this gives a, uh, a survival probability analysis that is described below, um, suggesting that in this comparison, we note a reduction of the risk of death by 70%. roughly. And there's a hazard ratio. These are all, uh, statistical, um, evaluations that some of you may be more familiar with others, but this is a really quite solid analysis based again on, on a large number of patients coming out of the PROACT database. So these are really strong reasons for us to believe and for us that encourage us to, to work with, uh, uh, and work hard to, to be able to collaborate with this, um, very prestigious group, um, running the Healy trial. We move on to the next. These are our conclusions. Um, our, uh, primary objectives were to show that the drug was actually well tolerated. The other findings, they were what you would call post hoc analyses. So these were done after the event to, to determine if there was any detectable benefits. So you can imagine we were very pleased when we got this comparison with the PROACT database to show that there is indeed a movement, uh, compared to untreated patients. So the longer survival is, is directly listed underneath that. Slowed functional, um, decline, uh, refers to what I mentioned about the ALS FRS score, um, to the right of that, the respiratory stabilization. So a slower decline in, in the respiratory biomarker. And then the bottom two on the right, the middle and right, the biomarker trends, um, looking at, um, urinary P75 and neurofilament light chain gave some encouraging, um, uh, signs. Uh, and in terms of patient satisfaction, we can say that there were not many people who were, who were keen to leave this trial. Um, we have four remaining participants and three of those continue to access the product still under the special access theme, as I mentioned. Then to the next slide. Um, this is just a, uh, walkthrough. You, you will be aware of this and, and, um, Drs. Weiss and Barry have already, um, spoken about this. We have a, a 36 week double blind placebo controlled period, followed by an active treatment period during which all patients, uh, receive active drug. Um, whereas in the first part, the placebo control, as, uh, as we've already discussed, or you've already heard the ideas to minimize the number of patients who, who receive placebo, uh, but it is inevitable. If you really want to do a solid analysis of the data, we need to have some placebo patients. Uh, and the primary endpoint is the change from baseline, uh, at week 36, uh, disease severity as measured by the two points that I've already, uh, listed out to you in our previous analysis. So that's ALS, FRS, and the survival. And we look through secondary efficacy measures, which are a respiratory function, um, the slow vital capacity as well, and then, um, uh, a simple survival calculation also. So, um, um, this is our, uh, product on the, on the right hand side, the plastic jar. I mean, that could be anything, right? So it doesn't tell you a whole lot about it, but the, the tablets that, that, that the patients will be taking, um, are quite small. They're, uh, considerably smaller. Sharon and I were thinking about this and, and looking at, at what the best comparisons were. Uh, it's, um, uh, smaller, smaller than a Tic Tac, uh, is what we came up with. Uh, Tic Tac is comparatively large compared to the, the tablets that, that we ask patients to take of NUZ001. If we move on to the next, um, these are the key in and exclusion criteria for the, uh, for the study. Um, we want to include patients sporadic or familial ALS, um, and, uh, age 18, uh, or older, uh, and the other criteria have also been discussed. The, the new, um, determination of, of participation in terms of, uh, a time since diagnosis or since onset of weakness is now, uh, two years or 24 months. Um, patients shouldn't either not be taking Rizzole or be on a stable dose, um, and either again, not to take, um, a Daravone or have completed a cycle, uh, prior to the, to the first visit. Um, and the patients must be able to swallow pills and liquids. Um, we exclude patients who have a significant unstable medical condition other than ALS and anything that could place the participant at risk, um, to complete the study. Moving on to the next. Um, this is, uh, uh, uh, I don't know, Sharon, if you want to take over from here already, but this is a, a, um, description of, of the, the biomarkers, um, that we're looking at. We really want to understand because we believe our, our drug offers, um, um, the option of a disease modifying treatment. Uh, so we really need to understand the biology behind, uh, the responses that we're seeing. And therefore, we're looking at, um, neurofilament light chain, NFL, uh, the TDP 43, which makes a lot of sense after what Sharon told us earlier about the mechanism of action of our product. You recall the breaking down of those protein clusters and these harmful, um, clusters that, that, um, lump together and the removal of those. Um, then we're looking at RNA and, and, uh, DNA expression, uh, P75 again, uh, that I mentioned earlier as well. And then markers of, of mitochondrial health. So, uh, the, uh, the little organelles, the, the, the little, um, uh, components of, of our cells, uh, the mitochondria. So this indicates cellular stress and energy function. These are all things that, that basically tell us about the health of, of the neuron. If I move on then, um, this I think is our innovative biomarker, digital biomarker that I'd like, I think Sharon, you're okay to take over from here. Uh, I'll ask her to say a few words about this. Thank you very much. Sure. Thank you, Chris. So we're, we're using, uh, in addition to the, to the rest of the biomarkers, we were looking for another perspective to look at that, to measure in a, in an objective manner, the, the, uh, progression of the disease. And we were using, uh, this tool to, to analyze, uh, the speech, um, understanding that communication is a key part of quality of life and, uh, speech-based assessment directly measure how well someone can communicate. That technology, uh, can often detect tiny changes in speech, um, timing or, or voice quality up to six months earlier than traditional rating scales. It's a way for us to measure what matters for, um, many people, um, most, uh, to their, uh, quality of life in, uh, in a very precise way. So we are excited about that opportunity to, to include the speech analysis. It's a very, um, short and, and relatively easy task, uh, that is, um, with a minimal burden. And we believe that the output of this measurement can truly benefit the study and the understanding of the, um, effect of the drug. Uh, let's move to the next slide, please. So looking, uh, towards the future, um, our focus in, uh, Norizen is 100% on the Healy platform clinical trial. Uh, and NUZ001 has already received orphan drug designation from the FDA. And we are hopeful, um, that, uh, strong data could lead to accelerated approval. We're also working on a liquid, uh, formulation version of, uh, the drug and, uh, we're exploring, uh, future expanded access options at this point. Next slide. So to learn more, uh, you're very welcome to learn more about the horizon therapeutics. You can use this, uh, barcode on the right hand side. And of course, to visit clinicaltrial.gov, uh, to learn more about the Healy platform, the master protocol, and also about the regimen, uh, specific protocol. Next, please. So we do want to end by saying a sincere thank you to all the families living with ALS. Uh, we truly believe that your strength and, uh, your trust, uh, are what drive our team in, uh, every single day. And with that, I will hand it over back to James. James. Thanks so much. And that was fabulous. It's so exciting to kind of hear the development of the program all the way through to where we are now. And I think some of the questions that we have sort of, um, you know, follow, follow from that. Um, and, um, the first one is really about the status of the participants who were in phase one. Are, are any of those participants still taking the drug? Um, do you know anything about sort of survival and, and, uh, that all comes with a thank you for, for moving the start forward? Yeah. So, um, um, we have, um, if I may take that, is that right? Yeah. We have four patients, um, uh, uh, who are, who are alive from the original cohort of patients. And, um, of those four, three are still taking the product, uh, and, uh, they take it under a special scheme, uh, that is, uh, allowed through the Australian regulation that allow us to, to give drug on, uh, if the patients wish, um, beyond a clinical trial. So we're very, very pleased to say that those three patients are still, um, uh, able and, and willing to, to participate and to, to continue also to give us their data. So we continue to follow them up. That's wonderful. Um, and, and there's another, uh, person who said they've been excited. They following the product, its development for a number of years. Um, the question is, does any of the data from the original purpose of the drug further support its efficacy and safety? I think, I think that would mean that, you know, their original anti-Helman, Helman, um, purpose. And then, you know, has the FDA been slow in processing the application? Are there any reasons for, for any, any delays or anything you want to comment about there? And maybe the status with FDA now? I'm sorry, I'm not sure I understand the, the, the status of the, the regulatory status or? Yes, yes, yes, yes. Well, I mean, I would say we're enrolling in the trial. So, you know, we're, we're, we're through any, anything that, that took time to get here. Um, yes, I think it's, it's maybe, uh, fair to describe a little bit more in a little bit more detail. I'll try to keep it brief, but we get like, like most, um, companies in our situation, we get questions when we submit a dossier. Um, and, um, given the, the background of our drug, there's a, there's a wealth of information that we submitted with, um, together with, with a request for, for approval to conduct a study in the US. And the, the FDA takes their responsibility very seriously in protecting patients. So they review it very closely and as to be expected, we got questions. Um, the good news is that we were able to address those, um, to the satisfaction of, of everyone involved. Um, and, uh, we, we, we're pleased to say that there were no constraints placed upon us, uh, in conducting the study and, uh, in partnering with the, with the healing group to, to conduct this. So it's a, it's a good outcome, uh, but, uh, reassuring also in that this has been thoroughly vetted by the FDA. Yeah. Um, uh, so, um, there's another question about, you know, any potential plans for an expanded access program. There have been a few, uh, programs that have had an expanded access that was either concurrent or followed shortly after the trial. Yes. So for, for this current protocol, you mean for the, uh, I'm assuming so, um, yes, that is something that we are, um, very actively pursuing and that, that we, we believe, uh, or we have no reason to believe that we will not be able to offer that after this. Uh, it was on one of the slides, I think, at least I hope it was, that we will, we, we aim to offer that to patients. Um, it's particularly meaningful, I find because patients give us, uh, a fair amount of time and energy, um, in order to, to test the product. So I think it's only right that at the end of that process, uh, everyone has access to the drug and, and, and not just, not just, so, so that includes those who were unlucky enough to be randomized to the placebo arm, that they get the opportunity also. So that, that's part of the motivation behind these expanded access programs. I'm, I'm going to take a couple of here and just, uh, sort of answer a few things that came in. So how frequently will neurofilament levels be measured? Um, they're, they're measured just about every two months throughout the, throughout the, um, the trial, uh, just a little more frequently than that in the beginning. Um, we, we found now just recently is not published yet, but we're sort of working on this, that, that, um, if we have about four measurements of neurofilament, that, that we probably want to have at least, at least three or four measurements over time, probably four to be sure. And we'll, we'll end up with them at least five of those measurements here. So, um, that gives us kind of a stable estimate and would, would allow us to see a decrease. Um, so that's a good question. And then our supplements like, uh, B12 permitted, um, in the, in the, uh, platform trial and the answer is they are even the high dose, um, because of the, you know, the positive data, um, and publications. Um, and, um, are people with dysphagia meaning difficulty swallowing excluded from the trial? Um, um, and the answer is people should be able to swallow pills at the, at the, at the entrance of, of the trial. Um, and there was another one here that I wanted to, oh, uh, there was a question that was trying to clarify whether this, uh, whether people, um, who had sporadic ALS might potentially benefit. Um, so the answer is that we're enrolling people with sporadic, that is non-familial forms of ALS, as well as, uh, familial forms, uh, except for a couple rare mutations that may not be amenable to, um, to sort of the mechanism of action of the drug. So we absolutely do think that people with sporadic ALS would, you know, would, would benefit based on the mechanism of action. Mike, I don't know if you wanted to add anything more there. Yes. Specifically the patients are excluded or patients with SOD1 and BCP mutations for various reasons. We don't think they're amenable to the effects of the drug. That's right. So, so, um, yeah, hopefully. James, may I add another comment? Yeah, of course. Yes. So I, I agree with, um, patient today, um, when they enter the study, they should be able to swallow. However, if a participant is no longer able to swallow, during the study, uh, the tablet may be crushed and, and, uh, administrated via the, um, the G-tube. So we take it into account that it may happen during the course of the study. Yeah. Thank you. That's a really good point. Um, okay. Uh, there's another question about TDP43 and, and would it be, uh, valuable to measure TDP43 as a biomarker using an MSD platform or, or other? Um, Sherwin, I don't know if you wanted to comment on TDP43 as a biomarker? The question is, why do we measure it? No, uh, will you be looking at it? Do you think it'll be beneficial? Um, you know? We believe that part of the mechanism of action is the, uh, regulation of the TDP43. And so we're looking at it, trying to correlate between the disease progression and the effect on TDP43, assuming it will help us to, to monitor the efficacy of the drug. And there are, I mean, you know, we're still learning about TDP43 as a, as a biomarker. So I think, you know, um, like many of these things, we're, we're building that bridge as we walk over it. But TDP43 is really at the center of the problems in ALS. And so it's a, it's a really exciting biomarker to be able to measure it. It's also right at the heart of how this drug probably is working. So really, really, as the, as that questioner sort of points out, really teed up well as. Um, okay. When will the trial be up and running in the satellite location? So sites are coming on board. We've had, uh, really, um, pretty, pretty brisk, um, um, uptake of the, uh, of the protocol or, or sort of, uh, sites coming online. We're hoping that we have all of the sites come online very, very quickly. Um, I would say that every week we're having, you know, seven or eight more sites that are, that are activated. And that kind of activation is really fast for a multicenter trial like this. It can, you know, under normal circumstances, it's not uncommon trying to get, you know, 70 sites up and running. It wouldn't be uncommon to still be trying after a year. So for us to be able to sort of, you know, think that we're going to have most of these sites, um, if not all of them activated within a matter of months is, is really, really one of the benefits that we have with this trial. So that's, that's very exciting. Um, what's expected timeframe to complete recruitment of the 160 trial participants? Well, you know, this is something that we model out a number of different ways. We're, we're really, we're watching it very, very closely. One of the things that happens is that as the sites come on in the beginning, um, we, we know that there is what we call the hockey stick enrollment. So it's sort of slower in the beginning. And then, and then we hit this critical mass with more sites that have been activated and more knowledge about the trial. And we see this very, very rapid uptake. And so, um, we're still sort of modeling that out and, and, um, we're excited to see what we think will be a very rapid enrollment in the study. And, you know, we're talking about months of enrollment, not years of enrollment. And, um, you know, that's, I think that's another real benefit of the trial. Um, there was a question about specific, you know, is this drug specific to TBK1 and the answer that's one of the gene mutations that causes ALS and the answer is, you know, that's, uh, you know, people with a TBK1 mutation would be eligible for the trial and the mechanism of action we think would be, um, applicable, but, you know, if we have people with that mutation, we can also sort of look at the data afterwards and see whether we'll write about that. Um, uh, Mike, there's another question about other inclusion and exclusion criteria. I think we've talked about some of the big ones, but maybe let's wrap that together with, um, with another question that asked about, you know, why two years as opposed to three years, but still early in the disease. Do you want to maybe start the conversation? It's like sort of a conversation, but you want to start the conversation about how we come to those? Sure. Sure. So that, uh, and someone who's had their disease for three years with minimal progression, the concern is that they're just going to have a slow, that we might not see a signal even after even evaluating them over nine months. And we've learned that lesson from, uh, the previous regimens that the period, even over six months, the interval is likely too short in some patients to see a signal, see a change. And then what was the other question, James? I forgot what, uh, any, any other notable inclusion criteria. Um, yeah. So, so patients cannot, they can be on new dexta for sure, but they can't take any dose of quinine in excess of what's contained within new dexta, which is 10 milligrams twice a day. So more than that would be prohibited. And then they can't have any history of any drug induced liver injury or chronic liver diseases like chronic hepatitis B or untreated hepatitis C in particular. And that, and then there are also some exclusion criteria based on their liver enzymes that, uh, that I won't go into detail about, but they they would exclude them if they were excessively high. And, and, you know, sort of, there are always some criteria that we have about other active, you know, either neurologic diseases or other active serious illnesses that may put people at some risk of being in an experimental therapy. So I always just want to be kind of cautious about that. Um, let's see. Uh, so, um, just, just a note from, from Catherine here, if you have questions about, um, how to find a site near you or how to get involved in the study as a participant, please feel free to email the patient navigator, Catherine Small at Healy ALS platform at MGH.harvard.edu. So one more time, Healy ALS platform at MGH.harvard.edu. And Catherine spends a lot of her time reaching out to people, um, and, uh, you know, really helping people find their way into the trial. So that's, that's really important. Um, so there's another question and, um, Chris, maybe this is good for you. So given the higher dosage showed more positive results, is there thought to further increasing the dose either after or during this, this trial? Yes. The, um, the dose that we've, we've settled on, um, is the, the highest, uh, that we could go to based on, um, the data that was generated in, in what we call preclinical work. So, so before entering two patients, um, so that has been then, uh, studied in models of, of animals, uh, and that was, uh, the, uh, higher than that, uh, doses have indicated that, uh, in, in the animals, it was not that well tolerated anymore. So we feel that this is, um, as high as we can go at this stage. It doesn't preclude us from, from at a later date, uh, maybe trying that out, but the results that we see so far are so encouraging, um, that it is worth moving forward where we are now. And we feel quite confident that we're not creating a risk for patients at the dose used, um, here. There's another question. This is a little bit, a bit of a complex question in some ways, but, um, uh, sort of, well, I can read it and then I can, I can maybe, we can, we can think about how to, how to best sensor. What, what would need to be true from a data and regulatory standpoint to enable a cross disease pathway, uh, kind of trial that included say other motor neuron diseases or related upper motor neuron diseases like HSP and PLS alongside ALS. Um, are there complexities there? Is that something that an horizon has thought about? Um, how would that fit into a company? Yes, it is indeed quite a, quite a complex question, isn't it? So there's, um, generally as a kind of, you'd almost call it a kind of golden rule. If you have success, it's very important to, to have success in one indication, uh, that makes the expansion into further, further indications, so much easier, um, because that encouragement, that, that buoyancy that you get from, from being successful in one disease. And, and we believe that, that ALS is that one. Um, and that would almost certainly then, um, will for us, and we have already discussed it internally, um, which diseases may be next and where we see from a mechanism of action the most. And, and there are other TDP 43 related neurodegenerative diseases that may benefit from this. And we have indeed, uh, looked into it. Um, and it's not a, not a great topic to bring up in a forum like this, but it's true that these things all do cost money. So it's a, there is a financial element to all of this as well. Um, how many in an ideal world, we may be looking at two or three diseases at the same time, but running these studies is, is, um, is pretty, it's, it's complex. Uh, and for that reason, it's, it is, it is also costly and we have to manage and work within the budgets that we have now. Now, now one really, I think quite elegant way of, of looking at, at multiple diseases at the same time is something called the basket trial. Uh, and in that kind of trial design, um, you look at, uh, smaller groups of patients, smaller patient numbers, but across multiple diseases, that's really good. It's pretty cool way of looking at it, of approaching it because you can look at multiple diseases simultaneously. Really you recruit and you're recruiting to what we call different cohorts. And then you analyze those cohorts individually. The downside to that is that, um, the, again, the, the overall number of patients in those studies may be quite large, but the numbers in those individual cohorts remain quite small. So it's, it is still a challenge there to really find decisive, uh, good data that, that, that actually can lead to a registration. So we, we discussing all of these options. We're not quite sure where we'll go to from here, but there are options that we are banding around within, within the company and trying to find the best way forward. One of the points I just want to highlight and what you've said is that, you know, many times, many times companies do have to focus and investigators have to focus on, so what do we do first? But we have big plans beyond that. And, and one of the hopes for the platform trial is that, is that we create a pathway that allows, uh, us to get to answers in, in one entity quickly and efficiently. And, um, you know, then to move a whole clinical development program forward, not, not even just in, in ALS. And so it's kind of, you know, having that, having that pathway, um, brain sometimes brings assets, uh, that is, um, you know, investigational products to ALS to, to be the first place to test and, and, and then we can go to related diseases. So that was like, that was a great answer. Thank you for that. Um, I think we've gotten to most of the questions here. It's there, there's a number of them, so it's possible I've, I've missed something in here, but I think we've gotten to them. Um, does anybody have any sort of final thoughts or questions we didn't quite cover or they wanted to add anything to sort of what we've said or jog their memory in anywhere? Okay. I just wanted to say, Dr. Wright, there is somebody who raised their hand in the audience. And so I see the hand is raised. We're only able to take questions if it's written in the Q and A box. So if you're able to scurry and type a question in the Q and A box, I'd be happy to take the question for the person with the raised hand. Um, oh, okay. So there is actually one more question that's just come in. So, uh, Monopantil has been around for some time. And so, um, uh, there is a question about how, how either easier or challenging it is to produce. If this were to be, um, you know, if we were to find success, which we're all crossing our fingers for, you know, would, would, would the, what we call the CMC part of this, the, the actual drug manufacturing part of this be challenging to go to a mass scale? Uh, I can, I'm very happy to answer that with a full hearted note, no problems. Uh, the, the, the production on a large scale has been done, um, uh, for those who, who, who don't know it to just a reminder that this, uh, the product itself comes, uh, from the veterinary world, uh, where the, where the drug has been used for quite a while in, in very, in an unrelated, uh, veterinary indication. Um, and therefore the, the scale of production has been quite considerable for, for a while. Um, and that's, that's the raw material. Then the purification and the standards for production in human medicines are different, but that has all been ironed out. Uh, and we are pretty much ready to go, um, on quite a large scale production, uh, for, for human use and human purity and all of that is above board as well. Um, and then, um, I guess just a little bit of the story of how, how you, how did you come to look at this and its effect on, on HEMTOR and, and ultimately TD-443? Um, that's a, that's a really good question. I, I think we might, I might have to get, get back to you on that. Um, uh, I, I think it, it, uh, awoke interest of scientists, um, that who, uh, who were looking at the, the mode of action of our product, um, and, uh, came across this, this, um, effect on the, on the, the cleanse, the cleaning of the cells, the, the, um, uh, autophagy. There we go. And that, that stood out as remarkable, as a remarkable feature of the product. Now, what exactly triggered that analysis on the mode of action that I'm afraid I can't answer? Sharon, do you know, or shall we maybe commit to giving you that at a later date? We can, we can try and answer that. I'm afraid I don't know the exact history of it. I came into the game a little bit too late for that. Yeah, that's okay. I, I will just make the point that I think because we now have cell models that are so readily available in part because of, you know, projects like answer ALS and all ALS that are, you know, that are creating these cell lines. Um, those are available in lots and lots of labs and with, um, machine learning and some of the high throughput abilities that we have to test drugs. There are now really massive drug screens happening in lots of labs, both academic and, and industry. And then, you know, those massive drug screens are happening, not just to test and sort of see, oh, well, how does the cell do, but really within the cell, what pathways are being affected and are, are we sort of healing any of the pathways that we think are going wrong in various diseases? And so, um, you know, and, and I think, I do think that with more powerful AI, we're going to see more of this and it's going to lead us to more answers. It turns out that lots of drugs have many mechanisms of action. And so what used to be a very slow process of what we call repurposing drugs, you know, sort of, well, gee, you know, somebody happened to be taking a drug for something else and another disease kind of responded to it now is being done in a petri dish very, very, very rapidly. And I think we're going to see a lot of these repurposing drugs coming to the surface for testing. Uh, and it's really, it's really exciting. So I think that's a, that's another really, I think really neat, uh, sort of lesson to learn from, from this development program. If that's possible. Right. If I just may add one last sentence, I do want to thank everyone here and, and for everyone who asks questions, we are grateful for the opportunity to communicate with the community, to listen to your questions, to learn from your interest. Uh, I, I can tell you that these experience shape how we think, how we work and why we're so, so committed to this journey. So thank you, everyone. I'm committed you are. You really have taken so much time. Your team has really shepherded the strug through kind of all the hoops that you have to shepherd something through to get it into people. We're so excited to be enrolling in this regimen. We'll, we'll finish by just saying, you know, that, you know, it is that the reason that we have, uh, this platform trial is so that we can partner with, uh, with, uh, you know, industry partners that have these really exciting drugs and we're just thrilled, um, to, to, to be bringing this, uh, to fruition. So thank you very much to both of you and to your entire team for working with our team and everybody in the community to make this happen. Yeah. I echo James's sentiments. It's great to be partnering with you on this. Thank you as well. Great. Thank you. Right. And with that, I think we'll, we'll close the webinar.