 dstersterstered, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas, losersas losersas, losersas losersas, losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas losersas approach in ALS. Our vision is to remake the early phase clinical trial landscape and streamline therapeutic development. And we do that by identifying the right people for the right trials based off of their disease biomarkers or their genetic types. We are really at an exciting time in the field of ALS for drug development. We have more than 100 investigational products either in clinical trials or entering clinical phases of testing. And every trial we bring to a participant is one step closer to that therapeutic discovery. And that's the hope that motivates us and motivates our patient families we work with every day. So MindMatch uses a unified screening protocol so that we can screen for multiple potential trials at the same time. And then people are matched to an early phase trial based on their own biology and genetics from a panel of biomarkers that we test. And that increases the chances that they may match to a trial that's most likely to be successful. Healy ALS MyMatch prioritizes scientific rigor with an expert scientific advisory panel, operational efficiencies for faster enrollment and streamlined studies, patient centricity designed to curate outcomes and reduce burdens on participants. We're creating high impact trial opportunities, accelerated trial design, enrollment of subpopulations based on each person's disease biology, target engagement biomarkers matched to drug mechanisms, and AI-driven approaches to drug discovery all add up to reduced wait times and increased access for more patients to more targeted trials. By prioritizing efficient, value-informed drug development, ALS MyMatch supports the ongoing pipeline for potential treatments, helping drug companies de-risk investment in future phases by ensuring the highest quality data from early stage investigations. If a drug is successful in ALS MyMatch, then we can easily transition it very quickly into the platform trial. Our companies can choose to do a standalone trial. We are all trying our best to innovate, to bring solutions as fast as possible to our patients. And because we are doing this in a collaborative way with many different industry partners and many sites that continue to work together, we can move the needle faster. Innovation is extremely important to the patient community because we desperately need new approaches, novel ideas to make a difference in finding good treatments. From a patient point of view, having the opportunity to find a treatment that looks more specific to their presentation of the disease will make a huge difference, not only in finding a treatment, by recruiting and retaining patients in the research study. I'm very excited for the potential ALS MyMatch holds for a couple reasons. One is it's so important in drug development to know that you are giving the investigational product to the right person, the right time of their illness, and at the right dose. And ALS MyMatch is about developing an approach to gather all that data in small studies so that by the time an investigational product is ready for a bigger efficacy trial, we have de-risked it and we know that we're bringing the best therapies forward for the right patients. One screening, multiple trial matches, less waiting, more opportunity. Together, we'll keep racing to beat the ALS clock.