

=== FILE: Advancing Autoimmune Encephalitis Care： Biomarker Discovery and a Multi-Center Registry Initiative [haps5MBZVKc].txt ===

 Ebrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrushbrush It's nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing So we already brushed that. Do you, like, is there a . Yeah. That's all. That's, yeah, I'm great. That's why I said, you know, . . . . . . . . . . . . Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right, why don't we get started? Welcome, everyone, to Pediatric Neurology Grand Rounds. I'm Andrew Wiley. I'm one of the chief residents. Before we begin our typical programming today, I was hoping to invite Dr. Melissa Walker up here to say a couple of words. So we are very sad to announce for those who haven't already heard that Dr. Elizabeth Dooling passed away in December of this past year. I think everyone in the department will remember her for her incredible leadership as a true triple threat, a consummate child neurologist, an incredible educator, a researcher of great depth, and an incredible mentor to so many in our community as child neurologists and at MGH. And I think it's therefore very fitting that one of the amazing people who she mentored is going to be giving us a talk today. But we also want to announce that in Dr. Dooling's honor, we are now renaming the Pediatric Neuro Radiology Rounds to the Elizabeth Dooling Pediatric Neuro Radiology Rounds. Thank you, Dr. Walker. Dr. Grace Gambale is an associate professor at M.A. University and director of the Pediatric Neuroimmunology and Multiple Sclerosis Clinic at the Children's Healthcare of Atlanta. She completed pediatric neurology residency at Mass General and then fellowship in pediatric multiple sclerosis and neuroimmunology at Mass General Brigham and Boston Children's. She is PI of an NIH U54 rare disease clinical research network called ARISEN, which is a multicenter prospective patient neuroinflammatory registry for autoimmune encephalitis, Rasmussen syndrome, and NORS. She's also chair of the scientific selection and program planning committee for the Child Neurology Society 2026 and 2027 meetings. Please join me and give me a warm welcome to Dr. Grace Gambale. Dr. Grace Gambale. Hi, everybody. Good morning. Good afternoon now, I guess. Thanks for having me back. It's really wonderful to be back here. It kind of feels like coming back home. A lot of familiar faces. Nice to see. And nice to see new faces also. I really appreciate you giving me this opportunity to talk about some of the work we're doing. I was asked to talk about our advancing in autoimmune encephalitis care, our biomarket discovery, and our multi-center registry initiative. Here are my disclosures, which really shouldn't affect this talk. I do get part-time CDC consulting time for acute flaccid myelitis disease surveillance. That's under the polio division. Unfortunately, that will probably get closed in the next few months because of our current administration, so we'll see how that goes. I do not get any honorarium for being an associate editor for Annals of the Child Neurology Society. And if I discuss any treatments today, they're going to be off-label because, as everyone is aware, everything that we do right now in autoimmune encephalitis and in most pediatric conditions are off-label. So here are the objectives and outline for the next 45 minutes or so for today. I'm going to discuss some potential predictive biomarkers in autoimmune encephalitis and really focus on some of the work we've done in developing this multi-center network, which was originally called Connect, is now called Arisen. I'm going to touch upon some of the mimickers of autoimmune encephalitis because this comes up a lot in clinical practice and some of the work we've done looking at rates of AE and new onset psychosis in children. So let's talk about the autoimmune encephalitis and biomarker work. As everyone is aware here, just to ground everybody, let's talk about, you know, when do you suspect autoimmune encephalitis? What is possible AE? And this is some of the inclusion criteria that we developed for our network. So when you have a patient who comes in with nuanced symptoms, and there's a wide variety of symptoms, right? Psychiatric, cognitive, speech, movement disorders, excluding tics. Tics are not part of this criteria. Seizures, autoimmune instability, hypoventilation, right? They have a lot of different myriad of symptoms that can really look like a lot of conditions, but also be suspected inflammation. I bring up this here because I realize my audience is both pediatric and adult. And because a lot of you are going to be familiar with this paper. This is back in 2016 now, so almost 10 years old, looking at the clinical approach to diagnosing autoimmune encephalitis. And this is geared towards adults with suspected AE. I made this flow diagram small on purpose because I'm not going to go through everything. If you are suspecting adult with AE, go through this flow diagram. And what I really like about it, it walks through the different potential diagnostic criteria for diagnosing ADEM, autoimmune limbic encephalitis, NTN-D receptor encephalitis, Bickerstaff brainstem encephalitis, Hashimoto's encephalopathy, and then the most arching question that everybody has so much angst about, which is seronegative or antibody-negative AE. This is a really important slide here because what the caveat that this paper talks about is that other potential causes that can look like AE. I am thrilled everybody wants to diagnose AE. It's one of my favorite diseases. That's why I'm studying and that's why I went into this field. But there are other diseases that mimic it. So please, please, please consider other causes, everything from infection, sepsis, metabolic encephalopathy, drug toxicity, strokes, neoplastic disorders, like Quartz-Fadyakob disease, right, different types of seizures, different types of systemic rheumatologic disorders, Klein-Levin syndrome, Rye syndrome, especially in children, things like mitochondrial diseases or other inborn errors of metabolism, CNS vasculitis, and Rasmusens. So this doesn't cover all the list of things that could be mimicking AE or AE can mimic these conditions, but just consider it because if you look at the criteria for both the Grouse and then what we'll talk about, the pediatric criteria, you have to consider other causes and exclude other causes as much as possible. So let's talk about the approach to pediatric AE. This was developed by this Lucci et al. group back in 2020 because they realized, right, pediatric AE is really hard to, challenging to diagnose, right? In kids, you have overlapping clinical presentation with other diseases, complexity of normal behavioral changes, what's considered normal in the childhood development, right? Like I have four kids. When I have a kid who gets sick or something happens to them and they get really agitated and really aggressive, is it because they're developing AE or is this part of their normal development? And then the other piece that's really important to think about, which we deal with all the time in our not only young children, but in our patients who aren't able to communicate, right? They can't really describe their symptoms, so you have to infer a lot of symptoms with them. So this diagnostic criteria is slightly different from the Grouse. So there's overlap with different conditions like psychiatric disorders, infections, metabolic diseases, or all sorts of inflammation. And so they're not applicable because not only the presentations and paraclinical findings different in children compared to adults, the autoantibody profiles, the different antibodies are more common in kids compared to adults. So case in point is if you send your antibody testing panel to the Mayo Clinic, for example, their pediatric autoencephalopathy panel is different from the adult. And they make it very clear if you're under 18, we send it to the pediatric. If they're over 18, you send the adult panel, quote unquote. One of the main differences on that panel is MOG, actually. MOG is not on the adult panel, although they may have changed it recently, so they may have put it on there. But MOG is on the pediatric panel because we know MOG can look like an autoimmune encephalitis. So again, I'm not going to go through this flow diagram. This is just here for your reference. But if you have a patient who comes in with a clinical presentation with considering for AE, do they have paraclinical and antibody testing consistent with AE? And this is what's important. So you send the test for it. Is it have the ancillary test that are consistent with it? If the answer is yes, then you can start immunotherapy and think about it. And then if you actually have autoantibodies that are associated with AE, you'd have definitely antibody positive pediatric AE. If the answer is no, you do all the testing, even though clinically you feel like they fit like an AE, if they don't have the testing that's positive with it, consider all other conditions. And then same thing with the probable antibody negative AE. Let's say you do have some positive testing. The antibody panel is negative. And you're like, maybe this is zero negative or antibody negative. You can consider starting therapy, but still consider other conditions. So just like everything we do in medicine and neurology, right, the diagnosis of AE is not just on testing alone. We don't make a diagnosis just on a single test. It should be based upon the clinical history and everything else that's happening with the patient. Okay. Let's talk about NMDA receptor encephalitis. So as everyone is aware in here, about one-third of NMDA or NMDAR can occur in children, and up to 10% actually can die from their disease. They're in the hospital a long time. And you are aware of this if you've ever diagnosed someone with NMDA. And this is data that we have from our Children's Healthcare Atlanta or CHOA, where their average hospital length of stay is 39 days, anywhere from up to two months. And not only that, this is inpatient rehabilitation data. So they're also in inpatient rehab for at least 39 days and up to six months. And so that doesn't talk about, right, day rehab after they get discharged from inpatient rehab and how do you start rehabilitating them and starting to slowly integrate them back into their normal lives. So when I make this diagnosis, I tell families we're in it for the long haul. It's going to take months to years to see recovery from this illness, hopefully faster, which is a good thing. About one-third is associated with ovarian teratomas. So it's a perineoplastic disorder in that case. But then there was a very talented medical student named Jen Lee, who's now an internal medicine physician, actually, in Emory. But she came up to me after one of my talks and she said, hey, we know one-third of NMDA is associated with ovarian tumors. How often do people with ovarian tumors develop NMDA? And I said, I don't know the answer to that, but let's look at it. So she actually went through and did a chart review of all the patients who had ovarian teratomas at CHOA. And it turns out the answer is 3%. 3% of all comers with ovarian teratomas have NMDA receptor encephalitis. And that's actually very similar to the opsoclonus-myoclonus ataxia literature related to neuroblastoma. So 50% of OMS is going to have a tumor, most likely neuroblastoma, associated with it. But then if you have all comers with neuroblastoma, about 1% to 3% will develop the OMS, perineoplastic syndrome, with it. And then as you're all aware, some people can develop NMDA receptor encephalitis after HSV, herpes inflex viral encephalitis. So the diagnosis is actually having a positive CSF, anti-NMDA receptor antibody. You can have some people with low positive titers in their serum. About 1% of the population can have the low serum positivity. So you really want to make sure that CSF is positive. And then this disease was made popular and more well-known in the literature or in the lay population because of this memoir by Susanna Callahan called Brain on Fire. There's also a Netflix movie for it. What's our current treatment approach for pediatric NMDA receptor encephalitis? This is the International Consensus Recommendations for this. This was published a few years ago. Again, I made this flow diagram very small for a reason because if you diagnose a patient, pull up the paper, or you can go through the flow diagram. What I like about it, it talks about standard disease versus severe disease and how do you treat them. And so as you're not going to be surprised about, typical treatment plans include first-line therapies, things like IV steroids, IVIG, plasmapheresis, and then tumor removal if you find a tumor. And then second line is going to be rituximab, cyclophosphamide, mycophenolate mofetil, and tocilizumab. Although now, like, things are trendy, right, in medicine, including in the neuroinflammatory world. Probably our second line in this disease will be rituximab. If that's in the work, we're probably going to do tocilizumab next because tocilizumab has become more popular in the neuroinflammatory world. We talked a bit about this already, but recovery takes a long time, right, when you have a child who comes in with NMDR or an adult. And this is older data, but recovery at two years, when you look at two-year outcome data, 70% have, quote-unquote, good outcomes. But how do you define the good outcomes? In this case, a lot of people use the modified Rankin scale, or MRS, which you're familiar with. But the MRS is a scale between zero to six, zero being no symptoms, up to three, meaning, like, some disability, walking without assistance. Four is unable to walk, you know, without assistance. And then up to six, which is death. And the way that good versus poor outcomes is defined is good is between zero to two, and then poor is between three to six. So 70% have, quote-unquote, good outcomes, whereas 30% have poor outcomes, and this is even two years out from the onset of their disease. And then some of the things that we know that can help with outcomes, right, is early treatment can associate with improved outcomes, which is not going to be a surprise, right? You treat them earlier, they're going to do better. But what's also important to know is that do they respond to treatment? So you've started treatment to them. Are they actually improving with the treatment? And if they are improving treatment early, and by the way, early here is defined as four weeks. This is one of the things that sort of comes up in my institution and may come up here, right? You have somebody with suspected NNDA. You send out the testing. People are upset because it can take a few days to a couple weeks to come back, and they want to treat right away four weeks. So we're talking about early treatments within four weeks. Treatment response is also within four weeks of treatment. And then the consensus criteria, treatment criteria that I just talked about, they recommend waiting one to two weeks in between treatments. They don't say hit everybody really hard with all of the meds at once. You want to wait one to two weeks. And so one of the things that I've really dedicated my time to is looking at what are predictors for patients with good versus poor outcomes? Can I predict at the time of diagnosis whether or not you're going to do well or not? And then if I think you're going to do poorly, can I be more aggressive with immunotherapy up front? Some groups have already looked at this. This is a multi-center study led by the Mayo Clinic called the NEO SCORE, the One-Year Outcome Assessment in NMDAAR. And so they gave everybody five points if you're admitted to that. You got one point for each of these criteria. So if you're admitted to the ICU, delayed treatment more than four weeks, lack of clinical improvement within four weeks, had an abnormal MRI, or you have a CSL white cell count greater than 20 cells. And so this is what they found. So if you have a low NEO SCORE, so zero to one, up to four to five, five being the highest, your good one-year functional status, again, is that modified Lincoln score, zero to two being good. So if you had a low NEO SCORE, you did pretty well at one year. Close to all of them had a good score. But as you can see, as the NEO SCORE got higher, they did more poorly or more associated. What I like about here in panel B, it shows you the breakdown of how the individual patients ended up doing or the groups, right? So even though zero to one overall did pretty well, you still have a few poor MRS scores even in the zero to one group. And so even though you get that worse over time, you still have people who did well in this four to five versus in the four to five group. They still had an MRS of zero. So we actually looked at this. And so Leah Lawrence, who's actually now a child neurology resident at CHOP, was a medical student at Emory who looked at this with me. And so we actually did a validation study along with a German group showing that this is validated. We were able to validate this NEO SCORE in our cohorts individually or independently, but it's not applicable at an individual level. So even if I have somebody who has a NEO SCORE of four to five, I still cannot predict at one year how well you're doing. I can tell as a group level with an individual patient in front of you, I cannot say that. So here's some of the work we did looking at predictors of outcomes. One of the things we started looking at was EEG features and sleep, some MRI work. And then the other piece, which I sort of have been hinting at, is better outcome measures in NMDAR, which I'll go into in a little bit. So let's talk about the EEG. So extreme Delta brush has been shown to be associated with adult NMDAR. This group is very familiar with extreme Delta brush. She knows normal and premature infants, but we should not see it in older kids or adults. And then this group found that in about 30 percent of adults with NMDAR had the extreme Delta brush on their EEG. And what they found was that if there was presence of extreme Delta brush, it was associated with longer hospitalization. And they trended, they tend to have maybe worse MRS scores at one year from their onset. There were a few pediatric cases that said, oh, this kid came in with extreme Delta brush. They had poor outcomes. So maybe that associates with it. And then there's this group from China that had about 80 children with NMDAR who they looked at how many of them had extreme Delta brush. And they said about 6 percent, but they never really correlated or associated the extreme Delta brush with the outcomes. And so we started looking at that in our group. So this was led by Drs. Lynn and Elkins, who were residents and then fellows. And now Dr. Lynn is on staff as an epileptologist at Emory. And Dr. Elkins is in St. Louis. But they led this effort with four other epileptologists here. So we wanted to look at this extreme Delta brush associated with outcomes in children with NMDAR. In our cohort, which is relatively small because we had to go back and look at the raw EEG files and trying to access all of the raw EEG files was next to impossible. But when they went back and looked at it, we found that about 63 percent of our cohort did have extreme Delta brush but did not associate with outcomes. Interestingly enough, when we went back and looked at the charts, a good proportion to them, about 80 percent of them reported sleep disturbance. And about a third, about 27 percent, had absence of electrophysiologic sleep. And this is actually in the first 24 hours of EEG recording that we have on these patients. 24 hours, there's no evidence of sleep. And you've ever been on service or on call, right, or had these patients admitted, they're in the ICU. The ICU is calling you because they're like, this kid is awake. They are agitated. They are not sleeping. They are awake. And now I have EEG evidence to show they are not sleeping during the first early times of it. And so when we actually looked at the presence or absence of sleep stages on EEG, that actually associated with inpatient rehab length of stay and the need for a higher number of enotherapies. And so then we did a multivariate analysis looking at poor outcomes at one year. And what we found is that if you had patients who had an absent posterior dominant rhythm, absent sleep stages, and epileptiform discharges, that actually seemed to associate with poor outcomes. And so we're actually going to start looking at this, investigating this in a larger multi-center study. So let's go to the sleep question. This was really striking to me that 80 percent reported sleep issues and that there was no evidence of sleep in a good proportion of our patients on their EEG. So sleep is often disturbed. This has been shown, Dr. Delma has reported this a lot in his papers in NMDR. But there hadn't been a lot of studies in kids and their sleep problems. So we went back and did a retrospective chart review, and we had 47 NMDR patients at that time. And it turns out at least 39, so at least 80 percent, had reported sleep presence problems at presentation. And I don't know about you, but I usually don't ask about sleep in an inpatient consult, right? And when I'm doing an inpatient consult, I don't talk about it. Outpatient I do, but not an inpatient. But on the either initial history and physical, the admission note from the primary team or the initial neuroconsult note, the families or the patients were complaining about poor sleep. Most of them had insomnia. There's one family or one patient that was reporting hypersomnia as their sleep issues. And so even though poor sleep at presentation did not predict poor outcomes at one year, having persistent sleep issues at one year did associate with poor outcomes. And it's hard for me to say at this point, is it because, is it the poor sleep is a sign of the disease severity, meaning that if you have poor sleep still at one year, that means you had severe NMDR. Versus a lot of my patients are teenagers and they're not sleeping well and they have poor sleep hygiene. So is it because they have poor sleep hygiene and they're not recovering as well as they would like to because of their poor sleep hygiene? So if anybody wants to help me look at that, let me know, because I don't know how to tease that out. But that's something that we should really explore. I've alluded to this already, but I wanted to talk about some of our multi-center network work. And so this is called CONNECT, which stands for Conquering Numeral Inflammation and Epilepsies Consortium. And we were very grateful to receive funding from the Pediatric Epilepsy Research Foundation for this. So we started off as a prospective registry. And then we actually also came together to put together a retrospective network, a database of NMDA receptor encephalitis patients. And here is the stars and the list of all the sites included in this work. And so one of our first papers that we came out with was looking at MRI T2 lesions in children with NMDR. There had been a former study from China and about 40-ish patients that included mostly adults that said if you had T2 temporal lobe lesions in the adult group, you had poor outcomes. And so we were curious, is that true in our pediatric group? So in our multi-center retrospective study, which at that time we had data from 11 sites from 175 children, we excluded those with prior HSV for many reasons, right? HSV can cause lesions in your brain. And we don't know. And we know that they're more severe if you have prior HSV. Also, I don't know which lesions are going to be from your NMDA versus your HSV. So just to take that out, we excluded those patients. So these 175 did not have prior HSV. In our cohort, 35% had some sort of abnormality on their MRI. And then luckily our outcomes, older data I showed you was 30% poor outcomes at one year. Ours is now 20%. So in our cohort, 20% had poor outcomes at one year. And to show you the MRS here, just to remind you. So when we looked at features to predict poor outcomes, looking at the crude odds ratio, looking at abnormal MRIs. So having an abnormal eye increases your risk of poor outcomes or odds of poor outcomes almost three times. This has been shown before. This was shown in that newspaper I showed you earlier. Many people have looked at this. But what was to our surprise, temporal lobe lesions didn't affect outcomes or associate with outcomes. It turns out if you had frontal or occipital lobe lesions, that actually increase your risk for poor outcomes. And then we did an adjusted odds ratio, looking at adjusting for other factors, including improvement within four weeks, treatment within four weeks, and being admitted to the ICU. And it turns out having an abnormal MRI did not seem to pan out in terms of being associated with poor outcomes. But the frontal and occipital lobe lesions still do. So now I'm starting to have more individualized data of saying, okay, if you have these MRI lesions plus EEG, can I now give you a better predictive score? And so our next steps in looking at this is going to be looking at brain volumes themselves, right? There's a lot of volumetric, automatic volumetric measurements out there for brain MRIs and also lesion volumes. And so that's the next step that we are looking at. Because this is a qualitative study saying, do you have a lesion in this location? Yes, no. But now we can look at lesion volumes. Is the volume of lesions cause an issue? So now let's talk about optimal outcome measures. And I know this sounds maybe very straightforward, but there's a lot to it when you think about it. So what is an optimal outcome measure? It's a metric to measure and track outcomes. You're going to be like, yes, I already know this. Timing is also critical, right? Like when you measure the outcome. And especially in diseases like NMDA receptor encephalitis, trying to pinpoint when the disease onset is very, very hard. When you have these insidious little symptoms that are happening and people go back and think about it. And they're like, was that the onset of my onyemone encephalitis? Yes, no. And it's hard to know. And one of the things about the modifying Rankin score is that it's, you know, there's lots of, you know, pros about this, right? It's well validated. It's on the NIH common data elements. There's a really high inter-rater agreement. So if you have multiple people doing it, they're going to agree very, very highly together. And that's what you want for an outcome measure that you have different people doing it, performing it, and they agree. But this skews towards motor disability. This was a scale that was developed for stroke outcomes. And people have adopted it because of its many benefits, like I mentioned it. And it's less sensitive to change. So trying to get a step one point difference in between each of these steps is a huge difference, including cognition. And my patients with onyemone encephalitis, they don't have a lot of motor disability when I start looking at their outcomes. They have a lot of cognitive fatigue, quality of life, psychiatric impacts. So what are other outcome measures we can use? So there is a group in actually Korea who developed the clinical assessment scale on autoimmune encephalitis, or this case scales, because they recognize that the residual cognitive and neuropsychiatric symptoms are really commonly impacting our patients. And so they developed this 27-point scale where you get zero to three per item, and the items are listed here. So severity of seizures, consciousness, memory, weakness, psychiatric symptoms, speech, movement disorder, brainstem dysfunction, and then gait dysfunction. And the K-score has a higher sensitivity. So now you have a wider scale you're working with from zero to seven, so zero to six. So each change in point is going to be more sensitive to change with a patient and how they're doing. And it's actually been validated in other A-E cohorts. But the thing about this is that when you go back and you look at memory or psychiatric, you really just have a zero to three-point scale. So you're really not really capturing what's impacting our patients. And so one of the things that we wanted to look at and utilize is what's called the CALS, or cognitive and linguistic scale. So this is a 20-item scale that's been used in children with inpatient rehabilitation centers across the country. And this was actually developed by Beth Sloan at Kennedy Krieger. And this is initially used to track recovery and traumatic brain injury. And this score is actually between 20 to 100, 20 being low functioning, up to 100 is high functioning. And this is focused on mental status, emotional regulation, attention, language, and cognition. It takes about 20 minutes to administer. This is not a full neuropsych evaluation. It does associate well with the more validated neuropsych measures. One of the things I also really like about it, it can be used in disorders of consciousness. So you have somebody in the ICU, someone who cannot interact with you, you can still give them a score on this CALS scale. It's more sensitive to change. And then the other piece that's really important to think about when you're doing repeated measures, because you really want to know how well a patient is doing, is there's no practice effect. Practice effect is that if you do the test over and over and over again, your scores get better just because you're practicing it. It's not because you're improving clinically. It's just because you've practiced it and you get better. The MOCUS is probably a really good example of that, and that's why you have different versions of it, right? And so the CALS actually doesn't have a practice effect limited with it. So this was in coordination with Drs. Howard and Blackwell, who are two pediatric neuropsychologists at my institution. And so we looked at this, and we went back and looked at our 21 patients at that point who had both CALS, CASE, and MRS scores. So this is looking at admission and discharge from inpatient rehab. And as you can see here, the MRS improved over time. So lower MRS means improvement over time. Here, then we looked at the CASE, and again, they had improvement over time. Again, lower case means – lower case scores means clinical improvement. Then we looked at the CALS. CALS is a little bit different where it's flipped. So higher CALS means better clinical improvement. And so, again, we saw a clinical improvement. But I hope you're starting to see here when you look at these dots. There's a reason why I'm showing you the dots individually. There's this clustering of dots. There's a higher functioning group and a lower functioning group here. And so, actually, when we looked at the individual dots, there were three groups that emerged. So this is a busy slide, so let me orient you here. So when we're looking at the CALS, when you look at the dots, like the patients who started off at around 60, and they started off at 60, they improved a little bit, but they remained pretty high over time. And then you had this lower group that were between 30 to 40. So at admission, they were lower scores, 30 to 40. They had a dramatic improvement over time by the time they were discharged. And then you had this third group who started off in that very, very low scores, between 20 to 30, and they remained low over time. And when somebody's going to ask me, is it the length of time? Is it the timing matter for this? And it turns out timing of when you do this doesn't matter. In fact, the people who were on the lowest scale were in the hospital longer. And so despite being on the longer, they remained low over time. And so I thought that was very interesting to look at. I'll talk about the square. Somebody's going to eagle eye here is going to talk about the square in a second. But when you look at the MRS scores, either they stay the same or improved over time. Same thing with the case. So it turns out the CALS is more sensitive to really picking up clinical changes and clinical things. And not only that, right, now I can show you if you had a CALS greater than 30 at the time of admission, not only can I use this as an outcome measure, I can use this as a predictive measure. So predicted improvement by discharge with a sensitivity of 86% and specificity of 93%. So now I can use this not only as an outcome measure, but to predict is somebody going to do well. This square, let me tell you about the square. So there was a patient who came in who was functioning relatively well. She only had isolated psychosis. So we were going to do the workup and say, okay, you probably don't have NMDA. We're going to send you home. You're going to be fine. During the week in her hospital while she was waiting, she developed additional symptoms. Turns out she actually did have NMDA. She was otherwise improving much better and her psychiatric or seizures, movement disorder, all that stuff had been better controlled. But at the time of discharge, and this is one of the observations that one of the neuropsychologists had mentioned, she said, huh, the CALS got worse. But everything else clinically looks fine. So they discharged her and she came back the next week with worsening symptoms again. So I think that CALS was kind of heralding that maybe there was worsening of clinical symptoms. Again, that's one patient, right? So we have to validate this in a larger group. So speaking of the larger group, and so I mentioned CONNECT already. And then now I'm going to talk about our U54 funding work called ARISEN, which stands for Audit Immunity Rasmusens Inflammation and Status Epilepticus Research Network. So CONNECT was a prospective multi-center registry funded by the PERF that I mentioned earlier. And then I had an institutional K that helped support this work. And this is a prospective registry where we included patient and caregiver forms, clinician-facing forms. We are attempting an EEG and MRI central repository, a biorepository with biospecimens. And we actually now have 10 centers who are funded under the PERF, and we've enrolled 38 participants with autoimmune encephalitis through this mechanism. But our PERF funding was ending. And so I knew that was going to be a problem. And so in the meantime, while we were waiting to recruit and enroll patients or participants, we then developed this multi-center retrospective data registry. I mentioned that MRI worked already. We published a second paper, which I'll talk about later on. And now the data set has over 300 children with pediatric NMDA or someterencephalitis from 19 centers. We are now in the process of expanding this data set to include adults with autoimmune encephalitis. So if somebody here wants to help contribute data, let me know. And expanding to additional autoimmune antibodies related to AE in addition to NMDA. Because I needed to show we were a young network. A lot of us that were leading the network, very junior faculty. And so we needed to show proof to people that we could work well together because it was going to take us forever to enroll enough people to do anything with that data. And so then that led to ARISEN. So I knew the PERF grant was going to go away. So I put in for this grant for the U54. Did not think anything was going to happen for it. And then here we are. And so this network includes new neuropsychiatric symptoms due to inflammation. And so when enrolling participants who have autoimmune encephalitis, Rasmussen syndrome, and NORS, and that's in partnership with Larry Hirsch from Yale and Nora Wong from the NORS Institute, that we've combined forces to really start enrolling these patients prospectively. Here's our participating sites. We have 24 sites across the country who are involved. And then we have six affiliate sites who are interested in being an enrolled father of the network. And then this U54 grant involves three projects. For the project one is establishing prospective longitudinal clinical cohorts to really document the natural history disease in autoimmune encephalitis, Rasmussen, and NORS. Project two is doing better functional and patient-reported outcomes in these three groups of diseases because the whole point of the U54 grant is improved clinical trial readiness. People use the MRS. People are using the case. It's the extinguished trial led by Stacey Clardy, which looks at inobilizumab for NMD receptor encephalitis. They're using the case. They're using MRS as their primary outcomes. And then they are doing some exploratory stuff. But we really need improved outcome measures to really understand how this is impacting our patients. And then finally, project three, which is early biomarker discovery. So this is in partnership with Chuck Howe at Mayo and the Wilson and Pleasure Labs at UCSF. But we're actually going to identify early immunologic and novel neural antibody biomarkers, not only novel autoimmune encephalitis antibody discovery, but early immunologic markers to actually help you distinguish between these three diseases. And so TBD to be continued. As part of our U54 grant, I have a QR code if you're interested. This is a link to our website, which is bare bones right now, but does have links to the grants. We are offering pilot and career enhancement grants if you're interested in doing any work within these diseases. And that includes autoimmune encephalitis, Rasmusens, and or NORS. We are asking for a two-page LOI that is due March 6th. So if you're interested, go ahead. And then if you don't get it now, I will have it at the ending slide. But we are offering these grants to really encourage people to study these diseases. Okay. Next, let's talk about rates of autoimmune encephalitis in new onset psychosis in children. So there were two major papers that came out in the adult world, including this one from Joseph Dalmo's group looking at neuroinflammatory markers in first episode psychosis. And it turns out out of their 101 patients who were referred for a possible AE, only 20% fulfilled criteria for possible or probable autoimmune psychosis, but none of them developed it. And actually, it turns out 96%, so the vast majority of them were non-psychiatric, or sorry, psychiatric, and then only four of them were non-psychiatric, which ended up being some sort of autoimmune encephalitis. And then this is a multi-center study led by Owen Flanagan at the Mayo, who looked at 393 adults who had been referred to these major centers for possible AE. And it turns out 27% of them had been misdiagnosed, had been treated for AE, even though they didn't have AE. And so we wanted to look at how often this is happening in kids, because this was happening to us, where we would get a patient who comes in, new onset psychiatric symptoms, and people were worried that they were having autoimmune encephalitis. So this was led by Geffen Treeman, who is now an adult neurology resident at Yale, or finishing up soon. And so she led this effort looking at the rates of AE and our new onset psychiatric symptoms. So we had 24 children who had been referred for an AE workup, because of new onset psychiatric symptoms. Five of the 24 ended up having autoimmune encephalitis, and they all happened to be NMDA in this cohort. 19 had other diagnoses eventually. So 12 were considered primary psychiatric, and here were a few others. Two were some sort of complex migraine syndrome. One was mycoplasma-related encephalitis. There's a lot of debate about mycoplasma encephalitis. I'm not going to talk about it today, but just know that there's some debate about that, so take that with a grain of salt. One was also COVID-19 encephalitis. Again, there's some debate about what that looks like. One was DRESS syndrome, cobalamin C deficiency, and two unknown. I'm going to take a second here. The people I work with, including my trainees, are probably sick of me talking about this, but the cobalamin C deficiency is a story that's really stuck with me. This was a seven-year-old who came in. He had a few months of some gradual cognitive decline and some new-onset ADHD that the teachers had brought up to the family they were concerned about, but the family were like, well, he's a seven-year-old boy. He's fine. And he came up with a week of new-onset hallucinations and acute psychosis. And so he got evaluated. I mean, he's looked like NMDA, right? He smelled like NMDA or autoimmune encephalitis. He got worked up for it, and everything came back normal and negative. I was not on service, but someone had the wherewithal to send our genetic metabolic panel, which includes the serum amino acids and uricanic acids. And it came back consistent with cobalamin C deficiency. So he got treated for cobalamin C, and it was doing much better, and psychosis is gone. Turns out his older sister had been diagnosed with a primary bipolar disorder and had been treated for bipolar for a few years. Turns out she also has cobalamin C deficiency and got treated for that. So it's one of those things we have to think about other conditions and not just autoimmune encephalitis, right? Because we could have treated this kid with just steroids, IVH, whatever. Maybe he would have gotten better, maybe not, you know, and not have picked up on this. And it also not affected him, but it affected his sister. Just to mention, cobalamin C deficiency, you can still have normal B12 levels. So sending just B12 alone is not sufficient. And then, so this is the algorithm that Joseph Dommel's group had put together that we adapted for our pediatric cohort. So if you have first episode psychosis or FEP and new onset neurological symptoms, then yes, I think CSF testing is warranted. Then you go through the whole thing of sending the autoimmune encephalitis panel and all of those things. Or do they have evidence of neuroinflammation, CSF-specific neuroinflammation, right? Pleocytosis, all colonel bands. That's sort of more straightforward. I think this is the challenge that we all run into, right? What if they have first episode psychosis without other neurological symptoms? And so what Joseph Dommel's group and what we also explored in our cohort, can you get by without doing an LP? Can you start with an EEG, MRI, and just the serum panel and wait there? And it turns out if you have normal EEG, normal brain MRI, and negative panel, you don't necessarily have to tap everybody. And the other piece is that let's say all your initial testing is negative or normal. Have they tried other antipsychotics, antipsychic medicines that are not helping? At that point, then you can consider doing spinal fluid testing. And if that's not helping either, then start considering what other diagnoses can there be? Do they have cobalone C deficiency? So this is what they proposed, right? Serum, EEG, MRI first, then later on send the CSF. And when we looked at it in our cohorts, so let's say we did this in our cohort. They all got CSF testing. But let's say we looked at it. We were able to capture 100% of our patients. So we would have been able to capture all of the NMDA patients by doing this alone. They either had some abnormality either on their initial CSF or their initial EEG or MRI. Specificity was low, but that's okay, right? It's one of those things where you want 100% sensitivity. You want to try to capture all the patients possible. You might LP a few more people than you wanted to, but that's probably okay. With a positive predictive value of 68%, which is also okay, but the negative predictive value. So this is what you want. You really want to make sure you're not missing anybody with potential AE. It's really hard to convince, especially our primary PEDS teams, not to LP people. LP is relatively low risk, so you may get by about it. But let's say you're seeing somebody in clinic and you're like, oh, it's going to be a whole thing to arrange for LP. Can we start off with this first? And the answer to that is yes. Because this is an adult group two, I want to bring up this case report with somebody with cobalamin G deficiency. I'm hammering you overhead with the cobalamin deficiencies today. This was an 18-year-old who had come in with four years of cognitive difficulty and seizures. The autoimmune workup was negative, but empirically treatment, and she did not improve. She had PET testing. We don't do PETs often in the kids. I know a lot of adults, including neuroanologists, will use PET as some markers of potential inflammation. She did have some hypometabolism on PET and got more immune treatment without improvement. The initial metabolic studies were normal or negative that were sent, but she had whole exome sequencing confirming the cobalamin G deficiency. And she also had elevated plasma, hoax and cysteine, and then the CSF methylhydrotetrafolate. And then she was treated with leucovore and betaine and B12 injections and reversed her symptoms, including her cognitive symptoms. So think about this. Here's our second paper from our multi-center connect group that I mentioned earlier from the retrospective study. So how often—I showed you the first way. All comers with autoimmune or all comers with initial psychosis, do they have autoimmune cephalitis? Yes, no. Turns out maybe about 20% in our cohort. I'm showing the flip side. How often by the time a patient is admitted to the hospital, how often do they have only psychosis and nothing else, but they eventually are diagnosed with NMDA? And it turns out at the time of admission to the hospital, if you look at their initial symptoms, only 12, so only 5% had isolated psychosis. Everybody else had something else. Seizures, movement disorders, hypoventilation, speech changes, you know, something else. They had some other clinical symptom instead of just isolated psychiatric symptoms. And here's the kicker here. So if you look at their initial ancillary testing, right? Initial EEG, initial MRI, initial CSF pleiocytosis. 11 of the 12 had something abnormal on the stuff, right? When you met a patient, you're doing this stuff. This stuff comes back relatively quickly. It's the panels that take a long time to come back. So, you know, most of them had an abnormal EEG. Half of them had abnormal MRI. About, you know, 40% had CSF pleiocytosis. There was one patient who had a normal MRI, normal EEG, normal CSF profile, who came, who had eventually had an NMDA antibody, CSF. That was low positive. So technically positive. She had been discharged home from the hospital by the time they got that testing back. And her symptoms improved without immunotherapy. So could you imagine if somebody had given her immunotherapy inpatient when it happened? And then she got better. And then they're like, oh, it's because she got treatment. Turns out she improved without immunotherapy. So it's one of those things where if you have, hopefully this is showing, when you do the initial studies, if you have normal CSF pleiocytosis, normal MRI, normal EEG, you can wait for the antibody testing to come back. And they don't have the other symptoms. You can wait for the antibody testing to come back. Okay. Finally, I want to talk some of the work that we've done looking at MoGAD. I'm going to shift gears a little bit and leptominalencement. One of the things that we were exploring, and we ended up working with Owen Flanagan on, is looking at presenting symptoms of meningoencephalitis. So there are patients who came in with MoGAD who have fevers, encephalopathy up their weeks, have stroke-like symptoms. So we published a case report looking at leptominalencement in this left posterior quadrant that was led by Dr. Tuttmeyer, who was a resident at the time and now on faculty at Emory, where she came up with something that looked like a stroke and turned out to have MoGAD. A lot of them have increased opening pressure. They can have papilledema or maybe it's optic neuritis, but they can have very, very high opening pressures, 50s, 60s. And later on, they developed demyelinating features on their MRI, and that's when people realized it's MoGAD. There's a term called cerebral cortical encephalitis that has been turned, and then the Mayo Group also termed this entity called FLAMES, which is unilateral flare lesions in MOG associated encephalitis with seizures. And so we were curious, and actually this started when I was a fellow here at MGH. I've been seeing patients with Dr. Tuttmeyer with MoGAD, and we had this MoGAD patient who got admitted to the hospital with meningoencephalitis and fevers, and it was an aseptic meningitis, and we couldn't figure it out. And I was like, okay, maybe it's MoG, maybe it's not. And then I saw three more at Emory, and I said, oh, we have to look at this. So LME, it turns out, is predominantly observed in MoGAD. So this was led by Adam Golden-Gaston, who is a pediatric neuroradiologist I work with at Emory, and so we looked at this. So at CHETOA, at that time, we only had 21 MoGAD patients we looked at. Seven out of 21 or 33% had LME on their brain MRIs. It turns out zero of our pediatric MS and zero of our NMOSD patients had LME on their MRIs, and we've been able to validate this in a larger cohort. And so LME seems to be a neuroimaging, if it's present, a neuroimaging biomarker for MoGAD. So if somebody comes in with demyelinating-type diseases, you have LME, it's probably MoGAD. And this has been corroborated by the Mayo Group with Owen, and then Brenda Banwell looked at this in spine MRIs. So LME is more common in spine MRIs in MoGAD compared to the MS or aquaporin form. Then I was curious of the flip side. Let's say you have a brain MRI that has LME on it. How often is that going to be MoGAD versus now? And so this was led by Gabby Bowe, who is an adult neuromyology fellow at Emory, who's now stayed on as faculty. And it turns out when we looked at over 200 children with brain MRI scans with LME present, 5% ended up being MoGAD. There's a good proportion that was, it turned out to be some sort of infection, especially bacterial infections, oncologic. We had a few Sturge-Weber genetic things in there, too. It turns out 5% had MoGAD. So if you see LME, they're encephalopathic, you're not sure what's going on. Think about MoGAD. It's not technically on the MOG criteria, the International Consensus MOG criteria, but think about it. Okay, I'm almost done. So summary, we talked about auto encephalitis. If there's anything you take away from the talk, please, please look at the diagnostic criteria for both adult and pediatric AE. I have the references here. They're not behind a firewall. They're open access. So you can just Google it and you can find them for antibody negative AE. Please have positive testing that helps you with it. If it doesn't, think about other conditions like genetic and metabolic causes. And hopefully I've convinced you and shown you today some data to support. If you have isolated psychiatric symptoms with normal CSF, white cell count, MRI, EEG, you can wait to treat. We talked about the International Consensus Treatment Guidelines for NMDR. Again, the reference is here for you to look at. And then I've showed you some data to start looking at do EEG and MRI features predict outcomes in NMDR. Finally, MOGAD can present as a meningoencephalitis and leptomengial enhancement. I didn't talk about this. There's some primary immune dysregulation disorders. It turns out they can also look like this. So think about other causes. If it doesn't make sense, this is true, whatever you do in medicine. If it doesn't make sense, even if somebody else has diagnosed it, even treating this patient for many years, and that's something that a lot of my mentors here have instilled in me, including Dr. Krish, and I carry this and I teach my mentees and my trainees this. If it doesn't make sense, go back to the drawing board, think about it again. Okay. Finally, my really, really most important slide. I've shown you a lot of work that I've been fortunate to be a part of, but I have this whole team, and I can't even put everybody's name on here. So the NMDAR, which includes a lot of people from Emory on this work, including Christy Murray, who is MPI with me on the U54 grant, and Casey McCoy, who's project manager, a lot of research coordinators who have supported this. I have a ton, too many external collaborators to count. A lot of the cores at Emory who have helped me with this. We are partnering with a lot of patient advocacy groups to help support this effort. Here's my funding sources. Here's that QR code again to look at our ARISM website that talks about the pilot and career funding opportunities. And I'm going to stop here and take any questions. So thanks again for your time. Grace, this is outstanding. Thanks for all the work you do, and thanks for making us so proud of being here, your colleagues. And just hopefully we'll see MGB in that list as well of collaborations, and I think that's just outstanding. So a couple questions. One is whether you are foreseeing studying predisposition for this disease, as you show, a small percentage of folks with very theratoma will develop this, right? Correct. How can we understand why some people do and why some people do in that severe aspect? You know, more specific question is why you think patients with MOGAD develop leptomeningeal disease, since there's no MOG into that tissue. Do you think it's an additional antibody or it is some sort of spreading inflammation from the targeting of the MOG? Yeah. Let me talk with that question first. I thought you might ask something about that because of all the work that you do. So I don't know. I don't know why we're seeing that. We started doing more advanced—I didn't show this data, but Adam Goldman-Yassen has been leading this— where we're looking at more advanced neuroimaging in our MS versus aquaporin-4 and MOSD versus the MOGAD patients. And there have been some papers looking at the blood-brain barrier breakdown, and you can see differences in it on our advanced imaging sequences. And we are showing a difference in our pediatric MOGAD patients. Like, they're more affected compared to the MS, compared to the healthy control. So healthy controls are here, MS, blood-brain barrier is, like, here, and the MOGAD is more affected. And then we're also looking at advanced imaging techniques to look at the glymphatic system. So the glymphatic system is this hot topic in neuroimmunology and probably in a lot of areas of neurology, which I'd never heard of during residency or medical school or anything, but it's this hot thing. So the glymphatic system is the lymph system for your brain. And so there's a lot of immune trafficking, immune molecules, and all this stuff happening. And this is not just the blood-brain barrier. It's in this separate lymph lymphatic system that gets drained and all this stuff. So we're also looking at the glymphatic system to see, and we're showing impairments in the glymphatic system. Right now, our data shows the MOGAD and MS have similar glymphatic impairment compared to healthy controls. But I don't know the answer to that. Why do we see more LME? So, and then the other question was about genetic predisposition and, you know, the ovarian teratomas. And then, yeah, I don't know. I mean, I don't know. One of the things that we did look at, which I didn't talk about, that Jen, Dr. Lee, looked at, is that the participants who developed an MDA who had the ovarian teratomas, they are more likely to have neuroglial elements in their ovarian tissue. And so that's probably where it came from. But not all. There's other patients in the cohort who did not develop NMDA who had neuroglial elements. So there's a lot of questions about it. And also, what's the 1%? We know NMDA receptor antibodies are pathogenic. So what about this 1% that has the small, low positive serum titers? Like, why didn't they develop NMDA? And then we don't use NMDA titers to track disease severity or clinical recovery or anything like that because we know that they don't correlate. Again, Dr. Dalman's group tried to show, oh, if you have high, the CSF titers do correlate with outcomes. But if you look at individual patients, that is not true. You can have patients with high CSF NMDA titers who are clinically improving and clinically getting better. So why is that? So there's a million questions to answer with that. There's a few cases of this cobalamin deficiency that you mentioned. Yes. Those kids, did they have any pre-morbid symptoms like developmental delay, anything failure to thrive, anything else suspected of genetic metabolic disease? And number two, when they presented with psychosis, did they have any neurological features? Yeah. So, yeah. So for the cobalamin, the question was about the cobalamin C patients have any sort of heralding symptoms even before they presented. I don't believe so based upon, you know, talking to the family and from the charts. It seems like it was just the seven-year-old had a few months of symptoms before onset but didn't have other things. But as you know, there's varying severities of cobalamin C deficiency. So you can have cobalamin C deficiency as an infant, right? And those are the ones who are even prenatally. And those are the ones who have severe developmental delay, microcephaly, seizures, failure to thrive, and all of that. But in the seven and the 11-year-old, it seemed like there wasn't a lot about that. I don't know about the 18-year-old case, the case report I said. And apologies, I don't remember the other question you asked, the second question. Second question? Yeah. What was your second question? No. When they presented with psychosis, right? Yeah. During the psychosis, at that time of the vaccination psychosis, did they have other things like seizures, movement disorder, or any other? No, there was no other seizures, movement disorder. They had pure psychosis and no seizures, movement disorders, or other symptoms. All right. Any last-minute questions from our chat or from the group? All right. With that, we will thank Dr. Gambale one more time. And to anyone who's able, there will be a reception lunch upstairs in the Adams Conference Room on WAG-7. Thank you again. Thank you, everybody. Thank you.

=== FILE: Blum Center Program： Understanding Dementia, with a Spotlight on Alzheimer's Disease [NVNojGKfmM8].txt ===

 and scrxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx org, forward slash Blum Hyphen Center. Please note that you are in listen only mode. Everyone has music from here at guest speaker today. If you have any questions for a guest speaker, you may use the chat feature, which is located at the bottom of your screen. We'll have time from the end. Only Blum Center staff and our guest speaker will see your questions. Please do not share any personal medical information or questions in the chat. If you have a personal medical question, please ask your doctor. Lastly, at the end of today's session, you'll be directed to a brief survey, which would like to ask you if it's complete. Your feedback is important to us as we plan future programs. Joining us today, we have Dr. Catherine Hanley. Dr. Hanley is an attending physician in geriatric medicine based at Massachusetts General Hospital and an instructor in medicine at Harvard Medical School. She's the clinical director of CHIME, an innovative cognitive health consult clinic serving patients and families. Her expertise spans decades of clinical practice, teaching and leadership, mentoring trainees and driving improvements in geriatric service delivery and cognitive health. She is passionate about patient care and focusing on what matters. She joins us today to give a talk on understanding dementia with a spotlight on Alzheimer's disease. So please join me in welcoming Dr. Hanley. Thank you so much, Amy, for the invitation and for that introduction. Happy snow day, everybody. I would normally have really enjoyed seeing you in person, but at least we have the opportunity of getting together this way. So I'm gonna share my slides. And Amy, let me know if you see what you're supposed to see. Looks good. All right. So this is the title slide, understanding dementia with a spotlight on Alzheimer's disease. The objectives today are to review cognition and memory and common fears that people have, go over the evaluation for memory, review memory impairment and Alzheimer's disease, initial guidance and treatments and how to improve the odds for successful aging with some useful resources at the end. So what is cognition? It's the ability to understand, learn new things, communicate ideas and perform complex tasks like decision-making and problem solving. And it's really common to worry about memory and to ask yourself, maybe, am I getting Alzheimer's disease? Oftentimes people ask, you know, or wonder, where did I put my phone or my keys or my glasses? And where did I park my car? Sometimes I forget what I'm doing or even where I'm going. Maybe I've forgotten a name, somebody's name in the store or an appointment. And these are all normal feelings and experiences. But what if what is going on is more than just a normal feeling and experience? So I wanted to share, when is a good time to seek advice? If you have concerns about memory or the memory of somebody close to you, please make an appointment with a physician or your doctor. Why should we do that? Well, first, it's important to see if there is a problem and if so, how to address it. There are many things that it can interfere without our cognition and memory, not just dementia. So just don't go, don't go all the way to saying, I have Alzheimer's or I'm worried about Alzheimer's. These things all can interfere with how we think and remember. Sleep is really important. It's the time that our memory is consolidated and we can have better quick opportunities for recall. Mood really plays an important role on how we take in information and are able to recall it. In particular, depression and anxiety. There are lots of medications that can interfere with memory and most physicians know which ones those are, but patients don't. Sensory deficits like hearing impairment and visual impairment or vision impairment can interfere with how we take in the world. Undertreated or untreated medical problems can interfere as can tobacco and alcohol. So when seeing the doctor or a nurse practitioner when talking about memory, they're gonna wanna know basics. What's the nature of the concern? Tell me about how long this has been going on, the timeline, what in particular are you noticing? Are there any new medical problems or medications? And what about things going on in life? Are there any new stressors, challenges or changes? Is the concern one of yours or from somebody else? And if it's somebody else, please bring them to the appointment so they can participate in the conversation and share their experiences with the provider. Sorry. As part of normal aging, our brain will get smaller and shrink. With that, it will be slower processing speeds. So instead of a new automatic update on your phone or your computer, these processors are a little bit slower. You can still recall details, facts and names, but it just might take a little bit longer. And it's the same with performing a task. You just might not, it just might not be as quick as it used to be, but you can still do it. So you're still wondering, am I getting Alzheimer's? Well, let's talk about first what mild cognitive impairment is. We often refer to it as MCI, mild cognitive impairment. And it's a diagnosis when somebody has noticed memory deficits in the day-to-day or in a cognitive test, but they're still able to function independently. People with MCI often still work, drive, entertain, maybe even take care of the grandchildren. And they can, however, because of the memory deficits, they might need to use, be more of a lion on memory tools, like a date book, a calendar or a pill box. But also on the flip side, even if you do use these tools, it doesn't mean you have MCI. And MCI is not the same thing as dementia. With dementia, the difference is people can no longer manage tasks independently. For instance, important things like medication management, paying bills or balancing a checkbook, grocery shopping and cooking regular meals, making and keeping appointments, and challenges with driving. Sometimes there might be a new fender bender or missing a sign. There are several types of dementia. So when we think of dementia, a healthcare provider will think of this list. Alzheimer's disease, cerebrovascular disease, Lewy body disease, Parkinson's, frontal temporal dementia. So dementia is an all-encompassing term that can be caused by any one of these things. Alzheimer's in particular is really important because it's the majority of cases of dementia. Cerebrovascular disease is a dementia related to years of elevated blood pressure and cholesterol. And oftentimes somebody with cerebrovascular disease might have a step-wise decline. They're fine and then they're not. They're fine for a while and then they're not. Lewy body disease is noted for people with sleep disturbances like sleep wake cycles or bad dreams. They might have hallucinations or difficulty with visual spatial and executive functions. Executive functions meaning things like multitasking and planning and executing. People with dementia related to Parkinson's disease, I've actually had Parkinson's for more than a year. Frontotemporal dementia is demonstrated when people have significant personality or behavior disorders. And then there's a common term called mixed dementia, which can be a combination of any of these. When testing for cognitive impairment and evaluating that, there's the medical informant, the physician talking to the patient, but also the informant interview where the physician will, hopefully a care partner or loved one has come to the appointment and they also can share their perspective on how things are going at home. And some of the things that people will ask in that evaluation are ADLs, which stands for activity of daily living. These are the things that you need to get up and get out of the house on a daily basis, getting dressed, bathing, toileting, grooming and eating. We also are curious about the instrumental activities of daily living, things that are a little bit more complex that you need in your daily living. In order to get through a week, like shopping, cooking, cleaning, laundry, finances and transportation. Usually if someone's getting an evaluation for memory, they'll actually have a memory test in clinic. There are two popular ones that we use. One is called the Montreal Cognitive Assessment Test or MOCA, and then there's the RUDIS, the Ralland Universal Dementia Assessment. Oftentimes the MOCA is used as a first choice just because it's more commonly used, but if there are differences in language, particularly if English is not somebody's native language, we'll choose the RUDIS. Or if somebody has not made it through high school, we'll choose the RUDIS. As the name indicates, it's a little bit more universal. And in these memory tests, there are certain domains which we think about how someone's brain works or their cognition. At testing, excuse me, testing attention and concentration, language, calculation, executive function, which is the multitasking and planning I mentioned, memory, visual spatial skills and orientation, meaning what day is it, where are we, that kind of thing. And let's recall for a moment the fact that these items interfere with our memory, so we'll ask questions about those too. Sleep, mood and stress, medication, the need for hearing aids, under or untreated medical problems and tobacco and alcohol. Sometimes at this point, you have a sense, you know why someone's not doing well. They're sleeping two hours a night, or they're severely depressed, or they're on a medication like Tylenol PM, so the Benadryl in the PM is really messing up how they're thinking and being able to perform. So not everybody needs to go beyond this step. Perhaps this is where we stop, fix and then reassess. Oops, excuse me. But if there's, we don't have a clear answer, I'm gonna go back for a second. If sleep and mood are not the answer or we just don't know yet, we might have to do some more things. So if appropriate, further testing is warranted. Such as, oh, such as blood tests, like a TSH, which is a thyroid test, B12, a comprehensive blood count or CBC, which looks at white count hemoglobin platelets. A BMP is a basic metabolic panel, which is your sodium, potassium, glucose and kidney function. And LFT, which is liver function tests. Sometimes imaging is needed. And the preferred image is an MRI, but if some people can't have an MRI due to metal implants of some kind, excluding titanium, a CT scan is warranted. And those tests are very useful because we are looking for things to exclude. Has there, is there a tumor? Or has there been a big stroke? Are there microvascular changes that are noted? And then also one thing that we're all very interested in is volume loss. Because as I mentioned earlier, our brain shrinks. We wanna see if this shrinkage is appropriate for someone's age. Is there a uniformity to it? Or are there some lobes of the brain that are more, have greater volume loss than others? There's also an FDGPET, which is a test looking for the accumulation of amyloid, which is one of the features of Alzheimer's disease. And then there's something called neuropsychiatric testing, which is advanced memory testing that can take several hours. So if somebody is, so just know in advance that this can take several hours. So not everybody has the stamina for memory testing like that. But neuropsychiatric testing is very useful when we're trying to tease out whether somebody has a mental health problem causing their memory or is it a cognition problem? So neuropsychiatric testing can really tease out, this is severe depression, if it's not already obvious. The other thing that, other areas in which neuropsychiatric testing are useful is if somebody's native language is not English and the testing that we don't feel like has been adequate enough to assess their memory. Also, sorry, the dog is about to come in the room. Okay, my interruption has stopped. Neuropsychiatric testing is also useful. There's some sort of disconnect between how somebody is performing on a test and how somebody is performing in clinic. Let's say we've had a great interview, the patient is able to tell how their day is, how what their daily life is like, what living is like, what they're interested in, but their testing is not very good. And if the physician is surprised or the nurse practitioner is surprised, wait a minute, why did they test so poorly but they're doing so great? That is another suggestion that neuropsychiatric testing might be in order. Speaking about, or with our spotlight now on Alzheimer's disease, I had mentioned something about amyloid. Well, you can see on the left panel is a normal brain, but on the right panel has two features that are common in an Alzheimer's brain, the neurofibrillary tangles and the amyloid plaques. And there are several phases of dementia and one is a newly appreciated phase called the preclinical phase. And it's considered preclinical because people or somebody with evidence of neurofibrillary tangles and amyloid plaques isn't showing any signs of memory impairment. They're able to perform their tasks at work and at home and nobody is the wiser that something's going on. Then there are, then if Alzheimer's has been diagnosed, as we mentioned earlier, memory impairment that prevents somebody from managing independently, there will be a mild, moderate and severe in stage disease. The symptoms of Alzheimer's disease and also some of the other dementias can be apathy and or depression, apathy where somebody's not as interested in what they used to do, whether it's a hobby or a TV show or just going out having coffee with friends or just like, I don't know, I just don't feel like it. That's apathy or depression, I think we all can recognize what depression is and that can be an early sign of Alzheimer's disease. People can have increased anxiety, partially because there's this sense that something's not going right and just don't know what it is and that makes people more anxious. Also the idea that just increased anxiety can be a feature. Forgetfulness, trouble with word finding, trouble with short-term memory, meaning you've just told somebody the appointments at three o'clock and then five minutes later, what's the appointment? And then missing social cues, maybe subtle hints that someone's, suggesting that we do or don't do something or imagine you're at a cocktail party and someone's like, no, don't say anything. And you sort of miss that clue too. So these can be kind of non-specific, very common in any of the dementias. So this would be an early sign. As dementia progresses, there can be problems with general routines and routines and things that seem like simple tasks, like getting dressed. Sometimes a shirt will be put on inside out or the button's wrong or one layer over top, another that isn't quite right. There can be weight loss because people forget to eat, they don't recognize that they're as hungry, maybe they've forgotten how to prepare something, even like a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. So weight loss is another feature and falls due to inattention, usually. Disrupted sleep wake cycle is something that's really important. As we mentioned earlier, sleep can interfere with memory. And then when we do develop a dementia, sometimes people just have, they need more tired during the day and want to take a nap and then the nap sort of rob somebody of their consolidated sleep at nighttime. Or if any of you out there know somebody with dementia where they begin to wander and fiddle and do those kinds of things, really when they should be asleep. So a disturbed sleep wake cycle is definitely a feature. Then there's also hallucinations or delusions. Hallucination is seeing or hearing something that's not there. For instance, sometimes people can see little children or little animals in the room or maybe even a relative that's passed away. A delusion is confusing something that really is there with something else. For instance, a coat rack might appear, with a coat hanging on it, might appear like a man. So that's a delusion. I had a patient the other day in clinic who has hydrangea, the shrub in her yard and the ball of the hydrangea, she thought was a person. She thought that was a face. And then there's paranoia where you're worried that somebody's entering the house or that somebody's out to get you or that there's some infidelity with the spouse. So these would be along the lines of moderate dementia. And so how do we treat this? Dementia, first of all, is really hard to treat. It's really hard to treat. It's a challenge for obviously family members, but it is also for the medical community. We have this class of medication called colonesterase inhibitors, which might be familiar to some of you. Dinepazil or erycept is one of the standard medications we try. There's also rivastigmine and galantamine. And these medications are used to try to slow down the progression of the disease. Imagine there's a slope of a line or an angle like in a triangle. And if this is the normal trajectory of memory loss, we try to flatten it out just a little bit so our endpoint might take, we might get to the same endpoint, but a little bit longer. Common side effects of these medications are abdominal pain, then leading to weight loss, and also a slower heart rate. So if somebody has, whose blood pressure or heart rate is a little on the low side to begin with, I might forego this medicine. As mentioned earlier, one of the things that can mimic dementia and also be an early feature of dementia is depression or anxiety. And sometimes, in fact, oftentimes a physician or a nurse practitioner might start an SSRI or an anti-depression or anti-anxiety medication, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor medication. To see if treating the dementia or, sorry, treating the depression or the anxiety might improve the memory and the functioning. These are the three medicines that the geriatrician would approve of. As Amy mentioned, I'm a geriatrician. And so sertralenus oloft, citalopram or cilexa, eschatalopram or luxapro are the go-to medicines from a geriatrician standpoint on how to try to alleviate some of these symptoms. And we usually will try doses lower than let's say a 40 or 50 year old. There's another class of medication called an NMDA receptor and that medication is Mementine or Nemenda. And this is usually tried as Alzheimer's has progressed a little bit. It's no longer mild disease, it might be moderate. And then, as I mentioned before, sometimes people can have really troubling psychosis or the hallucinations or delusions. We reserve these medications for when somebody is really plagued by the paranoia or the hallucinations. When somebody is at risk of harm to themselves or others because there are significant warnings with these medicines. I will say I see lots of commercials on TV about behaviors of dementia and just giving mom or dad one of these medicines. But we have to really think deeply about medications that we use because sometimes they can cause harm themselves. So it's a risk reward analysis. Nowadays, there's a relatively new medication called Lecanimab or Lecambi, which is considered a disease modifying agent. And in years past, we did not treat MCI at all. Dinepizil and Memantine, those are not indicated for MCI. So you might know that you've got some memory impairment, but MCI doesn't necessarily mean somebody is going to progress to dementia. And also MCI does not necessarily mean someone's gonna develop Alzheimer's. So for people who have been diagnosed with Alzheimer's, which requires perhaps some added testing by a neurologist, then they might be eligible for a medication called Lecanimab. Lecanimab is unique in that it is an IV infusion that requires serial MRI imaging to look for side effects of this medication. Edema and bleeding in the brain are the things that we're looking for in these MRI images because if there's been either the medication is halted or paused for a time. There is evidence that medications like Lecanimab or Lecambi show improvement on memory testing. There's a disconnect though between the improvement on the test and how someone's doing in real life. So while they might be testing better, their mocha score might have gone up a point or two. What the family or patients are noticing at home is that there really has been no change. So I'd like to switch gears right now for thinking about what we can do now because there's a lot that we can do and all is not lost. So I want all of you out there to take note on these, maybe take some notes on these next couple of slides because this is really, really important. And the first being exercise. I'm not asking you to go run a mile. I'm not asking you to, you know, sweat it out at the gym seven days a week, but we all, myself included, can probably do more than what we're doing today. So let's start from today and think about what can I do that's a little bit more than I did yesterday? Ideally, it's 150 minutes a week of exercise that can be a combination of, you know, doing the peddler in your chair or doing online exercise program, walking in the neighborhood, or if you're even in better shape, going to the gym. But...  but doing what you can to get your heart rate up, breathing a little faster, that can have real important impact on the anatomy of your brain. It can actually improve one of the lobes of your brain, the hippocampus, which is more specific for Alzheimer's disease. The hippocampus can actually get a little larger if you're doing some real cardiovascular work. There is a program at MGH called the Dementia Care Collaborative. I've got another slide at the end for resources, but they've got an exercise program there. Another thing that you can do is work on your diet. Something I'm sure most people have heard about the Mediterranean diet, where you're using olive oil instead of vegetable oil. You're thinking about nuts, more plant-based protein, more fish and chicken than red meat. I met a cardiologist the other day. I think it was probably back in the 80s where they talked about pork being the other white meat. He's like, pork is not white meat. Think about reducing your pork and your red meat and increasing your fish and your chicken and your tofu and other plant-based proteins. Then, alcohol and tobacco. If you smoke, please figure out a way to stop. Call your doctor. There are lots of ways to manage that, but smoking globally interferes with your health. Then, as far as alcohol goes, I would suggest starting to cut down. Ideally, there's no alcohol, but we can't always ask people to be tea totalers for the rest of their lives. People like a glass of wine with their birthday or maybe when they are entertaining, but the idea is not a daily glass of wine. If you do have a beer, a glass of wine or a cocktail every day, think about five days a week instead of seven. Then, after five days, a couple months later, you might realize you haven't missed that Sunday and Monday drink. Maybe cut out Tuesday. The goal is that you cut back such that you're not feeling deprived. So that you will have better sleep and better functioning overall. Another thing that you can do is remaining or staying social. If you're not really a social person to begin with, do your best to expand your network a little bit. Join a monthly group. Consider going to a senior center or your council on aging. Maybe start a book club. Do something a little bit beyond what you're already doing. If you are the true extrovert who goes out and has coffee and plays golf and does all sorts of things, please continue doing that because that interaction with others is really important. So is exercising your brain. Sitting and watching TV all day is fine because there are some fabulous programs out there. But maybe mixing it up a little bit with some games, whether real board games or games on a phone are good. So is playing a musical instrument. Maybe learning a new skill or a new language. And in fact, actually, I think I saw this yesterday on Facebook. There was an advertisement by the New York Times. The five day brain, my face is in the way, the brain health challenge. Where every day, Monday through Friday, there's something to do. And talking about Tuesday, the mind diet, Thursday playing a game. These can be fun and little quizzes for yourself. So I dare you to do the Friday brain health challenge suggested by the New York Times. Let's see. What else is there? Get your vision and hearing checked. There is a direct connection between hearing loss and dementia. And the reason is because if you are not taking in the information from, you know, you're not hearing the information, you're not registering the information, you're not being able to recall it and use it. And then if you're, you'll be less engaged in the community you're with. And then slowly your brain will shut down a little bit by little bit. So please, if anybody has suggested to you that your hearing needs and evaluation, please do that. Hearing aids nowadays, there are so many different ways to getting hearing aid, whether it's iPod, you know, iPod earbuds or whatever with your Apple device or a hearing aid from Costco or going to Mass Eye and Ear. Although those are great places to get your hearing amplified if needed. And the devices are so discreet nowadays. I like to think of myself as very observant and sometimes I'm not even aware that somebody is wearing a hearing aid. There's another quiz that you can do just like the New York Times five day challenge. There's the brain care score developed by somebody here at MGH. And I've put in the URL there, but if you just Google McCants Brain Care Score, there's about 12 questions or something like that. And that, I think that's a fun quiz to help you start thinking about if you're not already. What you can do to enhance your overall health. Another thing that you can do is consider seeing the geriatrician. We love, you know, we assess memory all the time. And in fact, as Amy mentioned, I run a cognitive health clinic. It's called Chyme. And there we, you know, we evaluate somebody's memory and we assess how things are going at home with an informant or a spouse. And we provide resources if things aren't going well. And speaking of resources, I have a couple more places that you can investigate online. The Alzheimer's Association has a wealth of information about all, you know, about memory. About it doesn't have to be about Alzheimer's. They've got information on care support. They've got information on staying active and staying healthy. The Massachusetts Alzheimer's Disease Resource Center or MAGRAC, I think I forgot an A in there, is a really great resource also and will include information about studies that might be going on. And one of the places that I mentioned earlier is the dementia care collaborative. It's a terrific website that is for not only patients, but caregivers and information on how to stay active. So with that, I would love to entertain any of the questions that have come in the chat. I'm going to stop sharing my slides so that Amy and I can have that conversation. I'm not sure. Please let me know. I don't see the chat right now. So please let me know if there are any questions. Thank you, Dr. Hanley. If you have any questions for Dr. Hanley, feel free to enter them in the chat. So I know you covered a little bit about nutrition and exercise. Do you have anything else you would like to include this individual who's asking about best practices for keeping their brains healthy, such as the Mediterranean diet? You talked a little bit about getting the heart rate up, so cardio exercise. What are your thoughts on strength training and then also learning new things and helping with brain health? I'll tackle strength training first. Any kind of exercise that you can do is great. Strength training is great for bones, bone strength, so I think that's great. So some of these things aren't necessarily for brain health, but for overall health. As a geriatrician, we see people who fall. And so strength training will help prevent falls and also may lessen the impact if a fall does happen. And so that's where I'm mentioning the bones. And what was part two? Something about diet. The Mediterranean diet and any other tips? Yes, so I'm not a nutritionist, so you might be able to find more information online than with me. But essentially, more of a plant-based diet is better. Less red meat is better. Olive oil, nuts, anything with color. That's one thing that I didn't mention. Blueberries and strawberries are going to be better than a banana. Brown rice is better than white rice, so trying to get away from white foods necessarily, except if it's chicken or fish, and lots of color. So fruits and vegetables with color. Thank you. And I appreciate Amy putting in the link for the Brain Care Score. I think that's a, you know, I took that test a year or two ago. I think it's fun. I should probably do it every year just so I can remember what the elements are. But I highly recommend it because it does highlight that our medical problems that we have, because everybody's got some need to be optimally managed, whether it's hypertension, high cholesterol, thyroid, you know, any of your medical problems that you've accumulated throughout your life, having those be optimally managed is great. And then the Brain Care Score kind of brings that back to the forefront. And that link that I provided brings you to their page. It kind of gives you a little bit more about the Brain Care Score. And then as you scroll down the page, they'll actually take you to the page to take the actual test. And they also provided links to the other resources that you provided towards the end of your presentation. We have a question. Oh, go ahead. Oh, I was going to say, I see something there about family history. Yeah. And, you know, we can't get away from our genes, which can be, you know, worrisome, because it's probably something that you think about a lot, you know, that person had a parent with Alzheimer's, am I going to get Alzheimer's? So not necessarily is the answer. And I wonder if that parent, unless they had an autopsy, was the dementia Alzheimer's 100%? Back in the day, the way we confirmed the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease was through sampling of the brain postmortem. After death. So that's why I thought it was really important to highlight some of these things that we can do, because we can't change our genes, but we can change how we're living right now. And so the more you can do for yourself, whether it's an exercise, diet, weight loss, stopping smoking, staying socially engaged, getting your hearing aids, and any brain activity that you can that's just making you feel like you're working a little bit, I think is great. Thank you. And there was like another question regarding tests. We have an individual, both parents had a form of dementia. What age should they ask to be tested? And would the MoCA test labs, PET scan be the first line to get done? Okay. So you're talking about, well, I'm curious how old we're talking. Maybe that person, can you just, if you're in your 40s, 50s, 60s, or 70s, that would just help guide me with my answer. And I'm going to say, if you're in your 40s or 50s, unless you're showing early signs of a memory impairment, I wouldn't bother with testing. But it's nice. Okay. So 54. So at 54, you could consider getting a baseline memory test. See your primary care doctor, get a MoCA test, and just see how you do. My suspicion is the normal range is 26 and above. I'm very certain you probably would score in the normal range. What you could also do, depending on how much this is bothering you, is getting a, doing the neuropsych testing. You are young enough that you have the stamina to do it. And you actually might think some of these, I mean, there are quizzes. They might be kind of fun. You know, the testers telling you a story, you've got to, you know, answer questions about the story. And getting a baseline for that might be really useful. Also, the neuropsych testing might highlight whether or not there's something else going on, whether there's depression, anxiety, you know, a learning difference, something for you to get on top of now. One of the values of neuropsych testing too is they make recommendations for workarounds. You know, just about everybody needs, you know, we have our, you know, our phones here with all the numbers we need, with our date book there, but there are other tools that they recommend that might be helpful. And it also might provide a really, a lot of reassurance for you that you are okay. And then again, I can't say enough about exercise and eating well and taking care of yourself. Let's see. We have an individual who's asking about the test. If they have always been not so great at math, do the tests expect you to do well in them? Oh, so there's only one section that has math and, you know, it's doing a calculation a few times. Sometimes, so getting that baseline, I think, is good. And, you know, the tester can always make a note that, you know, you're not great at math. There's also other tests to do, like the rudas is another opportunity. If there's an area that you know you have difficulty. Let's just say somebody has got dyslexia. Gee, I don't know if I'm going to give them the Mocha test because the clock might be backward and, you know, something else might be misplaced. And so that's not fair. That's not giving them the benefit of the doubt in terms of how well they're functioning. And so that's another instance where neuropsych testing might come in handy. I gave the example earlier where someone's performing well in life, but they kind of, you know, they didn't bomb the test, but, you know, they didn't do well, you know. And so maybe you're feeling like you're going to bomb the math section. Well, let's do something that you can speak to your strengths. So maybe a different test might be the thing for you. Sure. And for the neuropsych test, is that generally done with, can that be done with your PCP or only with a specialist? Very good question. Thank you. A neuropsych, a neuropsychiatric mammary testing is performed by a PhD. And since I'm at MGH and in Boston, there are people at MGH at Brigham at McLean. All of these places have a department, a neuropsychology department, where they perform these testings. And it has to be ordered by a physician, whether it's your primary care doctor or, you know, a neurologist or something like that. And neurologists use the neuropsych testing just like a GRI attrition or primary care doctor would. Thank you. One of the things that I didn't include in a slide was when to refer to a neurologist. Part of the reason why we've started this clinic in geriatrics is because our access is pretty quick. And you can begin going down that memory road if you have concerns about yourself or somebody else. You can begin to get the information that's needed, the blood test, the imaging, the neuropsych, and even a presumptive diagnosis from a GRI attrition before waiting the 12 months or whatever it is to get into a neurologist. So you don't always have to see a specialist per se that can add unnecessary wait time. But when there's a question of the diagnosis or when more nuanced specific testing needs to be done, that's or the infusion therapy, the little cannon pad, that's when you need a neurologist. So if somebody's talking about, you know, cerebral spinal fluid biomarkers or other blood biomarkers right now, those are not available to the primary care doctor or the geriatrician. Some of those things are not even, you know, widespread among neurologists as it is. So there's a lot about information about those things and the news. There's a lot of excitement about what's ahead in discovering dementia and treating dementia, but we just have to hold our horses for a little bit longer. All right. So while we wait to see if there are any final questions in the chat, do you have any final thoughts? You'd like to share with the audience, Dr. Hanley? Well, I was just noticing that somebody mentioned alcohol in the chat and yes, there can be alcohol can interfere with memory and functioning. And sometimes people just need, well, to cut back, but also have some vitamin supplements that can really help with that. So if anybody, what I really encourage people to do is to see your doctor on a regular basis, optimize what you can for your existing medical problems, because again, we all have them, and do what you can about, you know, eating well and exercising. You mentioned vitamin supplements. Are there any specific vitamins they should be focused on? Well, for people with a B12 deficiency, that in particular is the vitamin I'm talking about. People who've had long-sending alcohol might be low in their B12, but also people who don't metabolize B12 very well, they don't absorb it and they've got very well, even though they might have a very good diet and sources of B12 in their diet. So having a B12 level checked would be a good thing. I used to work with a geriatric pharmacist in my former job and, you know, he didn't really believe in supplements. So more is not necessarily better. And so having that conversation with your doctor, I think is a good thing. The other thing I didn't put on a slide, which I think I will for next time, is all those advertisements for, you know, memory enhancers and things for your brain on the TV or online that you get without a prescription really don't do anything. So please don't waste your money. Like with the commercials all the time, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is too good to be true. Yeah, like previgens, one of them, please just don't waste your money. But in the end, I assume you would advise if they do want to consider anything, please have that conversation with their doctor first. Yes, absolutely. Yes, I appreciate that clarification. Yes, and come see us in geriatrics. You know, we love talking about memory and older adults. So. So I don't see any additional questions. So I think that we can end a few minutes early. Yes, thank you again, Amy, for this opportunity and for the Blum Center for the invitation. And yeah, it was great. Thank you. And for everyone joining us. Thank you so much. Thank you everybody. Hopefully you found today's session helpful. As I mentioned, today's session is being recorded. It will be made available on the Blum Center website. Let me pull that up and I'll share that link in the chat, but it's massgeneral.org slash Blum Center. There you can view a schedule of upcoming programs as well as the recordings. All right, everyone. Thank you so much. Take care. You  naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n

=== FILE: Blum Center Program： Understanding Mood and Anxiety Disorders in Pregnancy, Postpartum and Beyond [Pwmw-EsRuuo].txt ===

 and scrxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx please note that everyone is in listen only mode. We have a music here at guest speakers today. If you have any questions for our guest speakers, you may use a chat feature, which is located at the bottom of your screen. You will have time for them after the presentation. Only a Blum Center staff and our guest speakers will see your questions. Please do not share any personal medical information or questions in the chat. If your personal information is not available, please contact us at Blum Center. If your personal medical question, please ask a doctor. Lastly, at the end of today's session, you'll be directed to a brief survey which would like to ask you help us complete. Your feedback is important to us as we plan future programs. Alright, so joining us today, we have Nancy Leventhal, Megan Bernichess, Emma Mannerville, and Kate Ziegelstein. They are clinical social workers who support the obstetrics and gynecology and fertility departments and Massachusetts General Hospital with Nancy as their team lead. Thank you. Join us today to give a talk on understanding mood and anxiety disorders of pregnancy, postpartum, and beyond. So please join me in welcoming them. Thank you so much, Amy. Nancy, as you can see, and I'm joined by my fabulous colleagues, Megan, Kate, and Emma. And as Amy said, we'll be talking about understanding mood and anxiety disorders in pregnancy, postpartum, and beyond. Just confirming everyone is seeing the slides. Is that right? Okay, wonderful. Thank you. Just brief, our team has no relevant disclosures to share for this presentation. Wonderful. Thanks, Nancy. To get us started, we wanted to review what our learning objectives are today, and that will be to develop an understanding of something called perinatal mood and anxiety disorders, also known as PMADS. You may hear us refer to them as that throughout the presentation. We'll discuss their definitions. We will talk about treatment options and also discuss additional supports and how to access them. One thing that we want to highlight before we get started is that we will refer to a variety of sources today. Some of those might use language such as woman or mother. And we just want to note that it is our intention to be inclusive of all birthing individuals. And further to note that mood disturbances in the entrance to parenthood can also affect non-birthing partners, but we won't focus as much on that today. Well, thank you so much, Kate. Just to start us off today, I want to really, we wanted to define what we mean by the perinatal period and perinatal mental health. Oftentimes, folks are familiar with terms like prenatal care, care during pregnancy, or a lot of people have heard about postpartum depression. But we really like the term perinatal mental health because it encompasses a much wider range. It's not a super specific term. There are a lot of different definitions of perinatal, the perinatal period. For instance, the diagnostic and statistical manual, which mental health providers use for diagnosing, defines peripartum onset as during pregnancy or up to four weeks postpartum. There is also a way of sort of thinking about the perinatal period, maybe in context of obstetrical care, where folks are connecting with an OB provider starting around eight to 10 weeks of pregnancy and up through about six to 12 weeks postpartum. But what we kind of want to contextualize today when we're talking about perinatal mental health is even broadening that definition to thinking about the time of trying to conceive, the challenges that can come with that, all the way up through about a year postpartum give or take. And the reason that we want to be broad and expansive in thinking about this period and then situating mental health within it is because this period is really unique and these unique features are what really help us clinically to understand how we can better support patients and how you can be empowered to support yourself. In this period, we are very familiar with the fact that hormonal changes are super present. I think almost every patient we interact with is curious about the role that their hormonal changes are playing on their mental health and well-being, something we talk about a lot. But beyond hormones, there's a lot that's also happening at this time. The physical changes of trying to conceive pregnancy and postpartum can play a huge role. We often think about how folks who climb into our clinic might be otherwise pretty healthy, able-bodied, you know, teen, 20, 30, 40-year-olds. And perhaps they've never had a period of time where they've experienced nausea for up to nine months consistently. The other physical changes that we're paying really close attention to are things like pain in the recovery postpartum. Oftentimes, pelvic floor pain can come up and that can exacerbate any mental health challenges that are coming up. So we really want to be attentive to those physical changes. Not to mention just our relationship with our body in this time. Our body becomes quite public and people often feel much more comfortable making comments that can be distressing, concerning. I don't know what to do with that. So we're definitely thinking about those physical changes on many levels. Of course, we all think about parents, new parents, being exhausted, but even starting in pregnancy and trying to conceive sleep challenges can start to shift and can really impact how we're able to engage with our day-to-day tasks and roles. It can be really upsetting to notice that we're not able to sleep and rest in the way that our bodies are craving. And of course, like most broadly, is this huge sort of transition and all of the many transitions that happen throughout. The social pressure on new parents is extreme. There's so much in social media, the media more broadly in our intergenerational patterns that comes up as pressure in this time. And we want to be attentive to what that changing role and changing identity is doing to our health and well-being. I think it's important to think about the perinatal mental health timeframe is quite broad because sometimes we even are connecting with patients around like four or five months postpartum as they're preparing to go back to work and how challenging that can be. Of course, all of this involves a level of heightened stress, different expectations that can really exacerbate any mental health concerns or challenges. And we would really be remiss to not mention as well that this can be a time of a lot of grief and loss. Oftentimes challenges with conception, challenges with miscarriage or even later pregnancy loss can be absolutely heart-wrenching and challenging. And it's particularly hard when it can be kind of private and the term ambiguous grief you see on this slide because we don't have a great language or understanding for it sometimes in a broader society. So we want to be like sensitive and thoughtful to the impact that that's often playing on our patients as well or anyone who's in this time of life. Thanks, Megan. I'm just learning. It's only been how many years since COVID. So with the perinatal period in mind, let's start by focusing on two terms that you may be familiar with, baby blues or PPD, which we call postpartum depression. This slide shows you some overlapping symptoms, yet they differ in severity and become persistent and disruptive with postpartum depression. Baby blues is a normative experience, important to think about. It's common and it's temporary. It happens right after childbirth when a new mom has sudden mood swings, feels really happy or sad, tearful and is crying for no reason. I hear a lot from patients, what might it look like when the baby's born? Will I feel connected in a way that I've seen with friends or on social media? Will the sky open up? And it's like big, ah, connection. And it may not feel so magical, but that doesn't mean that there isn't a connection. It's really personal. Some of the symptoms that fall under baby blues might be irritability, feelings of incompetence in terms of caring for your baby, feeling overwhelmed and questioning your ability as a new mom. How am I going to do this? How can I do this? Decrease appetite or poor concentration for sure. Again, all of which are very normal. This peaks about three to five days after delivery and it usually resolves 10 to 12 days postpartum. When it morphs into the postpartum depression, when it morphs into it, the depression or sad mood is persistent. And that's a really operative word. The increased irritability, tearfulness that we talked about in baby blues continues and is disruptive. It greatly impacts your experience. Loss of interest in normal activities again is persistent and pervasive, not wanting to leave the house at all, feeling guilty and worthless, exhausted and fatigued beyond the normal, postpartum shift, as well as a continued decrease in appetite. It's important also to consider that thoughts of self-harm or harm to others can manifest with postpartum depression. We think of consistent negative self-talk or perseverating about not being a good parent presents in postpartum depression. And again, these will be persistent in nature and beyond what we talked about in baby blues. Thanks, Nancy. I think it's really helpful to get an idea starting off about the differences and how we kind of differentiate between a normative experience and then where things fall into a category where we're a little bit more concerned clinically, right? So when we're thinking about, you know, a little bit beyond an expanding past postpartum depression, I think it's important to recognize that there's a little bit of a broader array of different experiences folks can have within this perinatal timeline that we've been talking about, right? So there's postpartum depression is one of those, but then there's also quite a few other mood and anxiety disorders that are really important to be talking about as well. So when it comes to PMADs, as we call them for short, right? We know that the stats show us it's about one in five will experience some form of a PMAD throughout their pregnancy or postpartum timeframe. So it's really common. It's one of the most common things. And within that one to five category, about 60% of folks will present with these concerns prior to delivery. So oftentimes we think and we focus so much on the postpartum timeframe, which is so vital and important, but there's also a whole nine months of adjustment and transition and impact that can be just as vital and oftentimes just as difficult for folks. So when we're thinking about these different disorders, it's important to kind of break them down one by one, right? So Nancy did a phenomenal job explaining postpartum and perineal depression kind of as a whole there. In terms of when that occurs, right? We know that this can be defined as occurring within pregnancy as well as that first year of giving birth. This is our definition working through ACOG, so the American Academy College, rather of obstetrics and gynecology. So most of these definitions here are based off of what our ACOG kind of colleagues define this as, but to just dive in a little bit more, right? When we're talking about anxiety disorders, so perineal anxiety disorders to start, right? It's more of an umbrella term, right? So there's a few different things that fall into this range that can include things like generalized anxiety disorder, which sometimes folks have heard of or maybe have dealt with before. There's also social anxiety disorder. There's also all sorts of kind of different panic disorders and what that can look like. And so for folks understanding anxiety disorders, it's important to recognize there's kind of a broader rate of how that might show up. So there's kind of symptoms or what this looks like, right, in presentation. All tend to center around being pretty easily or often worried, overwhelmed, feeling on edge. There's also often an element of different sleep disturbances, right? So perhaps racing thoughts, making it hard to fall asleep, or perhaps waking up in the middle of the night, unable to fall back asleep with all the worry that's going on. And when it comes to the panic disorders, there's also an element of panic attacks. So panic attacks can happen outside of a disorder, but for panic disorder, it's when they're coming up really repetitively and quite frequently. And panic attacks can be a really scary thing for folks who have never experienced them before, especially when it's coming up during pregnancy and postpartum, right? Panic attacks oftentimes folks for their first panic attack, we have people coming into the emergency department because they're very convinced and understandably so. They think they might be having a heart attack or some sort of really acute medical event. And so it's important to understand that when these are coming up, it could be really distressing for folks if that's the first time they're experiencing them. And then outside of the anxiety disorders, but somewhat in the same vein, we also have perinatal OCD. And so perinatal OCD, I think, is a little bit less known. Folks tend to not necessarily have as much experience with this unless they've known someone close to them who's experienced it or maybe dealt with OCD in the past. So with OCD, there are two core elements that kind of break down what it looks like, right? So we've got obsessions and we've got compulsions. And so for the obsessions, these are intrusive, really distressing thoughts. Oftentimes they're repetitive, they have a theme or kind of centered around certain subjects or kind of concepts in that way. And then the compulsion is some sort of action or behavior that's trying to combat them to stop the obsessions or to make those distressing thoughts go away, right? Understandably, if you're having a thought that's really worrying you or is really unsettling to be stuck with, you want to get rid of it. You don't want to be thinking about it anymore. And so when it looks like for different folks, right? This can happen within the pregnancy timeframe and it can also happen in postpartum. But how this can show up is it often looks like kind of a sticky brain as I've had folks describe it to me. Where an average person may have an intrusive thought that comes in, right? You have a thought, very common ones look like, what if I drop the baby down the stairs? Or what if I'm pushing the stroller and I just let go, right? Things like that. Those can happen in all sorts of normal experiences. But typically folks are able to say, that was an odd thought and then they can move on from it, right? Or, oh, I don't want to think about that anymore. And it's pretty easy to continue on into the activity you're doing. For OCD, there's a little bit more of this sticky concept, right? So it's glomming onto that and there's usually a bit more of like a value ascribed to it, right? So there's a little more of a separation sometimes around, oh my gosh, I'm a horrible person for having that thought. How could I think that? Why would my brain ever come up with that? It must be true if I thought it, then I must be thinking about doing that. When in actuality, it's really separated from your wants and your hopes and what you actually want to act on. They're entirely separate. Clinically, we call that ego-distanic, which is a fancy word for saying, it doesn't match up for what you're actually wanting to do or act on. And so when it comes to the different compulsions, right? Oftentimes people have heard or seen maybe in movies or the media about compulsions that are very visible, right? So we think of, you know, tapping a doorknob three times or repetitively washing your hands, checking the oven a certain amount of times before going to bed. And those can certainly come up, but I think it's important to recognize that for compulsions, there can also be less visible ones. So there's also mental compulsions that can come up. So it might be perseverating on a certain outcome, right? Having to think through every single exit strategy for a worst case scenario or perhaps repeating a certain phrase a certain amount of times back to yourself. There's also reassurance compulsions. So absolutely needing to have someone else's reassurance or input that you've done something right before being able to move on or have any trusting yourself. And the key part about compulsions that can make them so challenging is that they're not long-term relief. They're very short-term relief. So in that moment, it feels like that's the only thing you're going to be able to do to make that intrusive thought go away or subside. But that doesn't last long-term. So it's different than saying, I don't know if I have changed the diaper right and I'm really worried it's going to give them a rash, right? And you talk to a friend and you're like, okay, they said I've done it right. I called my mom. She said I did it right. I think I'm okay. It's different than that because it doesn't quite move on once you've gotten that reassurance to begin with. And so then when we're thinking about these other different disorders that we have up here, Nancy again did a great job talking about perineal depression, so I won't get too far into that one. But I think it's also important to be talking about PTSD through the perineal timeframe. So often when we're thinking about perineal PTSD, it tends to typically center around a traumatic birth experience. And I think it's important to recognize that birth in general is a pretty interesting transition if it's not something you've experienced before. And that's kind of in the normative category. We know this is going to be a large-life event. It's nothing that you've ever experienced before. But when there are different traumatic events or traumatic experiences within your labor delivery or early recovery process, that can also be very challenging. And so in this category, a lot of the symptoms tend to center around an avoidance, a hypervigilance. There tends to be a negative worldview, so a bit of a shift in how you kind of see the outlook or the larger picture of things. It can also feel like being keyed up or really like on guard at all times. And so things like panic attacks and some of the symptoms from anxiety disorders can kind of melt into this. It looks similarly in that way. And when we're thinking about that support, right, it can also show up really clearly when we're thinking about getting follow-up support after your delivery, right? So having to go back to the hospital, say, for the first time for that six-week visit, right? Or having to come in for extra blood pressure screenings or checks or things like that. And it's feeling incredibly distressedful to have to be back or to have to think about that. Or when folks want to hear your birth story and you do not want to talk about it, right? This can come up in many different ways, and it's really important to be thinking about it as well. And then lastly, we also want to make sure that we're mentioning postpartum psychosis, which is the least common perineatal mental health disorder. This includes, essentially, it's a sudden onset of psychosis following childbirth, right? It occurs in less than 1% of folks, so it's not very common at all. There's a lot of sensationalization of it that we hear about in the media and in the news, but it's actually incredibly rare. And then for the treatment and support of all of these disorders, we are incredibly lucky to partner with our perineatal psychiatry department. So that's run through our Women's Center for Mental Health here at MGH. And so perineal psychiatry is a great resource to help partner in treating and supporting all these different concerns. We're very lucky to have them. Thanks so much, Emma and Nancy. I think the framing that we're hoping to offer to you all, lovely participants in the audience today, is that's sort of how we are clinically thinking about these. I've seen a few good chats come in about baby blues. We're going to be so looking forward to answering your questions at the end of this presentation. But outside of the clinical language, we want to empower you with a bit more awareness of the signs and symptoms that you can look out for in your day-to-day life that might be an indicator to start to reach out and connect with a different level of support to help you manage this transition. What's most important and the biggest feature that we're looking at is the duration. Just like Nancy pointed to, things that are well beyond lasting for a few weeks, that's going to be an indicator for us. And we also think a little bit about the amount of time during the day that symptoms are lasting, as long as there's also these sort of fluctuations. We're interested in the intensity of each symptom. It's a feeling of sadness coming up that feels so overwhelming and insurmountable that you don't quite know how to crawl up from underneath it. Or is there a feeling of anxiety that doesn't feel like you have from your baseline coping skills and ability to calm the feeling and thought down? That would be something we want to pay extra attention to. We're also thinking about the impact on daily functioning. Just as Emma pointed out, some intrusive thoughts can come and go, but if they linger and they're impacting how you're behaving or what you're doing in your day-to-day, then we want to know about it. Let's see if we can connect with some other supports to help navigate this time. A few of the sort of categories that you might look at in yourself or in friends, family members, loved ones, as you're helping them to manage this transition are in these four categories. One is the things that we're thinking about behaviorally, withdrawing from loved activities or having more difficulty maybe going out and socializing with friends, particularly like in pregnancy trying to conceive. If you're having a noticing in that it's hard to bond with your baby in a way that you really want to, that's something that we want to pay attention to to be able to better support you in achieving that goal. We also think about some of the emotional components which I think have been well articulated so far, but this sort of feeling of persistence, sadness that doesn't necessarily feel like it has a good origin or a good story to it and just feels like it lingers in a way that we can't quite move beyond. Similarly, this overwhelming fear that paralyzes us that's preventing us from being able to take our baby out on a walk. I also think emotionally sometimes patients will talk to us about irritability and feelings of rage and frustration that feel so beyond their control and are not in line with how they want to be feeling towards their partner, towards their mother, towards their mother-in-law, towards their friends. We want to pay attention to that to help to take care of nurture and contain that in a way that feels a bit more at ease. Similarly, cognitively, we're really interested in those intrusive thoughts, what's the quality of them, what is the content and how long are they sticking around for. Is there any of that excessive guilt, worry, uncertainty about your identity as a parent? We sometimes will say to patients that your identity as a parent is only as old as your baby or even as old as your pregnancy. We would never expect a two-month-old to have all the answers, but somehow parents convince themselves that we need to be so perfect in this time. Is there a way that we can help to dismantle that and take some of that pressure off? Physically, we're really paying attention to what is the sleep quality like? Is anxiety keeping you up at night? Is it hard to fall back asleep even when you have a chance to sleep? Are feelings of needing to check on your baby preventing you from falling asleep? In pregnancy, are you so worried about birth that it's hard to sleep at night even when you have a chance beyond just waking up to pee often? And especially if your body or chest breastfeeding is your appetite still low, we want to make sure that during pregnancy, during postpartum, during trying to conceive, you're able to nourish your body. And really, if you take away anything at all, we want you to know you don't have to hit a crisis point in order to ask for or deserve help. I'm going to let Kate talk a little bit more about what that looks like, what ASCII PrEP looks like. So when and how to seek support? One thing I like to address in this period is what might be the disparity between expectation and reality. So many folks do enter parenthood in a planned and desired way. And not everyone, but many people do. And although some challenges are expected, many are not. These larger mood shifts can catch people by surprise and often make them feel like this is not how it's supposed to be. This is not how they were expecting to feel. And that added layer can make this particularly distressing for people and can have significant impact. So signs that you might want to reach out for more support. If you're noticing that symptoms are lasting beyond a few weeks, what you might see is a lot of a lability, a lot of ups and downs in mood. And if you're noticing that things are getting persistently worse instead of better. If you're noticing the impact on daily life or relationships, what many folks talk about is the impact on bonding or connection that some people will describe. You know, I can care for myself, I can care for the baby, but I feel like I'm going through the motions. Right? I don't feel like I'm really present. I'm not connected in the way that I had anticipated being. So if you're noticing any of that. And then we also might look to partner or loved ones, have other people mentioned to you that they're noticing a significant shift. I think having our mood reflected back sometimes by close people can be a nice way of keeping track of these things. And who might you want to talk to? It might start with those trusted family or friends. Maybe it's texting a close friend who's also in this experience in the middle of the night while feeding and just commiserating on how challenging this can be. So starting there might be a place and then ultimately you might get to providers. So your OBGYN, your midwife, your PCP, your pediatrician. This is a phase of life where you wind up at the doctor a lot more than you're probably used to. And in doctors' offices, you might be familiar with this screening tool mentioned below, the EPDS, commonly given in OB and pediatrician's offices. And depending on your responses to those questions, your provider might talk with you about your mood and changes and, hey, do you want to talk to a mental health professional? And that might be when you end up with one of us. It might be when you connect with a social worker in a medical office or ultimately might get referred to ongoing care in the community. And finally, we want to talk about helplines or warm lines. These are places that you could reach out to for support, such as postpartum support international is just one example. These will all be listed on our resource slide toward the end with the phone numbers and many of them are available 24-7. But ultimately, as Megan emphasized, at the end of our prior slide, we just want to talk about how seeking help is really a protective step. It's a responsible step. It's very brave. Folks can often get caught in judgment or even self-judgment about what will happen if I tell someone I'm not doing well or what will they think and what are the possible consequences of that. But we want you to know that this is a really important and brave thing to do and that we don't want you to lose sight of caring for yourself in the midst of caring for someone else.  andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx And so then often people will find themselves in a spot of, okay, I think I need more support or I think I need help What does that look like? Where do I start? What now? Right? And often if you're having a challenging time, you're already feeling a bit overwhelmed It can be kind of intimidating to think about what where to start What those treatment options might look like having to make decisions having to weigh your different options And so what we really want to do here is talk a little bit about what those treatment options can look like I think for folks who have had any sort of experience managing mental health concerns in the past That can often be a skill set in this sense that they present similarly So they're often also treated and supported similarly, right? So rather than it being this mysterious creature that just kind of comes out of nowhere We have no idea what it looks like or where it comes from, right? It might be something familiar So if you've experienced something like what Kate was saying noticing these changes or maybe your partner or friend might be saying You know, I'm worried about you. This is kind of like that time you're struggling with this, right? I think being able to recognize that we then think about what are the treatment options, right? So they can look a few different ways and I think when I'm speaking with our patients about this often I'll say that you know, it's not about what's the right or wrong thing to do There's no perfect guideline or exact decision of what to do when but it's more so finding the right fit That's for you. So whatever that support looks like. It's the best support for you as an individual in this time So we're gonna start, you know, kind of by thinking about logistical supports. That's typically where we start things, right? Let's kind of start at our foundational needs We're not thinking about our core needs that everyone needs to survive, right? Let's get to survival so we can get to a point of maybe thriving and feeling a little bit like our heads above water at a certain point, right? So thinking about those logistical supports often will start with sleep. Sleep is a huge huge huge huge aspect of how you're functioning, your well-being, your mental health, your physical health, your healing, your recovery Sleep is integral to everything, right? And so being able to get that to a point where it feels more manageable is often the first step What we talk about our perineal psych colleagues are often always focusing. That's like the first or second question What is the sleep like? Are we getting enough sleep, right? Because it could be really detrimental to your mental health at baseline when you're not getting that rest and recovery We also talk about child care, right? Suddenly there's a lot of caretaking tasks that you've never had on your plate before Even if you've had your first or your second adding a second or adding a third or adding however many it may be It's always going to be a massive adjustment to taking on that caretaking load And so thinking about how we build our village, right? That social support oftentimes folks will talk about Takes a village to raise a child, right? So thinking about either how we can expand on the village you already have, how we can organically create more of a village for you How we can kind of fine tune what aspects of the village aren't there or what we need to fill in those gaps can be a helpful spot to start as well And then beyond that there's therapy, right? Any sort of counseling or professional mental health support Oftentimes when folks are finding themselves in our office or getting connected to us, you know, if it's their first time connecting I'll often start by saying you're doing a great job because there's no wrong way to do this, right? So getting connected to a mental health provider can look like a Broad variety of different ways you find that individual Finding an individual you feel comfortable with that you feel safe and supported by is really the important part That can be connected to social worker in your OB office like us That can be a different mental health provider in your pcp office That can be a therapist out in the community a psychiatrist psychologist There's so many different names and acronyms. The important part is feeling safe and supported and then outside of a therapy there's also a broad variety of different medication options And so when you're exploring medication options Oftentimes there's some hesitancy or some fear or if it's something that you've never explored before you've never thought about before It could be overwhelming or intimidating And so that's why we've got great providers that are able to talk through those prescribing options with you, right? You can have a lengthy conversation. You can have all your questions answered. There's no silly question There's no question. They haven't heard before, right? And so being able to have that space to explore what feels like a good fit in this moment Doesn't mean that you're signing on for a contract of a medication for the rest of your life, right? Just talking about what feels helpful right now can be really informative to make those decisions and feel informed in that process We can talk about um when folks are meeting with those prescribers, right? It's often around what is safe during pregnancy? What can work and is safe to take while lactating or body feeding, right? And then outside of medications we also tend to recommend and really emphasize the importance of peer support groups There are so many different great groups out there And when we talk about these support groups, I like to say to folks that we're not looking to Replace your best friends or if you have a great family in the most loving caring understanding partner in the whole world That's great. And they're not living in your body 24 seven, right? So they're never going to fully understand what your experience is in that moment No matter how hard they try and how great they are And so we're not looking to replace this force system you have in place But being able to have folks that you can talk to where you don't necessarily have to explain what you're feeling Because they already get it to an extent, right? Being able to come into a space and feel less isolated There are support groups that are designed just for the birthing person We've got support groups that are designed for both partners We've got groups that are for everyone really under the sun You can find the blend that feels most comfortable for you And so then when we're thinking about getting connected to these resources I think the second most common thing that's coming up for folks is just like, where do I start right? Like if you're feeling overwhelmed if you're maybe in between providers You're not connected to someone or the thought of trying to find a therapist out in the community is just like a whole another mission, right? You can start with these resources on the right. They're really great jumping off points, right? Just to have a hub of information to go to so postpartum support international is phenomenal. They've got warm lines They have got support groups. They have got a provider directory for therapists that are specializing in perineatal mental health They're a great resource along with the national maternal mental health hotline There's also maternal mental health leadership alliance. They've got some great information and database resources And then the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists is also a great hub of information They've got a provider kind of centered resources as well as a great patient hub of information too So that's a great question Thank you, Emma. It's important to note that that list is not exhaustive Some key takeaways Perineatal mental health exists on a spectrum Postpartum depression is important, but it's not the whole story Early support, we know Improves outcomes for parents and families And most importantly, you're not alone and there is help out there Thank you all for coming. We wanted to check the time in terms of responding to questions and Let's look at the time. Yeah, we have time for questions, Amy Does anybody Kate did you want to take that on? Yeah, I'm just going to go ahead and put up our resource slide. Maybe while we talk about some things together Um, this is available These slides are available to you after this talk if you would like them Many of the things on the left hand side are hyperlinks that will lead you to resources And then we wanted to be sure to show the help lines that I referred to earlier Um, I'm going to pull up the chat, but I think you're still seeing my slides, correct? Okay, great. Um, so to get us started We have some two questions about the baby blues that I'm kind of going to throw out and mold as one here um One question is can they come back the baby blues after that initial period that we talked about when they occur And then the second question is can baby blues occur during pregnancy? this person said Not consistently, but occasional tearfulness or sadness that happens during the pregnancy If you do want to take this give me that your realm Let me just respond You know, I think I I saw something else that I think is important that I thought about is that You know, it's so anxiety provoking even without a history of anxiety or depression or anything To think is this normal? How do I know should I mention it? And We are happy to meet with folks who have OB providers here at mass general We're happy to be connected and we can normalize Postpartum experience or we can talk about getting further support Um, it doesn't mean sort of this long-term mental health connection of like, what does this mean for me? Let us figure it out with you if that's helpful Go ahead maybe in terms of I think maybe situated within that is this thought we were hoping to emphasize this like spectrum of You know the I think all the timelines that we presented are From different data sources and how we think about things but really like we know that the human experience is quite broad and periods of sadness are So so normal and it's inevitably going to be part of this transition But and it sounds like from both of the participants who asked these really thoughtful questions That it sounds like you're checking in with and attending to and being thoughtful about Oh, is this outside of my baseline? And so maybe that is a other frame of reference to think about like What is my typical experience with sadness? Does this feel Really different from how I operate outside of this peri needle time frame Um, I hope that helps answer your questions. Please feel free to um, You know Check back send another question to us if we can be a bit more specific about that in any way You also think about you know normalizing You know, we see a lot of folks in in the medical field or it doesn't even have to be could be any in any field And you know how to do your job well, whatever that might be You might excel and feel comfortable whether you're a nurse in a code or you're in you know In in another field and you're like I can do this with my eyes closed And then you have this baby And you can't fix it and you don't have your 10 colleagues To email or ask or grab and say come help me and that can be really isolating So feeling inadequate Um, and we'll help you kind of sort through that We also know that um mood disorders Some folks enter pregnancy with them others might develop during pregnancy and others postpartum um So in terms of the baby blues as nancy shared And as negan shared as well this looking at a spectrum looking at sort of a A shorter initial time frame postpartum for what we might call the formal baby blues But certainly we notice mood shifts that occur during pregnancy and then postpartum well beyond that initial phase And so depending on symptom severity, we might be talking about something developing into postpartum depression Beyond that initial timeline, but but again, that's dependent on symptom severity. So definitely shifts in mood are You know what what we um talk about with patients all the time um Okay, so We've we've addressed this a little bit um, but the next question was Is one who has dealt with and managed an anxiety disorder with therapy and low dose ssri and then becomes pregnant um And I think maybe they're saying they might have ocd Um more susceptible to developing a perinatal mood and anxiety disorder um I might jump in on this one. I think I I often discuss this with patients Kind of looking at it from the example of There are certain things in life and so many different factors that can make you more susceptible or less susceptible more prone more likely Unlikely to experience a whole bunch of different things, right? And I think when we're looking at having a history of different anxiety disorders or folks who might have ocd or have been managing that in the past There's often a fear of if this is something that's been a challenge for me in the past Am I going to be that person who develops it now? Right? It's a thought of I've been in a time in my life or maybe it's been harder to manage I've done a lot of work. I've put in the work and the time and the energy and the effort to get something to a more manageable spot I'm feeling really good and I don't want to feel like I'm going backwards or it's getting bad again, right? and so for this I often will say to folks that When you're thinking about kind of your likelihood, right? Having a history of an anxiety disorder or having a history of ocd does not mean you're contracted in to develop perinatal ocd Doesn't mean that you're absolutely locked in that you're going to develop perinatal anxiety, right? There's not that hard of a quick easy connection There are plenty of folks who have a long history of mental health struggles and don't have this come up during their pregnancy There are plenty of folks who have had no really strong mental health concerns or have never sought treatment before for anything in the past Then end up having this coming up during pregnancy or postpartum There's not as clear of a line in and so I like to see folks that again You're really not contracted into anything and the factors that we're talking about I think it's almost more helpful to just think about the same supports that have been helpful in other times of stress Or other times of mental health struggles in the past a lot of those supports and a lot of the treatment looks really similarly So it's not that you're entering a whole new Horrible exacerbated chapter of it. It might just look like reviewing those resources kind of sharpening your skill set or sharpening those tools thinking about what coping skills you have in place Thinking about if therapy has been helpful in the past Maybe getting reconnected to a provider preemptively, right? If you're on an ssri or medications been helpful in the past discussing that with your prescriber or thinking about what that dose might look like right I think coming at it from more of a Preventative preemptive sense and then if you feel you're at a point where things are pretty manageable and it's not coming up You can always start to kind of shed those layers afterwards Yeah, one thing I think that Emma is highlighting here is familiarity with accessing support So if you have an existing Existing mental health concerns, you might be more familiar with accessing support Maybe you do do some of those things preemptively Um, and so we might talk about that with folks as well asking Patients either on their own or patients and partners, you know What might be a sign to you that you're not doing so well as you normally would what might be a sign? um I might ask a partner like what might be a sign that you've noticed that your partner isn't coping as they usually do um helping to sort of pay attention to some of these things in terms of determining a time to access outside supports Um Someone asked do I talk to my ob to get connected with you all? um, so as as Nancy had mentioned if you are a an ob patient Um at mgh certainly reach out to your provider if you would like to see Um one of us if you are a patient elsewhere I would inquire with your team whether there are social workers available in the practice or if there are not Are they able to help you get connected with behavioral health support? A term you might look out for and if you're looking at therapists is uh the certification PMHC Which are therapists that have taken specialized training in the peri needle mental health time frame Thanks, Megan um Somebody asked this is my first pregnancy. Can you talk a bit more about the challenges? of women sharing their birthing experience um, I don't know if perhaps they mean discussing this with other people but feel free to um elaborate more on that question if you want to and I welcome my team members to talk about that I think I can step in on this one to you jump into um I think there's there's a lot that goes into um There's almost like a camaraderie and sharing birth stories that can kind of be prevalent in our Like even in intergenerational narratives the stories you get from our grandmas or our moms aunties whomever in our community um And then sometimes when things don't go according to plan It can be really jarring and shocking and and really hard to talk about Sometimes we'll talk with patients who want to make a birth plan about maybe like setting birth intentions or like hopes while also recognizing that there is a sense of Submitting to some degree of loss of control. I think a complete and unexpected loss of control can really be something that we notice is a feature of when folks come to us after and describe a sense of trauma or or deep upset from the birth experience um Please jump in colleagues if I have misspoken at all um But I've noticed in a lot of patients I work with that that a traumatic birth can be hard to talk about with loved ones after Um, and then holding it close can can make it feel can also sort of make it harder to then resurface or talk about Again, um something we know about trauma is actually like working through it several times can help us process it Can help it to linger a little bit less Not for everyone, but oftentimes Um, and it can be a feature of making it harder. It can certainly exacerbate like some anxiety stuff It makes it feel kind of precious to be with our baby Sometimes when things don't go as we expect them to in birth It also can impact our partners and our partners can feel deep worry for us too if they were Either witnessing or sort of present for that process unable to be by our side um And so those are some of the pieces that that we think about and talking about when it feels challenging to talk about our birth experience um and There's a lot of interesting new research about how to to think about and treat birth trauma um And I think for some of our patients too. We certainly spend a lot of time when we care for patients in pregnancy talking about um that balance of how to manage um The unexpected in in birth um, and we certainly work with patients too who are coming to us in a second pregnancy when perhaps they have worked through A challenging first birth and are now planning for a second and trying to help think about Um, particularly if there was like an unexpected c-section and you know, considering whether to do A vaginal delivery for a second time. There's a lot that could go into that. So it's a really thoughtful question I hope we sort of address it. There's a lot that we could get more specific about but You're wishing you all the best with your first pregnancy too Yeah, I think bouncing off of that um kind of I took the question almost in a very different area So I'll think about how I kind of theorized and I was reading it. Um But looking at you know coming up or approaching your delivery if you're currently pregnant and perhaps hearing Others share their birth experiences. I I was seeing it almost from a sense of A little bit of heightened anxiety, which is so normal. I think almost everyone has a little level of nervousness for birth I think if you didn't that'd be a bit strange, right? It's a new experience It's entirely new no matter how comfortable you might feel about it, right? um, and I think sometimes hearing others experiences, right? Or if uh, say a close family friend or your best friend or a neighbor is describing You know an experience that just has your jaw on the ground, right and thinking like, oh my gosh Is that going to be what I have to go through right or is that the norm like that's no gosh All I keep hearing is all of these awful stories or this this went on for hours, right? Like you kind of hear those more uh stark statements, right? I think remembering that When you're hearing those experiences, you're also not typically likely to hear from people that are sharing a really Really laid-back average worth experience, right? If someone had a real run of the mill birth, right in the sense that if everything kind of went to plan And it was pretty predictable in that sense and you know smooth-ish recovery as you couldn't expect in some way, right? They're probably not shouting it from the rooftops, right? And so I think keeping that in mind with perspective and knowing that preparing for your own birth and your own delivery, right? Your medical team is the best kind of resource you can think through this with, right? If there are certain things that they're concerned about for your delivery, they're going to be having those conversations with you in as much Advanced time as they can, right? If there's certain aspects that you heard, you know, my neighbor my sister my x y z had this complication, right? Ask them about it. Ask them what the plan is oftentimes our medical providers are so Exquisitely prepared they have all of the different plans for every single possible deviation From the norm or what that might look like they already have it all planned out There's all the protocols already in place and they're happy to discuss those with you So if there's things that are coming up that feel especially distressing or if you're just wondering if you should be concerned about that element They're happy to have that conversation with you too I wanted to back in thank you Emma and just say too as you were talking about birth I know we haven't mentioned dualism this presentation It's kind of beyond our scope But that might be another support you look into and think about connecting with and especially in terms of birth planning That's a beautiful resource for many of our patients and families too That's a really great point at dualism I would also add the childbirth education classes So your provider will be talking to those talking to you about those as you get a certain point in your pregnancy The reason they don't mention it on day one is because you can't even sign up until you're certain amount of weeks They had to make sure that there's enough room for everyone as they're approaching their delivery date So those can also be a great opportunity to learn the basics as well Thanks to you both. I think that was our final. Oh, we have one more How many weeks do you have? Okay, I think the question is how many weeks until you can take the childbirth education class? We're in the third tribe ester. Yeah, your old provider will start to talk to you about that I believe it's after 30 weeks Okay, I think that that is our final question for today Thank you all for a wonderful presentation. This was all extremely helpful You did get a few questions regarding the links to the resources shared on this particular slide I included in the chat the blumcenter email address. It's pflc at partners.org Feel free to send us an email and we'd be happy to send those links to you I also included the link to the blumcenter website if you're interested in viewing today's recording They'll be made available on the blumcenter website. I would give it about two to three weeks So we made available through there And simply visit, you know massgeneral.org forward slash blum python center. It'll be there All right, everyone. Thank you so much for joining us Thank you Take care You You You

=== FILE: Blum Center Program： What Does a Chaplain Do Besides Pray？ [GJcAtTlkop8].txt ===

 and scrxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Please note that you are in listen only mode. Everyone has a mute. We can hear guest speakers today. If you have any questions or thoughts you'd like to share, you may do so in the chat, which is located at the bottom of your screen. We'll have time from the end. Only Blum Center staff and our guest speakers will see your questions. Please do not share any personal medical information or questions in the chat. If you have a personal medical question, please ask a doctor. Lastly, at the end of today's session, you'll be directed to a brief survey, which would like to ask you to help us complete the feedback as important to us as we plan future programs. So joining us today, we have Catherine McCoola and Alex Vaskin. We are chaplains and spiritual care providers with the Spiritual Care Department and Massachusetts General Hospital. They joined us today to give a talk on the role of a chaplain and spiritual care provider in the hospital setting. So please join me in welcoming Catherine and Alex. Thanks Amy. And thanks everyone for joining us. I'm going to go ahead and share my screen so you can take a look at what we'll be talking about for the next hour. So Catherine, Alex and I will share a little bit more about ourselves. Just making sure that my screen looks the way it should to both of you. Okay, wonderful. So as Amy said, our topic today is what does a chaplain do besides pray? As you can imagine, that is a question that we receive often. Just a quick overview. We're going to be talking about what is spiritual care? What is a model for spiritual distress? Really, what is spiritual distress and how do we understand that and care for that here in the hospital setting? What is the difference between a chaplain as a clinical provider versus a religious leader that we might encounter in our communities outside the hospital and sometimes inside the hospital? Some anecdotes from patient care that Alex and I will share, which share all throughout, hopefully, and then some closing thoughts. So as we get started here, the MGH spiritual care department includes seven full-time multi-faith providers as well as three proteams who practice many different religious and spiritual traditions. As Amy said, I'm Catherine. I'm a critical care chaplain here at the hospital. I cover a few of our ICUs. When I can, I'd like to go back into GenMed and some surgery floors as well. Alex, do you want to introduce yourself? Sorry. Sure. Hi, everyone. My name is Alex Baskin. Yes, same with Catherine. I'm one of the chaplains here at MassGenerals. I cover oncology floors here at the hospital. Both Catherine and I have been working here for a few years and did our training within the MassGeneral Brigham system. Thanks, Alex. Amy, are you noticing my screen looks a little weird or is that just something I'm seeing? I do see that it's a little glitchy. Okay. Can you hear me okay? Yes, your audio is fine. Okay, let's run with that. I'm afraid to touch the camera in case I lose you. So bear with me. Okay. So we're going to be talking about what is spiritual care and how that relates to our patients and the other folks that we care for here in the hospital. And sort of necessary to talking about what spiritual care is, is to ground ourselves in an understanding of what spirituality is. And naturally from that to what religion is. So I have a couple definitions here that I will read out loud. And Alex and I can discuss these a little bit more. So on our team and largely in our field, we define spirituality as a dynamic and intrinsic aspect of humanity through which persons seek ultimate meaning, purpose and transcendence, and experience relationship to self, family, others, community, society, nature and the significant or sacred. Spirituality is expressed through beliefs, values, traditions and practices. That's quite a mouthful. A simpler way that sometimes I talk about spirituality or explain spirituality with my patients is spirituality is the connection that we have to ourselves, to the people around us and to something bigger than ourselves. I also want to mention too, we're talking about these terms, providing definitions for these terms, but different people use and understand these terms differently throughout periods of time, even today, different communities, different understandings and relationship to these terms. So laying the groundwork for how we're going to talk about this today, but also acknowledging that there's a very wide spectrum of use and relation to these terms and ideas. So, if spirituality is sort of the big umbrella, one of the ways that we might experience our spirituality or practice our spirituality is through a religion is through the lens of a religion. We might define religion as one of the ways, as I said, that we experience or express our spirituality. Each religion offers a unique framework for guiding affiliated individuals. In some religions, it is simply enough to believe in God, while other religions place greater emphasis on practice. Some religions focus more on the individual, others emphasize the community. So, it's helpful to bear both of these definitions in mind when we're going back to the question of what does a chaplain do in the hospital, what does the chaplain do besides pray. We are tending to the spiritual needs of our patients, and oftentimes that might include religious needs as well. And often many times it doesn't. Alex, anything you would add before we keep going? Um, let's see. I mean, just to underline what you said already that this is one way of understanding it, different by these terms, this is a model that we use to apply to our context and to try to get some tread on what's easily a slippery slip. You know, this is what we are waiting into some of, you know, life's most complex questions. And so just as a way to try to get a handle on it here is some frameworks. Obviously, we could talk all day about just this slide, but we need to have something kind of practical. So, so that's where we're using this. Yeah. And to kind of understand that in a different way or look at it in a different way, we'll go to our next slide. Yeah. So this is, this is like the metaphor that that articulates the same point. So we're going to have to go back to high school geometry for a second, but all squares are rectangles, but not all rectangles are squares, right? A rectangle has four sides, but a square is when all the sides of the exact same length. So, all, so yeah, in this sense, we think of religion is to spirituality like a square is to erecting. So religion is a common way that people is a common form of spirituality, but it's not the only kind of rectangle out there. There's others as well. So another way to say that we can look at the next slide. And I'll give an example as well is that, so we might have one person over here in this, in this room in the hospital over on this floor, and they have this kind of wide expansive spirituality and their religion is one part of that. And we might have this other person over here in this other room, this other part of the hospital where, you know, their spirituality is mainly composed of their religious tradition, right? So there's people we see all the time. I mean, I can think of someone specific. I was who I've met a few times here in the hospital who she's involved in, you know, in a Protestant church. When I ask her about it, when I tell me about your spiritual, I say, you know, I go to this church, I kind of go out of habit. I like having the community. But when, you know, I say, well, what's kind of spiritually meaningful to you? She tells me all about hiking throughout New England and trying to hike as many peaks in Vermont and New Hampshire as she can. And like, that is where she really lights up. Like that's doing something spiritual for her, her connection to the outdoors in our region. And then I might talk to this other person who I say, tell me about your spirituality. And she says, I'm Catholic, you know, and this is not to stereotype, Protestant, first Catholic, straight, but just to say, hey, life is where she's getting her spiritual meaning from. And that is what, you know, when I'm asking about, you know, how that shows up in her life, how I can serve her, like what's really supportive is receiving the Eucharist, receiving communion here in the hospital regularly. And so the way we're showing up is how to arrange that for her or praying with her or because, yeah, for her, how she makes meaning, how she connects with herself and others in community is through the Roman Catholic Church. And that's working for her. And for this other person, it's working, but there's a lot more to say there as well. So it's just to give some example of how these things relate to church. Yeah, thank you. So we're going to go to our next slide, which sort of illustrates why all of this is relevant in the hospital setting and why it's relevant to have spiritual care providers as part of the interdisciplinary team. So operating under that definition of spirituality, we have the connection to the self, the connection to others, the connection to the sacred. Oftentimes when we are in the hospital, those connections can become weakened, strained, severed, changed in some way. And spiritual care providers are the specialists trained to respond to that kind of distress that we would call spiritual distress. Alex, please. Sorry. Oh, you're good. Yeah, so I mean this is, this is the point we really want to underline. Like what I would say is in our, in our presentation, if there's one thing you remember, we want you to remember that chaplains, which is, which is a word we use interchangeably chaplains, spiritual care, that spiritual care providers are specialists trained to respond to spiritual distress. So we were just defining spirituality and spiritual distress is, and we'll say more about it now. We'll say plenty about it, but it's when your spirituality is disturbed in some way or when there's some issue or break, something blocking you from feeling into or connecting with your spirituality, which is totally normal. And as a part of the human life cycle, we can't always be just smooth sailing. And like Catherine mentioned, it's spiritual distress is especially prevalent on serious illness when dealing with life threatening conditions with dealing with having to be hospitalized. You know, we have this, this study that we have here that we're through research they found that spiritual and existential distress was especially prevalent was highly prevalent in patients with cancer. And we have good reason through our own experience to know that that's probably true for most serious illnesses. Catherine, do you want to walk us through the different domains of spiritual distress. Sure. So starting from that first level disconnection from self. As you can see here may include not limited to expressed feelings of shame guilt, love self esteem. Divine quote punishment discussed toward or alienation from one's body or deepest being. Some maybe more tangible ways that we encounter that in the hospital is a sense of feeling out of control. Like there's this lack of control over the physical or mental function of a person. You know, I'm used to being like this and now I'm like this. I don't know who I am when I'm like this. Or I don't recognize myself. Sometimes that might show up in the form of a reconciliation need needing to forgive the self. And, and truly all of well many of these. It's a Venn diagram for a reason and that many of them relate to the other areas as well. So disconnection from others may include express feelings of abandonment by one's family or community withdrawal from relationships, loneliness and isolation. Something that comes to mind for that one is, you know, the question at end of life of how am I going to be remembered will I be remembered. And by who. Sometimes there's withdrawal from relationships. On a patient side, sometimes there's caregiver fatigue and withdrawal from that there's so many things that can have stream the connections that we have outside of ourselves. The language that we hear a lot is I don't want to be a burden to others. So, kind of really examining that dynamic the relationship between the self and others. It's certainly an area of distress and certainly one here in the hospital. And then disconnection from the sacred or something bigger than ourselves, which may include express feelings of abandonment by or anger toward God, or a higher power. Loss of direction or interest in highest values, deep and persistent doubt, inability or unwillingness to engage in practices of one's tradition or spiritual self care. I hear this category in the language of questioning of, you know, why, why would God do this to me or how could this happen how could the universe let this happen. And sometimes when that's happened we, we feel disconnected from practices or community that usually ground us. Sometimes it's physical disconnection because we can't be in our sacred spaces or the spaces that make us feel most connected to God or the sacred. So all of these connections are so valuable to whole person health and also at risk when dealing with some of the issues that Alex was talking about and certainly coming into the hospital dealing with that. Would you add anything before I go to the next one. I wonder if we want to give an example of just just just something from our own experience. So people can imagine a patient experiencing spiritual distress here in the context of their hospital city do you have something off hand or maybe I can think of something. I'm thinking of a family who I supported a couple of years ago now. And there was a lot of distress, these parents had flown in from overseas. Their child adult child was very sick in the ICU, unable to communicate verbally. And the parents were really upset because there had been for some time, estrangement and disconnection in their relationship. I think it felt more than natural to them to come and be here for their child for their loved one. That element of their connection that element of their relationship that was tense and had conflict was impacting the way that they were there at the bedside and what was coming up for them. And, you know, it wasn't something we were going to fix it's not something we could fix period but it is something that we could acknowledge that I acknowledged with them and explored with them. And I can remember in the room, the physical distance between dad and this patient. As he was sort of processing this and the only thing that did shift was the closeness that dad was able to move a little bit closer. As he was talking about the grief of their relationship and the uncertainty of how it would unfold now, given what his daughter was going through. That's great. That's really sad and beautiful, complex, you know, just highlights how hospitalizations are, you know, often a kind of crisis and kick all this stuff up and things aren't always as smooth, fairly smooth like a hallmark film. Like, families are complicated and a lot of families are experiencing a strange mental now your loved ones in the hospital but it's not a smooth relationship and and there is an element of that that's yeah that that feels spiritual and in the The way in which we can find meaning in family or or lose meaning in family. Yeah, thanks so much for that me I think we can go to the next slide. Okay. So we're going to talk a little bit about this question of chaplains as clinical providers versus religious leaders, because often we are mistaken for religious leaders, and many of us might function as both. There are some of the other colleagues here who are gained in their traditions and lead community congregations or local chapters but here in the hospital are functioning as something different. And we have a couple different examples is to the right of how these things kind of compare and contrast. So, the first one. Sure. So religious leaders might make personal or community communal statements of belief they might. They speak on behalf of the tradition or the religious tradition, whereas spiritual care providers listen for and sort of uplift the beliefs that we hear from a patient. So we don't tell people what to believe we listen for what they believe. Religious leader may advise their followers on what to believe or offer answers to questions and a spiritual care provider validates and explores the question with their patient. It's pretty, I wouldn't say that's pretty self explanatory. But it feels so important to because like, we don't have the answers. That feels important to me, you know, that we are with people who are asking really big questions all the time, why is this happening to me. And, yeah, we explore the question, and we have a lot of different ways in on that, but we don't claim to have some authoritative answer generally. I want to share that story we were talking about earlier. Sure. It's related to this one. Yeah, you're right, it does. I was telling Catherine about a patient I saw. So, you know, this, this whole presentation is what is the chapter new besides pray. Now, we do pray plenty of times, you know, that's that's not never you visit but in lots of our visits. There was a patient I saw. Who had pretty advanced cancer, and she was very connected with a with a religious community like a pretty conservative religious community. And I met her a few times and every time we met, she she wanted to press, you know, the main thing she wanted to do she was often a lot of pain we weren't able to have long or really deep conversations, but she say sit with me. Can you pray for me. Sure. I pray with her. We did this a bunch of different times. We were building more trust and connection. And then there was a visit. You know, after we knew each other for a few weeks, it was a long hospitalization. When I came in to visit her. And suddenly she was asking all these questions that I hadn't heard her voice before, like, like, you know, like, why is this happening to me. It has got forgotten me. We've been praying together and nothing's happening. Things are getting. And what's going on. And it's important for people to have outlets to express questions like that, you know, doubt religious doubt is normal and is a part of most people's kind of faith development. And I was able to, you know, through the way we listen and provide a space as a chaplain, give her that space that her religious community. It might not be their strength. You know, different spaces provide different functions to people. And she was well supported by this really vibrant community. And, yeah, some communities are better and worse at holding down and honoring down. And it's it seemed like, oh, I'm able to provide her this opportunity to flesh that out and to be heard and to have it be honored. And it doesn't change the fact that she's, you know, a woman of deep faith and she's a lot of the human and ask these questions to and so that's the kind of space that, you know, a hospital chaplain can provide that not all religious leaders and religious communities are often that well set up to provide. Yeah, and I feel like it speaks to the rapport that you built with this patient to create a space that she could go into like that. Because that often requires deep trust and vulnerability. Next on our list here, a religious leader may be asked to come pray and perform some sort of ritual or right. A spiritual care provider will use an assortment of interventions, including prayer and ritual to spiritually support patients. In my training as a chaplain, I remember my educator often inviting us to think of the visit as the prayer. Sometimes we're very quick as young as new chaplains as young chaplains we want to pray, we want to pray. And I think it's surprising maybe to hear that and more visits than not I don't I don't pray, or that's not the first thing or the second thing that patients ask for. And we're using an assortment of tools that we have to support patients, whether that's exploring practices that they have adapting practices to the hospital. And exploring some of the existential questions and concerns that they have. So there are a lot of tools at our disposal that we use regularly. Can I say one more thing about that? Please. Yes, a beautiful concept that you know the whole visit the whole conversation the whole time sharing time together is a prayer. And this idea just like when we're when what we're doing looks formally like prayer. It's important to distinguish, you know, a religious leader or a religious peer, you know, a friend from someone's religious community visiting praying with them. Often in religious communities prayer can function like almost like a statement of faith. I mean, many prayers are, you know, sometimes almost like cataclysms where you're kind of reciting what, you know, what's believed together. Anyway, there's a lot of different kinds of prayer, but but the distinction between what we are doing. Often if we are playing with a patient, the reason we're playing with a patient is because through conversation, we've discerned that that's something spiritually meaningful to them. And so this is an intervention we're offering that supports them. That's kind of why we are able to pray with people often if we don't have the same exact faith or theological framework. You know, we're all all of us hospital chapters or multi faith providers on a regular basis we pray with people of many different religious traditions and backgrounds or none or multiple. And it's not that important to me and to most of us that we necessarily share the tradition. You know, I'm comfortable praying in a way that makes sense with this person in front of me. And I have a way of understanding what it means and which parts I connect to. And that's why it looks pretty different, I think, than prayer in religious community. That's such an important point. Alex, I think goes back to the point you made earlier about different spaces, different functions. And our ability to provide care for people of a lot of different backgrounds. Sometimes patients do say to us, you know, I really need to share this with someone who believes the same thing that I do. And we're fortunate on our team to have people in a lot of different traditions or spiritual homes. We also work very closely with a lot of local clergy and religious leaders to find support for people in ways when patients do need that. Because for some folks that is critical. That is an aspect of the care that they need. So it's, you know, we're doing the dance of meeting them where we can and then also figuring out how else we can support them with the people around us. So to summarize, a spiritual care provider will not push religion, which is a pretty punchy line. But we will not push religion, we will not, we will not be persuading or sort of like depositing or inputting belief or ideas or believe that into our  or patients' hearts, minds, and spirit. A spiritual care provider will work with a patient to mitigate spiritual distress through a variety of creative means. And it feels important to say creative means that we have discerned with a patient will be meaningful to them. It's informed by the conversation that we've had with them, the time that we've spent with them. Yeah, Alex, would you add anything? Yeah, I think I would add that sometimes someone, let's see, like someone might call us in, a family member might say, oh, can you go talk to, we see the question in the chat. We're going to have time for questions soon, and we will address that in a minute. Thank you so much for that question. Sometimes someone will say, oh, can you talk to this person? They're not sounding like themselves, or some of the things we describe in spiritual distress, like they need to be more connected with their religious background, or their religious tradition, or something like that. We are not naive, and we do not think that we are naive. We are not naive, and we do not think that religion and spirituality are the answer to everything. And we don't think of our job as being like, oh, you're off track, we need to get you back on track. Many people have a lot of trauma related to religious traditions. Many of us share that. Many of us have our own, many of us chaplains, have complicated relationships to religion, as a matter of fact. So we are not, it's just to say, we don't push religion, because we don't think religion is the answer to everything. It's not like we think, oh, we need to get you this thing, and it's going to solve all your problems. We're more interested in joining you and listening, and having a conversation, and figuring out what could be supportive right now, what could make this a little less crummy. Also, it's hard. It's hard to have a serious illness. It's hard to be in the hospital. We don't have a magic wand. We're not going to pretend to. So yeah, just to, there's a lot of nuance and sensitivity that I think sometimes people will know or assume, and might think that we just have this kind of cure-all approach, or that we have stars in our eyes about how we're going to say one thing, this person's going to reconnect to the religion of their childhood, and everything's going to be better. Life's a lot more complicated than that. That's making me think of a patient encounter where I'll go in and meet with someone. This happens with regularity, I would say. I'm sure this has happened to Alex, where you go in and sit with a patient, and they'll start to share about what's been going on for them, or how they're feeling, or what they think, and then they say to me, well, what do you have for me? So tell me what you think. And I do think it's an invitation for exchange, of course, but I do think it's one of those places where we do get mistaken for religious leaders, or we do get mistaken for people who will be able to posit some kind of pearl of wisdom. And I think the most effective intervention that we offer in those moments is to say, gosh, I wish I could say something that would make this all better, or change this, or, and to turn back to the wisdom that the patient has already shared with me, or shared with us. It really is this sort of stance of humility, or spiritual humility. That's mandatory for our work. Mandatory for walking alongside the people we're caring for. Yeah. We're going to turn to some anecdotes now. We thought it might be worthwhile to share a couple more stories about folks who we've provided care for. And as we've been doing this whole time, we won't be sharing any patient information. We'll be honoring our patient's privacy, continuing to honor their privacy by not disclosing anything. And identifying information to them. Do you want to start? Sure. The story that when we were, Catherine and I were talking about, you know, this presentation together popped into my mind, was a patient I saw who had a health emergency leading to his hospitalization. It was very unexpected that he had to be hospitalized. He had, yeah, he was suddenly feeling terrible, and had this neurological condition where he needed despinal surgery. And he was in a lot of pain before the surgery, he was in a lot of pain after the surgery. And he was living a very full life. He's middle-aged. He's active in his community, and with relationships, and is really somebody who thinks of himself, and is a giver, and shows up for people, and is very active, and very caring. And suddenly he's basically stuck in bed, can't move, has to be receiving care, is hospitalized for a couple of weeks, totally flips how he understands himself. Religiously, spiritually, he's someone who was rooted in a religious treatment, a Unitarian Universalist community. He also had spent a lot of time in a Buddhist meditation community, and meditation was a big part of his life. That's a spiritual practice he had. But he found, with this new condition, and in the hospital, he just, he tried to meditate, and he just couldn't. It was like, he was just, his mind was everywhere. He was in a ton of physical pain that was new to him, and it was really, really hard to access this spiritual practice, that he had, but he just couldn't quite access it. And I met with him a few times, one other chaplain on our team did, and just being able to be there with him, to meditate with him, for five, 10 minutes at a time, to offer some guidance. I got in, I talked to him, he was like, yeah, he just said, that's what I needed. I couldn't do it myself, I just needed someone else to help me get there. Someone who knows a little about this kind of thing. So, yeah, he was in a kind of distress, not able to access practice, and we helped him access it. It helped, it didn't solve everything, it was still a rough time, but he also was extremely appreciative, and made it a real point of saying, you know, I couldn't have gotten through this hospitalization without you guys. Yeah, so, the expectation that sometimes we have of ourselves to be able to do everything we normally do, when we're here, when we're dealing with illness, especially serious illness, it's so moving to hear him get to access that again, with the right support. I'll share a story about a patient who I worked with, who had been fighting cancer for some time, and had come to the end of a treatment road, and with her team determined that she was going to decline further treatment, and focus on comfort, focus on the dying process, focus on the end of her life. I met with her a couple of times, and she had shared a bit about the tradition that she was raised in, that no longer felt like home, and hadn't for some time. And the sort of non-religious reality that she had, identity that she had, was very meaningful throughout a lot of her life. She shared a lot about the values that she raised her family with, and the things that sort of guided her in her day-to-day life and relationships. But when it came to end of life and dying, there was this hole or this gap that she felt. She felt very poignantly the loss of this tradition that had been meaningful to her as a young person. And she felt just sort of at sea, you know, I'm no longer this, what do I do now? What's the container for how I go through this portion of our lives? And we spoke a lot about that, and I surfaced the grief and distress she felt about that loss, as well as the grief and distress about what was coming, and not knowing how she wanted to be honored, not knowing how she wanted any kind of service or grief process for her family to go. And I was able to draw on a lot of the values that she had spoken about that were true for her. And on the one hand, really validating the place that she is in, this space of sort of maybe a quote-unquote, structure-less space, while also echoing back, mirroring back the structure that she had in fact built in her life out of deeply held values and beliefs. And we were able to talk about how she wanted those things to show up for her at this time. Yeah, I remember being very moved from that conversation. And truly, I mean, by the grief of how our spiritualities and our practices can change throughout our lives and the implications that that has at different moments in life, not even just at end of life per se, but at big transition moments. What can that mean? It just highlights for me, people have these big questions, and they don't always know where to bring them, have a space to bring. Yeah. That's one thing we can offer. Yeah. You got another one? You know, I do have more, but I'm just noticing even the time and wondering if if we want to go to the next slide and then have time for questions. Great idea. Let's do it. Do you want me to jump in? Sure. Okay, so to conclude, we'll do some myth-busting because it's totally normal that there's lots of misconceptions about what a chaplain is. Everyone has a complicated relationship to religion and spirituality. Some of us are positive, some of us negative, often a mix, and so we kind of make a lot of assumptions or projections. So let's see. Some things that people commonly think about chaplains is, you know, the whole impetus for this thing was people think that we just come in and pray. We've learned today already that that's not the case. And another thing people often think only there when someone's dying. You know, sometimes you walk into the room and people think it's a scary thing for us to even be there because that must mean I'm dying and maybe that might not be the case, or people certainly might not be, you know, thinking of that as the case. So it's like, I don't need a chaplain, I'm not dying. You know, we hear that a lot. And also to say, people are always in choice, you know, if a patient doesn't want to speak to a chaplain, we honor that. That's fine. But there's a lot that we do besides praying, besides just being there for death and dying. Chaplain is not necessarily highly religious themselves. I mean, it might be, but we might not be. Some people think that they picture us and they imagine someone kind of sanctimonious or whatever. I don't know. And sometimes they're surprised that we have a great sense of humor and that we're fun and easy to be around. So that's a common misconception. And one last, there's probably lots of myths we could bust. But just to say, sometimes people think that the chaplain is kind of a volunteer, or just like a nice person, which we might, I think we're nice people, but we're professionals, we are part of the medical interdisciplinary team. We have a lot of training and credentialing and schooling to be where we are. So that's worth understanding. So those are some of the myths we thought about naming and busting. Do you want to talk about some of these indicators for consulting a chaplain, Katherine? Yeah, and that will kind of segue us to this question that one of our attendees asked in the chat, which we thank you for. So in light of all of these myths that have been busted, when should I consult a chaplain? You'll see here on the right a number of moments or stretches of experience that someone might go through while being in the hospital. And these would be a great time to consult a chaplain. Maybe you're feeling flooded by negative or confusing emotions. There's a lot of trauma, grief, or loss that's overwhelming. You might be struggling to find hope or meaning or wondering why did this happen to me. You could consult us when there is a significant new diagnosis or a change in the care plan, or if you feel the need for additional emotional support. If you need religious support, maybe it's certain sacraments or certain prayer or other ritual practices. And also, you might need support thinking through difficult moral and ethical decisions. Which we can sit with you in and discuss further. The best way to request a spiritual care provider, I would say nine times out of ten is through your nurse, through bedside nursing. Your nurse here will be able to place a consult for us or to page us and get us there pretty quickly if needed. And right now we are largely only available to patients who are inpatient in the hospital. So unfortunately, we are not able to extend into the ambulatory and outpatient setting on the whole. There are some limited exceptions to that, but I would say generally speaking, our focus is on the inpatient population. Would you say that's true, Alex? Well, a notable exception is that we have a half-time chaplain who's in the outpatient center. So patients specifically in that outpatient space at Mass General have some coverage. So if you were coming in for chemo infusion, you could ask your nurse during that infusion if there's a chaplain available and they would have a way to connect. But for the most part, at MGH, and this is largely true through MGB, the spiritual care departments are quite lean. We are not staffed as much as we wish we were. And so we are mostly here for folks who are admitted to inpatient units. And we have another question about, oh, sorry, Alex, go ahead. I was just going to say we have another question about virtual availability. We do sometimes talk to family members, especially on the phone. Certainly if we're caring for patients in the ICU and maybe they're not able to talk with us in that moment, we might reach out to family to assess if there are any spiritual needs or ways we can support them. But generally speaking, the spiritual care we're providing day to day is in person with our patients or with staff or loved ones. We have another question. Yeah, yeah, it's a good one. Question from a nurse. How do we respond to patients who have fear and anxiety about medical procedures and that's a barrier to care? That would be a great time to consult a chaplain. And the truth is, everything is unique. The work we do is not cookie cutter. I was saying to Catherine before this, this is why I don't think we're easily replaced by chat GPT. Because, I mean, the honest answer is patient is fear and anxiety. I would listen. And we have a pretty robust training to listening well and listening for what's behind what people are saying, what the fear is really about, what it's touching on, and giving people a space to express it, to have it validated and normalized. And to be having as least of an agenda as possible. So maybe the way it shakes out is the fear and anxiety is so intense that it might actually be more important not to go ahead with this procedure, even if it's needed for some medical indication. That needs to be possible as a way for things to shake out, to even be genuine in hearing someone out, I think. And maybe eventually we get to the root of things, and it's not even really about this procedure. Or maybe it is. And maybe there's some way we can support, maybe we can do something creative together. Maybe just getting to speak about it is in stuff. Sometimes we are kind of liaisons, you know, conveyors of information or advocates between patients and care teams. So there's no one way to answer that question because it's so unique to the individual. But I do think that there could often be a role for a chaplain in a case like that. And I agree. I agree wholeheartedly. The other thing that just makes me think of, yes, of course Teresa, it was a great answer, Alex. It's just, you know, we know that often when our patients are going through things that are scary or sad or syrup grief, anxiety, fear as you're talking about, they can also, they can often bring up those experiences from things that we've gone through in the past. That might not even be happening in the present, but the emotion, the energy is still there. And so as Alex said, just taking the time to explore that and tend to that a little bit can help get to the heart of what's going on. Yeah. Any other questions? Well, thank you everyone for joining us. Thank you, Amy, for having us. It was a pleasure to be with you guys today. Thank you so much for your time, Catherine and Alex. And for everyone joining us, thank you so much for joining us. Hopefully you found today's session helpful. As I had mentioned, today's session is being recorded. If you're interested in being in the recording, it'll be made available on the Blum Center website at massgeneral.org.com. I also included that link in the chat. Thank you, Amy. And thank you to the Blum Center. That really does a lot of great programming so people can understand this complicated medical system. Thank you so much. Take care. Bye, everyone.

=== FILE: Did Caravaggio Catch Malaria？ [_KUVK4qubBI].txt ===

 al'Russell Museum, at Mass General Hospital. All right, thank you, Mark. My name is Sarah Alger. I'm the director of the Russell Museum here at Mass General Hospital. Sorry, welcome to everyone in the room. I must say a surprising number of people in the room considering the weather tonight. Thank you very much for your bravery and to everyone who is on Zoom. A quick plug for our next two lectures before I introduce tonight's speaker. On February 10th, we are going to have The Hospital's Archivist Lucy have the hospital's archivist Lucy Ross, who we work with very closely. She'll be presenting the fairy godmother of health information management, Grace Whiting Myers. And before you think to yourself, oh boy, health information management, Lucy really brings Myers's story to life. Myers was a librarian here in the, I believe the 30s and the 40s. So I hope you are available for that. And then in March, exact date to be confirmed, we will have Dr. Robbie Goldstein, who is the current Public Health Commissioner for Massachusetts, talking about the history of public health here in Massachusetts. Just a housekeeping note for those on Zoom, use the Q&A function to ask questions. We'll be monitoring both the room and the Zoom for questions. And then with that, I'd like to introduce tonight's speaker, who is a repeat lecturer for us. Dr. Thomas Hine is an attending physician in the Department of Medicine here at MGH. Welcome, Dr. Hine. Sir, is it safe to say if people start coming and they need more seats, they're bringing up the chairs or something? Grace. Well, thank you all for being here on this frigid day. And hopefully this will be a fun thing. Please just let me know if you're having a hard time hearing me. The visual is very important. So get in a spot where you can see the screen, because that's kind of the focus of this. It's all about art of observation, but on slides of paintings. And similarly on Zoom, if there's any issues, please let us know on the sooner side. So you can see my quotations there. No conflict of interest to report. And the images are mostly from the public domain. And just in case this talk tickles you a little bit, just to say that I'm not the only one who delves into this. And for myself, it's been one of a few of my little scholarly hobbies. But just to say if like, you're in the Department of, I don't know, whatever it is, neurology. And you're like, Oh, that was kind of cool. Could you want to like talk about art and neurology? The answer is yes, I probably could. I've got so many of these pieces I've picked up over the years. So I've done sort of like the grand rounds or the equivalent they are of all these different disease sort of systems or specialties rather. So I'm focusing today on infectious disease, seemed appropriate sort of post pandemic and whatever. So and then I think on the call maybe going to depend on two dollars and like Dr. Katz, Joel Katz and one of our infectious disease colleagues over at Brigham women's and he and I reclibrating on some of their art medicine stuff over there. So anyway, it's just a way of saying like, if if you like what you taste, there's more of a banquet. All right, so this is what we're going to do. This is sort of an unusual and hopefully fun and entertaining and you guys get involved and kind of shout out your answers and get a little rowdy type of talk. So it's sort of like a case series in which we're going to talk about both published and unpublished. I've got these little blue stars and if anybody's like, you know itching to publish something you want to work and make a publisher that's great. I pretty kid pretty busy with three little kids but I'm happy to delve into it with somebody. And then I've organized it by pathogens, right? This is how infectious disease doctors think. Viruses, fungi, parasites, bacteria. So that's how the screen is structured. And then I was like, started to give some clues and so the picture and I'll say, well, what do you guys think? And that's when you can just like shout out an answer. And then similarly, seribili monitoring the Q&A. So like it's the A2, you can give an A. So if you're out there with Dr. Katz or Dr. Ryan and you think it's, you know, whatever, Leshman-Iasis, then feel free to pause at that. And if somebody gives me that feedback, I'll say, well done. Otherwise you'll have to just feel warm in your heart that you did it if I can't read those. And then so doing we're going to view there's like quite a few articles, believe it or not, written on this sort of niche field and some of the benefits of this exercise, which we'll go through this, but like, you know, there's a lot of positive things about what we're about to do. But of course, there's some limitations of trying to diagnose something based on a canvas from 500 years ago. But I think hopefully we'll all walk away with a little deeper appreciation of the medical humanities, especially medical history and innovation, which is what this whole rest of the museum is about. All right, so here, here, let's jump right into it with the smallest pathogen viruses. So this is Mosaccio, one of the early important members of the Renaissance. And this is the scene. So obviously, this is mostly Renaissance Baroque Europe, what we're talking about. So lots of scenes from Christianity in the Bible and so forth. And here we have the scene from the Acts of the Apostles from the Bible in which St. Peter is walking along and people who were just had the shadow fall on them were healed, we're told. And here's one figure that looks beyond just sort of like a, you know, stereotypical sick guy or, you know, paralytic or so forth. There's pretty unique features that really suggest this is a real person. So first of all, you can look at his hands, which are kind of droopy, and his legs, which look like thin. So that's atrophy. And then atony means they're kind of droopy, not very strong. But it seems like he's able to hold himself up. And in fact, he's on these little crutches there. And so it's almost like, you know, pre wheelchair, but this is how he's pulling himself along on the ground. So there's some chronicity to this, right? This is something that happened last week. This is going on for a while. Now we can go, we can think as neurologists, this first one is a little bit more complicated, but hopefully you'll bear with me here. So neurologists work through the neuro nervous system, like where could, where could the disease be? Well, the upper motor neurons like cerebral palsy, so we all have friends or family who have cerebral it's more spastic, right, where your limbs are kind of brought in. He's not that he's more flaccid. Myopathy is usually more proximal, like your shoulders, like you can't comb your hair anymore, so point out a myopathy. So we're kind of narrowed down quite likely a lower motor neuron disease in this particular area of the spinal column. Anyone have a hazard, I guess, when this might be? Just shout it out. Polio, great. And there was the hint if you needed it. So there's a polio word of all the iron lungs, right? This was a big deal for a long time. So arguably, according to this person who wrote in Lancet, this may be the earliest depiction we have of polio, the polio virus. So pretty fascinating, I think. All right, we're going to move to another. This is actually two portraits next to each other. Pretty remarkable. So this is a 16 year old who is going to become Duke and seven days into his illness, this was he looks like this sort of like rash on his face. And then two days later, he looks like that, right? That's like the right response. Interestingly, a few years earlier, he looked fine. So whatever it is, it's been more cute. And a year later, he looked fine. So whatever it is, it was an acute illness that looked bad and got better. Anyone have a hazard guess what this would be? There you go, smallpox. So the way that we learned hopefully we're still teaching medical students that smallpox is like a possibility if Lord forbid the way the world is going right now, but you know, it's locked in a couple of labs in the world. And if we ever got smallpox, we didn't know what it looks like, because it's such a big deal. But namely, unlike chickenpox, where you have lesions that are like someone more crested, someone just starting this, they're all the same, they all look the same uniform. So that's how you know, it's smallpox. This was like the most successful vaccine campaign ever. You based, for example, a part in this photo, the kid on the left, no vaccine, the kid on the right had a vaccine. So again, that smallpox, by the way, vaccine, a little tidbit, that's from the Latin for cow, right, like vodka and Spanish. So the idea is the first vaccine was for smallpox, this terrible disease that they got from cowpox. So that's how Jenner did it in England at the end of the 18th century and transformed kind of life for humanity forever afterwards. So we're going to start kind of as we're going along, we're going to review some of these like kind of take home points. That doing this, which is fun, and I encourage you to go to museums and kind of look for disease, that's what I tend to do in my days off. But it tells you about these rare forgotten diseases, right, because we're basically getting a snapshot of hundreds of years ago, which by the way, looks a lot more like Sub-Saharan Africa today, where they maybe don't have an access to all these vaccines. And we hopefully appreciate the role of vaccines and sanitation. And you guys go to Robbie Goldstein's talk in a couple of months, he and I went to residency together. All right, so in the same vein, anyone has a guess what this is? That's a great idea, measles. But again, there's sort of this uniform disease, lesions over the body, and this isn't a trick. This is also smallpox. Okay, so there'll be some repeats. Okay. In particular, just this is such a terrible disease. And particularly here in the quote, New World, where there was no prior immunity. So I'm not going to read this whole thing, but you know, basically, we have accounts of just how terrible it was, and just populations wiped out, and infrastructure destroyed. So yeah, smallpox, a terrible part of the whole European discovery story. All right, we're still in the quote, New World, but obviously now more modern times, this one's a little tricky, so I need to get more hints. But this is an episode of blank disease in Buenos Aires. So you can see the mother, very tragic. Some of these are very tragic and trying to take home like how good it is, we don't have these anymore, or can generally vaccinate against them and so forth. But there's a father who's dead in the bed, there's a mother who's dead on the floor with a baby, like looking to breastfeed, very tragic. And we know the Buenos Aires is relatively sort of tropical climate, where there's lots of mosquitoes. And typically this starts as a flu like illness, so you have like normal chap there on the left, and then the second pain is got more like flu like illness, and then he's jaundice, and then like hemorrhage, hemorrhagic fever, terribleness. Anyone want to guess what that is? Well, that was a great idea. Dengue is a very, very good idea. I missed that. I like all these different fevers, yeah, hemorrhagic fever. So again, this is, I think all those would be reasonable. In particular, this is called an episode of yellow fever in Buenos Aires. So, you know, I try to like make it yellow, look yellow. But obviously there's a number of things that can cause jaundice and bleeding and so forth, hemorrhagic fevers like these. But also, like, you know, if you're traveling to New York, you can get a yellow fever, actually, and thank goodness. So there's a bad outbreak in 1871. There was a bad outbreak in the 18th century in Philadelphia. I mean, this was a recurring theme when mosquitoes were kind of getting out of control in various areas. So yellow fever, there you go. And in fact, these two doctors died of yellow fever shortly, like not too long after this painting was done. All right, again, this is a bit of a stretch, but I'm in viruses and I want to at least include this virus. But this is mook of the scream, oh, fame, but this is self-portrait with blank disease, 1919. So this is like during the throes of his illness and like shortly thereafter. And you can see the year that should be like the main flu. So tons of people died from Spanish flu. And right now, too many people are dying from the flu. So we've had a pretty bad flu season so far. So this is self-portrait with Spanish flu. And a note like less than 50% of people are vaccinating. I get, you know, co-vaccine fine, COVID is like a cold for most people nowadays, but flu is like the flu, we can vaccinate. But anyways, so that's my little scream, vaccinate please. But anyways, so that's Spanish flu. All right, so that was viruses in artwork. We're going to keep moving and fungi. I got a lot of slides, if you don't get all of them, that's cool. So this is Moorizio is one of my favorite painters, but this is Thomas Villanova giving alms. You can see the various sort of people who are poor using walking sticks and so forth. And if you zoom in on this child, you can see he's got alopecia or hair loss with these sort of circular crusts. You know, I guess what that is. Yeah, I heard it. Yeah, Tania, ringworm, great. So Tania Capitus of the Favus or honeycomb, honeycomb sort of subtype because it kind of does like honey, like crusty appearance. Basically, this is I think his way of taking home like, people really look like this, he really helped these poor people and they were really poor. So, you know, just a way of saying it helps us interpret the artwork. We know what's going on there. Okay, Goya, before he kind of went crazy and showed paintings of people eating their children, had some very nice paintings before then. So this is some kids climbing a tree. And again, we've got, this is like a labor list, but a similar thing where he's got Tania Capitus on this child. Bucket list, I want to go see this piece. But, you know, apparently it's this wonderful piece and a chapel attached to what was a hospital, done in 1516 by Gunavald, Eisenheim Altarpiece. And it's got like several layers to it, like some altarpipidics do. And this sort of frontal, as you first come, very moving crucifixion. And if you really zoom in, you see that like this is different than many other crucifixions and that the way the body is kind of more like greenish. And there's sort of like all these sores all over. And then you can look at his hands and his feet just really like contorted. So you can guess if you like, there's no clear diagnosis that I've been aware of some, oh, I should also mention. So as you open the triptych is what this is called, like to show the next layer and show the next layer, it actually, and presumably he planned this, but as you kind of open it, it's seen almost like amputates off the arm and the legs of Jesus. So getting at, so some people thought maybe this is syphilis, because again, this is 1516. This is after syphilis came to the new, from the new world to the old world. So it was rampant, could be. And certainly in that hospital, I'm sure they're treating patients with syphilis, but doesn't quite fit with all those things. So just put that in the back of mind. So something that like causes greenish and like maybe you eventually need to amputate limbs and whatnot. So if you look at the other layers of this particular piece, in particular, we'll zoom on this area. But so this is St. Anthony. And this is actually in like the hospital slash monastery of St. Anthony. So one of these, like one of the very first like Abbots, fathers of monasticism, very important, often times pictured battling demons or doing healings and so forth. But next to him, there's this particular figure who just seems not doing well. The rest probably more bond, what have you. And so look how, look at that belly looks like, you know, maybe that's societies, but you could also imagine me this bowel ischemia, like dead bowel, right? Like not doing well. And he's got all these skin lesions all around. Again, this is the monastery of St. Anthony, also known as the hospital with brothers. Anyone want to hazard a guess what I'm trying to get at with with that first piece in this one? This is pretty tricky. Yeah, chicken box, I don't kill you like that. Usually not. Yeah, gangrene, we're getting there. I know, Sarah, does anybody, anyone guess it out there? No. All right. So they treated what's called St. Anthony's fire, which is actually going to be one of two things, maybe more of a cellulitis, but usually this is ergotism. Now, this isn't quite infectious disease because it's basically more of a toxicosis. So you eat the spongus that grows in like rye seeds, and accidentally, and then you like nearly die because this, the ergot, the sort of fungus that's there has this vasoconstrictive quality. So basically vasoconstriction makes your arteries go like that, and then there's not enough blood, and then things get gangrenous and ischemic, whether that's your bowel or your arms and legs, and you have to lop off arms and legs. Interestingly, it can also affect the brain. So hallucinations are pretty common, apparently. And so LSD or shrooms are sort of all related compounds to this particular mushroom. So, you know, it's possible, for example, some people positive, like some of these, honestly, kind of like more tripped out paintings where there's, you know, all these demons and stuff, was that kind of referencing the hallucinations some of these patients would have? Anyways, pretty interesting, I think. We don't see that much, fortunately. Another piece that somebody wrote, published in the FAIROS, so that's like the AOA journal. So here's several people here who are missing feet. Maybe there's some facial deformities or maybe a congenital deformity. I'm not going to belabor on this because I don't really feel particularly impressed with any of these. Maybe leprosy, maybe ergotism again, maybe polio, but I don't really explain where they're missing hand feet. So I don't really know. It seems like someone was eager to publish something, but anyways, there's that piece. So we're going to understand the limitations of what we're doing. These are all hypotheses and something more or less far-fetched. Okay, moving now to parasites. So this is sort of the title piece for today. So this is Caravaggio's sick Bacchus and a self-portrait. You can visit this in Rome in the Galleria Borghese. And so we know, you know, quite a bit about Caravaggio and what was going on this time. So this is after he moved from Milan to Rome to like, you know, get more, you know, this is Rome was like the place to be at the time, but not long after he got there, he became quite ill and he was hospitalized. All right, so let's look at the painting. So this is like after he was hospitalized after he got better type of thing. Whatever it is, it was probably pretty acute, right? If he were to go out for a while, he wouldn't have like this normal musculature, he'd be more wasted away. Also, we know in later portraits, he looked normal again. So a few years later, here is, here's this theme of dressing up like Bacchus and drinking alcohol, I guess, but looked normal and looked nice in pink and whatever. So if you look at his face, and I can like verify this because I had the pleasure of going to Rome not too long ago and like seeing this, but you see a couple of things. First of all, he looks relatively yellow or jaundice, whether it's his eyes or his skin. And then his conjugal type eyes, so the sort of pink part of her eyes and his lips look pretty pale, which is sort of like, you know, the poor man's way of saying anemia. So we've got anemia plus jaundice after moving to Rome. So what do you guys think that is? Yeah, the title of the talk, Malaria. Great. So people have talked about different things, Q-fever, brusillosis, but common thing's been common. Malaria seems pretty common, pretty likely. So malaria, this parasite has been with us some ancient times, the sort of the nemesis of humanity, but brought by mosquitoes, it gets inside of our red blood cells, and then it bursts open the red blood cells. So that bursting and just like a bruise, it looks yellow. So the idea is when the pigment and then makes red blood cells red, breaks down, looks yellow. So that's the jaundice. And then if you burst enough red blood cells, you get anemic, hence the anemia and the pallor. So I think that's a pretty reasonable hypothesis. So people also talk about hepatitis, like hepe, that can make you look pretty yellow, and then you get better. So I mean, who knows, but interesting. Well, because we're talking about Kodamaju, I wanted to take one step further. So this whole like fascinating field of paleo pathology, where people like go and run like PCRs on bones from the pharaohs or more recently or whatever, which is I think just so fascinating. But they did one of these studies of like, how did he die? So they think, you know, he Kodamaju was a controversial figure and, you know, got involved in a lot of fights and, you know, had friends, he had enemies, etc. So we're not 100% sure exactly, like, you know, if the tumor is buried, it is really him, but it seems most likely it is. Anyway, so they did, like DNA, PCR analysis of the skeleton and sure enough, that's like full of staph aureus. So staff like as a staff infection that is, you know, another nemesis to humanity. But so we know that he was wounded in a fight in Naples several days before. So certainly makes sense, like historically, that here you get some wound and several days later, you know, the staff, there's pre-anabotics, it goes over his body to die some staff. So he survived malaria, but not staff. Interesting. All right, so now we're doing more of these learning objectives. We're learning more about these artists. And also, I think, you know, looking very closely at these different paintings and ellipses and so forth, we're helping to hone our own observational skills. So this is a quick tangent, sort of a plug for some of the work that the folks in the Arts Humanities Initiative, of which I'm one, but are doing and whether here in the Harvard area or in others. But basically, they've done a number of studies that we have this current crisis, right? So all the medical students and trainees and frankly, even attendings, we spent all the time in front of screens. And we're pretty good at like interpreting like an MRI, but goodness gracious, we floss these skills of like just doing a good physical exam and help hitting a liver and a spleen, etc. So we're just looking and spending time with the patient and not having our back as we're typing, etc. So the question is like, I was trying to figure out how do you try to bring the student back to the bedside and really spend time and really hone your observational skills and hone their physical skills. Well, one thing that's been tried is to do basically these medical school courses or electors or so forth in which you'd actually go together like with a team and look at artwork and talk about artwork. So for example, the study in Yale where they did basically an art observation course and actually like helped people's observation skills, which is pretty cool. So there's this whole thing called VTS of visual thinking strategies in which you can see a bunch of studies at different locations that have shown that this can help basically again, improve people's observational skills. And then these sort of other added benefits, again, these aren't like obviously hard science studies, but you know, increase time to ambiguity since, oh, we really know what did the artist mean by this, etc. Increase in empathy, increase in mindfulness, increase in communication skills. I would say, but PS, what we're doing right now isn't quite VTS. We're like trying to diagnose paintings with disease, which is like a fun little side thing. VTS is more like, let's go look at a painting or pick your painting and let's just kind of talk about it, not necessarily specifically trying to diagnose things. So, but anyways, so this is fun stuff. It's a worthy goal that's been now reasonably well studied. Okay, tangent over back to the paintings. So this is Maria Stiorelli, who when she was only like 23, he painted this painting in 1887. Again, not really specific, so I need to get more hands, but basically there's a farming community that lives outside Rome and Eric called the Pontian Marshes, sort of southeast of Rome. Anyone want to have a guess what this is? But the person in the bed is, is who looks a little bit maybe John is just suffering from. Again, I'm not trying to trick anyone. This is malaria. So again, how would you know that? I don't know, but just putting all the malaria cases together. By the way, malaria is from the sort of Latin for bad air. So before they figured I was in mosquitoes, which is more modern discovery than you might think, they just thought it had something to do with the bad area around swaps and and so forth. Somehow it gets you sick. So the Romans couldn't even colonize this area because they're just everyone dying from the malaria in the area. So it wasn't until basically modern times in the 20th century that they were able to kind of get all the marsh strain and so forth. And then the Nazis flooded again, and we had to redrain it. So anyways, but the Pontian Marshes continue to be an issue. And again, you can see another just how devastating this is. And malaria, if you Google like what kills more people than any disease worldwide, malaria is like depending where you're at either number one or number two. So it's just been this terrible plague. All right, when I'm switching continents and centuries, I wanted to throw in stuff that isn't just sort of European centric, but I had the opportunity to go to a conference in ultrasound, a tropical ultrasound in Peru. And I got to this awesome museum called the Museum Lorca, which is in Lima. And it's got hundreds of these really cool pots about a big that many of them show disease. And it's very clear they're trying to depict disease real people with these. So and it's all online. So you can go like Peru's these online if you like to a museum Lorca. But anyways, in this particular piece, so this is sorry, the Moche culture, which is a Northwestern Peru, this is again, somewhere between the fifth and eighth centuries or so is when they flourished. So this is pre-Incan, obviously pre-Columbian, pretty, you know, pretty impressive detail sculpture, etc. And in this particular piece sort of seen in two different views, there's some sort of ulceration of the nose, you can say the nasal cartilage been destroyed, as well as the upper lip, exposing the gums there. So this is what it can look like in real life. So this is an infection endemic to Peru comes from sandflies. Want to guess what this is? It's a little bit more like next level, lechmeniasis, very good. So not something we see here much at all. But lechmeniasis, which has various different forms and can be as endemic in South America, it's also endemic sort of around the Middle East, etc. is again, it's a parasite that's carried by mosquitoes and can cause pretty devastating things. And could also be syphilis. Remember, I mentioned that syphilis was like it was in the old, it was in the new world. So this could be more advanced syphilis, certainly possible, unlikely leprosy. Again, some of these paleo pathologists thinks that leprosy is unlikely to have been in the new world. It was more of an old war thing. There's more, I don't know if this is the same patient, they look pretty similar just with different sort of head garbs on or different patients. But I think more of the same. This to me looks like that muco-cutaneous lechmeniasis. All right. And again, if you wanted any more like, you know, fuel for getting fired up about this, but like, I published a few, a few different pieces in some of this different stuff on the Moche pieces I published about the, helped publish with it with a nice group, but about like genetic disease in this pottery. So just a fun thing. Another reason that this is a fun topic that many, many journals want something other than just like the hard science and a fun little artistic piece is sometimes appreciated. All right. We're now back to Europe. Now in 17th century, this is in the Duomo of Milan, beautiful cathedral. And so St. Charles, born male, was a bishop and little cardinal, was very important for Milan, he's buried there in the Duomo. And so we have all these paintings around that kind of celebrate his life and after his life, famously during one of the terrible plagues that devastated Milan and northern Italy, he kind of like stuck around, helped take care of people and actually survived. But so he was kind of always associated with taking care of the six. After he died, so there's kind of like a statue of him or a vision of him or something, he was like invoked as again, this idea that Catholics can pray to a saint and the saint asks God and God will provide the healing. So this is what's going on in a couple of these pieces now that the show. So you've got this woman who seems to be asking for help. And the people who are there attending to her, clearly one thinks this is very malodorous, you can see the covering on the nose. Looks like probably just the one leg, so unilateral edema and it's purplish, ulcerations, it looks like pretty gross, right? This is sort of necrotic. And in fact, I'm not going to read this whole thing, but basically, there's a quotation about what's happening here, it is like necrotic, like the tissue is truly dead, and even the nerve nerve are dead. So we call that elephantiasis is basically what can happen is the lymphatic tissue, which is kind of helps drain all the fluid in our body back up towards the heart. If that isn't working, things can kind of just fall out if I heard or seen an elephantiasis, one or two legs are very big. All right, anyway, so that's all the hints I'm going to give. So what's an infectious disease that could cause an elephantiasis and then maybe get infected like with a bacteria or gangrene after any ideas? More common, like, again, more like Middle East, North Africa, but certainly could be seen in Italy, especially in those days. A little tricky. A filariasis, again, very rare, but right around here, never see it, but basically, again, another parasite, caribamasketo, infects those lymphatic system so that it's not working well. So basically, it gets all swollen up and things that are swollen up tend not to do all against fighting infection, they get mixed, they get etc. And so they can gain greener superinfection, which seems to happen here. They can also chronic inflammation is also increased as the risk of cancer. So that's called Stuart Trev syndrome. If you have, again, this lymphedema, etc. So maybe that, I mean, the quotation talked about cancer, but who knows exactly how specific that is. So there's Stuart Trevus syndrome. So, and then if you keep going on the...  alomol, you'll see a similar piece. I'm not going to belabor it, but same idea. Looking for healing and it's painful when it's swollen and it looks, it's called the miracle, the gangrenous leg and in the end, what? But you can tell the foot is very swollen. So again, maybe there's philoriasis that led to this swelling that predisposed to infection, maybe something else. Clots can lead to one leg being swollen and that can have problems, et cetera. All right, 14th century now, so we went back a little bit and I thought it would kind of continue this idea of legs. So St. Cosmus and Damien, these are the patients and some doctors, fourth century from Syria and they were martyred and they were known as the silverless ones, like they're a treat to the poor that have been taken. So I thought there were a lot of parallels there to like pediatricians and primary doctors today who are like silverless and sometimes feel like they're being martyred. But anyways, side point, they were famous for this story legend of that they actually took, there was like a dead person and they took the leg and then put it on and like transported it and it like functioned. Obviously something very miraculous. And so you can see that leg there. And again, that's not just like nonspecific, oh, I'm gonna draw a leg that looks disease. Like you really get a sense that the artist had seen a leg like this because again, it looks quite damnant. So look at the healthy leg on the gentleman on the bed. Like that looks pretty normal. So whatever it is, it's affecting just that leg. And again, you could think of the same differential diagnosis, phylloarysis, some sort of superfection, DVT, et cetera. All right, all right, same doctors, same operate, transplant operation, 15th century now. This is a Catalanese, so Spanish painter. This is looks quite different though, right? You have these sort of circular lesions. This is a little edamadis, a little swollen compared to the other one, but not much. So this looks quite different. Anyone that has it, I guess what this could be? Now it's perfectly possible that this is just like venous ulcers or particularly arterial ulcers. Although you don't usually have like multiple like that. So again, more common maybe in like the Middle East or South America. Anyone that has it, I guess. There's a couple of MDs in the audience. All right, well, this to me, and I asked Ed Ryan, who's our top disease expert, who may be on the call right now, but this to me looks a little bit like Coutainous Luscious Maniasis. And in fact, so this top photo is one that I took from during some medical mission work in Peru, but it causes these chronic, pretty well-circumstried sort of circular oval lesions. And again, we can treat it, but they couldn't back then. More common in areas where they have a sand fly. So they called it Aleppo boil from Syria. Again, Kazas and Damien were from Syria. So maybe that's a stretch, but the Jericho boil. But again, this is a Spanish painter. So certainly conceivable that there could be sand flies in the 15th century and there. So I think that's interesting. All right, so here I'm covering all these like pretty rare diseases. And certainly, so I've done talks like this for medical students. I think this is kind of a cool way to teach. You know, rather than just like, hey, memorize these slides, memorize these CDC charts, whatever. Yeah, there, it looks like it gives them a story of a context to it. So maybe that's another benefit of this exercise. All right, this is the Pinodecchi, the body. So body is a port town, port city in Italy. So St. Rock is known as the patron saint of plague victims. And so oftentimes you see him with pointing to a bubo, which is basically an inflamed lymph node for bubonic plague. So sort of the patron saint of black death or bubonic plague. And you'll see him to kind of point to or showing, well, I've got this little lymph node in my thigh. You know, kind of like I'm the patron saint of this disease. Sometimes it might be open. So here you see in this marble statue that there's kind of like pus draining out of this, you know, infected lymph node. But this looks different. I mean, maybe that's pus, but that's like the most weird looking pus I've ever seen. So what do you guys think? Looks like a worm, right? So I totally love this article that I happened to pod. It looks like a worm. And so there's something called guinea worm disease, which again, we don't see much around here, but that's draconculiasis. So draconculia means little dragon. So basically it looks like this trigger, sorry, some of these are gross. I should have said that at the beginning if you guys don't like gross stuff, like I could try to tell you a trigger warning, but here's a worm. And so interestingly, these worms, when they get inside, so like it takes a long time for it to like grow, you know, gets inside of you, it slowly grows, and it's like an intense burning sensation apparently. And the way you treat it is you get this little stick and you have to very, very slowly like wrap it around. If you go too fast, it breaks in half, and then like it can grow again. But they have again these sort of circular lesion you can see that's coming out of, which again, doesn't look too dissimilar from what's going on in the sky's thigh. You think, okay, he's from body, IE this poor town, so certainly possible, somewhere more tropical coming back or something like this. More fun factoids, all hypotheses, but in the book of Exodus, you have the story of Moses and all the people who are infected by these, or being tormented by these fiery serpents, fire and serpents, and then the way that they're cured is by, Moses puts a bronze serpent up on a staff. Staff wrapped around, I don't know, is there some burning, maybe there's something there. And similarly, the rod of asclepius from Greek mythology is again a snake wrapped around a staff. So could there be something connected to how they figured out how to cure this terrible little worm? I don't know, but people have talked about that. Okay, all right, so far so good guys. Hopefully they had fun. All right, so this is the last category, bacteria. Rudan's the thinker. So this statue has made its way all the way around the world, right? Many different cities have it. So I thought in all seriousness, tell me is that I'm kidding, this is a joke. But he's been on that throne for a long time, so you don't know. So I thought maybe this is, you know, Manizuma's revenge, which, you know, is a real disease. So basically typically Eucalype, but the idea is the old world came and like knocked out a huge amount of population of the new world with smallpox, et cetera, and in exchange when sort of non-natives visit South America, et cetera, et cetera, Central America, Mexico, and have something with infected water that they get equalized. So that's why it's called Manizuma's revenge. Clearly smallpox is much worse, but all right. This is an anonymous Italian artist, 1831. And so 23 year old woman, and I don't know if there's any parents of little ones in the audience. I think this might be just a pre and post young kids with colic, because this is a before and after, just like this is what you were before, and then you had a kid with colic for a few months, and you look like the right, but it's not that. So all jokes aside, this is a healthy woman. And then later, just four hours before she died. So very quickly deteriorated. So she looks cyanotic, right, bluish. And she looks, if you can kind of see all these sort of like new wrinkles and so forth, she looks kind of sunken in, like dehydrated basically. Again, I don't expect you necessarily to like grab this because there's not major other signs, but any suggestions about bacteria that can cause hyperboleic shock and kill you pretty quickly? Cholera, right? So this is like from like a textbook describing what cholera can look like. Just terrible, death by diarrhea. So thank goodness for sanitation and clear water and all that sort of thing. All right, so here's another piece of cholera. This is, I flipped it out so you can kind of see. Interestingly, so this is called this cholera to blame, but there's something called dry cholera, very, very rare. But typically cholera is just gallons and gallons of water diarrhea, and that's how you die. And you just need lots of IV fluids until your body can get rid of it. But something called dry cholera is if you have this complication where basically your gut isn't working, doesn't move, then you just kind of swell up with the fluid, and then you die that way, which is also terrible. So anyways, this person apparently had dry cholera, and again, looks sort of cyanotic and so forth from the circulatory shock, because all the fluids going, like not in your bloodstream, but into your gut, which won't help you. All right, this is just touching, painting it's actually was like used by the Royal Academy of Surgeons, et cetera, et cetera. There's no obvious diagnosis here. There's clearly a child who looks sick, but I'll just, just as a fun little aside or maybe point it, but basically this is inspired by the artist's one year old son who died, typhoid fever on Christmas. And like, I guess the artist was just really impressed by the, you know, physicians care and so forth. Again, they couldn't do a whole lot back in those days. Of course, typhoid is also a vaccine preventable. This is just like a little aside, as I'm actually intramascent pediatrics alone mostly do medicine, but it's just, go to like Mount Auburn cemetery. These are from Mount Auburn cemetery. It's so moving to me. I'm not going to be political, but I'll just say that vaccines are very good to prevent people from dying, especially little children. So just the number of graves you'll see at these older cemeteries of like, oh, here's our baby died at one or three months or it, you know, three years or whatever. So the under five mortality from things like typhoid fever, diphtheria, et cetera, et cetera, was very high. So anyways, all right. We're now moving on to different infectious disease de la Santa Humilita. So you will see in the upper left, if you know your iconography, but that looks like St. Francis, he's got sort of the Franciscan robe and the sigmana and the hands on the side. So St. Francis and some other attendants are helping these sick people. Some people pause and maybe this is black death. I want to give it, it's not black death. Because you can see then some of the noses of some of these patients, about three of them look like they're pretty ulcerated, like they've been kind of like, not off the cartilage there. And they're also carrying these little clappers, like wooden clappers or maybe they're bells. Sometimes they'd carry to make noise. How's it guys what this is? Sorry? Leprosy, great, yeah. So in his St. Francis, and the other clue is St. Francis is very famous for taking care of lepers, like actually kiss them, et cetera, to like make them feel loved. Also known as Hansen's disease is the modern term. So of course this is from like ancient times, like Leviticus and Egyptian, hieroglyphs et cetera make reference to lepers. You know, sort of terrible, disfiguring chronic disease. And that really made them societal prius. So you don't, you know, obviously you don't know exactly how it's spread, but you know if you stay away from them, you won't get it. More in the same vein. So this is in the British Library in London, but basically a gentleman who is begging. So some good, my gentle master for God's sake. So he's asking for money and he's missing a hand and a foot. There's kind of advantage there, but the actual hand and foot are missing. And again, ringing a bell, like I'm coming, like don't get too close to me. Just a terrible way to live, huh? And again, there's more of these, but this thing called a saddle nose deformity, where again it destroys some of the cartilage here. So it kind of looks more like a saddle or like Leonine faces again from chronic leprosy, aka Hansen's disease. Again, a little less, yeah, just continue. And then this actually made, so the my last case of leprosy, the sort of title of clinical infectious use journal, but you can see that clearly this isn't just stylized. This is somebody seeing people that with leprosy and this is what they look like with the, you know, natocardilage destroyed, et cetera. And this is a picture I took actually in India, like people still haven't leprosy. Fortunately, it's pretty rare, but it still happens. You can see again some of the things that we were just talking about. Again, before Goya went a little too crazy, so one of his earlier pieces, this is Lazaro de Dormez, and it's also known as El Garatillo, which means like the strangler, which is probably a plan words, because it's almost like he's strangling this guy, but it's also referring to the disease process that he's actually trying to help this kid. So this is, if you look inside, this is probably what's inside there. You don't wanna hazard guess what that is. Diphtheria, very good. So diphtheria is back when we did vaccinate against it. We'd see it in pediatrics and basically it causes pseudo membrane, kind of like closing off the back of the throat, making it hard for a child to breathe. My dad talks about how there's a kid with it, so my dad is pediatrician. Like just as a resident, like just barely interpolating the last second child with diphtheria with like, you know, this tiny little airway. If you don't get it, like the child's dead, so it's scary stuff. And in fact, five of six boys, children died in childhood. So we're very grateful for that D and D tap that we don't have to see that much anymore. Okay, Cloorsies Museum in New York City is just so great. But if you walk through, you'll see this. Oh, look at that. Gonna hazard guess what this is or who this is. Uh-huh. And so what is the disease? Yeah, perfect. So we talked about it a little bit earlier, but this is a bubo, this is an inflammatory bubonic plague, St. Rock is a patient who's playing victims. So, you know, classically it would maybe be more in the groin and anguinal lymph node, but that's a little risque. So it'll kind of show the upper thigh, which, you know, it certainly can appear there as well. So again, you can, you can find like, I just give another example of the same, but this is Tintoretto, St. Rock in the hospital, again, caring for play victims. And you can see all these lymph nodes, some by more anatomically correct for where there's lymph nodes than others, but you get the idea. Okay, this is kind of a cool historical piece because this is possibly the first time that this disease was like ever documented, was in this piece and it ran along with like an article or like a poem about it. So this is a, Dewey, this famous engraver, it's called Man with a Pox 1496, again, cover of clinical infectious disease. I wanna guess what this is. Syphilis. Now, how do you know that? Dr. Fendas. Hand. Perfect. So there's not a lot of rashes that actually appear on your palms and the soles of your feet. Syphilis is one of them. And again, this is sort of after 1492, Columbus sailed the ocean blue and therefore syphilis came back and sort of spread like wildfire. So this new disease popped up and sort of captured the imagination of many people. So it's brought from the new world and then spread by wars are going on at a time and soldiers doing things that they shouldn't, I'm sure. And so it's very, however you wanna like sigmatize who brought it to you, you call it the Spanish disease or the French disease, the Italian disease. Go ahead. The battle of Naples, they say more of, it kills more people than the actual battle of Naples. There you go. The French against this, I think I guess this is the Naples lead. Yeah. If anyone in Zoom land, basically one of our attending physicians who was talking about how in the battle of Naples that syphilis probably killed more people than the guns and swords did. More of the same. So more of the gallorum, the galls, the French. So again, as the entire body is affected, you see people who are like barely closed who's like referenced, maybe there's some risque going on or STDs that are, but they're syphilis. And in the old days, what did you do? How did you test your stuff? Looked at the urine and you tasted the urine. Gross. But that's what the guy's doing. That's when they're gonna have an aphrologist around and I call a console for that one. I'm not so good at that, but I know something is. All right. Going back to Mochi pottery. This is again, roughly eight century-ish. A little, again, like, sorry, this is like not Rated G, but this sort of erotic poetry, erotic pottery rather. So you see these raised general lesions around the genitals of buttocks somewhere on the torso or on the arms. Who knows? But maybe this is secondary syphilis. Again, syphilis was in the old world. So it could totally be HPV, like maybe. It doesn't usually go up on your torso though. So that'd be kind of weird. And there's something called Viruga Peruana. I've never seen this, but apparently it can cause these large sort of circular spherical kind of blood filled lesions. So like maybe, although, yeah, I don't know, but somebody published on that. Okay. I'm gonna do a couple more syphilis cases just again because this was such a thing. There are certain diseases that were just such a part of life that we don't have to worry about much anymore, but were, I think, could have spent a so on. But this is Merige-Alamot. So there's these seven pieces that this French artist did, basically as a satire, and like syphilis is all over that, basically. So for example, here's a gentleman showing this doctor who's on the left wearing kind of the greenish coat. He's like, basically these pills aren't working for me. And this is a mercury pill. So yeah, the fire, I'm working for you, but that's where they try back then. And then everybody's got signs of syphilis. So they just do this sort of stylized black spots as if that's syphilis. But more specifically, you're gonna see the satin nose deformity in the doctor in the bottom left, where again, it's kind of the chronic syphilis, tertiary syphilis is destroyed his nose. And then you've got this girl is kind of wiping a sore on her lips, which may be in an earlier stage of syphilis. And then if you continue again, there's more of these pains, but just to show a case of congenital syphilis. So you've got frontal bossing. So the face, the head, the forehead looks a little billet out again, that saddle nose where it looks kind of like concave and then the kind of bull-legged. So that's classic for congenital syphilis. One more example of syphilis for funsies. This is Moomk, it's called inheritance. It's also called, I think it's called, what's it called the syphilitic child. So again, you see things that match up pretty well with what we know that congenital syphilis looks like. This is why every pregnant woman is checked for a syphilis and they're blood testing prenatally, so that we don't see this much anymore, thank goodness, because it's terrible. So you can kind of see this woman just like weeping over her devastated child. All right, this one's pretty interesting. I'll buy it, it's a bit of a stretch, but I'll buy it. So this is Jan Steen, doctor with his patient. So you've got a doctor and this patient's like not lying down, which is a typical thing for sick patients, but kind of sitting up and she does look like she's got kind of this glistening gloss and maybe she's been sweating in febrile. He's checking her pulse, so maybe her heart rate's a little fast. Looks like her hand is a little swollen. No, I'll buy that, looks a little swollen and red. So that's arthritis. And then again, orthopnea is when you feel shorter breath when you lie flat. Ortho means straighter flat, like orthopedics. So she doesn't want to do that, she wants to sit up so she can feel shorter breath. Anyone has any guess what this could be? Put all those together and an infectious disease mindset. Post-infectious disease mindset. Yeah, so close to it. So rheumatic fever, so something that's reactive to a infection that we had. So basically nowadays we probably give too much antibiotics, bless you for strep throat, but there's a small risk of getting something like this if strep isn't treated, less so in the serotypes that we see here in the United States, but more common in other places. So maybe she had rheumatic fever, which basically is this post-immune complication of strep that can cause all the above, heart failure, arthritis, et cetera. Like from the heart valves, it is a heart failure. All right, I wanted to throw at least one Egyptian piece. So this is what I could find with it. I think likely infectious disease. So here's a gentleman who's got quite a bent spine, Eric, you can kind of see it's going like this. Anyone know what this is? Or this could be? Yeah, so this is a patient that I saw in Ethiopia. So this definitely still happens in the world. And it's basically a disease that it's like malaria. It's like been with us forever and it's terrible and it kills so many people. Although unlike malaria, we, how to say it, like a lot of people just kind of have a dormant because it just kind of lives in hides in our white blood cells and our macrophages. But if you Google what's the kill more people than any disease in all of human history, TB is what Google will tell you is number one. Certainly it's what most people more people are infected with anywhere in the world. Right now, a fourth of the world is infected with TB, like here in 2026. Now they're almost all latent, which is me and like, it's there, it's not causing problems. But anyways, so tuberculosis of the spine is also known as POTS disease. And again, fourth of the world is infected right now. Obviously a much higher percent back in the day and even higher during the industrial time as well. Now you have really crowded conditions and these timents and everyone's in factories copying each other, et cetera. So POTS disease, pretty interesting. This is Rembants Vashiva. Again, sorry, I said I'm rated G here, but here we go. So this is a lot of people have studied and thought what could be going on because this breast looks like a little asymmetrical, a little kind of like there's a bulge there and there's a bulge there. It doesn't look like a sort of a, like the other breast looks more sort of symmetrical. And so what could be going on? You can see several people poached on this. Some people thought that this could be breast cancer. In fact, they used it in advertising in Australia for breast cancer, but that doesn't work because she lived nine years after this painting. So if you had POTAR orange, which means like orange skin, which is like inflamed, advanced, bad breast cancer, making the skin look like an orange skin, you're not gonna live for nine years. So she in those days. So probably not bad, but it's nice to have an ad campaign for cancer training. That's great, get your mammograms. No, more likely I think is tuberculosis. I'm going to the TB theme for a little few slides here, but basically TB is something you'd have chronically that would cause swelling, wouldn't kill you in a moment. And whereas for example, if this was more just like a mastitis, that's more acute. And therefore you probably have more, you wouldn't be wanting to sit there and getting your painting painted. So I'm looking at the clock here. I'm just gonna kind of zip through the rest of these slides so I have times for questions at the end. Here's another breast looks like symmetrical. Maybe this is chronic mastitis. This is more TB complications possibly. Maybe this is scoffula, that's a TB of the neck area, but it could just be that this guy has a scar from the sword duel, but anyways, scoffula is also known as the King's Evil. There was an idea that the King could touch and it would be healed. More paintings about TB just emphasizing how terrible it is. But basically this pulmonary TB killed lots of people, killed this painter a few weeks later. Munch, his sister died of it, he survived it and sort of for a brahant and he painted several paintings about this. But interesting about TB, there's also this idea of like, and during the Victorian times, there are romantic age of it being more like attractive. There's what's called consumption, right? And so it kind of consumes you. So you look sort of thin and you have a pallor and there's more delicate and weak. There's something like a track, you know, this is the air of corsets and everyone's like, looks very white, but like very pink cheeks and stuff. So maybe pink, cause you're having fevers every day. But it was very interesting that there was kind of this like, ying and yang about TB in that particular era. And some artists that actually made them feel more creative with the sort of TB fevers. But anyway, so you get an idea of like people painting TB almost like this is a pretty thing. This brings me I think to my final slide. Yeah. Oh, so we understand how different times diseases are viewed in different ways as the art helps with. So this is Christina's world, a pretty famous piece by Andrew Wyeth and who lived here in New England. And we know about this woman that basically she had this, from childhood, this sort of severe progressive neurologic disease, you can see that she has some joint. See how her illness has like for like claw hands there. And she actually later in life just crawled around. She didn't want to use a wheelchair. This is how she wanted to move around. And actually she went to what was then called Boston City Hospital. So now BMC, she went there for a week. They couldn't figure out what she had. He said, I guess keep on living as you've been living. And so she did. Then Andrew Wyeth saw her like crawling around in the grass outside of his home. I think it was in Maine and he asked for permission and painted her here. So people posit different things. Chalk and Marie Tooth is a neurological disorder. Well, they usually you see that more in like the feet, maybe polio, one person throughout chronic Lyme, which I don't know, chronic Lyme usually like arthritis usually affects like the big joints, like the knees, that like the hands. It seems a bit of a stretch. So we've appreciated in this exercise, the limitations of trying to diagnose post humanously and from hundreds of years away. But hopefully we have a greater appreciation of this exercise and of the people who come before us and helped medicine and modern society to be free of many of these terrible diseases. So that's my talk. And just another reminder, like there's much more of where this came from. So if there's something you wanna like, oh, come talk to our oncology group about whatever, like I could do this work. Let's talk about that, that'd be fun. That's it. And I'll take any questions in the last few minutes we got. Okay. I'll start with two things about sick caucus from online. One was somebody noted that the paintings on loan to be in a thing right now. Oh, wow, look at that. And then there was a question. Do we know if the near was ever cleaned since the near can serve cause sort of yellow over time and wish might change your perception of what the disease might have been? That's a great question. So if anyone didn't catch it, the question is, a lot of these paintings, the restoration techniques over time have obviously got much better. But sometimes they're just like the way they would kind of try to preserve pieces. It would be this kind of relatively like yellowish darkish veneer. So could that be the reason this looks more jaundice? I don't know specifically about that. Again, I'll just say I've seen this piece in person and I think I've seen the other piece in person and one looks a lot pinker than the other. I don't know if there was different restoration techniques or not, but yeah, it's admittedly, I'm not too sure. It'd be interesting to ask a artist or an or someone unfamiliar with the restoration of that piece. Any questions? Greg, some final thoughts. Have you seen any samples of just some of my students? I'm thinking that's a worldwide disease or the almost parasite mediators. Yeah, the question is not justo, just a semenosis. There was one painting I almost, you can tell I had to like take some thought. Well, I mean, so justo, if I'm recalling correctly, so I can get infected to the liver and can then go through your GI tract and cause terrible hemorrhagic vomiting. You die from that if I'm recalling correctly. There was a painting of somebody vomiting blood. I think it was in that setting of the seven in Milan in the Duomo, but it seems so not specific. I couldn't tell that was justo or something else. But the answer question, no, I haven't thought of any justo paintings, but no. Yes, no. No, I haven't, no, definitively no. Yeah, yeah. Someone asks, is there a collection of medical arts to visit in New England? Does anyone put together that tour? No, although I've done a couple of times a tour by me in the MFA. Let's go see the paintings that have disease, but no. I mean, you got to hear the Russell L.History Museum. You guys have some nice artwork downstairs, but I'm not aware of anyone that specifically clusters it. You'd have to go searching for it, which is fun. So go to your local museum and look for it. Someone asks, are there any artistic dupe patients of pertussis? Mm, whooping cough. Again, I think that'd be hard to find. You find somebody who looks like they're coughing and turning blue at the face, but I'm not aware of that. Other questions in the room? Okay. All right, well, with that, thank you again. Dr. Hines is fantastic. Thanks, guys. Thank you.

=== FILE: Eating for Now, and for Later： Diet Guidance for Cancer and Heart Health [n0BmJ7TEFhc].txt ===

 and scrxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx session is being recorded for educational purposes. If you're interested in viewing the corning, it will be made available on the Blum Center website at massgeneral.org.com. Please note that everyone is in listen only mode. You have been muted so you can hear our guest speakers today. If you have any questions for our guest speakers, you can use the chat feature which is located at the bottom of your screen. We'll have time for the chat. If you have any questions, please ask your doctor. Lastly, at the end of today's session, you'll be directed to a brief survey. Would you like to ask us to help us complete? If you're back, it's important to us as we plan future programs. All right, so I'm going to turn it over to Rob Dunn who will get us started. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. Rob Dunn, please. the presentation today. I think in recognition of American Heart Month, which happens every year in February, we wanted to talk about the ways that healthy eating guidance in context of cancer treatment overlaps with healthy eating guidance for other chronic illnesses such as cardiovascular disease. So, without further ado, I'll pass it to Martha. Awesome. Thanks Amy and thanks Rob. I'll just share my slides here. All right, is that showing up for you all? Yep, looks good. Excellent. Let's get started. Here is today's agenda, which as Rob stated, centers on balancing diet guidance for people receiving or recovering from cancer treatment with diet guidance for heart health. Nutrition and cancer care. If you've attended any of our previous webinars through the Blum Center, we've primarily focused on managing the side effects of cancer and its treatment. And today's topic really enters the realm of nutrition for wellness and survivorship. And during active treatment for cancer, our primary goals as registered dietitians are to help patients with weight maintenance, preservation of lean body mass, and symptom management in order to optimize tolerance of treatment and improve quality of life. So, specific guidance for managing malnutrition, poor appetite, nausea, taste changes, and difficulty swallowing is currently available on the Blum Center's YouTube page in case anyone would like more information about these topics. For cancer survivorship, we draw many of our recommendations from the American Institute for Cancer Research and the World Cancer Research Fund. We have identified 10 pillars for the prevention of cancer and its recurrence, and six of these pillars are specifically about nutrition. The first nutrition related pillar is to eat a diet rich in whole grains, vegetables, fruit, and beans. So these foods should ideally form the bulk of the diet. Practically, I tell patients to aim for about five half cup servings of fruits and vegetables daily and then weave in whole grains and plant proteins throughout the meals they're having. So for example, if we're thinking about whole grains that might look like oatmeal at breakfast, whole wheat bread at lunch, and then some sort of grain as a side at dinner like bulgur, farro, quinoa, etc. Then the next pillar is to limit consumption of fast foods and other items high in primarily saturated fat, starches, or sugars. So these would be items to consume infrequently. Then they recommend that patients limit consumption of bread and processed meat. I usually tell patients if they do consume red meat to try to limit it to about a serving a week and avoid processed meat as much as possible. Next is to limit consumption of sugar, sweetened drinks and try to consume more plain water or seltzer if carbonation is enjoyable. Then limit alcohol consumption. This recommendation is because the body metabolizes alcohol into a compound called acid aldehyde that can cause DNA damage. And then finally, they state do not use supplements for cancer prevention. Ideally, supplements would be used to correct a nutrient deficiency, support bone health, or supplement certain dietary patterns. For example, a vegan diet may require certain supplementation. And I also want to note on this point that there is no supplement known to prevent cancer or it's recurrence. In terms of the survivorship recommendations, our colleagues Ashley Dravium and Carol Sullivan recently gave an excellent talk through the Blum Center called paving the way with every bite nutrition as a tool for cancer survivorship. And that provides a deep dive into these pillars, as well as specific ideas for how to implement them. I believe that talk is also now available on the Blum Center YouTube page if anyone is interested to learn more. There are many reasons why heart health is particularly important for people with a history of cancer. Cancer and cardiovascular disease share a number of risk factors and mechanisms, including oxidative stress and inflammation. The key takeaways here are that people with a history of cancer have a significantly increased risk of cardiovascular disease compared to the general population. And this risk is largely attributed to treatment toxicity. Emerging research also suggests that a history of cardiovascular disease may influence the risk of developing cancer. And so this image summarizes that potential bidirectional link. On a bright note, lifestyle behaviors are some of the best ways to prevent cardiovascular disease. So what does that look like? In terms of nutrition, the American Heart Association recommends a diet that emphasizes a variety of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. And this is a diet that focuses on healthy protein sources. So that will primarily be lean animal proteins like fish, seafood and poultry that is unprocessed, as well as plant sources of proteins like legumes and nuts. And then there is the encouraged consumption of liquid non-tropical vegetable oils. So these are really going to be your heart healthy unsaturated fats, things that are liquid at room temperature. Minimal processed foods, minimal added sugars specifically for men. The American Heart Association suggests limiting added sugars to 36 grams or about nine teaspoons a day. And for women, that recommendation is a limit of 25 grams or about six teaspoons a day. And added sugars will be listed on all food labels. Additionally, encourage minimal salt, usually a maximum of about 2300 milligrams daily, and then limited or preferably no alcohol. Other lifestyle considerations include regular exercise. They specifically suggest two and a half hours of moderate or 75 minutes of vigorous physical activity each week. And then they recommend that people avoid tobacco products, get adequate sleep, achieve and maintain a healthy weight, which is going to look different person to person, and manage cholesterol, blood sugar and blood pressure. And those targets will likely be individualized as well based on guidance from healthcare providers. Now let's put this information together. It may already be clear that the survivorship and heart health guidelines are almost identical regarding nutrition. The key overlaps are to eat a predominantly plant based diet, focus on lean protein sources, limit calories from saturated fat. This, we didn't get into two specifically early on, but the American Heart Association specifically suggests that less than 6% of total calories, which is about 13 grams of saturated fat on a 2000 calorie diet, come from saturated fat. So, to provide an example of what that might look like on a plate, that's about a six ounce rib by a steak, a tablespoon of coconut oil, or two or three slices of full fat cheese for the whole day. And then limiting calories from added sugars, we discussed the specific guidance there and avoid alcohol. And of course both guidelines do encourage physical activity. I included here a picture of the new American plate, which the American Institute for Cancer Research created, because I think this provides a helpful visual to put this guidance into an actual meal. Here, two thirds or more of the plate contains vegetables, fruit, whole grains or beans, and then one third or less includes a healthy animal protein such as poultry. The idea is that this framework can be applied to all meals for the day. So for example at breakfast, that might be an omelet with eggs as the animal protein, but then including a bunch of vegetables as well. During active cancer treatment, guidance may vary. So first, certain cancer types and treatment regimens are associated with what's known as a state of hyper metabolism during which the body's energy and protein needs increase significantly. Patients with hyper metabolism may need to eat a lot more than usual simply to maintain their body weight. And in this case, it might be easier to consume calories from dietary fat and fluids. Certainly if people can start with heart healthy fats like olive oil and avocado. That's an ideal calorie booster. But some people may need butter, ice cream, full fat dairy products and sugar sweetened beverages, which are quite caloric in order to prioritize weight maintenance and that is okay. Eating during active treatment is all about balancing priorities. In terms of fiber, tolerance might vary, particularly if someone has GI issues such as constipation or diarrhea. And finally, physical activity is typically at the discretion of each patient's treatment team, people recovering from surgery or with other specific contraindications may need to take it easy. So I want to provide some more specific guidance around protein. On active treatment, 1.2 to 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight is typically adequate to maintain muscle mass. And we encourage people to choose well tolerated protein sources. So that's really going to be any protein food that appeals and doesn't cause GI upset. So for some people, 1.2 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight is typically adequate, but this of course varies based on age, medical history, personal goals and activity levels. So for someone who's very active and trying to rebuild muscle, they may need a bit more than that. And again, the focus should be on trying to get protein from lean and plant based sources. And also, for heart health, as of 2024, the American Heart Association recommended the previous recommended dietary allowance or RDA, which was 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight with a focus on lean and plant based sources. The 2026 dietary guidelines for Americans that were just released now recommend a new RDA of 1.2 to 1.6 grams per kilogram. So it remains to be seen whether the American Heart Association will update their guidelines. If you want to note that excess calories from protein do still get stored as dietary fat and can contribute to weight gain. So for someone who isn't physically active, this recommendation could be on the high side. And as always, we recommend speaking with either a dietician or a healthcare provider to understand the best protein goal based on your individual health history because there can be a good amount of variability that goes into place in making these recommendations. So fiber, for active treatment, we typically say include fiber rich foods as tolerated. So what does that mean practically? If someone is having diarrhea or loose bowel movements, we'll encourage them to increase their consumption of soluble fiber from foods like oats, rice, potatoes with the skin removed. And we'll typically advise them to omit non-starchy vegetables if they have poor appetite, abdominal pain or diarrhea. For cancer survivorship, the American Institute for Cancer Research advises 30 grams of dietary fiber each day to lower cancer risk. In the talk that Ashley and Carol gave, they had an excellent slide about how to hit this 30 gram goal. So I would encourage people to check that out. And ideally this fiber is coming from a variety of whole grains, fruits and vegetables. Finally, for heart health, the American Heart Association recommendation is pretty closely aligned with that of the AICR, and they do specify that fiber should ideally come from food sources and not supplements. To wrap up, we'll share a few practical tips and tricks. Here is what I would consider a gold standard day when energy is good and symptoms impacting nutrition are mild, which could be a variety of different things. It could be fatigue, GI issues, nausea, etc. On that type of day, we would recommend preparing well-balanced, predominantly plant-based meals and snacks. And if able, making some extra servings to safely store for lower energy days is always helpful so that there's a little stock in the fridge. That might look like a Greek yogurt parfait in the morning with blueberries as the fruit and oats as the whole grain. Some carrot sticks and red pepper hummus as a plant-based protein and vegetable snack. A Greek salad with roasted chickpeas in the afternoon, wheat pasta with pesto, Brussels sprouts, and frances of salmon in the evening. And then maybe a bowl of Cheerios with some low-fat milk and sliced banana as a later snack. We broke this into mini meals in case people are having lower appetite, but these meals could certainly be combined to make three larger meals if someone is feeling good and doesn't need to follow a smaller, more frequent meal pattern. And then for a more gentle day, if energy is lower and nutrition impact symptoms are causing more challenges, we would recommend choosing easy-to-prepare, small, frequent meals, ideally with heart-healthy fats. I want to note too that it is always better to eat something than nothing at all. So if any of these options seem overwhelming to prep, anything that you can grab is better than not eating. Quick oats might be an easy go-to breakfast with a scoop of some nut butter, maybe some sliced fruit. And then at lunch, that might look like some crackers with tuna salad, carrots, a drinkable low-fat yogurt from the fridge could be an afternoon snack, a cup of low-sodium soup in the evening, and then maybe some Cheerios with milk and banana before bed. I also want to share a few additional resources. The American Heart Association, American Institute for Cancer Research, Harvard Nutrition Source, and EatingWell are all a wealth of resources. They've got recipes, plans to help implement some of these recommendations, and good write-ups on a lot of hot topic nutrition questions with really evidence-based sources. So I would encourage everyone to check those out. And I wanted to pull the new American plate back here too, because I think it is a really helpful anchor when putting meals together that can help simplify things a bit. We do encourage patients of the Masch General Brigham Cancer Institute to request an appointment with our team of registered dietitians. We see people at the Boston, Danvers, Newton-Walsley, and Waltham locations. Here are our references, and we'd be happy to take any questions. Awesome. Thank you so much, Martha. That was a really, really awesome overview. I will open it up just with a question that I hear patients kind of grappling with all the time, which is, you know, during active cancer treatment, they are often engaging with dietary guidance that might run kind of counter to what they've been told for most of their life. You know, where their dietitian and their oncologist is kind of encouraging high-calorie foods or foods that maybe don't have as much nutrient density, micronutrient density as previously they've been recommended to eat. How do you kind of go about walking patients through the differences between healthy eating for most of their life and healthy eating in context of cancer treatment? Yeah, that's a great question. I would say I usually tell people that it's all about priorities, and I try to encourage them to think about the acute concerns versus the more chronic lifestyle concerns that they may have heard about throughout the lifetime. So, for example, someone who's lost a significant amount of weight and might be at risk of acute complications for malnutrition should prioritize weight gain, and that might need to include foods that aren't traditionally thought of as healthy. But in that scenario, the risk of malnutrition is going to outweigh the risk of eating maybe, you know, less heart healthy fats for a period of time, because we really need to just address what's going on in the immediate and allow them to continue treatment. That's just a specific example, but that would be one way to frame it. And then if we can move them later on towards some of those healthier foods, again, that's the goal, of course, but I think it really all boils down to the immediate priority. I'd be curious what you tell people, Rob. Yeah, that's, I really wouldn't have said it any differently. I find the phrase that I'm saying a lot is that healthy eating takes a lot of different shapes over the course of our life. And, you know, the majority of the time the priority is eating, you know, a variety of fruits and vegetables, having a high fiber diet, consuming lean protein sources, and then sometimes across your lifespan, there's periods where that doesn't necessarily fit. And during active cancer treatment when malnutrition is much more of a concern, I often try to help patients feel free to include foods that previously they might not have, you know, when they were only prioritizing cardiovascular health. I see a question that just went into the chat, which was, are there any suggestions on foods that help with inflammation from medication treatments? I can start this one. Inflammation is something that happens across a real gradient. There's low grade inflammation, then very high grade inflammation. Often high grade inflammation is not modifiable through food, diet, or other lifestyle measures. That's more something that your oncologist and your other, you know, medical providers will work to make sure that your body is responding to treatment in a way that is not provoking excess inflammation or pain, fevers, infections, things that can be complications of active treatment. So, kind of low grade chronic inflammation, we know that a healthy diet pattern kind of outlined in that cancer survivorship diet or a hard healthy diet. Foods like fatty fish, a variety of fresh fruits and vegetables, maintaining your weight in a healthy range. All of those help fight against kind of lifestyle driven inflammation. But in the context of active treatment, I want to make patients aware that there's no one food that you should be prioritizing to reduce your inflammatory burden. And similarly, there's no one food other than I would say alcohol that you should avoid due to inflammation. Would you say anything different about that, Martha, or add anything? No, I agree. I think certainly, as you stated, Rob, for the kind of chronic low grade inflammation, if someone's on a maintenance therapy, for example, this heart healthy diet pattern that I wanted to call out to earlier, really, is essentially a Mediterranean style diet. People may have also heard of the dash diet or dietary approaches to stop hypertension. When you look at them all closely, they're essentially recommending the same pattern. Those all align with the sort of classic anti inflammatory diet that would encourage whole grains, vegetables, fruits and beans, and then limiting foods that are higher in saturated fat, starches, added sugars, etc. Yeah, exactly. I think when we look at diet patterns, you know, kind of assigned to different disease groups, whether it be cancer or cardiovascular disease, more and more we're thinking about neurologic health and like long term brain health. The guidance for almost all of those conditions from a diet perspective is almost identical. There may be slight differences here and there, but the core tenets of those diet patterns are really, really the same, which is nice when we're when we're thinking about trying to pursue longevity across like a couple different disease groups. I don't see any other questions in the chat, so please feel free to add them in over the last couple minutes here, but I'll just I'll just add a comment and then Martha, feel free to add your insight. Oftentimes, in the midst of active cancer treatment, what I find patients are having the hardest time integrating from the more kind of classic heart healthy diet is those very high fiber foods, particularly foods that are high in fiber and low in calories like leafy greens roasted vegetables, very fibrous cereals. Sometimes those can be irritating from a GI perspective in context of active treatment. And those are the types of foods that a dietitian might advise you to limit the portion sizes of if they're making you uncomfortable, or if you're continuing to lose weight. Is there any other kind of category of foods, Martha, that you feel we should add there? No, I think that's the main one. And understandably, I think that's the one that people feel the worst about not being able to eat because it typically is the core of this really otherwise healthy dietary pattern. But even for some people who might not be as sensitive if they can modify those foods to some extent like cooking and peeling their produce, having vegetables in a smoothier soup, it might help. So, definitely worth experimenting with ways to sort of pre digest those foods a little bit. Absolutely. Absolutely. And we're almost at the bottom of the hour. So I see this last question in here and I can address it. It's, thank you all for submitting the questions. It's for added sugar. You know, guidance around added sugar, would that include items like sucralose or other kind of non-nutritive sugars or sweeteners, rather? I think the guidance and the data around the cancer risk profile associated with zero calorie sweeteners like sucralose is emerging. And at the moment, we don't tell people to avoid non-no calorie sweeteners in hopes of reducing their cancer risk. Certainly we know that added sugar and through adding sugar increased body weight or increased abdominal adipose tissue or belly fat, those are risk factors for cancer long term. We don't see the same correlations with the zero calorie sweeteners, although certainly that's something that researchers are spending time investigating. Amy, we've reached the bottom of the hour and I'm not seeing any other questions applicable to everyone in the chat. Thank you, Rob. Thank you, Martha. Thank you. Thank you. I have shared a couple of links in the chat. Martha mentioned our recent paving the way with every bite, the nutrition webinar that we held last month. So I shared the recording in the chat, so you're welcome to access that to view the recording as well as save the date. For our next session, it's going to be on managing diarrhea during cancer treatment. It's going to be a month from now, so Monday, March 2nd at noon. And the website to the Blum Center is also in there. That way you can get more information on that session as well as the Zoom link to attend it, as well as upcoming sessions. Alright, everyone. Thank you so much for joining us. Hopefully you found today's session helpful. Take care. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

=== FILE: Geriatric Medicine Town Hall ＂Navigating Independence and Aging＂ [K7ogJB2tfA4].txt ===

 scrxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx minds about staying as independent and at home as long as possible. And the challenges that come with that. So I'm going to introduce our facilitator for this session, Susan Edgman Levitin. She is the director of the Stokel Center for Primary Care Innovations and will lead us through this fantastic program. So please enjoy. Great. Thank you. So welcome, everyone. I want to echo Dr. Russell's reminder to stay warm and stay safe. And we have an amazing topic today that is clearly quite popular. And I think it's an issue that all of us think about, as well as our family. So just quickly, before we get started, I just want to remind everyone that everyone except our speakers is on mute to avoid any outside noise or disturbances. If you have a question, and we've gotten lots of questions in advance of today's session, please put them in the chat, which you'll see in the very middle of the bottom banner of your screen. And you just click on chat and you can go in there and enter any questions. And we will have some time at the end of today's presentation, and we'll try to cover as many of those as we can. And I think many of them are already going to be covered by our speakers. If you want to change your view, go to the upper right-hand corner of your screen where you see View, and you can change it so that you can just see the speaker or you can see the speaker in the gallery, which is all of us. If your picture gets a little bit jumpy, if you go down to the left-hand corner where you see the little video camera, you can click on that. You'll go off screen, but it will help your connectivity and it may help the quality of the picture. So with that, oh, and one last thing, please don't put any personal medical information in the chat, because everything in the chat can be seen by everyone. But if you do have a medical question or issue, please reach out to your doctor or your care team so that they can address whatever your concern is. So with that, I'm going to introduce our speakers today. I will tell you that you're going to be hearing from two of my favorite people at Mass General. Christine Richie is the director of research for the Division of Palliative Care and Geriatric Medicine. And she was the founding director of the Mangan Institute Center for Optimal Aging and Serious Illness Research. She's a board-certified geriatrician and palliative care physician and conducts research focused on optimizing quality of life for those of us with chronic serious illness and multi-morbidities. Dr. Iazoni is a professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School, and she's based at the Health Policy Research Center that is also part of the Mangan Institute at Mass General. Dr. Iazoni has conducted numerous studies examining the health care experiences of people with disability focusing on primary reproductive health and cancer care. She's also explored home-based supportive services, her most recent book, Making Their Days Happen, paid personal assistance services supporting people with disability living in their homes and communities, was published in 2022. She's a member of the National Academy of Medicine, and she also won the 2024 Robert Wood Johnson Foundation David Rogers Award from the American Association of Medical Colleges. And I will say that both Dr. Ritchie and Dr. Iazoni are some of the leading researchers in this area, and so we are very, very lucky to have them here with us today. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Dr. Ritchie. Thank you, Susan, and greetings, everyone. It's so good to see you all. Thanks for being here today. Before we get started, I want to start with a simple question for all of you. And is it possible, Susan, for folks to either... We can raise your hand, I suppose, or there's also a little feature in the Zoom that is React, and it gives you a chance to also raise your hand there if you like to do the fancy Zoom things. But my question for you is, how many of you would like to stay in your own home or in your own apartment or in your own condo as you grow older? So maybe not 100%, but very close to 100%. And that makes sense, right? I mean, that desire that you have is a desire that most of us have. And it's very human. And it's because our homes are where our memories are. They feel familiar to us. They represent us. It's where we feel comfortable and mostly in control. So that's really our focus today is aging in place and thinking about what does aging in place mean and how do we optimize our opportunities for aging in place in a way that really is safe and comfortable. So when we talk about aging in place, we're really talking about living safely and comfortably in our home or community with the support you need as your health and abilities change. And that's the part I think we're going to spend some time on today, which is that our health and abilities are likely to change. And so it is not about aging alone. It's about planning so that we can stay safe, independent and connected for as long as possible. And I think we often think of independence maybe too much without thinking about interdependence because actually in order to be as independent as possible in our home, it will require interdependence. So I think when we think about successful aging in the home, what it does not mean is that you never need help. It actually will change as you age and it will change as you change. And it might mean, and we'll go deeper on some of this from a planning perspective, getting a grab bar in the bathroom, better lighting in the hallway, thinking about who might be that person who will potentially help you with your groceries, thinking about who that trusted neighbor is, who you might ask to check in if they haven't seen you in a bit. Using technology, we'll talk about technology in a minute, or having strategies for making sure we're keeping up with some of our health care concerns and medications. But it will not stay the same forever. And I think one of the things that is true for us our whole life, right, is our whole life we're adapting. Our whole life we are actually growing and we are changing and our life is changing. And that is part of our lived experience as humans. So I think thinking about that can be helpful for guiding us as we go forward and also for helping us know when potentially our current living situation or our current home is no longer serving us well. And that might be, here's some potential warning signs. If we're falling a lot in our current home, if we're having trouble getting to the bathroom safely, even when we have put in the kinds of supports in our bathroom to optimize safety. If we're missing meds, our medications, or we're not able to eat as well. If we're feeling actually more isolated than we're comfortable feeling, and this is a big one, and Dr. Russell and I see this all the time, and that is stairs and managing stairs. And I think Dr. Izone and I will talk about this a little bit too. But stairs can be very challenging and there may come a time when managing stairs or the stairs in your home can either need to be adapted or may warrant a change. When driving no longer becomes feasible or when other people also start worrying about our safety. And sometimes we don't want other people to interfere with our lives or to bring up these things. What we can think about though is that when folks bring up issues about their concerns is to welcome them as a friend and give them think about them as an opportunity to plan as we go forward. So independence is not about your address. It's really about your safety, your dignity and your quality of life. So here's a few things to keep in mind. I think I don't have to tell you some of these things. I think you know them. But we are lucky in our country and in our planet that we are living longer than we ever have before, which means that we as part of that living longer, we are less likely to die suddenly and more likely to experience some level of functional decline before we die. And by and large, that means that at some point in our life, we will need some support with blocking, bathing, cooking, shopping or managing medications. And this will be true for about eight out of 10 of us. So eight out of 10 of us will require some level of support before we die. That's for me useful information. And I think about that for myself a lot, which is you know what? This is my future and now is my opportunity to think about sort of what I want to do about that. When, if we make it to age 85, about one in three of us may also be facing or living with dementia and that can sound scary. But here's the part that often surprises people and that is three out of four of us will never live in a nursing home. And for those of us who do end up in a nursing home, the average day is usually months, not years. And we also know that actually the number of nursing home beds in this country actually has not changed for many, many years. And that's because we are learning how to live more safely and effectively in settings that are more home like if they're not actually in our home itself. So here's sort of to wrap up this overview where we are. And that is at some point in our lives, most of us will need some help. Most of us will not live in a nursing home and planning helps us stay where we want to be for longer. So the question is how do we plan? And there are really three kinds of preparation. Human resources, technology and tools and financial resources. So let's talk about these and when Dr. Izone and I talk, we'll hear more from her. So first human resources. This is really about people. And it's asking like who's on my team, right? Like who would help me if I got sick? Who would help me if I fell? Who might, if I can't do it myself, drive me to an appointment? And these human resources don't have to be family. I think we often get stuck in this idea that thinking that it has to be family, it can be family, but it can be friends, it can be neighbors, it can be faith communities, it can be home health aids, it can be community programs. There are many different ways to get this level of support, but it does require planning. And it does mean for us of not thinking of aging as a solo sport. It's a team sport. And it also means accepting health. And for a lot of us, that's its own work, right? Like for some of us, accepting health is some of it, it's its own work. What about technology and tools? Well, if depending on your questions, we can talk more about this, but there are now so many awesome tools out there to support us that include alert systems for if we do fall, there are ways to communicate with others. There's fall detection devices, there's smart lights that turn on just when you come anywhere close to them. There are medication reminders, there's voice assistance, there's remote monitoring. So there's a lot we can do again from a planning perspective, but just remember technology does not replace people. It supports people. And so it can give us peace of mind, it can bias time, it can help us stay in our homes longer. And in the future, and there's some initial work already happening in the past year or two around robotics, those robotics may ultimately be able to help us better with lifting and cleaning and reminders. But human connection is actually what we as homo sapiens as a species need. And it will always matter. And then the third thing is that we need financial resources. So it does require planning for costs. And this is where I find most Americans actually struggle. And that is we plan for other things. So we plan for college, we plan for our vacations, we plan for retirement, but we don't actually plan for aging in place because that actually is also a cost and it might be home modifications, it might be helping the home, transportation, medical needs. And so planning gives us choice. Waiting for a crisis takes the choice away. And so thinking about financial planning is not about thinking about fear, it's thinking about freedom and preparing I think of is not pessimistic, I think of it as power and hope. So let's now talk about the five pillars of aging in place. The first pillar, home safety and design. So again, Dr. Russell and I take care of a lot of folks who come into the hospital after they fall on and fractured their hip or other such things. And here's the sad thing is that most falls do happen in our home. And they happen doing just regular stuff like going down the stairs with the laundry basket, stripping and then there you have it. Or being in your bathroom, getting up off the toilet and missing a step. So even small changes like grab bars in the bathroom or walk in or step free showers, lighting, critical. And like I said earlier, now with the sensors, you can get lights that you can plug into sockets where you need it and they'll turn on when you walk past them so that they're for you. So you have lighting when you need it, really important. Avoiding slippery floors, removing loose rugs. Loose rugs are the bane of all of our existence. We like them, but they actually can be highly problematic for us. Having easy to open doors and think about sort of your design of these sort of things in your home is things that quietly protect you. And then health and mobility. So I'm not going to spend much time on this, but staying healthy as much as you can does help you with staying independent. So anything you can do right now, be careful outside of course. But you can do within your home or within some place to stay physically active, to work on your balance, to work on your strength. Really important. Movement is medicine and even small amounts every day makes a difference. I think I sort of alluded to this, but the third foundation is social connection. So one thing that happens as we age is that we will often lose friends. And so our opportunity is to gain friends and to not think of friendship as static, but as a commitment to the future that every time we enter into this world, we have the opportunity to gain new friendships. And that opportunity lives with us for our whole life. So thinking about being socially connected, staying in touch with friends, family, faith communities, doing volunteering, going to senior centers, doing FaceTime visits, all of those things are critical and think of them as intentional things. So for me personally, I like being quiet and alone. And I know that will not serve me ultimately. That what will serve me is to be intentional every day and every week and every month about staying connected to people who matter to me and also building new friendships and new communities. Remember, and I think you've heard this on these town halls before, loneliness harms health and staying socially connected is a way that you are connecting to others, giving to them and they ultimately will give to you. The fourth pillar is transportation and access. Many of us will drive less or stop driving someday. That does not mean losing independence, but it does mean planning. So ride services, public transportation, community bans, delivery services, telehealth visits. We're in a better place now than ever to lose the ability to drive because there's so many alternatives. It does not, losing the ability to drive does not mean losing our life, but it does mean changing how we get around. And then finally, support systems and backup plans. All of us need a backup plan or what I call a plan B, which is we have plan A, what we would like for life to look like, and then we have plan B. And so thinking about what that plan B might look like is pretty critical for going forward. Going forward. Remember, accepting help is not a weakness, it's actually a strength and it's how we preserve our independence. So to sum up, before I have the opportunity to interview my colleague and friend, Dr. Monee, most of us will live long lives. Most of us will need some help. Most of us will not live in a nursing home, but successful aging does not mean not getting help. It means actually planning intentionally about how we're going to stay connected and have choices. And the question I want to leave with you are three things for you to write down and think about for the future, which is, will my home be safe for the next 10 years? And if not, how can I make it safer? Who would help me if I got sick? And the third one, what is my backup plan? So to illustrate the benefits and burdens of aging in place through lived experience is my wonderful colleague, Dr. Iazoni, who you've already heard about. She is an amazing, amazing human who has done so much in this world to guide us around improving the lived experience, healthcare quality, and health equity of adults with disability and particularly mobility disability. So Dr. Iazoni, welcome to our town hall. And I just wonder if we could start, if you could just tell us a little bit about yourself and how long you've been living in this current situation. Thank you so much. And it's just so amazing to see all these people here today. And I hope that I can be somewhat helpful to you, but I want to be clear that I am an extreme example. Okay. So I am not the typical person. I develop multiple sclerosis when I was 22 years old. That is a neurodegenerative disorder that has a different course for different people, but my course was somewhat progressive. So I developed MS when I was 22, as I said. And by the time that I was 34, it was obvious that I needed a wheelchair. And I kept resisting that. I kept saying, people will think I'm not trying to walk. I should look like I'm trying further. But my career was advancing and I was going to Washington, D.C. all the time. And you can't carry a suitcase, actually, if you're having trouble walking. And so I researched wheelchairs. And one of the things that I found was that scooter type wheelchairs were actually developed to be more friendly looking and have certain practical abilities to them. And I can't even tell you how many scooter type of wheelchairs because I have one on every floor of my house. Anyway, the main thing about them is that they have kind of like a captain's chair and a platform, a little basket in front of you, which is really, really helpful. But the captain's chair allows you to turn and swivel the seat. So if you need to transfer to another surface, it's easier to be able to swivel the seat and transfer that way. And so, again, the first article that I ever wrote about having a disability, I wrote about starting to use a wheelchair. And I basically said, I've been so resistant for so long and what an amazing transformation it was for me. Because all of a sudden I could get out and go about and just be wherever I needed to be and feel safe that I wasn't going to fall. Now let me just say one little thing. And that is I got three wheel scooters. They're not entirely stable. And so I actually tipped in my scooter when I was in Washington, DC, because the front wheel got caught in a little tiny pothole near the metro stop. So it tipped me over. So you have to actually, if you're going to be using a device like that, you have to feel comfortable driving it around and realize that there could be accidents. And let me just say that I was lying on the ground. People picked me up and I was thinking to myself, should I go to the hospital or should I get on the airplane and ask the flight attendant for a bag of ice? And I did the latter. And so that was fine. So my husband and I had lived in a two family and we had lived on the second and third floor. And when I started to use the wheelchair more, it became obvious that being on the second and third floor wasn't such a great idea. But we bought a house that has three stories and a basement. And so I actually am on the third floor of my house right now, but I'll tell you a little bit about that. So we moved into a wonderful house that at the time I moved in, I was able to do what I call furniture surfing or wall walking. And furniture surfing is where you kind of basically put your furniture places that you can grab onto. And wall walking is where you kind of grab under door frames where you kind of lean against the wall. And for many years I was able to do that. But in 2001, so we moved into that house in 1991. And in 2001, it was really obvious that I wasn't going to be able to get up the stairs from the first floor to the second floor. And at that point we installed a stair lift that has two bends because we have kind of a landing and so it kind of bends around. And that was fantastic. Now to get to my third floor where my office was, at the time they didn't have the technology that allowed for a lot of bending because to get up to my third floor is a very narrow stairwell. And so I had a contractor who just basically said, put your hands wherever you want to grab bar and I'll put a grab bar there. And so I had like seven grab bars all over this wall that I would grab onto as I was going up the stairs. But technology advanced. And so now there are 10 years after that technology advanced and so there were stair lifts that would allow you to go up these kind of twirling type of stairs that would get me to the third floor. At that time I was kind of using walkers in the house, but it finally became clear that that just wasn't going to be safe for me. So I got little tiny scooters that would fit through the door frames. And so I've got scooters on every floor. And so I don't walk at all in the house basically at this point. But the tipping point is, and what you will find, and I've kind of given you a sense of what various tipping points have been for me along the way, the tipping point that I'm currently confronting that actually terrifies me is that at this point I can still stand and pivot. So I can stand from my scooter and transfer onto the chairlift. I can stand from the scooter and transfer onto my bed. Once I can no longer do that. That's when you really do need humans. There aren't robotics that can really come in and help you safely transfer. And so the basic point is that I'm kind of keeping my teeth clenched and trying to do, and I try to do exercises. I made a New Year's resolution about four years ago that I actually have kept. And that was that every day I was going to try to do at least 20 minutes of exercises. My exercise.  isosciences are, like I use a leg lift device to lift my leg, and I try to do flexibility things. And so even though I'm obviously not an athlete, I try to keep as physically fit within my limitations as I can to be able to maximize the length of time that I will be able to continue to live in this house. I actually told my colleagues when we were planning this that, and this is where I will end, is that my husband and I are exploring right now with an architect whether we can put in a residential elevator into our house, because in fact it's expensive to do that, but it might be less expensive than moving to an entirely new house or finding a new property that you do all the renovations on, because let me just say one other thing, because I wanted to talk about cost, and this is where we kind of get into cost, because a lot of adaptations that you do are relatively low cost, like putting in grandbars below cost. And it's really just, you know, Christine gave some other great examples of kind of low cost interventions like lighting and so on. But there are going to be times when it will cost money to do the renovations that you need. I won't tell you because I'm kind of embarrassed, but we spent a lot of money making a totally open bathroom for me. Okay, there's no thresholds, nothing. I can roll right into the bathroom, roll right up to my commode chair. I put in very high toilets, because back in the day I was 5'10", and so I needed a toilet that was high enough for me as a 5'10-ish person. And so it is going to be important to think about the fact that there may be costs associated with making substantial renovations. But let me stop there. Thanks, Lisa. Those are so much good food for thought there. And I just wanted to highlight one thing that you said around cost and how you're thinking about it, which is, can we do something here? And then how does it compare? And so certainly, you know, either renting or buying another home is a cost. And so comparing that, I think a lot of people also think about, for example, what does it cost, for example, to be in assisted living? And I looked this up for Massachusetts just so we would have some guide. And on average, it costs in Massachusetts about $7,000 a month for assisted living. And so that's about $84,000 a year. And so, you know, that can be a useful comparison if you're thinking about, okay, a different kind of home, what's that cost? Renovating my current home, what's that cost? And then if we would have to go to assisted living, especially if you don't have long-term care insurance, you know, what would that cost? I think thinking about those different costs can be extremely useful. One of the questions I had for you, Lisa, was, you know, you've provided so many wonderful examples of adaptations that you have made along the way. And I just wonder if there are any adaptations that you wish you had done earlier that might have made your life easier in retrospect? Well, as I said at the very beginning, I wish I'd started using a scooter earlier. You know, I just was embarrassed. I just thought people wouldn't think I was trying hard enough. You know, that is a time when I was 34 years old. You know, and so you can imagine that often people look at a younger person. But that was so stupid of me. You know, it was really wonderful once I started using a scooter. I think that, you know, it was a friend, my late best friend was quadriplegic from primary progressive MS. And he was the one and my late best friend also lived 250 miles away from me. But he knew what I was dealing with at home because we would talk all the time, maybe texting all the time, FaceTiming all the time. And so he was the one who said, finally, you know, you shouldn't be walking at home anymore at all. You really shouldn't. And so that's when, you know, again, you can get little scooters. You can get little wheelchairs because a lot of older homes have narrow doorways and narrow thresholds that you have to get through. And so that's what I've managed to do. And let me just say that finding the vendor for these items is actually not a trivial issue. Who is going to sell you the little scooter is an issue. Because let me just give you one example. And this is highly unusual. I don't want anybody to be scared by what I'm about to say, okay, because the vendor of my scooters had never heard of this happening before. But one day I was in my second floor bedroom and the scooter sparked when I turned it on. And so I thought, probably not such a good idea to have a sparking scooter. And so trying to get it fixed. So, you know, it wouldn't do that again. Actually took the entire weekend. So I ended up having to kind of be on the second floor. My husband brought up a different scooter for me the entire weekend. But the vendor, I knew pretty well because they've sold me so many of these that they were willing to do repairs. Because one of the biggest problems for wheelchair users is getting repairs of their wheelchairs, especially for people who have to use power wheelchairs that are complex. And where the parts are hard to come by. And the vendors are very monopolistic. And so I think that, you know, that's one of the biggest challenges that people will call me and say, well, who should I buy this from? Or who should I get that from? And that is actually a challenge. Thanks so much for talking about that. I wonder, just in closing before we give people an opportunity to ask questions, what advice would you give to people here today about A, what they can do to Asian Place? And then B, how should they know when it might be time for them to think about an alternative? I am not a good example of how to know when to think about an alternative, Christine. Let's start with the first one then. Yeah, I'm not yet capable of thinking about that. Remember, I just told you I was looking into residential elevators. So I'm just like, what was your first question again? What advice would you give to folks who do want an Asian Place for as long as possible? Well, I think that you need to be patient with yourself. And you need to realize that it's going to be hard. And that it's also irritating and not entirely fun. But you have other aspects of your life that are fun. And so really kind of building on, like I have a particular hobby that I love that, you know, Susan knows what that hobby is. And so when I am able to get up onto my third floor where I kind of do my little hobby in my scooter, you know, that just gives me so much pleasure. And so finding things that you really do enjoy. Now, let me just say that my husband stopped letting me cook years ago because I'm not safe with knives. And I dropped casserole dishes out of the oven. You know, this was not a good thing. And so you talked about needing to think about the fact that it's kind of a family affair, if you will. And, and you know, certainly actually, it's my husband likes cooking because he's a very busy doctor. And he actually finds that when he comes home at the end of a busy clinic day, just being in the kitchen allows him to kind of just wind down and think about cooking rather than what his day was like. And so, you know, I've benefited from that. But I think that that you just need to, it's just part of life. You know, it is just part of life. And, and, and hopefully you can find good things. I love that, Lisa. I love this whole concept of, you know, yes, this is challenging, it can be a little irritating. And there's good things. And so living in that acceptance of both the both ends of the challenges and the end of the of the things that bring us still bring us joy are good ways to sort of stay in connection with with both of them. So we do want to give each of you all some opportunities to ask questions and to reflect. And I think turn it over to Susan to to moderate this conversation. Susan, you're on mute, though. Sorry. I just have to say, I am the very lucky and proud recipient of several of Lisa's gorgeous oil paintings, mostly of flowers, which we both love. So that is her little love. That's my hobby. That's her hobby. And boy, am I glad she had that hobby. And I think one of the things I think both Lisa and I've learned over the years is that when you lose the ability to do one thing, it becomes actually an interesting challenge. And for I think both of us kind of fun in a weird way to figure out what you can do that's different that will also be entertaining and inspiring and rewarding because you just can't do X anymore. And so you're constantly, not constantly, but you're often challenged to be creative. And one other quick thing I just have to say when Dr. Richie was talking about all the things you need to get rid of to avoid falling. I was in the hospital a couple of years ago and I had a rotation of roommates. And it was quite lesson for me because every single one of them was someone who had fallen over their dishwasher door that they had left open and were in the hospital because they had a broken hip. So that was a cautionary tale for me. So I just want to add closure dishwashers to the list of things to be attentive to. Because it's actually, it's quite amazing to me now that I became alert to that, how often it could be a challenge. Anyway, I want to ask a question that came up in different ways, but, and I think it's very challenging. But can you say a little bit about what to look for if you've got a long-term care policy, the kinds of things you want to pay attention to, because I think many of them have gone through massive changes in the past several years that may or may not make them worthwhile. So could you just say a little bit about that, Dr. Richie or anyone? I would love to. And I'd also love my colleague Emily, if she wants to jump in here too. So just as full disclosure, I have long-term care insurance and it's very important to me. And both my parents, my late parents and my husband's parents had long-term care insurance. And that actually gave us a reason to look very carefully at this. And I think with long-term care insurance, as somebody put in the chat, there are ones out there that are scams. So you do have to be really on your toes. And then there are ones that actually have been around for a very long time that have a very strong track record. The thing about long-term care insurance is that they become prohibitively expensive if you're actually trying to start getting them later in your life. They really are things that people should start getting in their 40s and 50s and not later because they become extremely expensive as we age. That being said, if you do have long-term care insurance, it's important to look at a few things. First of all is when they can be activated and what kind of services they support. Most can be activated when you have needs both with what we call instrumental activities of daily living, things like shopping, household cleaning, that kind of thing. And most especially when you have more basic needs around walking, dressing, bathing, etc. But each plan is slightly different. So first is to look at when they can be activated. And the activation process is usually a process. It's not just a one-and-done situation. And then the second is how long are they for? And a lot of times when the person gets long-term care insurance, they go through an actuarial process where someone decides that they will experience some need for functional support over three years or five years. And it's not uncommon for long-term care policies to only last for like three to seven years. So you want to be aware of A, how long it can last, B, how when someone can activate it, and then C, can you turn it on and off? So for example, if you have a three-year policy, can you use it for six months and stop and then start it back again? Or is it a continuous? And these are the things that I found in talking to colleagues who've been thinking about their own policies or whether not to get policies or whether not to activate their policies often run up against. So that's my short answer to what could be probably an hour-long conversation about long-term care insurance. But there is a lot to be said for long-term care insurance and you really have to have your eyes wide open and look at the fine print. Thank you. Thank you. So a lot of the questions that came in in advance, I think we've touched on, but a couple we really haven't. And one that I think is really important is can either of you say something about options for independently living seniors who really don't have any family? How do you arrange in advance for total, if there's a sudden need for total care management and that sort of thing? Any thoughts about that? I'll start. Is Emily on? Because I think Emily may have some perspectives about this. Emily, you want to shout out? I think she was. So a couple of things. Monique, you're muted though. Sorry, you needed Monique to unmute you. There she is. Okay, good. Emily. So I'll start, but then I'd love for you to jump in. So a couple of things. There are a number of ways for you to increase your social connection that are a part of essentially Massachusetts and Boston. And I'm going to give you one example, but this is just one example. So Friendship Works is a nonprofit in our community that actually is all about connecting people with each other. And you could either join as a volunteer or you can join as somebody who would benefit from their services. The village movement and Beacon Hill Village is one of the villages in our community. Also has a lot of resources, including geriatric care management support and a lot of actual sort of daily support services that allow for people to age in place. You can also hire geriatric care managers to guide you through this process. So there's actually a plethora of options out there, but some of it's sort of knowing which questions to ask. And Emily, I'm sure gets asked this question a lot. So Emily, who's one of our amazing social workers in our geriatric practice, may have some additional thoughts. Sure. I always, I think for a lot of people, a good starting point can be the local elder service agency or and or the local council on aging and most of the local council on aging have social workers or outreach workers and you can make an appointment and go see them or they have a lot of informational workshops and groups on a lot of that touch on a lot of these topics. And actually at the local, at your local elder service agency, they actually have something called options counseling, which can be another good place to start if you, even if you're not ready, you don't really need in-home supports right now, but you're trying to do some planning, which I think is part of, you know, one of the big points that's been raised today is to do some planning. They can be really, really helpful resources, both in giving the range of choices, but also, for example, I know somebody put in a question about lower income seniors, they can help with applications to low income senior housing. Elder services also has options for reduced fee in-home supports and I can put a number, a phone number, if you're not sure which is your local elder service agency, you can call mass options, which is the Massachusetts elder hotline to get more information about which elder area agency on aging serves your town or city. Great. So I just put in the chat, there was a question about what can you get, where can you get help with downsizing? And I just put into the chat two resources that I have used and I'm aware of that I think are really great and helpful, more than words and the habitat for humanity restore. They both will come to your house and pick things up for free and usually, I think habitat for humanity may charge a little fee, but they're wonderful organizations and I recommend those. A question that I think is actually quite timely right now, given all the weather challenges and the natural disasters that seem to be happening in so many places, and it's actually just been an issue for friends of ours who live in a multi-story building that lost all of its power and had no ability to help people that were wheelchair bound on higher floors to actually leave easily. So any thoughts or recommendations? There was a question about what we need to think about in terms of emergency evacuation or situations that I know and I have lots of friends actually in California with the fires that have dealt with this and it can be quite challenging. Again, all of these things are much easier to think about before the fact. Right. And so thinking about sort of what is feasible for you and when things might not be feasible for you now is much better than thinking about it later. So thinking about emergency egress is actually a very, very important one. And I think in one of the questions that we received before the town hall, it was like, how would you know when it's time to think about a different alternative place to live? And I think these are some of the things that you would ask yourself, which is, can I get out of my situation safely and quickly if the power to go down or something like that? And what would be my options and are there alternative options within the facility that I'm in? So I think these are important questions to ask now when you can think about them without there being any kind of crisis. There was also a question in the chat Susan about CCRCs versus assistive livings or continuous care community, continuous care retirement communities versus assistive living. And I would just say a couple things about continuous care of retirement communities. For some folks, these are great options because they do allow a different kind of aging in place that is when one's needs change with respect to needs. Often the only change that's required is potentially moving within a campus of the continuous care retirement community as opposed to moving someplace really different. And so and it generally is useful if folks are sort of wanting future security and they want to sort of make a change ahead of needing the change. And because they essentially allow for independent living and then additional support all the way up to nursing home care, they're usually some level of clinical and medical support. So they allow for all sort of the tiers. The assistive living does not do that. Assistive living is more for people who are preferring to be at home until they can't be at home. And then they would make that change then. And by and large, continuous care retirement communities tend to require a lot more financial resources because there's usually a large entrance fee. And there's like a monthly sort of HOA type fee that are there. That being said, if you have those resources, it's a more predictable cost than the kind of unpredictable costs that often occur when people are electing to stay home for longer periods of time. Great. Lisa, do you want to add anything? I just wanted to add, and this goes back a couple of minutes ago, that people who have equipment that requires batteries or are being charged, that can be a problem. If the elevator's down and there's no power in the building, somebody who uses a power wheelchair could be in really deep trouble. And so I think thinking about batteries, additional batteries for those kind of situations is really, really critical. And certainly in my community, there are people who use ventilators and who use kind of technologies that require electricity. Those situations do require a lot of proactive thought. Yeah, the thing that was an issue that I think surprised our friends is that the stairwells had no emergency lighting in them. So it was pitch black on top of everything else. And so they are going to get the building to do things they should have done a long time ago. But that's just a sort of the thing to look at and think about. If you don't have that kind of lighting and you would need to leave. So I think we are almost at the hour. I'm going to turn this over to Dr. Russell and see if he has anything that he would like to add. I want to thank our speakers. I think we've touched on so many different topics we could spend hours on. And I'm so grateful that everyone attended today because I think this is such important and rich information with lots of nuances and complexities to think about. And I just think your advice to be proactive and not wait until you have to make a decision tomorrow is so incredibly important. And it's also a gift to your families and your friends. So Dr. Russell, are you still with us? I'm right here. I'm right here. Yes. Thank you so much for this wonderful presentation, Dr. Iazoni and Dr. Ritchie. This was certainly something that even 20 years into doing geriatrics work, I learned something new today. And I'm somewhere between 40 and dead. So I probably need to get my own long-term care insurance in place. The themes of reframing and not equating independence with having to climb the scale of the mountain without any equipment is so important because we're so much more than just our body. And we also have to live in our body and acknowledge reality. And it's just so great to hear this and to know that these are not these are so individualized and so nuanced as you said. But there are a lot of people in this, in our community that really want to help people stay in the house. And just even hearing about that is really inspiring. So I want to thank our speakers. Thank you, Susan, for moderating. Wish you all a safe indoors winter. Please don't add to the statistics of broken bones. Let the trash rot on the porch. Don't feel the need to go out to the barrels. And stay well and stay healthy. And we'll see you next month when our topic is, you just put it up there, what fills your winter entertainment. So this is going to be a lot of opportunity to discuss great reads, great watches, and things that can help the winter months go by with a little more delight. So please stay well and take care of everyone. Yes. Close your dishwashers and bring your favorite shows that you don't want to tell anybody you watch to our next town hall or books or anything for that matter. Take care, everybody. So good to see you.

=== FILE: HEALEY ALS Platform Trial Webinar： January 22, 2026 ｜ Research Access [c7ncPRAMVWo].txt ===

 notifications to never miss a thing. That's a great way to stay in the know. And then as the numbers are kind of stabilizing here, it looks like a lot of people have joined. So we can move to the next slide and I'll introduce what we're here to talk about today. So this is our first community webinar of the new year. So welcome to those who have been following us in years gone by. Welcome to 2026. You're still stuck with us and we're happy to be here. Judy Carey is our research access nurse at the Helion AMG Center at Mass General. And I'm the patient navigator for the Heli platform trial, also based in Boston at the Heli Center at Mass General. And so Judy and I are going to be tag teaming the discussion today to talk about just those things. So talking about research access, talking about patient navigation, and what to expect as there's new trials coming down the pipeline here in 2026. So I'll let Judy start things off with a discussion about her repertoire of knowledge. And then we'll get into kind of the meat and potatoes of what I know about the platform trial so far. And so with that, we can head to the next slide and I'll let you take it from there, Judy. Thank you, Catherine. So nice to be here with you this evening. So some of the things that I share when I have my general research talks with patients are just resources for where they can look for trials. I talk about the trials that are enrolling at Mass General. And I also share if I know these same trials are enrolling at other centers. But it's also good to find some of your own favorite resources for looking for trials. ALS TDI trial navigator, clinicaltrials.gov. I do believe all the information generates from clinicaltrials.gov, but you might like different formats or being able to have things that are searchable, like you're looking for phase twos or phase threes, trials that are enrolling right now. So on all of these resources, you can find ways to look for drug trials that are enrolling and observational studies and expanded access as well. If you need some extra help, you can reach out to Niels, to the clinical trial liaison, and they can send you a list of trials that are enrolling in with specifics for what you're looking for. Next trial. Next slide, please. So this is a great resource from Les Turner, available in both Spanish and English. And it really helps walk you through thinking about whether research is right for you. So that's the first step, really. You want to think about if it's right for you. So this is a great resource to not only answer that question, but also help you decide if you're interested in observational studies or EAPs or even donating of tissue. So this is a very good resource that I suggest you start with this first before you start looking for trials. Next slide, please. And this is an overall wonderful resource, not just for research, although that is the section that we're highlighting for you, but it's really an ABCs of ALS. And it also shares with you all of the important information about the different types of research available to you, as well as off-labels as an alternative. Next slide, please. If you're a veteran, this is an incredible resource, again, that provides you with all of the information you need to know about living with ALS, as well as information for finding research. And they actually have the same list that we shared on the first slide. So they also share with you clinicaltrials.gov, IMALS, ALS TDI Trial Navigator. So we share all the same resources, and it's really up to you to think about which ones work for you. So this is a wonderful resource for the veterans. Next slide, please. So this is something, when I have my research talks with people, I do individual. Myself and Michelle Redenz at the Healy Center, we have individual research talks with people. And so these are some of the things that people bring up when I'm in conversation with them. And it is true, you do not have to be a patient, at least at our center, to participate in a trial at a center. You don't have to be a patient at that center. You would want to ask that when you reach out to centers for research, if you also have to be a clinical patient of theirs. If you do, here's a way to look for ALS specialists and research centers and centers that do both. So you can go to NEALS and find some organizations that participate both in research and also provide clinical care. And then this, I just took a look at this geospatial hub clinic locator. And it is a beautiful piece of work, I have to say. And in a nutshell, it's a group of mappers who have come together to develop maps and apps for people living with ALS. And what they've done is they've helped identify where ALS clinics are located across the country. And it's really worth visiting to take a look at that as a resource. For international folks, there's a lot to consider when you're thinking about participating in a trial in the U.S. First of all, we have to know from the study sponsor if international participation is allowed. And then there's just a lot of personal things that you have to think about when thinking about moving to another country or flying back and forth to participate in a trial for long periods of time. So we included resources for looking for trials maybe closer to home with these three different resources that are listed here. The next slide, please. So this, now we're bringing it back home to the Healy Center. These are not all the trials that are enrolling right now, but they are trials that are listed on our website. You can visit our website by using that QR code or the link. But these are some of the drug trials. The Healy platform, Healy My Match is upcoming with the new drug in the coming months. And Koya and Usno Flast, we do standalone trials as well as trial programs at the Healy Center. So Koya and Usno Flast are examples of standalone trials. And we also do lots of biomarker and observational studies. I think we have something for everybody who wants to get involved in research. So it's a great page. We just updated it too. So if you want, we don't always have the time to do that, unfortunately, but it was just updated a few days ago. So you can see what trials we have. And next slide, please. And I'm going to hand it back to Catherine. Thanks, Judy. That was good timing. I just finished putting another link in the chat. I will note, so I'm throwing a lot of links in the chat, but these slides are posted on our website after the fact. And you can email me if there's any links that you miss as we're talking through this today. But so Judy knows everything about everything. I know a little bit about a specific trial. So, or I guess a lot about a specific trial. So my role is focused on helping people navigate the Healy ALS platform trial. So we launched this trial. Well, people before me, before my time started on this trial, it was designed to speed up the system for finding answers and testing drugs in ALS. And it's been very successful in its design. So we launched with three regimens in July of 2020. This graphic shows, you know, those bars off to the side on the timeline are just showing from the time we started enrolling in that regimen to the time the top line results were announced. So the top line results, meaning, you know, that primary analysis of, is this drug showing sub-signal of efficacy to move forward? Or is this drug showing that it's not, you know, having a clinical benefit? So that's what that graphic is showing. And really, my point in sharing this is just to visualize how much we've accomplished in a few years here. So whereas for one drug, we've been operating for just over five years at this point. And we've had answers to all of these drugs that you see on the screen here. And now we're starting up a new regimen. So N-U-Z-001, manufactured by Neurizon Therapeutics. We're officially about to hit the ground running, starting that new regimen. And so that's what I'm talking about here today. So what to expect as we start to prepare for enrolling in a new regimen. Next slide. So the platform trial, as I said, it's been going on for a few years, and it only takes a few years to learn from the activities that you're doing in research. And so we're learning and adapting and trying to make changes for the better to make this trial more powerful for science, but also make it more patient-friendly and patient-centric. And so compared to July 2020, when we first started, we've made some changes. And so we're trying to increase the power of this trial, streamline operations, add more patient-centric features. And what that looks like is that the study duration now, at least for the randomized controlled period, so that being the period where there's the potential to be on placebo. So that randomized controlled trial with the placebo period is about nine months now, or 36 weeks. It's still going to be followed by what's called the active treatment extension. During active treatment extension, there is no placebo. So everyone who completes that placebo controlled trial that lasts 36 weeks, then automatically rolls into the active treatment extension, where they know, and their study team knows, that they're receiving the actual study drug for their regimen. In terms of the inclusion criteria, there is a change here where the symptom onset, so specifically looking at the onset of weakness symptoms due to ALS. I know sometimes people notice fasciculations as their first symptom, but we're specifically looking at weakness onset. So that time point, we're looking to enroll people who are within two years of that onset. So, you know, you could be at 24 months or within 24 months at the time of screening into this trial. So the visit schedule, so, you know, the actual study activity is going to a research center, those phone call follow-ups. The schedule has been adjusted to be, you know, a bit more patient friendly in terms of the logistics of participating. So there's increased remote visits to make it a little bit easier on participants and their families. And then biomarkers as well. So one of the powerful things about the platform trial is that it's not just finding an answer for the study drug that we're testing, it's bolstering our knowledge about ALS as a disease and the potential therapeutic targets. So biomarkers are a really helpful part of this research engine that not only inform our decisions about whether the drug-root testing is helpful, but informing decisions about, you know, are these biomarkers something that could be used to track disease progression and make better predictions about, you know, future therapeutic targets and things like that. So we've also developed some more fine-tuning with the biomarkers we look at in the trial. And so for the regimen that I'm about to talk about, these are the things to keep in mind that there have been some changes since we first launched the trial, and those are the ones to highlight. And so we can move to the next slide. And those who have been on these webinars for a while know that we partner with lots and lots of sites throughout the United States. All of these centers are part of the NEALS consortium. So NEALS used to be the Northeast ALS consortium. Their name has changed to the Network of Excellence for ALS. It is the same great team of people, the same great research sites, just a different, slightly different logo and new name, but we are still working with over 70 platform trial sites. So the most recent two regimens, Regimen F and G, we had, you know, 73 or 74 sites that were all enrolling participants for that trial. And so as we prepare to launch this next regimen, Regimen I, those same sites to get as many sites as possible activated to enroll participants for this upcoming regimen. And so on our website, we have an interactive site map where you can see the different locations we've worked with through the years. And then importantly, I'll get into this more on another side, but we show the status of those sites. So some sites might be active, but not enrolling, whereas other sites, you know, in the coming months will note that they are active and looking for participants. So I'll show you where on the website to look for that. You can go to the next side. And this is what that webpage looks like. So there's a table on our website that I'll be updating over the next weeks and months to show the enrollment status. So sites will be changed from what you see here. When they're ready to start enrolling and recruiting participants, we'll put them in bold and we'll change their enrollment status to say active recruiting. And that's when you'll know that that site is, you know, looking to enroll participants in the trial. Not all of our platform trial sites that we've worked with in the past will work with us for all future regimens. So it's important to kind of keep in mind that even if you see a site in your area, they might not quite be ready to start enrolling. It could be a couple weeks, or it might be that they're not able to participate in this regimen. So I did want to point out that this is a good resource to see which sites are actually looking for participants. And then next slide. Some things to keep in mind too. So as you're looking at different trial opportunities, you know, Judy was talking about other clinical trials that are coming down the pipeline. It's not just the Healy ALS platform trial that will be enrolling in 2026. And so as you're looking at different trials, it's important to look at the criteria. I will say a lot of clinical trials, trials, especially drug trials and ALS have pretty similar inclusion and exclusion criteria. And but specifically talking about the Healy ALS platform trial here, the key things to keep in mind are that participants in this trial have to be at least 18 years of age, have to have an ALS diagnosis. It doesn't matter though, whether it's sporadic or familial. So we're not excluding people based on, you know, where symptoms started or things like that. It's just that people have to have an ALS diagnosis. People, as I mentioned earlier, have to be within 24 months of the weakness symptom onset due to ALS. And at the time that they come in for a screening visit for this trial, their vital capacity breathing score would need to be at or above 50% of the predicted value. So when I talk about vital capacity there, you might hear that as forced vital capacity, slow vital capacity, kind of tomato, tomato for the purposes of, you know, whether you might qualify for the trial. But that's something to keep in mind as well. And one more thing to note is that people who participate in this trial have to have the ability to safely swallow pills and liquids. And the reason for that being that one of the benefits to the platform trial design is that we're able to share the placebo groups across different regimens. And so if one regimen requires the ability to swallow pills and one regimen requires the ability to swallow liquids, all of the participants need to have that ability in order to share the placebo group data. And so that's an important thing to keep in mind, regardless of the route of administration for any of the different regimens in the platform trial. There is a really, I think, helpful. I designed it so I'm biased. So there's an online eligibility checking tool. It's a quick anonymous survey. We don't see the results of the survey. This is just for you on your own. If you want to do kind of a self screen to see if you might qualify or fill it out on behalf of a loved one, it just goes through those kind of five key criteria to see at a glance if you might qualify for the platform trial. The more in-depth look at the criteria is on clinicaltrials.gov. So I put the link there. It lists out the inclusion criteria and exclusion criteria in more depth. And this is just at the level of, you know, that big umbrella of master protocol for the platform trial. For each regimen in the platform trial, there could be additional criteria, kind of nitty-gritty criteria based on that drug science and mechanism of action. So that'll be my asterisk here is that when I'm talking about these criteria, this is at that high level kind of umbrella to see if you might qualify for the master protocol. And then the regimen-specific protocol is also another consideration, but that's kind of down the road. We can go to the next slide. If you are interested in participating in the platform trial, you can reach out to me. I'll put my information in the chat. So as the patient navigator, I'm happy to help a figure out if you might qualify for the trial, be figure out if there's a site near you, and see if there is a site near you, help you find out when they might be ready to start enrolling for this next regimen. So I'm happy to talk about any of those things. You don't need me to be involved in this process. You can absolutely reach out to a site on your own. And I'll just say if you do it that way, there are a few tips to kind of make that process smoother. So when you reach out to a site, or honestly, even when you reach out to me, it can be really helpful to provide some information up front. And so if you're comfortable doing so, when you call or email a site, let them know where you live. Not necessarily your home address, but letting them know the town or state where you live, if you're a resident of the USA, if you live outside of the US, if you're an international person, you know, letting the site know. If you have plans to relocate for the trial, if you have family in the states that you'd plan to stay with, just letting the site know at least some idea of what the feasibility of in-person participation would be. Letting the site know where you currently receive clinical care for ALS. So Judy talked about the fact that you typically don't need to be a patient at the center where research is offered in order to enroll in research at that center, but it can be helpful. So if you are a patient at one of our platform trial sites, that's a great place to start and they'll have access to your medical records. And it just makes the process a bit quicker and easier to kind of get the ball rolling. You could also share, if you know it, the month and approximately the month and year of weakness onset due to ALS, the predicted percent value. So talking about forced or slow vital capacity and the date of that test, if you know it, and explaining whether you're able to swallow pills and liquids. And then just the basics of letting them know your contact information, how you prefer to be, how you prefer to communicate. Do you want a phone call? Do you want email? Is it best for them to reach out to your caregiver on your behalf? Just letting them know that information so that that first touch point gives you a really good foundation to keep that conversation about research going. And we can go to the next slide. There are, you know, I put in the chat, somebody had mentioned another research navigator that they like using. There's a lot of resources, a lot of people who want to help. It can be really overwhelming if you haven't dipped your toe into research before and you're not sure where to start. So there's Judy Carey, who's our research access nurse at the Healy Center, but talks to anyone who needs help learning about research. Michelle Redenz is also Judy's partner in crime on that front. So when you email the MGHALS research inbox, you could get either of them. They're both wonderful resources. I'm a good resource for the platform trial. If you're interested in observational studies like All-ALS, that study does have a patient navigator. I think it's becoming more common now for patient navigators to be part of the trial system to provide support to families. So just leaving this slide up in case people want to take note of who those resources are. But again, this slide will be available on our website after the fact too. And next slide. And this is all to say that we are not the only webinar series that's out there. There's webinars offered through Neal's. So their website has a lot of great educational webinars that talk about a lot of interesting topics. I refer people to that a lot. I join those a lot. Les Turner also has great webinar learning series, Everything ALS. All ALS offers webinars about their observational study. And most, if not all of these webinars offered through these different groups are recorded and available online after the fact. So if there's ever a time conflict, you can usually still find the information even if you couldn't attend in person. And I think next and last slide. So if you want to keep coming back to these webinars, which I encourage you to do so, especially as we start ramping up new regimens for the platform child, these will be a great way to stay connected. The platform child focused webinars will be usually the fourth Thursday of every month is how we try to do it. The second Thursday of each month, we do a dedicated webinar talking about expanded access or a particular expanded access program. So for example, in February on the 12th, the second Thursday of the month, RAPA Therapeutics will be joined by Dr. James Berry to talk about the RAPA 501 EAP. And then February 26, it'll be kind of platform child focused, but talking about neurofilament light chain, which is a promising biomarker in ALS, talking about how that type of analysis is incorporated into ALS research. So it'll talk about the platform child, but it's not limited to the platform child and its scope. So definitely stay tuned. And we'll be letting everyone know about upcoming opportunities as we share more educational resources. And again, to everyone on this webinar, if you sign up for the ALS link, that's a great way to find out when we're going to be having regimen specific educational webinars. So when we host webinars about a specific topic, we'll be announcing it through the ALS link. And that's a great way to stay connected. So I'll put a plug for that again. But otherwise, to those who want to join us for the February 12th EAP webinar with RAPA Therapeutics, I will see you on February 12th. Thanks everyone. Good night. Good night.

=== FILE: Non-Arteritic Anterior Ischemic Optic Neuropathy： An Enigmatic but Potentially Treatable Disorder [NDzhAXiMlrs].txt ===

 and scrxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx of Richard Maslin at MGH under the NIH Sponsored Physician Scientist Award, which launched his funding of the Boston Retinal Implant Program as a novel collaboration between MIT and Harvard Medical School. Dr. Rizzo has devoted his career to improve our understanding of the clinical diagnosis of afferent and efferent visual pathway disease, but especially of disorders that affect the retina and optic nerve. His career, especially in the past five years, has focused trying to understand the root causes of non-artic interior ischemic optic neuropathy, also known as NION, and exploring our epigenetic reprogramming to offer treatment for this form of blindness. Please welcome Dr. Rizzo. Thank you so much, Abby. I appreciate it. I'm so happy to be back here. It's been a long time. I'll show you a slide about the last visit I made here at Grand Rounds. On this slide, by the way, there's a little clue to my sense of what a primary cause of NION might be. I'll show you later. So I'd like to acknowledge the support that kept this work going. Year 2000 was when I last gave Grand Rounds here in the venerable ether dome. The night before, I went to the ether dome to take a look at the podium to check things out. This painting wasn't completely done. It was nearly done. No one else was there. I'm looking at the painting, and suddenly I hear footsteps behind me. And I turn. There's a man in a three-piece suit and a tie. He walks up to me and smiles. Turns out he was the artist. He used to go in at night on his own, and it took a very long time for him to paint this. We became good friends. This is his wife, Lucia, and Warren Prosperity. I also learned later that one of my favorite paintings at the Museum of Fine Arts was his painting. And Lucia is a conceptualist. So each person in this painting, they know the identity of. And she would research who they were, what they did, what they liked. And that conceptualization of the person Warren uses when he paints them. By coincidence, five days ago, he had an art opening, and he invited me to it. And here he showed me a painting I had seen before. This is Abigail Adams, the wife of John Adams. She's holding a letter. It was a testy exchange between them, because he was off in Paris. Not writing to her, and he was a voluminous writer. So she sent them a testy letter, and he decided he liked the concept behind us, and he created this. And Warren said, the person who served as the model is also here. And there she was. This is the model for the painting. And it turned out she's the daughter of our own Alice. How incredible is that, right? Just last Saturday. So my last time here was speaking on optic nerve disease also, and the retinal implant project is a potential method of restoring vision to people with visual loss. This is a very different approach that we'll talk about today. The focus is going to be on NION, or non-autoritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy. We often refer to it as a stroke of the optic nerve. Let's just briefly talk about the clinical features to make sure we have the same level of understanding. So it's visual loss almost always in one eye that's painless. In the acute phase, one has to see optic nerve head edema. The second eye is involved typically years later, but only a third of such cases. And curiously, it's not obviously related to cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disorders. It's a vascular etiology involving a central nervous system involving only a small part of the visual pathway, which I'll show you more later. I want to reflect on our historical understanding of this disease, which by the way, I saw two patients this morning with NION already. So for neuroephthalmologists, this is not a rare disease. So the canonical textbooks in clinical neuroephthalmology, first published by Walsh at Hopkins, 1947. Second edition, 1957. In neither book was there any mention of ischemic optic neuropathy. Then 1969, Walsh and Hoyt published the third edition. And in that book, three quarters of one page was devoted to the disorder that I'm talking about now called NION. I saw two this morning. So the point is that the evolution of understanding clinically what this is has been relatively late. Now, this is outside of our clinic, the directors of our neuroephthalmology service and many of the fellows who train with this. And here to the left is Jay Lawton Smith, one of our first fellows. And his was the first English language publication of this disorder. It was 1966. He had 11 cases of ischemic optic neuropathy. And he said, you know, there are a few of them that look different than the others. He called them the latter cases, the ones without giant cell auto-ritis. And he said, it was recognized in the foreign literature by a different entity. But I think this is a separate category of disease. And indeed, that proved to be true. The mechanism of NION is not known. What we do know is that the most consistent biomarker is having a small cup to disk ratio. We're looking at the optic nerve head here. And in the middle of the nerve head is a small white area, which is actually a depression called the cup. And people with small cup to disk ratio are particularly developed NION. But most people have a small cup disk ratio, including myself. So it's a consistent biomarker, but there has to be something more. Well, the general belief is that the other factor is low blood pressure, particularly it was thought during night. Circadian downturn. And this was an idea put forth by Sohan Singh Ahare, who passed away, unfortunately, a few years ago. But he was a leading experimental neurophemologist studying NION in particular. So the combination of a small cup to disk ratio with systemic hypotension is the current thinking. But boy, as Simmons Lacell stated in his article, there's an enigma. Now, when I said, Simmons was my clinical mentor, we worked together for, I think, 34 years. And my interest in optic nerve disease developed because that was his primary area of interest. And we began to publish a number of papers together. This one in 1991 dealt with the schemic optic neuropathy. And I really began to focus my career on the topic thereafter. And there are Simmons. And here's a paper he wrote in 1999. I love it. Enigma variations. He's saying that important aspects of this disorder, NION, remain enigmatic. And at the bottom in red, it would be wise to remain open to the possibility that there is a cause or pathogenesis that is as yet unsuspected. And that's where we are today, 27 years later. So this disease has become the focus of my work trying to understand it. Now, to a neurology audience, seeing segmental involvement of the brain, one part of the brain is the schemic and not the other, in the context of stroke, we know it relates to having arterial insufficiency usually, it's something blocking the vessel that leads to a schemia in a particular region. Here we are looking at the optic nerve head. And you can see it's the lower part of the optic nerve head that's swollen. And there are hemorrhages there as well. And this is very common, so-called sectoral discodema. OK, well, in first principles, we'd say, well, there must be a blood vessel that goes to the lower part of the optic nerve. When we do visual field shown on the left by automated perimetry, you can see the very common consequence of what we call an altitudinal visual field defect. 80% of the time, interestingly, it's inferior, 20% superior. Other field effects occur also, but altitudinal defects are unusually common in this particular optic neuropathy. On your right, you see optical coherence tomography, quantification of the thickness of the retinal ganglion cell axons that form the optic nerve. And here you can see that, superiorly in red, there is a reduction in the thickness of the nerve fibers. It corresponds to the area of visual loss inferiorly. And over time, you could see the upper part of this optic nerve head is pale, so-called sectoral pallor. These are all very typical clinical features of this disease. And you would hope that it would help inform our understanding of the cause. If this is a scanning electron micrograph of a human optic nerve head, and you can see the O-N optic nerve head, the centraretinal artery in vein going down the middle, if you looked at this and said, well, this is surely one area that would never suffer a stroke, it's just filled with blood vessels, that would be a reasonable expectation. And furthermore, not only is it filled with blood vessels, it is surrounded by Route 128. There is an anastomotic circle around the optic nerve head, well, at least in most people, and in some people, it's incomplete, but there's an additional perfusion supply into the nerve head. And yet that still seems to be insufficient, at least for some people. Now, one of our earlier fellows, Len Levine, also a good friend, published this. There are only something like five autopsy cases ever of NION. I have one. I like LENS particularly, because he did a really nice job of showing the optic nerve head in the region of the infarct, at least in that patient. And you can see it's relatively superficial in the nerve head. Well, the problem is that, if you think of someone who has a heart attack or a stroke, you can reasonably anticipate that you would find blockage, maybe atherosclerosis, entomolhypoplasia, you'd find a structural etiology for most cases of stroke. Not true for NION. In fact, lipohylinosis, atherosclerosis, inflammation, emboli only rarely. There's not a clear structural lesion that causes this type of ischemic disease. So what is it? So what is it? 1994, I came over and had a long conversation, actually two conversations with Steve Miller Fisher and wanted to publish this. And this is where I had him talk about his recognition that transient visual loss or permanent visual loss in one eye could be the result of an occlusion of an internal crowded artery. And so we got to know each other a little bit. And I went to him a third time and talked about NION. I said, look, I've read your papers. I realized the steps you took to uncover the pathology in small blood vessels, the entomolhypoplasia. How exactly did you do it? So he gave me his recipe and then I had an opportunity to take the entire orbit, both sides of a patient whom I had recently seen with NION. And made 2,500 slides of the Evolvi, Steve Miller Fisher's 10 micron spacing, using the staining methods, mostly H&E, but axonal stains, myelin stains, and others. And I've looked through those 2,500 slides at least three times and made 500 slides of the opposite side. Well, the only thing I found was so weird that I spent more than two decades before I published it because it didn't make sense. There were, as you can see in the middle here, you could see here a region of the optic nerve that's relatively more pale. So there was a sectoral region of nerve fiber loss. And in that region, you can see these calcium oxalate crystals here filled in one blood vessel, but they were all over actually. And I went to the entire optic nerve and marked where all of these abnormalities were. Interestingly, the general pathology was normal. I even had the pathologist review the entire autopsy case. There were no calcium oxalate crystals anywhere in the body or even in the other organ. And there were no predisposing factors to calcium oxalosis, a complete surprise. I didn't know what to do with it. I didn't publish until finally I said, okay, I've got to publish it. But anyway, the point is there were no lesions that I could reasonably ascribe, although in this case, perhaps, because there were so many calcium oxalate crystals and the arteries, perhaps it led to insufficiency. So the gap in knowledge, on the one hand, a small cup to disc ratio, on the other hand, reduced blood pressure. But what is the bridge that connects these factors to cause sectoral swelling of the nerve head and visual loss? We don't know. So I'd like to move on now to my translational studies. So I had the privilege of working with Dick Maslin here for five and a half years in his lab. And we maintain a good friendship and collaboration throughout the rest of his life. You know, this Simmons and Dick really helped me grow in different ways, right? From Dick's scientific standpoint, the way to identify and dig into details and try to understand mechanisms. It led really to my publication in 2019, the so-called Hoyt Lecture. Hoyt was the co-author of the third edition of the book that I showed you earlier. So it was my really first major attempt to summarize what I could extract from the literature and also say it still remains an enigma, right? So to do this, I decided to go back to the very beginning of the major publications on blood vessels and the human optic nerve. And you can see on the left is Zinn. So I called up our librarian, I said, Luiz, you're always so great. There's a book I'm looking for. Is there any way you could help me find it? I tell her, it's the 1754-55 book by Zinn. She goes, oh, but we have it. So, you know, 10 minutes later, I had nitrile gloves on in our archives room looking for this book. And here, 1755, the human eye is this picture. So he was an artist and also an artist. And he made this woodblock carving of the blood vessels. And I'd like to thank you for your help in making this slide. It was corrupted, even though I've looked at this talk 20 times, even this morning. When it came here today, this slide was corrupted, but we pulled it together, I appreciate it. You can see that red hours are pointing to the small blood vessels going along the length of the optic nerve to the optic nerve head. There are only two major vessels, so-called short posterior ciliary arteries. That run along the length of the optic nerve. And those are the vessels that supply the optic nerve head. There are many other blood vessels in the orbit, you'll see, but these are the ones that are critical for this disease. Now, Haire, whom I mentioned earlier, produced a couple of iconic images, everybody, including me. This is what we have used to conceptualize what might be happening at the optic nerve head. Here, on the right-sided picture, with the red arrow, a short posterior ciliary artery approaching the back of the eye, here's the optic nerve head. And you can see it's branching into three major branches. One goes directly into the so-called choroid. The choroid is the densest vascular bed in the body per gram of tissue, because the retina uses so much oxygen. It needs a vast blood supply to maintain it. Another branch goes to the right and then forms peeled blood vessels, but also you can see this kind of circle here. That is a cross-section of the circle of Zinhella. And another branch goes into the choroid, but branches into the optic nerve head. So, well, look, you would think, surely there must be a blockage here, right? That causes a stroke here. But because we have, like you use it, historically invasive angiography and now CTA-MRA, we use fluorescein angiography to look at perfusion of the back of the eye. We've done this since maybe the late 1960s. We have exquisite images. And interestingly, there's almost never any reduction in blood flow to the choroid in patients with nion. So the blockage cannot be in this primary vessel. It has to be somewhere downstream. Trying to walk you through where the pathology, I would say must be. Okay, here we're looking at the optic nerve head again in a scanning electron micrograph. And here is this Route 128 going around this enastomotic circle, beneath which is the so-called choroid. And you can see some branches going from this ring into the choroid. All right, so it was clear that the literature did not provide an explanation for the vascular insufficiency. This is another image that I like a lot that I use. You can see the posterior ciliary vessels on either side, some branching into the nerve head. These vessels in the orbit all come from the internal choroid. In fact, the first branch of the... Artery is the... The ophthalmic artery, it branches to provide the central retinal artery, which goes in the middle of the optic nerve. Then when it gets to the retina, it fans out. The short posterior ciliary arteries that we're gonna talk about more. Many other branches to the orbit, including all the branches to the muscle, and the artery part of the eye. But these vessels are not relevant to perfusion of the nerve head. So I wanted to look in a different way at this anatomical pathway into the nerve head. Particularly the takeoff of the ophthalmic from the carotid artery. So here with Dr. Frosch's imprimatur, and working on my grant, I've been able to go into the morgue here and remove entire orbits. This is, well, it's almost never done, ever. Because it's hard to do it. Each eye may take an hour and a half to do it carefully. But I've removed the entire orbit on block because we wanna see the blood vessels. Normally when you're in nucleate and lye, you're proud to clean it off. Because you want the eye, right? But to get the vessels, you need all of the orbital fat. Well, here you can see the eye socket is up front. This is the optic nerve, which I have reflected upward. So you can see the takeoff of the ophthalmic artery from the internal carotid artery, right there. And it's not, by the way, it's not always obvious. But this is a good example. And once in the morgue, I'm able to inject saline or dyes into the vessel directly. Here you can see I've unroofed the orbit. So that's the orbital fat. So the eye socket is filled with the eyeball muscles and mostly orbital fat. That's what it looks like. I've learned it's better to take the eye socket out and then do those injections. So let me give you an orientation. So we're looking now at the entire length of the human optic nerve. On your left is the intracranial segment. On your right, you can see the back of the eye. The green structure is the optic nerve in autofluorescence. I have injected in the back a dye that makes the blood vessel here, the ophthalmic artery red. Here's a branch, a posterior psoriasis vessel going right along the optic nerve. It's exactly what I wanted. This is March 9th in 2024. I wanna show you now, this is using a technique called light sheet fluorescence microscopy. One of the world's experts is at Harvard College. He was enormously helpful to us in taking us through the methods. No one had ever done this on a human orbit. There was one person in Paris who had done it on human eyes, the type that were cleaned up. So she had no tissue behind the nerve head. So we found each other and we have collaborated as well, Marie Darsh in Paris. So these images are all fully digitized. So we get 4D imagery. We're able to walk around. Here's the ophthalmic artery. You can see the branches of the posterior ciliary. Notice how wiggly a lot of the vessels are. That's something I'll come back to later. But in this first success, I didn't quite reach the optic nerve head. That's where I needed to be. So I modified the technique and just a short time later, this is the optic nerve now in red. Here's the short posterior ciliary. There's the back of the eyes to your left. But now look at the definition of these branches. Many, many, many more branches than I had imagined. I'm sorry, the optic nerve, I mean, the eye is here on the right. You could see all the branches going into the back of the eye. This is the auto fluorescence. This is the dye. These are the ones going now to the optic nerve head right here. So because this is all digitized, let me just show you one thing. This corkscrew vessel, the one that's showing up right here, that hotspot is where the ophthalmic artery branches to go into the optic nerve. That's the central retinal artery, making a complete loop turn before going into the optic nerve. Because this is all digitized, we know the location of, that's it. We know the location of each blood vessel and its lumen size. So on your left is the traditional teaching, the iconic image, one vessel on each side, a few branches, but this is the reality. It's vastly more complex. I mean, it even further raises the question, why would this area ever become ischemic? Not only is it filled with blood vessels in an anastomosis, but it's filled with blood vessels that supply the nerve head. So this is what we've been learning. More recently, as we further improved our techniques, now using something called immunobating, now using multiple antibodies at the same time. We're able to see not only the optic nerve, but the vessels surrounding the optic nerve in the orbital fat. Now to do this, when I get the entire orbit, I trim down the fat in the muscles. So I'm looking at a cone of orbital fat that contains the vessels that I'm interested in. That's what this represents. So there's not two major vessels. There are hundreds, if not thousands. So we're looking at the eyes rotating. This is the optic nerve head here. And now I'm gonna show you with this digitization and software optimization. We're able to have the computer find each blood vessel and do surface rendering, masking it and tracing each vessel for us. We started doing this by hand, together with a company across from the Harvard College Lab called Light IMAGING Technologies. Fantastic, they're working with us, Hand and Glove, and they were manually tracing these vessels, so laborious. But one of their recent hires had automated the technique and we've tried it and it works beautifully. Then we were able to, using this advanced technique of abenolabeling, using other methods to so-called clear the tissue to make it transparent with a laser light and higher power lenses. We're now imaging vessels at five to seven to eight microns in diameter. This is our best example yet. Here we've used three antibodies. I'll show you arteries, veins, and lymphatics. The arteries, the ones we're most interested in, the ones that'll show up in green, you get a sense of one right here. The back of the eye is to your left, so the optic nerve head is right here, and this is the optic nerve coming out. So this would be a little more confusing, but I'll walk you through it. So we're gonna rotate, and these are giant veins. Here are the arteries, the green ones. There is the optic nerve head from the inside. These are the ones we're most interested in, but here's another artery. And we're gonna rotate it, you're gonna see on the other side, we've identified many vessels at the nerve head. Right here, it's extraordinary. And now in white, these small vessels, these are lymphatics. These have never been shown throughout the human orbit, only with the standard sectioning. And in fact, when I started in ophthalmology, the teaching was that the orbit did not have lymphatics. It was Roberta Gaussis here with this wonderful publication in 2006. She's an orbital surgeon. She became interested in this topic. There was a new antibody available, the S40, and she stained human tissue and published these sections. So when we just recently showed this with the same antibody, I called her up, got the antibody. I called her up to show her our results, right? Which is, to me, it just opens up a window into the lymphatic system in the orbits and the possibility that it's related to diseases in a way that we haven't previously understood. All right, the back of the eyes to your left on the left slide, here's the optic nerve. Here's the short posterior sclerary artery's branch of it. And look at the tortuosity of these vessels. We're going into the nerve head. So you can see the computer now can trace each of those vessels. And there's a mathematical index that can define tortuosity. We haven't really explored this yet, though we'll be able to explore it. And as soon as I saw this, the question was, well, how does that perturb flow? We know that twisty vessels ultimately creates turbulence which ultimately begins to impact the health of the endothelial cells and a whole cascade of potential vascular complications. And we've discovered other odd things. Here's one vessel, if you look on your right, one vessel that then divides and then divides again and then reconstitutes near the optic nerve head. By the way, as far as we know, each of the cases we've looked at have been normal, not known to have eye disease. Well, I wanna acknowledge in particular on your left, Dranush Krasnichi, who is now a first year medical student at the Lerner School at the Cleveland Clinic, worked with me for several years and she did all of their early work with me technically superb. And now we were very fortunate to then find Yassaman here in the audience today, Averina, who joined our lab with enough overlap that we were able to transfer the techniques. So these two individuals have really enabled this work and deserve special credit. Thank you. So with this mathematical foundation, you see we can plot each vessel and its branches and the lumen size.  but our goal is not just to create pretty pictures. I really want to understand the blood flow dynamics in the optic nerve head. Now, no one has really done this or small blood vessels in humans for a variety of reasons. First off, it's super complex. I mean, you have to have faithful anatomical data to do it, but until we've had light sheet microscopy, there was no way to really do this, but that's our goal. And for this, I'm working with the Dassault-Système's company. This is a French multinational, multi-billion-dollar company, which right here in Route 128 has 1,000 employees. We became connected about four years ago and they have attached four engineers who work with me. We meet every other week. And they are using not only their expertise, but they have proprietary software. This is a mechanical engineering company. Initially, they designed the French Mirage Jet Fighter, but the company now has many branches and they became interested in biomedicine some years ago. They didn't have anyone working on the eye and that's how we found each other. So not only do they have extraordinary software, hyper complex software, they have enormous computational power. And so we thought it's a potential opportunity to work together. And here, what we're doing is using what is a standard for people studying blood flow. This publication that's looking at blood flow in the human retina, where we use basic electrical circuit design, right? Capacitors, resistors. This is the best methodology known to date about how to assess blood flow. Now, this group that did this work by far, as best I can tell, probably the most successful company, a group in the world doing it. And we've recently connected with them and we've agreed to begin collaborating so we can learn from them. They've worked on retinal flow, but not optic nerve head flow. And so, we're finding an opportunity for synergy there. One of the real challenges in doing blood flow through very small blood vessels is that the flow becomes non-Newtonian. That's a completely different computational challenge. And one of the people at the SOC STEMS has published on non-Newtonian flow. So even at that level, we'll be able to ultimately, I hope, understand the flow dynamics of the optic nerve head. So how might that be relevant? Well, this type of age-related white matter disease in the brain, we see all the time, we hardly pay attention to it, right? We say age-related vascular path to change, right? This is flow through small blood vessels in the brain. So I think the implications of understanding perfusion through small vessels matters, not only for the eye, but for the brain, for the kidney and possibly for the heart. So our hope is that we're developing a blood flow model that will be able to be used in different systems in the brain. In this beautiful image, here you can see the human optic nerve, the central artery and vein. Here's our ability to trace all of the branches of the vessels coming from the Pia into the optic nerve. For the first time ever in doing the studies that we've done, we've identified by EM the circle of Zinhaler. We've not published this yet, but here you can see a part of the circle. You can see where we've gotten it from, this Tuller-Wing Blue picture of the optic nerve head of the human. But this is the circle of Zinhaler. Tachana Jacobs at Scapens is the one who's responsible for this, but we work together. Her immediate question was whether this arterial circle is invested in the same way with smooth muscle actin or perisites. In other words, it's possible that it has a different auto regulatory capacity that may impact how it can adjust to changes in systemic blood pressure. Okay, well, you know, in all of our careers, you try to figure a way forward. You develop a strategy. I had Simmons on the clinical side. I had Dick Masl on the other. I created a path that I was interested in over decades. Right? Well, not too long ago, sitting at this table in our office, I was with the residents and I told them about a patient I had just seen who had Nion, who was on Mugovia. As I was telling the story, a woman, a younger resident walks in from the emergency room. She goes, I just saw a case like that in the emergency room. And the next week I saw a third case. I said, well, this is, there's something, there's smoke here, we need to figure it out. And we began to work with the specialist at the Harvard School of Public Health to design a study which we ultimately published in July of 2024. It's completely changed my career because it has significant systemic implications in a way that my work had never really had before. I mean, maybe MS optic arthritis, but that's still in the neurological realm, but this is a much more generalized effect. I wanna acknowledge Tatiana Hathaway who began to work with me and then was our fellow last year in neuro-ophthalmology this year. She's a fellow in oculopathology following in the footsteps of David Kogan. And she is hopefully going to stay with us going forward. So this article, which was the most widely read article in general of ophthalmology in 2024, was conducted only in our clinic. We looked at patients over six years and did a typical kind of study where we're looking at ozempic, the first FDA approved drug widely used anyway, and we gov, breaking down our patients, looking at those who were being treated with the GLP-1 receptor agonist rather diabetes or because of obesity, dividing into those who had used one of these drugs versus being treated for diabetes, let's say, with non-GLP-1 drugs, and the same approach for those who were overweight. We then performed a typical matching, a one-to-one matching, and in the end, look for how many patients who were treated with semi-glutide or not develop nion who had diabetes or those who were obese. So here's the life table analysis on the bottom is time and the survival probability for nion at the top. And you can see in blue that over time, at least after six months, more and more people began to develop nion, and I'll magnify that. And you can see that in particular, the effect that we found was not present shortly after the medicine was started, but really between six and 12 months. The hazard ratio that we found for the diabetics was 4.3. Why confidence intervals? Because, well, we didn't have all that many patients. Remember, it was just done in my clinic. When we looked at patients who were being treated for obesity, we found the curve was almost identical, though the hazard ratio was even higher. By the way, the patients who were being treated for obesity were even younger, they were younger than the patients being treated for diabetes, and yet the hazard ratio was higher. So we reported these hazard ratios. It stirred a hornet's nest, believe me. There are more than 10 studies that have now been done worldwide looking at this. Now, in that study, we acknowledged that we had selection bias. When here we are in a neurophemology clinic at a significant eye hospital, right? This is where the patients are gonna come. So we knew our hazard ratio was too high, but we had the secret sauce that all of the cases were diagnosed by one of our faculty neurophemologists, and we manually reviewed every chart. Notably, there's no ICD diagnostic code for NION. So if you just do a database search, you're not gonna be able to find the diseases. It's gonna be confounded by other ischemic optic neuropathies. Well, we had a lot of support and some people who are grumpy about our findings, and we understood what the limitations were working together with pharmacoepidemiologists at Harvard, particularly Elizabeth de Patorno. We published a second paper just recently looking at the same thing, but now on a massive scale nationwide, looking at active comparative drug, SGLT, two inhibitors. A drug class that's used to treat diabetics roughly at the same level of severity. There's another way of trying to match. So we had, as you can see here, 685,000 people on GLP-1, 700 plus thousand on SGLT. We did the matching, and in the end, this is the curve. It's inverted, of course. And you can see how much the curve of people being treated with GLP-1 drugs compared to SGLT-2 inhibitors. You can see that they diverge at three months and become unquestionably separated. The hazard ratio here was 1.85. So lower than what we anticipated. Remember the graph I showed you of the six to 12 month time period for our first cases? The mean follow-up time in this study was just under six months. So in other words, I think if we had followed the patients longer at the time that we did the study, if we went back and did the study, for instance, my guess is that we'd find a higher hazard ratio. So my best estimate right now is that the hazard ratio is probably in the range of two or a little higher, although the absolute risk remains relatively small. But people who don't take GLP-1 drugs compared to those who do, it's a significant increase almost to for patients who do or do not take the medicine. But the absolute risk that you're gonna develop, NION is still relatively small. Well, yeah, I said this changed my life. It was amazing, the attention that this article received. It was unbelievable. And it continues. And again, in a sense, I find it beneficial because it has focused a lot of attention on the visual system, on blindness, on the potential relevance of these drugs to NION, a condition whose etiology we don't understand. So that's where we are. And in less than a year and a half, the country of Denmark, the country is compensating patients who become blind from being on GLP-1 receptor agonists. It's an astonishing turn of events in less than 18 months. All right, I'm gonna share with you is the first time I'm doing this publicly. My hypothesis for NION. You know, at the beginning, we always have to have the conflict of interest slide. A couple of years ago, I added another slide that I called my intellectual conflict of interest. I mean, here I am speaking on NION, my intellectual conflict of interest that I didn't understand the cause of NION. Right, and it really got under my skin. I mean, I felt like after all the work, I still wasn't really moving forward conceptually. But I think recently, I have a new idea, maybe an insight that I wanna share. And it comports with a reasonable contributing factor for NION. And this is the title for the article that I hope to write soon. Is the risk of NION tied to an evolutionary Gordian knot? Gordian knot, something that's inscrutable. So here's the issue. The axons of the optic nerve begin, the retinal ganglion cell axons, they begin in the retina. And they extend roughly 80 millimeters down the optic nerve in the chiasm. And then they divide to go to the lateral genicotone on both sides. These are very long axons. I mean, not as long as others, but in the corticospinal, but these are relatively long axons. But the ischemic events only occur here in the left circle, red circle. The ischemic events only occur in the first five millimeters of the optic nerve. And by the way, NION is the second most common optic neuropathy in middle age and older adults. Glaucoma by far and away the most common. And it has been suggested for decades, including by Dr. Heyre, that it may have a vascular basis. And I strongly believe that that's true for a lot of people with glaucoma. So there's another kind of disease, maybe smaller vessels at the nerve head. But one almost never sees an ischemic event behind the optic nerve head along this huge length of optic nerve. You don't see ischemia back there almost ever. Oh, come. Well, that entire stretch of tissue receives blood supply from the peer. So on your left, you can see the dark red. This is the peer of the optic nerve. And you can see branches going into the optic nerve. Okay. That peel circumferential supply is what gives blood to the entire after a visual pathway up to the lateral geniculate. And it's also present at the optic nerve head, which is what I'm showing you on the left. So it more than adequately protects 95% of the length of the axolens. But even though it's present at the nerve head, you strokes, the ischemic events occur there. Further more, as I showed you before, the nerve head has that enasomotic circle. Here, another scanning electro micrograph of the optic nerve head filled with vessels like the red image that I showed you a few slides ago surrounded by the circle of Zinhauer. So the Gordian knot, even though we have this rich profusion of peel vessels that are more than adequate for the rest of the optic nerve, and there's an enasomotic circle, this is the location where a schemia occurs. Remember, these are supplied all by the short posterior ciliary arteries. And here's the coroid underneath the retina. And on the left, you can see the coroid, this sort of honeycomb like structure. And on the right, the coroid and human, it's like a giant marsh, huge capacity to receive blood. Remember, all the arterial blood going into the eye has to leave by way of the vortex veins. It goes through the coroid and out the veins. So it's a huge blood flow. So what happens? Here's what I think is going on. I think it's a dynamic shift in perfusion. So I mentioned that the central artery brings blood into the retina, huge volume of blood, and all of that blood returns through the central retinal vein. To get that flow of blood out, the outflow resistance is something like three millimeters of mercury. Really low pressure. You get the blood in, you wanna get it out. And you do that by having very low pressure. The coroid, imagine the entire back of the eye. The optic nerve only accounts for a very small percent of the area of the entire back of the eye. The rest of the back of the eye receives blood into the coroid. So it's a huge volume of flow. And it too extracts that blood through so-called vortex veins in the periphery, which also have an extremely low outflow resistance. But the branch that goes into the circle of Zinhauer, that's an arterial branch. It's receiving supply from the other side as well, under arterial pressure. I mentioned earlier that most everyone accepts the fact that low blood pressure in some way triggers an eye on. So here's my conceptualization. It's purely schematic. It's not quantitative data that I've measured. So if you look at this graph on the left as being a reflection of the arterial pressure in the body, think of the short poster ciliary artery, and we know the pressure in that in humans is roughly around 70, I'd say a mean arterial pressure. And it's gonna divide into branches that go into the nerve head, into the circle of Zinhauer, and then into the coroid. So if you'll see the graph go down, if the blood pressure begins to fall, there's gonna be reduced perfusion into the circle and the nerve head. But it's still getting there. But if the blood pressure falls further, then there's gonna be preferential hyper perfusion of the arterialized circle, which is to say the optic nerve head is gonna be preferentially vulnerable. It's like a steel phenomenon, but one that is dynamic. And you can imagine related to reduced systemic blood pressure. I think this is an evolutionary quirk. You know, in my, now this is a pure conceptualization. I'm, you know, I don't have any evidence of this. Other species have circles, though not complete also. So you even find a circle in rodents and in non-human primates. But to me, it suggests that through evolution, there was a vulnerability of perfusion of the nerve head. And a circle began to form. And even in humans, it's often incomplete. The problem is that the same vessel that brings blood to the nerve head is tasked with supplying blood to the coroid. And it can't, in my view now, I don't think it can do all three adequately all the time. I think it's subject to perturbation. Lastly, I'd like to end with a potential treatment. So when I entered the field of neuroephthalmology, in fact, when I was interviewing to become director of neuroephthalmology service, I said I wanted to do two things. One was I wanted to bring together neuroephthalmologist across the Harvard system. I wanted us to work as a group, particularly in the education of our fellows, but also in terms of developing a team that can think and work together. And that has happened. We now have 13 neuroephthalmologists across the Harvard system. The second thing is I wanted to develop a field that I call therapeutic neuroephthalmology, which was a complete misnomer. I mean, there was no therapy for neurological blinding diseases, but that's what I wanted to do. And that's what led when I was with Dick Maslin, thought of the opportunity of using prosthetic microelectronic implants to restore vision, which I did for 30 plus years at MIT. And, but my notion was I wanted to take our field, neuroephthalmologist from being, being the best diagnosticians that we can be. To offering the potential to treat disease. So I bet my cards on a prosthetic engineered solution early in my career. And we could debate whether that was the right thing to do or not. But I think even at this point, there are some now new biological solutions through genetics that have been really impactful. But also prosthetic implants have helped people, particularly with macular degeneration interestingly, although it's still a field in evolution. But quite unexpectedly, maybe now five plus years ago, I became aware of the work by Yamanaka in Japan, for which you won a Nobel Prize in 2012. He recognized that in vitro, if you modify the function of four genes, that he could take mature cells and turn them into pluripotent stem cells, Nobel Prize. When this was tried in vivo, it created teratomas. Now, David Sinclair, many of you may know him at Harvard Med School. He was at MIT even earlier in his career. And he came to recognize and develop the strategy of modifying three of the Yamanaka factors, partial reprogramming, it's called. And when he did that, you could use the strategy in vivo without causing tumors. This had never been tried in the visual system before, and so they came to our group at Scape and Zyre Research Institute at Mass Eye and Ear. And it led to this wonderful publication in nature, where they use three different mouse models, treated them with this so-called OSK, the three modified factors. These are intravitral injections, two AAVs, I'll explain why in a moment. And it increased the retinal ganglion cell survival and enhanced the electrophysiology of these cells, the so-called patterned electrorhetnogram. In mice, you can measure quantitatively, objectively, visual acuity, which was done. And the point is that when you modify the methylation of genes, you so-called rejuvenate cells. As we all age, the amount of methylation increases over time. And the correlation between your chronological age and the methylation age of your genes is like 0.99. And it's been shown, I think, in over 100 species now. There's absolutely no question about this correlation, much more so than the telomeres that I learned in medical school. And the concept, interestingly, in relevant to neurology, epigenetics and MS has been looked at for more than a decade, is that an injury ages a cell. It hypermethalates in response to injury. And that was the concept that they used for this nature paper, that if you injure a nerve tissue, but you can make the tissue younger, rejuvenate it, that it might be more capable of withstanding the injury. It was a brilliant conceptualization. Turned out to be true in mice. Well, we've pursued it, we. Life Biosciences based here in Boston. It's a startup company based upon David Sinclair's work. The company and I have worked together for more than four years. It's been a great relationship. We have now, we have done two sets of non-human primates, 20 and 20, so a total of 40 monkeys using a laser induced model of Nion. I don't love this model, but it's the best, the most widely accepted model for Nion. And you can see by using the laser, you can create swelling and hemorrhaging on the nerve head in a monkey. By transfecting here, intravascular injections, you can transfect something like 10 to 25% of retinal ganglion cells, mostly in the region of the posterior pole, in the region of the macular. Here's the optic nerve head. You can see the retinal ganglion cell bodies here. So this is, it's gonna be hard to appreciate, but I just want to show you some images. You can look at the monkey optic nerve head. The dark represents myelin. This is a paraphernaline diamine stain. That's with no injury. And this is what happens when you do the Nion model without treatment. You can see how variable the size, how irregular the size of these injured axons with their myelin sheaths. And with treatment, in general, you see that they look better. And of course, you can quantify this, and it shows to be statistically significant. It's another way of looking at it. It's quite remarkable. If one takes the retina, looking at the retinal ganglion cells, here the yellow column is a tissue that had been lasered and injured, and the yellow represents hypermethylation. And here the last three columns, three dosing of the vector, and it's become more like its normal left column before injury. In other words, the treatment very substantially reduces the methylation. And again, the term is that it rejuvenates these cells and makes them more capable of responding to injury. Here we're looking at the anatomy of control versus vehicle. And you can see the difference here in the treated animals, a small number. This is the first 20 that we did. And when you look at the pattern electro retinogram, you can see that the red, which is the treated, is statistically better, which is to say a larger percentage of surviving retinal ganglion cells. So our conclusions here is that we can transfect cells. It's interesting because I said there were two AAV vectors. The second is a promoter for doxycycline. So you can turn on these three genes when you take doxycycline, and the genes almost completely turn off when you stop. So the idea is to treat patients for a two week course of doxycycline to turn on these genes. And with this information, we now will begin a first in human epigenetic trial at Mass Ionere for both Nion and Glaucoma. One question that Sharon Rosenweil-Glipson asked me is how quickly do we have to treat? And I said, well, look, it's a stroke of the optic nerve. I mean, we can measure by OCT within 10 days, you lose ganglion cells. But I realized that no one had actually looked over time. And it turns out that if you follow patients with Nion, the thickness of the retinal ganglion cell layer declines over three months, even though the vision doesn't fail, it suggests that there are retinal ganglion cells that hang on for months that are potentially able to be rescued. We don't know that for sure, but that's what the clinical study will allow us to investigate. I wanna end by saying that we have recently a new chairman of ophthalmology, Dr. Rishi Singh. Really wonderfully trained with us. We all have known him. He was just, it started very recently. And three or four weeks ago, I made a proposal to him to establish a translational optic nerve research center. We have many people in the ophthalmology department who do science and clinical work related to the optic nerve. And some of us have found one another, like Tatana and Jacobs and I and others. But collectively, we didn't have a presence. We weren't thinking together. And so he agreed to allow us to establish this and even supported it with seed funding. I wanted to bring this up to you because you have many scientists in your department of neurology who are working on optic nerve. I spoke to Tinozha just a couple of days ago and Michael Levy. And you have clinicians and scientists working on inflammatory optic nerve disease. There are other people at Mass Eye Near working on inflammation of the optic nerve, but none of that is coordinated. And so I hope this is a call to anyone who's potentially interested in working with us on visual disorders. We could surely benefit from some of your scientific expertise and it will open up opportunities for collaboration. And lastly, NANO is the North American Neurophalamic Society meeting for the first time is in Boston in March. If you're interested, my email is at the bottom. Let me know. Just yesterday I was talking to them about the possibility of being able to get trainees in at no cost. It's a fabulous meeting. Very fun as well. This is Taiz Estrella, one of our new faculty members in neuro-optimology. Thank you very much. Let me just say, why this picture? I'm not sure there was a hint in the first slide. So Zinn, a circle of Zinn holler, was an anatomist and an artist and a botanist. So the Zinnia is named after Zinn. Thank you very much. I'm happy to take any questions, yeah. Joe, thank you very much. And that truly was a tour de force. I wanna say also that what a pleasure it is to have you back. We won't wait 25 years. And having known you since I was a resident, I just speak to it. I just have always appreciated your collaborative spirit and your thoughtfulness. And so it's great to have you back. It's great to see your center being formed. And I hope we can have some collaboration with that center. One of the things you mentioned earlier is as I recall that there's a risk of, was it 25% or 30%? 31% the second eye. Other eye. I know. So how do you square that with sort of strut? Is it, so how is the... This model that you proposed, it has to be kind of operative actually in both eyes, right? Yeah, well, you landed on a critical, almost break point in the way we all have conceptualized this. So, yeah, with the systemic drop in blood pressure bleed to trigger myon, you would think that it would be in both eyes frequently. And that's almost never the case. Unless you have massive systemic hypotension or hypovolemia, GI bleed or something like that. Yeah, I think this is one of the peculiarities. And I mentioned that there were two factors that everyone believes in, the small cup to disc ratio and the hypotension. The small cup to disc ratio is nearly identical between both eyes of an individual. So that's why there has to be some local factor that is making one side more vulnerable to the other. My suspicion, I told you I was going to tell you what I think the issue is. Bye.  I think it's the circle of Zinheller, because we know it's often incomplete. And so I think, given that, presumably, it's there to help provide perfusion, if you have hypertension and a less competent arterial circle on one side, you may be more vulnerable to ischemia. And the reason why I say that is because the process cannot be within the nerve head, because we know it's filled with blood vessels, there's no sectoral division. It has to be a feeding vessel, but we know it's not in the posterior ciliary vessels, because the corroid is not hyper-perfused in nion. So it has to be a branch going into the nerve head, but it can't be, if you will, within the nerve head. The circle of Zinheller is in the sclerum that surrounds the nerve, and it has branches that go into the nerve head. So my suspicion is that it has to do with perfusion into and out of the circle of Zinheller. That's why Tatiana's observation that there may be a difference in the amount of muscle or perhaps perisites, this idea that there may be some local dysregulation in response to low pressure is what attracts me right now. But that's a perfect question, really, is that. Thanks for the really lovely talk, Joe. And to come back to the anatomy piece, which is intriguing. When I think about vasculature supply in the eye and the optic nerve, one of the things that's key, and I think it's why you have that tortuosity, is that the location of the globe moves. And unlike the rest of the optic nerve. And so I'm just wondering about whether as you model this, is the degree of tortuosity, is there an optimal one? If it's two, not enough, it's taught. But if it's overly redundant, as you move the globe, do you have the propensity to essentially pinch those feeding vessels? And if you looked, and so one question would be, who do you study who doesn't move their eyes? So it's people with, you know, current sayers and the like. Is there any populations are small, but if you look at people with ophthalmoplegia, are they in a sense protected? Because they aren't basically distorting and pushing the eyes in the funding in off the neutral position where you'd expect the... Because your autopsy is basically at a neutral position. And it would be very hard to be able to try and mimic how those changed over time. But you might be able to, in fact, by pinning one end and doing torsion on the globe to sort of see how vessels distort in your light energy. I love this, but you see the advantage of, you know, cross-department presentations like this. Thank you. Yeah, so I too thought that the wiggliness must be related to high movement. You get your eyes make a couple hundred thousand saccades a day. So my hypothesis was, well, if we look further back in the orbits, it's going to be less wiggly. That's why the first image I showed you, I pointed out the wiggliness. It wasn't as dramatic further back, but I also showed you the central lottery, which is halfway in the orbit. And even there, the vessel may figure a term. So I don't know what to think of it. And I began to question, well, you know, even if it's related to motion, how can that happen? And more than a year ago, I called the head vascular pathology, and I'm unfortunately drawing a blank on his name. And he said to me immediately, well, the vessels can't elongate. Right. So if they're wiggly, it's not like that they can grow in that, in that way. So I'm a bit stymied and I'd love to talk with you more about it. But I agree. I am very suspicious. And I've been in contact with Bruce Rosen. They about a year and a half ago by seven Tesla MRI were able to image. He thought posterior cedars vessels. And so I wanted to return to him. And I hadn't thought about looking at these vessels with respect to eye position. But what a great idea. Yeah. Thank you. Any question now? Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. One online from Dr. Villadeau. His comment and question was if there's any similarities between the lumbar plexus, mainly because the neuromuscular group here has found an association between GLP one and a diabetic myotrophy. So they're interesting. Yeah. I do not know. Love to chat with you about it. How interesting. Oh, so, um, so I do remember now an article that Mark before shared with me. Maybe it was with respect to a monoritus multiplex in the context of the drugs. I'm not sure. But yes, thank you very much. I'd love to talk to you more about that. Yeah. By the way, diabetic retinopathy worsens in these drugs. Frequently, but it happens within weeks when the hemoglobin A, when C levels plummet. So that's a mechanism of impact, but it doesn't have any long term effects. But that's surely not the case here because ours occur at six to 13 months mostly. Thank you for the imitation. I really appreciate it. Thank you.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.481137Z ===
