 and scrxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx of Richard Maslin at MGH under the NIH Sponsored Physician Scientist Award, which launched his funding of the Boston Retinal Implant Program as a novel collaboration between MIT and Harvard Medical School. Dr. Rizzo has devoted his career to improve our understanding of the clinical diagnosis of afferent and efferent visual pathway disease, but especially of disorders that affect the retina and optic nerve. His career, especially in the past five years, has focused trying to understand the root causes of non-artic interior ischemic optic neuropathy, also known as NION, and exploring our epigenetic reprogramming to offer treatment for this form of blindness. Please welcome Dr. Rizzo. Thank you so much, Abby. I appreciate it. I'm so happy to be back here. It's been a long time. I'll show you a slide about the last visit I made here at Grand Rounds. On this slide, by the way, there's a little clue to my sense of what a primary cause of NION might be. I'll show you later. So I'd like to acknowledge the support that kept this work going. Year 2000 was when I last gave Grand Rounds here in the venerable ether dome. The night before, I went to the ether dome to take a look at the podium to check things out. This painting wasn't completely done. It was nearly done. No one else was there. I'm looking at the painting, and suddenly I hear footsteps behind me. And I turn. There's a man in a three-piece suit and a tie. He walks up to me and smiles. Turns out he was the artist. He used to go in at night on his own, and it took a very long time for him to paint this. We became good friends. This is his wife, Lucia, and Warren Prosperity. I also learned later that one of my favorite paintings at the Museum of Fine Arts was his painting. And Lucia is a conceptualist. So each person in this painting, they know the identity of. And she would research who they were, what they did, what they liked. And that conceptualization of the person Warren uses when he paints them. By coincidence, five days ago, he had an art opening, and he invited me to it. And here he showed me a painting I had seen before. This is Abigail Adams, the wife of John Adams. She's holding a letter. It was a testy exchange between them, because he was off in Paris. Not writing to her, and he was a voluminous writer. So she sent them a testy letter, and he decided he liked the concept behind us, and he created this. And Warren said, the person who served as the model is also here. And there she was. This is the model for the painting. And it turned out she's the daughter of our own Alice. How incredible is that, right? Just last Saturday. So my last time here was speaking on optic nerve disease also, and the retinal implant project is a potential method of restoring vision to people with visual loss. This is a very different approach that we'll talk about today. The focus is going to be on NION, or non-autoritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy. We often refer to it as a stroke of the optic nerve. Let's just briefly talk about the clinical features to make sure we have the same level of understanding. So it's visual loss almost always in one eye that's painless. In the acute phase, one has to see optic nerve head edema. The second eye is involved typically years later, but only a third of such cases. And curiously, it's not obviously related to cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disorders. It's a vascular etiology involving a central nervous system involving only a small part of the visual pathway, which I'll show you more later. I want to reflect on our historical understanding of this disease, which by the way, I saw two patients this morning with NION already. So for neuroephthalmologists, this is not a rare disease. So the canonical textbooks in clinical neuroephthalmology, first published by Walsh at Hopkins, 1947. Second edition, 1957. In neither book was there any mention of ischemic optic neuropathy. Then 1969, Walsh and Hoyt published the third edition. And in that book, three quarters of one page was devoted to the disorder that I'm talking about now called NION. I saw two this morning. So the point is that the evolution of understanding clinically what this is has been relatively late. Now, this is outside of our clinic, the directors of our neuroephthalmology service and many of the fellows who train with this. And here to the left is Jay Lawton Smith, one of our first fellows. And his was the first English language publication of this disorder. It was 1966. He had 11 cases of ischemic optic neuropathy. And he said, you know, there are a few of them that look different than the others. He called them the latter cases, the ones without giant cell auto-ritis. And he said, it was recognized in the foreign literature by a different entity. But I think this is a separate category of disease. And indeed, that proved to be true. The mechanism of NION is not known. What we do know is that the most consistent biomarker is having a small cup to disk ratio. We're looking at the optic nerve head here. And in the middle of the nerve head is a small white area, which is actually a depression called the cup. And people with small cup to disk ratio are particularly developed NION. But most people have a small cup disk ratio, including myself. So it's a consistent biomarker, but there has to be something more. Well, the general belief is that the other factor is low blood pressure, particularly it was thought during night. Circadian downturn. And this was an idea put forth by Sohan Singh Ahare, who passed away, unfortunately, a few years ago. But he was a leading experimental neurophemologist studying NION in particular. So the combination of a small cup to disk ratio with systemic hypotension is the current thinking. But boy, as Simmons Lacell stated in his article, there's an enigma. Now, when I said, Simmons was my clinical mentor, we worked together for, I think, 34 years. And my interest in optic nerve disease developed because that was his primary area of interest. And we began to publish a number of papers together. This one in 1991 dealt with the schemic optic neuropathy. And I really began to focus my career on the topic thereafter. And there are Simmons. And here's a paper he wrote in 1999. I love it. Enigma variations. He's saying that important aspects of this disorder, NION, remain enigmatic. And at the bottom in red, it would be wise to remain open to the possibility that there is a cause or pathogenesis that is as yet unsuspected. And that's where we are today, 27 years later. So this disease has become the focus of my work trying to understand it. Now, to a neurology audience, seeing segmental involvement of the brain, one part of the brain is the schemic and not the other, in the context of stroke, we know it relates to having arterial insufficiency usually, it's something blocking the vessel that leads to a schemia in a particular region. Here we are looking at the optic nerve head. And you can see it's the lower part of the optic nerve head that's swollen. And there are hemorrhages there as well. And this is very common, so-called sectoral discodema. OK, well, in first principles, we'd say, well, there must be a blood vessel that goes to the lower part of the optic nerve. When we do visual field shown on the left by automated perimetry, you can see the very common consequence of what we call an altitudinal visual field defect. 80% of the time, interestingly, it's inferior, 20% superior. Other field effects occur also, but altitudinal defects are unusually common in this particular optic neuropathy. On your right, you see optical coherence tomography, quantification of the thickness of the retinal ganglion cell axons that form the optic nerve. And here you can see that, superiorly in red, there is a reduction in the thickness of the nerve fibers. It corresponds to the area of visual loss inferiorly. And over time, you could see the upper part of this optic nerve head is pale, so-called sectoral pallor. These are all very typical clinical features of this disease. And you would hope that it would help inform our understanding of the cause. If this is a scanning electron micrograph of a human optic nerve head, and you can see the O-N optic nerve head, the centraretinal artery in vein going down the middle, if you looked at this and said, well, this is surely one area that would never suffer a stroke, it's just filled with blood vessels, that would be a reasonable expectation. And furthermore, not only is it filled with blood vessels, it is surrounded by Route 128. There is an anastomotic circle around the optic nerve head, well, at least in most people, and in some people, it's incomplete, but there's an additional perfusion supply into the nerve head. And yet that still seems to be insufficient, at least for some people. Now, one of our earlier fellows, Len Levine, also a good friend, published this. There are only something like five autopsy cases ever of NION. I have one. I like LENS particularly, because he did a really nice job of showing the optic nerve head in the region of the infarct, at least in that patient. And you can see it's relatively superficial in the nerve head. Well, the problem is that, if you think of someone who has a heart attack or a stroke, you can reasonably anticipate that you would find blockage, maybe atherosclerosis, entomolhypoplasia, you'd find a structural etiology for most cases of stroke. Not true for NION. In fact, lipohylinosis, atherosclerosis, inflammation, emboli only rarely. There's not a clear structural lesion that causes this type of ischemic disease. So what is it? So what is it? 1994, I came over and had a long conversation, actually two conversations with Steve Miller Fisher and wanted to publish this. And this is where I had him talk about his recognition that transient visual loss or permanent visual loss in one eye could be the result of an occlusion of an internal crowded artery. And so we got to know each other a little bit. And I went to him a third time and talked about NION. I said, look, I've read your papers. I realized the steps you took to uncover the pathology in small blood vessels, the entomolhypoplasia. How exactly did you do it? So he gave me his recipe and then I had an opportunity to take the entire orbit, both sides of a patient whom I had recently seen with NION. And made 2,500 slides of the Evolvi, Steve Miller Fisher's 10 micron spacing, using the staining methods, mostly H&E, but axonal stains, myelin stains, and others. And I've looked through those 2,500 slides at least three times and made 500 slides of the opposite side. Well, the only thing I found was so weird that I spent more than two decades before I published it because it didn't make sense. There were, as you can see in the middle here, you could see here a region of the optic nerve that's relatively more pale. So there was a sectoral region of nerve fiber loss. And in that region, you can see these calcium oxalate crystals here filled in one blood vessel, but they were all over actually. And I went to the entire optic nerve and marked where all of these abnormalities were. Interestingly, the general pathology was normal. I even had the pathologist review the entire autopsy case. There were no calcium oxalate crystals anywhere in the body or even in the other organ. And there were no predisposing factors to calcium oxalosis, a complete surprise. I didn't know what to do with it. I didn't publish until finally I said, okay, I've got to publish it. But anyway, the point is there were no lesions that I could reasonably ascribe, although in this case, perhaps, because there were so many calcium oxalate crystals and the arteries, perhaps it led to insufficiency. So the gap in knowledge, on the one hand, a small cup to disc ratio, on the other hand, reduced blood pressure. But what is the bridge that connects these factors to cause sectoral swelling of the nerve head and visual loss? We don't know. So I'd like to move on now to my translational studies. So I had the privilege of working with Dick Maslin here for five and a half years in his lab. And we maintain a good friendship and collaboration throughout the rest of his life. You know, this Simmons and Dick really helped me grow in different ways, right? From Dick's scientific standpoint, the way to identify and dig into details and try to understand mechanisms. It led really to my publication in 2019, the so-called Hoyt Lecture. Hoyt was the co-author of the third edition of the book that I showed you earlier. So it was my really first major attempt to summarize what I could extract from the literature and also say it still remains an enigma, right? So to do this, I decided to go back to the very beginning of the major publications on blood vessels and the human optic nerve. And you can see on the left is Zinn. So I called up our librarian, I said, Luiz, you're always so great. There's a book I'm looking for. Is there any way you could help me find it? I tell her, it's the 1754-55 book by Zinn. She goes, oh, but we have it. So, you know, 10 minutes later, I had nitrile gloves on in our archives room looking for this book. And here, 1755, the human eye is this picture. So he was an artist and also an artist. And he made this woodblock carving of the blood vessels. And I'd like to thank you for your help in making this slide. It was corrupted, even though I've looked at this talk 20 times, even this morning. When it came here today, this slide was corrupted, but we pulled it together, I appreciate it. You can see that red hours are pointing to the small blood vessels going along the length of the optic nerve to the optic nerve head. There are only two major vessels, so-called short posterior ciliary arteries. That run along the length of the optic nerve. And those are the vessels that supply the optic nerve head. There are many other blood vessels in the orbit, you'll see, but these are the ones that are critical for this disease. Now, Haire, whom I mentioned earlier, produced a couple of iconic images, everybody, including me. This is what we have used to conceptualize what might be happening at the optic nerve head. Here, on the right-sided picture, with the red arrow, a short posterior ciliary artery approaching the back of the eye, here's the optic nerve head. And you can see it's branching into three major branches. One goes directly into the so-called choroid. The choroid is the densest vascular bed in the body per gram of tissue, because the retina uses so much oxygen. It needs a vast blood supply to maintain it. Another branch goes to the right and then forms peeled blood vessels, but also you can see this kind of circle here. That is a cross-section of the circle of Zinhella. And another branch goes into the choroid, but branches into the optic nerve head. So, well, look, you would think, surely there must be a blockage here, right? That causes a stroke here. But because we have, like you use it, historically invasive angiography and now CTA-MRA, we use fluorescein angiography to look at perfusion of the back of the eye. We've done this since maybe the late 1960s. We have exquisite images. And interestingly, there's almost never any reduction in blood flow to the choroid in patients with nion. So the blockage cannot be in this primary vessel. It has to be somewhere downstream. Trying to walk you through where the pathology, I would say must be. Okay, here we're looking at the optic nerve head again in a scanning electron micrograph. And here is this Route 128 going around this enastomotic circle, beneath which is the so-called choroid. And you can see some branches going from this ring into the choroid. All right, so it was clear that the literature did not provide an explanation for the vascular insufficiency. This is another image that I like a lot that I use. You can see the posterior ciliary vessels on either side, some branching into the nerve head. These vessels in the orbit all come from the internal choroid. In fact, the first branch of the... Artery is the... The ophthalmic artery, it branches to provide the central retinal artery, which goes in the middle of the optic nerve. Then when it gets to the retina, it fans out. The short posterior ciliary arteries that we're gonna talk about more. Many other branches to the orbit, including all the branches to the muscle, and the artery part of the eye. But these vessels are not relevant to perfusion of the nerve head. So I wanted to look in a different way at this anatomical pathway into the nerve head. Particularly the takeoff of the ophthalmic from the carotid artery. So here with Dr. Frosch's imprimatur, and working on my grant, I've been able to go into the morgue here and remove entire orbits. This is, well, it's almost never done, ever. Because it's hard to do it. Each eye may take an hour and a half to do it carefully. But I've removed the entire orbit on block because we wanna see the blood vessels. Normally when you're in nucleate and lye, you're proud to clean it off. Because you want the eye, right? But to get the vessels, you need all of the orbital fat. Well, here you can see the eye socket is up front. This is the optic nerve, which I have reflected upward. So you can see the takeoff of the ophthalmic artery from the internal carotid artery, right there. And it's not, by the way, it's not always obvious. But this is a good example. And once in the morgue, I'm able to inject saline or dyes into the vessel directly. Here you can see I've unroofed the orbit. So that's the orbital fat. So the eye socket is filled with the eyeball muscles and mostly orbital fat. That's what it looks like. I've learned it's better to take the eye socket out and then do those injections. So let me give you an orientation. So we're looking now at the entire length of the human optic nerve. On your left is the intracranial segment. On your right, you can see the back of the eye. The green structure is the optic nerve in autofluorescence. I have injected in the back a dye that makes the blood vessel here, the ophthalmic artery red. Here's a branch, a posterior psoriasis vessel going right along the optic nerve. It's exactly what I wanted. This is March 9th in 2024. I wanna show you now, this is using a technique called light sheet fluorescence microscopy. One of the world's experts is at Harvard College. He was enormously helpful to us in taking us through the methods. No one had ever done this on a human orbit. There was one person in Paris who had done it on human eyes, the type that were cleaned up. So she had no tissue behind the nerve head. So we found each other and we have collaborated as well, Marie Darsh in Paris. So these images are all fully digitized. So we get 4D imagery. We're able to walk around. Here's the ophthalmic artery. You can see the branches of the posterior ciliary. Notice how wiggly a lot of the vessels are. That's something I'll come back to later. But in this first success, I didn't quite reach the optic nerve head. That's where I needed to be. So I modified the technique and just a short time later, this is the optic nerve now in red. Here's the short posterior ciliary. There's the back of the eyes to your left. But now look at the definition of these branches. Many, many, many more branches than I had imagined. I'm sorry, the optic nerve, I mean, the eye is here on the right. You could see all the branches going into the back of the eye. This is the auto fluorescence. This is the dye. These are the ones going now to the optic nerve head right here. So because this is all digitized, let me just show you one thing. This corkscrew vessel, the one that's showing up right here, that hotspot is where the ophthalmic artery branches to go into the optic nerve. That's the central retinal artery, making a complete loop turn before going into the optic nerve. Because this is all digitized, we know the location of, that's it. We know the location of each blood vessel and its lumen size. So on your left is the traditional teaching, the iconic image, one vessel on each side, a few branches, but this is the reality. It's vastly more complex. I mean, it even further raises the question, why would this area ever become ischemic? Not only is it filled with blood vessels in an anastomosis, but it's filled with blood vessels that supply the nerve head. So this is what we've been learning. More recently, as we further improved our techniques, now using something called immunobating, now using multiple antibodies at the same time. We're able to see not only the optic nerve, but the vessels surrounding the optic nerve in the orbital fat. Now to do this, when I get the entire orbit, I trim down the fat in the muscles. So I'm looking at a cone of orbital fat that contains the vessels that I'm interested in. That's what this represents. So there's not two major vessels. There are hundreds, if not thousands. So we're looking at the eyes rotating. This is the optic nerve head here. And now I'm gonna show you with this digitization and software optimization. We're able to have the computer find each blood vessel and do surface rendering, masking it and tracing each vessel for us. We started doing this by hand, together with a company across from the Harvard College Lab called Light IMAGING Technologies. Fantastic, they're working with us, Hand and Glove, and they were manually tracing these vessels, so laborious. But one of their recent hires had automated the technique and we've tried it and it works beautifully. Then we were able to, using this advanced technique of abenolabeling, using other methods to so-called clear the tissue to make it transparent with a laser light and higher power lenses. We're now imaging vessels at five to seven to eight microns in diameter. This is our best example yet. Here we've used three antibodies. I'll show you arteries, veins, and lymphatics. The arteries, the ones we're most interested in, the ones that'll show up in green, you get a sense of one right here. The back of the eye is to your left, so the optic nerve head is right here, and this is the optic nerve coming out. So this would be a little more confusing, but I'll walk you through it. So we're gonna rotate, and these are giant veins. Here are the arteries, the green ones. There is the optic nerve head from the inside. These are the ones we're most interested in, but here's another artery. And we're gonna rotate it, you're gonna see on the other side, we've identified many vessels at the nerve head. Right here, it's extraordinary. And now in white, these small vessels, these are lymphatics. These have never been shown throughout the human orbit, only with the standard sectioning. And in fact, when I started in ophthalmology, the teaching was that the orbit did not have lymphatics. It was Roberta Gaussis here with this wonderful publication in 2006. She's an orbital surgeon. She became interested in this topic. There was a new antibody available, the S40, and she stained human tissue and published these sections. So when we just recently showed this with the same antibody, I called her up, got the antibody. I called her up to show her our results, right? Which is, to me, it just opens up a window into the lymphatic system in the orbits and the possibility that it's related to diseases in a way that we haven't previously understood. All right, the back of the eyes to your left on the left slide, here's the optic nerve. Here's the short posterior sclerary artery's branch of it. And look at the tortuosity of these vessels. We're going into the nerve head. So you can see the computer now can trace each of those vessels. And there's a mathematical index that can define tortuosity. We haven't really explored this yet, though we'll be able to explore it. And as soon as I saw this, the question was, well, how does that perturb flow? We know that twisty vessels ultimately creates turbulence which ultimately begins to impact the health of the endothelial cells and a whole cascade of potential vascular complications. And we've discovered other odd things. Here's one vessel, if you look on your right, one vessel that then divides and then divides again and then reconstitutes near the optic nerve head. By the way, as far as we know, each of the cases we've looked at have been normal, not known to have eye disease. Well, I wanna acknowledge in particular on your left, Dranush Krasnichi, who is now a first year medical student at the Lerner School at the Cleveland Clinic, worked with me for several years and she did all of their early work with me technically superb. And now we were very fortunate to then find Yassaman here in the audience today, Averina, who joined our lab with enough overlap that we were able to transfer the techniques. So these two individuals have really enabled this work and deserve special credit. Thank you. So with this mathematical foundation, you see we can plot each vessel and its branches and the lumen size.  but our goal is not just to create pretty pictures. I really want to understand the blood flow dynamics in the optic nerve head. Now, no one has really done this or small blood vessels in humans for a variety of reasons. First off, it's super complex. I mean, you have to have faithful anatomical data to do it, but until we've had light sheet microscopy, there was no way to really do this, but that's our goal. And for this, I'm working with the Dassault-Système's company. This is a French multinational, multi-billion-dollar company, which right here in Route 128 has 1,000 employees. We became connected about four years ago and they have attached four engineers who work with me. We meet every other week. And they are using not only their expertise, but they have proprietary software. This is a mechanical engineering company. Initially, they designed the French Mirage Jet Fighter, but the company now has many branches and they became interested in biomedicine some years ago. They didn't have anyone working on the eye and that's how we found each other. So not only do they have extraordinary software, hyper complex software, they have enormous computational power. And so we thought it's a potential opportunity to work together. And here, what we're doing is using what is a standard for people studying blood flow. This publication that's looking at blood flow in the human retina, where we use basic electrical circuit design, right? Capacitors, resistors. This is the best methodology known to date about how to assess blood flow. Now, this group that did this work by far, as best I can tell, probably the most successful company, a group in the world doing it. And we've recently connected with them and we've agreed to begin collaborating so we can learn from them. They've worked on retinal flow, but not optic nerve head flow. And so, we're finding an opportunity for synergy there. One of the real challenges in doing blood flow through very small blood vessels is that the flow becomes non-Newtonian. That's a completely different computational challenge. And one of the people at the SOC STEMS has published on non-Newtonian flow. So even at that level, we'll be able to ultimately, I hope, understand the flow dynamics of the optic nerve head. So how might that be relevant? Well, this type of age-related white matter disease in the brain, we see all the time, we hardly pay attention to it, right? We say age-related vascular path to change, right? This is flow through small blood vessels in the brain. So I think the implications of understanding perfusion through small vessels matters, not only for the eye, but for the brain, for the kidney and possibly for the heart. So our hope is that we're developing a blood flow model that will be able to be used in different systems in the brain. In this beautiful image, here you can see the human optic nerve, the central artery and vein. Here's our ability to trace all of the branches of the vessels coming from the Pia into the optic nerve. For the first time ever in doing the studies that we've done, we've identified by EM the circle of Zinhaler. We've not published this yet, but here you can see a part of the circle. You can see where we've gotten it from, this Tuller-Wing Blue picture of the optic nerve head of the human. But this is the circle of Zinhaler. Tachana Jacobs at Scapens is the one who's responsible for this, but we work together. Her immediate question was whether this arterial circle is invested in the same way with smooth muscle actin or perisites. In other words, it's possible that it has a different auto regulatory capacity that may impact how it can adjust to changes in systemic blood pressure. Okay, well, you know, in all of our careers, you try to figure a way forward. You develop a strategy. I had Simmons on the clinical side. I had Dick Masl on the other. I created a path that I was interested in over decades. Right? Well, not too long ago, sitting at this table in our office, I was with the residents and I told them about a patient I had just seen who had Nion, who was on Mugovia. As I was telling the story, a woman, a younger resident walks in from the emergency room. She goes, I just saw a case like that in the emergency room. And the next week I saw a third case. I said, well, this is, there's something, there's smoke here, we need to figure it out. And we began to work with the specialist at the Harvard School of Public Health to design a study which we ultimately published in July of 2024. It's completely changed my career because it has significant systemic implications in a way that my work had never really had before. I mean, maybe MS optic arthritis, but that's still in the neurological realm, but this is a much more generalized effect. I wanna acknowledge Tatiana Hathaway who began to work with me and then was our fellow last year in neuro-ophthalmology this year. She's a fellow in oculopathology following in the footsteps of David Kogan. And she is hopefully going to stay with us going forward. So this article, which was the most widely read article in general of ophthalmology in 2024, was conducted only in our clinic. We looked at patients over six years and did a typical kind of study where we're looking at ozempic, the first FDA approved drug widely used anyway, and we gov, breaking down our patients, looking at those who were being treated with the GLP-1 receptor agonist rather diabetes or because of obesity, dividing into those who had used one of these drugs versus being treated for diabetes, let's say, with non-GLP-1 drugs, and the same approach for those who were overweight. We then performed a typical matching, a one-to-one matching, and in the end, look for how many patients who were treated with semi-glutide or not develop nion who had diabetes or those who were obese. So here's the life table analysis on the bottom is time and the survival probability for nion at the top. And you can see in blue that over time, at least after six months, more and more people began to develop nion, and I'll magnify that. And you can see that in particular, the effect that we found was not present shortly after the medicine was started, but really between six and 12 months. The hazard ratio that we found for the diabetics was 4.3. Why confidence intervals? Because, well, we didn't have all that many patients. Remember, it was just done in my clinic. When we looked at patients who were being treated for obesity, we found the curve was almost identical, though the hazard ratio was even higher. By the way, the patients who were being treated for obesity were even younger, they were younger than the patients being treated for diabetes, and yet the hazard ratio was higher. So we reported these hazard ratios. It stirred a hornet's nest, believe me. There are more than 10 studies that have now been done worldwide looking at this. Now, in that study, we acknowledged that we had selection bias. When here we are in a neurophemology clinic at a significant eye hospital, right? This is where the patients are gonna come. So we knew our hazard ratio was too high, but we had the secret sauce that all of the cases were diagnosed by one of our faculty neurophemologists, and we manually reviewed every chart. Notably, there's no ICD diagnostic code for NION. So if you just do a database search, you're not gonna be able to find the diseases. It's gonna be confounded by other ischemic optic neuropathies. Well, we had a lot of support and some people who are grumpy about our findings, and we understood what the limitations were working together with pharmacoepidemiologists at Harvard, particularly Elizabeth de Patorno. We published a second paper just recently looking at the same thing, but now on a massive scale nationwide, looking at active comparative drug, SGLT, two inhibitors. A drug class that's used to treat diabetics roughly at the same level of severity. There's another way of trying to match. So we had, as you can see here, 685,000 people on GLP-1, 700 plus thousand on SGLT. We did the matching, and in the end, this is the curve. It's inverted, of course. And you can see how much the curve of people being treated with GLP-1 drugs compared to SGLT-2 inhibitors. You can see that they diverge at three months and become unquestionably separated. The hazard ratio here was 1.85. So lower than what we anticipated. Remember the graph I showed you of the six to 12 month time period for our first cases? The mean follow-up time in this study was just under six months. So in other words, I think if we had followed the patients longer at the time that we did the study, if we went back and did the study, for instance, my guess is that we'd find a higher hazard ratio. So my best estimate right now is that the hazard ratio is probably in the range of two or a little higher, although the absolute risk remains relatively small. But people who don't take GLP-1 drugs compared to those who do, it's a significant increase almost to for patients who do or do not take the medicine. But the absolute risk that you're gonna develop, NION is still relatively small. Well, yeah, I said this changed my life. It was amazing, the attention that this article received. It was unbelievable. And it continues. And again, in a sense, I find it beneficial because it has focused a lot of attention on the visual system, on blindness, on the potential relevance of these drugs to NION, a condition whose etiology we don't understand. So that's where we are. And in less than a year and a half, the country of Denmark, the country is compensating patients who become blind from being on GLP-1 receptor agonists. It's an astonishing turn of events in less than 18 months. All right, I'm gonna share with you is the first time I'm doing this publicly. My hypothesis for NION. You know, at the beginning, we always have to have the conflict of interest slide. A couple of years ago, I added another slide that I called my intellectual conflict of interest. I mean, here I am speaking on NION, my intellectual conflict of interest that I didn't understand the cause of NION. Right, and it really got under my skin. I mean, I felt like after all the work, I still wasn't really moving forward conceptually. But I think recently, I have a new idea, maybe an insight that I wanna share. And it comports with a reasonable contributing factor for NION. And this is the title for the article that I hope to write soon. Is the risk of NION tied to an evolutionary Gordian knot? Gordian knot, something that's inscrutable. So here's the issue. The axons of the optic nerve begin, the retinal ganglion cell axons, they begin in the retina. And they extend roughly 80 millimeters down the optic nerve in the chiasm. And then they divide to go to the lateral genicotone on both sides. These are very long axons. I mean, not as long as others, but in the corticospinal, but these are relatively long axons. But the ischemic events only occur here in the left circle, red circle. The ischemic events only occur in the first five millimeters of the optic nerve. And by the way, NION is the second most common optic neuropathy in middle age and older adults. Glaucoma by far and away the most common. And it has been suggested for decades, including by Dr. Heyre, that it may have a vascular basis. And I strongly believe that that's true for a lot of people with glaucoma. So there's another kind of disease, maybe smaller vessels at the nerve head. But one almost never sees an ischemic event behind the optic nerve head along this huge length of optic nerve. You don't see ischemia back there almost ever. Oh, come. Well, that entire stretch of tissue receives blood supply from the peer. So on your left, you can see the dark red. This is the peer of the optic nerve. And you can see branches going into the optic nerve. Okay. That peel circumferential supply is what gives blood to the entire after a visual pathway up to the lateral geniculate. And it's also present at the optic nerve head, which is what I'm showing you on the left. So it more than adequately protects 95% of the length of the axolens. But even though it's present at the nerve head, you strokes, the ischemic events occur there. Further more, as I showed you before, the nerve head has that enasomotic circle. Here, another scanning electro micrograph of the optic nerve head filled with vessels like the red image that I showed you a few slides ago surrounded by the circle of Zinhauer. So the Gordian knot, even though we have this rich profusion of peel vessels that are more than adequate for the rest of the optic nerve, and there's an enasomotic circle, this is the location where a schemia occurs. Remember, these are supplied all by the short posterior ciliary arteries. And here's the coroid underneath the retina. And on the left, you can see the coroid, this sort of honeycomb like structure. And on the right, the coroid and human, it's like a giant marsh, huge capacity to receive blood. Remember, all the arterial blood going into the eye has to leave by way of the vortex veins. It goes through the coroid and out the veins. So it's a huge blood flow. So what happens? Here's what I think is going on. I think it's a dynamic shift in perfusion. So I mentioned that the central artery brings blood into the retina, huge volume of blood, and all of that blood returns through the central retinal vein. To get that flow of blood out, the outflow resistance is something like three millimeters of mercury. Really low pressure. You get the blood in, you wanna get it out. And you do that by having very low pressure. The coroid, imagine the entire back of the eye. The optic nerve only accounts for a very small percent of the area of the entire back of the eye. The rest of the back of the eye receives blood into the coroid. So it's a huge volume of flow. And it too extracts that blood through so-called vortex veins in the periphery, which also have an extremely low outflow resistance. But the branch that goes into the circle of Zinhauer, that's an arterial branch. It's receiving supply from the other side as well, under arterial pressure. I mentioned earlier that most everyone accepts the fact that low blood pressure in some way triggers an eye on. So here's my conceptualization. It's purely schematic. It's not quantitative data that I've measured. So if you look at this graph on the left as being a reflection of the arterial pressure in the body, think of the short poster ciliary artery, and we know the pressure in that in humans is roughly around 70, I'd say a mean arterial pressure. And it's gonna divide into branches that go into the nerve head, into the circle of Zinhauer, and then into the coroid. So if you'll see the graph go down, if the blood pressure begins to fall, there's gonna be reduced perfusion into the circle and the nerve head. But it's still getting there. But if the blood pressure falls further, then there's gonna be preferential hyper perfusion of the arterialized circle, which is to say the optic nerve head is gonna be preferentially vulnerable. It's like a steel phenomenon, but one that is dynamic. And you can imagine related to reduced systemic blood pressure. I think this is an evolutionary quirk. You know, in my, now this is a pure conceptualization. I'm, you know, I don't have any evidence of this. Other species have circles, though not complete also. So you even find a circle in rodents and in non-human primates. But to me, it suggests that through evolution, there was a vulnerability of perfusion of the nerve head. And a circle began to form. And even in humans, it's often incomplete. The problem is that the same vessel that brings blood to the nerve head is tasked with supplying blood to the coroid. And it can't, in my view now, I don't think it can do all three adequately all the time. I think it's subject to perturbation. Lastly, I'd like to end with a potential treatment. So when I entered the field of neuroephthalmology, in fact, when I was interviewing to become director of neuroephthalmology service, I said I wanted to do two things. One was I wanted to bring together neuroephthalmologist across the Harvard system. I wanted us to work as a group, particularly in the education of our fellows, but also in terms of developing a team that can think and work together. And that has happened. We now have 13 neuroephthalmologists across the Harvard system. The second thing is I wanted to develop a field that I call therapeutic neuroephthalmology, which was a complete misnomer. I mean, there was no therapy for neurological blinding diseases, but that's what I wanted to do. And that's what led when I was with Dick Maslin, thought of the opportunity of using prosthetic microelectronic implants to restore vision, which I did for 30 plus years at MIT. And, but my notion was I wanted to take our field, neuroephthalmologist from being, being the best diagnosticians that we can be. To offering the potential to treat disease. So I bet my cards on a prosthetic engineered solution early in my career. And we could debate whether that was the right thing to do or not. But I think even at this point, there are some now new biological solutions through genetics that have been really impactful. But also prosthetic implants have helped people, particularly with macular degeneration interestingly, although it's still a field in evolution. But quite unexpectedly, maybe now five plus years ago, I became aware of the work by Yamanaka in Japan, for which you won a Nobel Prize in 2012. He recognized that in vitro, if you modify the function of four genes, that he could take mature cells and turn them into pluripotent stem cells, Nobel Prize. When this was tried in vivo, it created teratomas. Now, David Sinclair, many of you may know him at Harvard Med School. He was at MIT even earlier in his career. And he came to recognize and develop the strategy of modifying three of the Yamanaka factors, partial reprogramming, it's called. And when he did that, you could use the strategy in vivo without causing tumors. This had never been tried in the visual system before, and so they came to our group at Scape and Zyre Research Institute at Mass Eye and Ear. And it led to this wonderful publication in nature, where they use three different mouse models, treated them with this so-called OSK, the three modified factors. These are intravitral injections, two AAVs, I'll explain why in a moment. And it increased the retinal ganglion cell survival and enhanced the electrophysiology of these cells, the so-called patterned electrorhetnogram. In mice, you can measure quantitatively, objectively, visual acuity, which was done. And the point is that when you modify the methylation of genes, you so-called rejuvenate cells. As we all age, the amount of methylation increases over time. And the correlation between your chronological age and the methylation age of your genes is like 0.99. And it's been shown, I think, in over 100 species now. There's absolutely no question about this correlation, much more so than the telomeres that I learned in medical school. And the concept, interestingly, in relevant to neurology, epigenetics and MS has been looked at for more than a decade, is that an injury ages a cell. It hypermethalates in response to injury. And that was the concept that they used for this nature paper, that if you injure a nerve tissue, but you can make the tissue younger, rejuvenate it, that it might be more capable of withstanding the injury. It was a brilliant conceptualization. Turned out to be true in mice. Well, we've pursued it, we. Life Biosciences based here in Boston. It's a startup company based upon David Sinclair's work. The company and I have worked together for more than four years. It's been a great relationship. We have now, we have done two sets of non-human primates, 20 and 20, so a total of 40 monkeys using a laser induced model of Nion. I don't love this model, but it's the best, the most widely accepted model for Nion. And you can see by using the laser, you can create swelling and hemorrhaging on the nerve head in a monkey. By transfecting here, intravascular injections, you can transfect something like 10 to 25% of retinal ganglion cells, mostly in the region of the posterior pole, in the region of the macular. Here's the optic nerve head. You can see the retinal ganglion cell bodies here. So this is, it's gonna be hard to appreciate, but I just want to show you some images. You can look at the monkey optic nerve head. The dark represents myelin. This is a paraphernaline diamine stain. That's with no injury. And this is what happens when you do the Nion model without treatment. You can see how variable the size, how irregular the size of these injured axons with their myelin sheaths. And with treatment, in general, you see that they look better. And of course, you can quantify this, and it shows to be statistically significant. It's another way of looking at it. It's quite remarkable. If one takes the retina, looking at the retinal ganglion cells, here the yellow column is a tissue that had been lasered and injured, and the yellow represents hypermethylation. And here the last three columns, three dosing of the vector, and it's become more like its normal left column before injury. In other words, the treatment very substantially reduces the methylation. And again, the term is that it rejuvenates these cells and makes them more capable of responding to injury. Here we're looking at the anatomy of control versus vehicle. And you can see the difference here in the treated animals, a small number. This is the first 20 that we did. And when you look at the pattern electro retinogram, you can see that the red, which is the treated, is statistically better, which is to say a larger percentage of surviving retinal ganglion cells. So our conclusions here is that we can transfect cells. It's interesting because I said there were two AAV vectors. The second is a promoter for doxycycline. So you can turn on these three genes when you take doxycycline, and the genes almost completely turn off when you stop. So the idea is to treat patients for a two week course of doxycycline to turn on these genes. And with this information, we now will begin a first in human epigenetic trial at Mass Ionere for both Nion and Glaucoma. One question that Sharon Rosenweil-Glipson asked me is how quickly do we have to treat? And I said, well, look, it's a stroke of the optic nerve. I mean, we can measure by OCT within 10 days, you lose ganglion cells. But I realized that no one had actually looked over time. And it turns out that if you follow patients with Nion, the thickness of the retinal ganglion cell layer declines over three months, even though the vision doesn't fail, it suggests that there are retinal ganglion cells that hang on for months that are potentially able to be rescued. We don't know that for sure, but that's what the clinical study will allow us to investigate. I wanna end by saying that we have recently a new chairman of ophthalmology, Dr. Rishi Singh. Really wonderfully trained with us. We all have known him. He was just, it started very recently. And three or four weeks ago, I made a proposal to him to establish a translational optic nerve research center. We have many people in the ophthalmology department who do science and clinical work related to the optic nerve. And some of us have found one another, like Tatana and Jacobs and I and others. But collectively, we didn't have a presence. We weren't thinking together. And so he agreed to allow us to establish this and even supported it with seed funding. I wanted to bring this up to you because you have many scientists in your department of neurology who are working on optic nerve. I spoke to Tinozha just a couple of days ago and Michael Levy. And you have clinicians and scientists working on inflammatory optic nerve disease. There are other people at Mass Eye Near working on inflammation of the optic nerve, but none of that is coordinated. And so I hope this is a call to anyone who's potentially interested in working with us on visual disorders. We could surely benefit from some of your scientific expertise and it will open up opportunities for collaboration. And lastly, NANO is the North American Neurophalamic Society meeting for the first time is in Boston in March. If you're interested, my email is at the bottom. Let me know. Just yesterday I was talking to them about the possibility of being able to get trainees in at no cost. It's a fabulous meeting. Very fun as well. This is Taiz Estrella, one of our new faculty members in neuro-optimology. Thank you very much. Let me just say, why this picture? I'm not sure there was a hint in the first slide. So Zinn, a circle of Zinn holler, was an anatomist and an artist and a botanist. So the Zinnia is named after Zinn. Thank you very much. I'm happy to take any questions, yeah. Joe, thank you very much. And that truly was a tour de force. I wanna say also that what a pleasure it is to have you back. We won't wait 25 years. And having known you since I was a resident, I just speak to it. I just have always appreciated your collaborative spirit and your thoughtfulness. And so it's great to have you back. It's great to see your center being formed. And I hope we can have some collaboration with that center. One of the things you mentioned earlier is as I recall that there's a risk of, was it 25% or 30%? 31% the second eye. Other eye. I know. So how do you square that with sort of strut? Is it, so how is the... This model that you proposed, it has to be kind of operative actually in both eyes, right? Yeah, well, you landed on a critical, almost break point in the way we all have conceptualized this. So, yeah, with the systemic drop in blood pressure bleed to trigger myon, you would think that it would be in both eyes frequently. And that's almost never the case. Unless you have massive systemic hypotension or hypovolemia, GI bleed or something like that. Yeah, I think this is one of the peculiarities. And I mentioned that there were two factors that everyone believes in, the small cup to disc ratio and the hypotension. The small cup to disc ratio is nearly identical between both eyes of an individual. So that's why there has to be some local factor that is making one side more vulnerable to the other. My suspicion, I told you I was going to tell you what I think the issue is. Bye.  I think it's the circle of Zinheller, because we know it's often incomplete. And so I think, given that, presumably, it's there to help provide perfusion, if you have hypertension and a less competent arterial circle on one side, you may be more vulnerable to ischemia. And the reason why I say that is because the process cannot be within the nerve head, because we know it's filled with blood vessels, there's no sectoral division. It has to be a feeding vessel, but we know it's not in the posterior ciliary vessels, because the corroid is not hyper-perfused in nion. So it has to be a branch going into the nerve head, but it can't be, if you will, within the nerve head. The circle of Zinheller is in the sclerum that surrounds the nerve, and it has branches that go into the nerve head. So my suspicion is that it has to do with perfusion into and out of the circle of Zinheller. That's why Tatiana's observation that there may be a difference in the amount of muscle or perhaps perisites, this idea that there may be some local dysregulation in response to low pressure is what attracts me right now. But that's a perfect question, really, is that. Thanks for the really lovely talk, Joe. And to come back to the anatomy piece, which is intriguing. When I think about vasculature supply in the eye and the optic nerve, one of the things that's key, and I think it's why you have that tortuosity, is that the location of the globe moves. And unlike the rest of the optic nerve. And so I'm just wondering about whether as you model this, is the degree of tortuosity, is there an optimal one? If it's two, not enough, it's taught. But if it's overly redundant, as you move the globe, do you have the propensity to essentially pinch those feeding vessels? And if you looked, and so one question would be, who do you study who doesn't move their eyes? So it's people with, you know, current sayers and the like. Is there any populations are small, but if you look at people with ophthalmoplegia, are they in a sense protected? Because they aren't basically distorting and pushing the eyes in the funding in off the neutral position where you'd expect the... Because your autopsy is basically at a neutral position. And it would be very hard to be able to try and mimic how those changed over time. But you might be able to, in fact, by pinning one end and doing torsion on the globe to sort of see how vessels distort in your light energy. I love this, but you see the advantage of, you know, cross-department presentations like this. Thank you. Yeah, so I too thought that the wiggliness must be related to high movement. You get your eyes make a couple hundred thousand saccades a day. So my hypothesis was, well, if we look further back in the orbits, it's going to be less wiggly. That's why the first image I showed you, I pointed out the wiggliness. It wasn't as dramatic further back, but I also showed you the central lottery, which is halfway in the orbit. And even there, the vessel may figure a term. So I don't know what to think of it. And I began to question, well, you know, even if it's related to motion, how can that happen? And more than a year ago, I called the head vascular pathology, and I'm unfortunately drawing a blank on his name. And he said to me immediately, well, the vessels can't elongate. Right. So if they're wiggly, it's not like that they can grow in that, in that way. So I'm a bit stymied and I'd love to talk with you more about it. But I agree. I am very suspicious. And I've been in contact with Bruce Rosen. They about a year and a half ago by seven Tesla MRI were able to image. He thought posterior cedars vessels. And so I wanted to return to him. And I hadn't thought about looking at these vessels with respect to eye position. But what a great idea. Yeah. Thank you. Any question now? Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. One online from Dr. Villadeau. His comment and question was if there's any similarities between the lumbar plexus, mainly because the neuromuscular group here has found an association between GLP one and a diabetic myotrophy. So they're interesting. Yeah. I do not know. Love to chat with you about it. How interesting. Oh, so, um, so I do remember now an article that Mark before shared with me. Maybe it was with respect to a monoritus multiplex in the context of the drugs. I'm not sure. But yes, thank you very much. I'd love to talk to you more about that. Yeah. By the way, diabetic retinopathy worsens in these drugs. Frequently, but it happens within weeks when the hemoglobin A, when C levels plummet. So that's a mechanism of impact, but it doesn't have any long term effects. But that's surely not the case here because ours occur at six to 13 months mostly. Thank you for the imitation. I really appreciate it. Thank you.