 n рассказыв рассказыв рассказыв рассказыв рассказыв рассказыв рассказыв рассказыв рассказыв рассказыв Family Learning Center at Mass General. Today's program is part of our Paving the Path to Wellness series, a special collaboration between the Blum Center and Paving the Path to Wellness program within lifestyle medicine at Mass General Brigham Cancer Institute. Before we get started, I want to go a few items with you all. Please note that today's session is being recorded for educational purposes. If you're interested in viewing the recording, it'll be made available on the Blum Center website at massgeneral.org forward slash Blum hyphen center. Please note that you are in listen only mode. Everyone has news from here at guest speakers today. If you have any questions or comments you'd like to share, you may do so in the chat, which is located at the bottom of your screen. We'll have time for them throughout the session. Only Blum Center staff and our guest speakers will see your questions. Please do not share any personal medical information or questions in the chat. If you have a personal medical question, please ask your doctor. Lastly, at the end of today's session, you'll be directed to a brief survey, which you'd like to ask if it's complete. Your feedback is important to us as we plan future programs. All right, so joining us today, we have Dr. Amy Commander and Dana Haggett. Dr. Commander is the Director of Lifestyle Medicine, and Dana is an oncology nurse practitioner, also with the Lifestyle Medicine program. We are also joined by our very special guest, who is a Paving graduate, Sherry. And they are all here today to lead a session on Paving the Way Forward, Finding Meaning and Purpose After Cancer. So please join me in welcoming them. Thank you so much, Amy, for that kind introduction. And I'm so grateful to participate in this session, along with my amazing colleague, Dana and Sherry as well, who's a Paving graduate. So I'm going to pull up our slides because we're going to start with a few slides to introduce this topic. So as you noted, the title of our session today is Paving the Way Forward, Finding Meaning and Purpose After Cancer. And Dana is going to kick us off. Good afternoon, Paving community. We are so happy that we're so happy to be here today with all of you and the Blum Center to focus today on purpose after a cancer diagnosis and going through treatment. So let's start off with this quote from the legendary Jane Goodall, what you do makes a difference and you have to decide what kind of difference you want to make. Next slide. Thank you. So I want to remind everyone who is returning what exactly the Paving the Path of Wellness program is. And for those of you who are joining the series for the first time, this is the framework that we use for our program. So Paving was started by Dr. Beth Fradys. She is an international leader in lifestyle medicine. She's trained in physical medicine and rehabilitation. And she developed this program when she was caring for stroke patients at Spalding Rehabilitation Hospital. So the mission of Paving is to provide patient education with, sorry, patient education about evidence-based lifestyle interventions with a goal to promote health, well-being, and improve outcome after completion of initial treatment for cancer. With the goals to empower cancer survivors with evidence-based tools from lifestyle medicine to optimize health after completion of primary cancer treatment. To the right of the slide, you will see the mnemonic paving steps. In lifestyle medicine, there are six pillars. But in paving, we do six pillars plus. We focus on the 12 following topics, starting with physical activity, attitude, variety, investigations, nutrition, goals, stress, resiliency, time outs, energy, purpose, sleep, and social connection. Next slide. So you will see in this broader picture that purpose falls within the topic of how to live with a joyful heart during cancer. Next slide. Our objectives today will be to provide you with a definition of purpose and why it matters after cancer diagnosis. We're going to review the role of purpose in your everyday life. And we're going to share with you strategies to identify your purpose. So Amy, take it out, take it away, please. Thank you so much, Dana, for sharing that introduction and how purpose fits into the paving the path to wellness framework. I will note that this topic comes later in our program, but it is usually one of the most meaningful discussions that we have in our program. And that's why we were really looking forward to sharing with you today, how we think about this topic for individuals for the history of cancer. So you might wonder, why does this topic purpose matter in oncology? Well, interestingly, there's significant research that does highlight the importance of identifying one's purpose along the cancer journey. And there are studies that have shown that individuals who maintain or discover a sense of purpose after a diagnosis of cancer often experience improved psychological outcomes, such as lower levels of anxiety and depression, improved life satisfaction, and overall improvements in functioning. This is really important for anyone who's been through cancer treatment or cancer survivorship or living with cancer. And that's why we really want to highlight this topic today. Additional research has shown that peer support and educational programs, such as the Paving the Path to Wellness program and other survivorship programs, are able to strengthen the sense of purpose for individuals with a history of cancer. In a large organizational body called the National Comprehensive Cancer Network, of which Mass General is part of this organization, NCCN recognizes that addressing spiritual needs, which include the search for meaning and purpose, are important for quality of life and satisfaction with oncology care. Another important concept to contemplate as we discuss the role of purpose after a diagnosis of cancer is post-traumatic growth. And I've learned so much about this concept for my psychology colleagues. So what do we mean by post-traumatic growth? This refers to positive psychological changes that can emerge after experiencing a life-altering challenge, such as a diagnosis of cancer. We know that a cancer diagnosis often brings fear and uncertainty, but in addition, many cancer survivors or individuals living with cancer discover new strengths, deeper connections, and a greater appreciation for life. This growth often includes a reevaluation of priorities and a shift in perspective and can lead to a renewed or transformed sense of purpose. A leader in thinking about this concept of purpose and meaning after significant challenge is Dr. Viktor Frankl. He's the author of this book, Man's Search for Meaning, and of course he's written many other books. And I actually re-read his book as we prepared for this webinar, since this book made such a major impact on me the first time I read it many years ago. Viktor Frankl was a concentration camp survivor and later became an author and well-known psychiatrist and is the father of a psychotherapeutic discipline called logotherapy. So this is a famous quote from his book, Man's Search for Meaning. Everyone has his own specific vocation or mission in life. Everyone must carry out a concrete assignment that demands fulfillment. Therein he cannot be replaced nor can his life be repeated. Thus everyone's task is unique as is his specific opportunity to implement it. So I know this statement is very profound and often when we discuss this in our paving groups, this leads to a very interesting and insightful discussion. And I will discuss this quote more in our next slide, but I do encourage you to think about these words. And I will say in re-reading Man's Search for Meaning, it is a hard book to read. The first section very much details Dr. Frankel's experience living in a concentration camp, and that's obviously hard to read. But the later sections of the book are where he really explores the concept of logotherapy, which is how he worked with patients to help them identify their meaning and purpose in life after they've experienced a significant challenge. And a cancer diagnosis, of course, is an example of that. So I would encourage you to read more about his work. As we think about this quote, I think it's important to contemplate how your experience after a diagnosis of cancer may reshape what feels meaningful to you. Your story, what you've been through is unique and irreplaceable. And finally, recognizing your unique assignment translates into daily choices and informs how you think about your purpose. Now I'm going to turn it back over to Dana to discuss another interesting concept that we think about when contemplating purpose and meaning in life. Danae Wolfe, Thank you, Dr. Commander. So next we're going to talk about Ikigai and cancer survivorship. So Ikigai is a Japanese concept and it translates to reason for being or more simply, why do you wake up every morning? The concept represents the overlap of your passion, mission, profession and vocation. Where what you love, what you are good at, what the world needs and what you can contribute all come together. So as a cancer survivor, reflecting on Ikigai can take on a new depth and meaning. What truly matters now? Some of your purpose may remain the same while others might shift as you reevaluate your priorities, your roles, your dreams. For cancer survivors, discovering and redefining Ikigai can provide clarity, healing and motivation. It, excuse me. It sometimes helps offer a framework for finding meaning in each day. But it's not fixed. It can evolve. It can be as profound as finding a new calling or simply cherishing each morning with gratitude and intention. Next slide. Next slide. And that brings us to a lovely quote from Eleanor Roosevelt. The purpose of life after all is to live it, to taste experience to the utmost, to reach out eagerly and without fear for newer and richer experience. Next slide. So if you're having trouble identifying your purpose, you might want to consider these questions. What are your strengths? What do you enjoy? And what are your priorities? Thank you, Dana, for reviewing that so beautifully. And I think as we think about those questions and as you reflect on your unique attributes and your unique strengths, think about where you are now and where you want to go. You can also think about others who are leading with purpose and meaning in their lives. And think about what you might want to do to make the world a better place. And remember, this is a journey. I don't want people to feel overwhelmed with this concept of how does one find purpose? This is a journey. We're all learning together. As I like to say, we are all a work in progress. You are not limited to one purpose either. So, you know, there are lots of examples of strategies that individuals can use to help identify a sense of purpose. And these are some examples highlighted on this slide, which we discuss in our paving program. And another concept we talk about often is, you know, purpose sounds like this really big term. It's a little overwhelming. Gee, what is my purpose? But you can also think of purpose with a lowercase p or we call it little p purpose. What are things that I like to do each day that make a difference, that are important to me, that may help inform that larger purpose? So, for example, here are some great examples outlined here. Being kind, showing kindness to others. For example, I'm so honored to do this webinar with my colleague, Dana. Dana is one of the kindest people I know. I could share countless examples. And that is exactly how I think of Dana. She is a kind person to everyone she meets. Another example is adding joy to the life of others. We all know someone in our life who's there and always lightens up the room and brings a sense of joy and wants to cheer everyone up. And that's such a gift. And that's what I'm thinking about. Maybe one's purpose is to mentor others interested in your career path. Or thinking about that big question. How can I make the world a better place? Others may explore spirituality and deepen their practice. And that's important for them as they search for their purpose. Or supporting an organization or nonprofit that they're passionate about. There are so many great causes out there. Thinking of other ways to reduce suffering in the world. Helping those who are lonely. And obviously reaching out and loving close family and friends. Here are some other examples for how you can figure out how to identify purpose. Teaching others your hobbies. Maybe you love to go fishing and you have a friend who's never done that before. He doesn't really know what to do. So that is a wonderful example. Teaching classes that inspire others. I know I'm speaking for myself and my paving leaders who have been leading these webinars. But we all love leading these programs to help educate, inspire, and empower cancer survivors with these tools from lifestyle medicine as discussed in the paving program. Maybe working in your garden and sharing produce with your neighbors or friends is how you identify your purpose. Working for social justice. Volunteering in any kind of capacity. Helping others by donating things. Supporting your partner or other family members. Being present in the lives of your grandchildren, friends, family, work colleagues. There are so many different ways we can all reach out to others to identify purpose and bring more meaning to our lives. Another interesting concept is taken from the book The Power of Purpose to Grow and to Give for Life by Richard Leiter who's an author and executive life coach who's written many books on this topic. So if you want to take a deep dive, I would recommend looking into his work as well. But I love this concept of how do we define the good life? And here are some concepts from research that we can sort of contemplate. Living in the place you belong with the people you love. Living in the place you love. Doing the right work on purpose. And research does show, as I highlighted earlier, that individuals who believe they have a purpose in their lives are more likely to report being happy and describes themselves as living the good life. I love this quote from Pablo Picasso, and in fact, I have it on the wall of my office. The meaning of life is to find your gift. The purpose of life is to give it away. And this is another quote. I know this is a lot of text, but Dana and I both loved it, so we felt like we wanted to highlight this as we wrap up the slide portion of this webinar. And this is taken from another really interesting book by Dr. Robert Waldinger called The Good Life, Lessons from the World's Longest Scientific Study of Happiness. How interesting is that? So this is from a longitudinal study started in the, I want to say like now, I think 100 years ago, researching men who attended Harvard as well as men in Boston and serving them over the years and their families to understand what actually constitutes the good life, health, happiness, and well-being as we get older. And this quote is really meaningful. How do you move forward along on your own path towards a good life? First, by recognizing that the good life is not a destination. It is the path itself and the people who are walking it with you. We already alluded to the concept of the journey that we are a work in progress. As you walk, second by second, you can decide to whom and to what you give your attention. Week by week, you can prioritize your relationships and choose to be with the people who matter. And year by year, you can find purpose and meaning through the lives that you enrich and the relationships that you cultivate. By developing your curiosity and reaching out to others, family, loved ones, coworkers, friends, acquaintances, even strangers with one thoughtful question at a time, one moment of devoted, authentic attention at a time, you strengthen the foundation of a good life. So I love this and I know we are going to discuss these concepts further as we continue in this discussion today. So Dana, why don't you address this? What are some tools we can use to find our purpose? Thanks, Amy. I really do like that quote. I'm glad that we kept the whole thing in. So what are your gifts? What is a higher power in your life? You might want to explore religion if that suits you. Some people find journaling can be very helpful. They make gratitude journals easily available these days. And then also discussing your purpose with your friends and family because those tend to be the people that know you the best. Next slide. Okay, so Dr. Kramander already talked with us about Man's Search for Meaning as a good resource as well as the good life. There are two other books that are listed here, The Power of Purpose and The Purpose Code. But I also would love to bring attention to The Paving Workbook. I know sometimes it can be hard to see this, but excitingly, Dr. Kramander is one of the authors of The Paving Workbook. There is a general one, and then there's more recently an updated one for breast cancer survivors. So if you're interested in getting one of those, it's got a lot more information on purpose than the other 12 topics we cover in the paving program. Next slide. So thank you so much, Dana. And by the way, in the chat where you can post questions, we would love to hear other book recommendations from you for finding purpose. And here's another one on the slide. And we are so fortunate today that we are going to get to learn from the author of this book, Pre-Game, A Winning Mindset. So it'll be my privilege to introduce Sherry Levin, who is a trailblazer in the world of sports and leadership. And she's going to tell us more about herself. But she was an all-time leading scorer at Holy Cross College and then became an internationally recognized basketball coach. And her career really reflects her passion, and I'm going to add purpose, for resilience, teamwork, and positivity. And she can tell us more shortly, but she has all these incredible accomplishments. And what we are so fortunate today is that we can learn from Sherry about the lessons from her work as a coach and the other experiences in her life, as noted on the slide. She herself is a single mother. She's a breast cancer survivor. She's an incredibly resilient, insightful, brilliant person, paving graduate too. And so we're so excited that we will get to ask her questions about her reflections on purpose based on her experiences. So I'm going to stop sharing our screen so we can introduce Sherry and start the discussion. And we welcome questions, comments in the chat box that'll just make this conversation that much more insightful. Oh, there you are, Sherry. Here I am. Thank you. Can I just say thank you guys so much for doing this and including me in this really important conversation. And as I was taking copious notes, um, and I think what struck me is that the voices resonate in a different way. Like we're all kind of saying a little bit of the similar, um, versions of, of purpose and of passion in different voices. And I think that's, that's really so wonderful because sometimes something will stick and, and it's just a different voice. And so thank you guys for, for continuing to do this. It's really important. Well, we're so grateful that you have joined us today to share your voice and your perspective. So thank you so much. And I know I just gave you that introduction, but why don't you tell us a little bit about yourself and what inspired you to write your book as you think about your purpose? So I think I'm a little bit, I've always been a little bit of a storyteller. Um, and, and some of my friends laugh because when I, I start to tell a story, they're like, okay, I only have a few minutes here, Sherry, but, um, you know, my, my, my lens, if you will, as I, as I began coaching and as I work with, with students and, uh, players and gave speeches was always really kind of to wrap up my experiences, um, with kind of a purpose that would, that someone else would be able to take away with them and make their own. So the lens, my daughter used to joke that I was a pregame speech waiting to happen because, you know, just a random everyday life event. And I'll talk more about that in the book in a minute, but I could, I could turn that into a lesson, if you will. And it was really my former players that, um, really kind of gave me the impetus to say, coach, you got to write this book because later in life, the stories that I shared with them, and obviously on a daily basis, a team, when you're together with, with people for, you know, two hours a day and longer when you're traveling and you're really connecting on a different level, um, then it, then it really sticks. And they would say, oh, the lessons that you gave me, you know, 10 years ago, 20 years ago have stayed with me throughout my life. And you have to get that out there. So I, I just kind of sat quiet time aside and, and from my journals and the speeches are in my head. So, you know, they're, they're in there. Um, I just wrote them down and then through some, you know, editing created stories that went with the speeches so that it's not just about, it's not a basketball book. It's really a life lessons book. Love that. That's so amazing. I'm so impressed that the speeches were in your head. So it's not like you had them all like written on your computer somewhere that you could go back to them. Yeah. Nope. I had to, I had to do the file through the head and, and, and then write, and I'm like, which one? And then I would write them down. Yeah. Wow. Um, really interesting and inspiring for all of us. Just curious, like, I know your book, as you just stated, like blends all these, all the storytelling as well as tips and for how to get ready for the game or other challenges in life. And I'm curious, how did you think about when you decided I'm going to write this down, how did you decide to organize that? And what was your thought process and did it change as you started writing the book? So the thing that changed was, you know, the, the pregame stories sometimes and, and for all athletes and actually, you know, every day you wake up and, and you said before, like, you know, what is your, what is your purpose for that day? Right. And, and I would always tell my players, I'm like, you have an infinite amount of game days. Right. So to me this morning was a game day. Right. I knew I was going to be on this webinar. Right. So you jump out of bed, you put your feet on the floor and you're like game day. Right. I used to joke that why can't every day be game day. Right. And, and that's kind of the, the point where there are times where I really feel like I need to read my book. Like if I'm having a bed, I need to pick me up. But the, the stories sometimes are, are needed for, you know, motivation, right? If we were going to face, you know, an opponent that would be a battle the whole way, there was a different story kind of to set the, the tone of what the game would be like. And if I knew we'd win by, you know, 30, 40 points, it would be a different story. And then if I knew that, you know, for us to, to pull that one out, we would have to get every bit of ourselves. That would be a different story. And the stories were something that I like to think again, that can carry into anybody's mindset that can shift it. Right. Like we, you, you talked this whole session about, you know, finding your purpose. What is it that shifts your mindset out of a place that might, you might be struggling? What is it that can get you to the next point? And so I think in choosing which pregame speech, I got a whole nother book, by the way, of, of pregame speeches. So that'll be book two. But on, on how the stories then would connect. And I went back into my, my, you know, youth and my growing up, and I talk about my family. And, and I think those stories that, that resonate with me, we all have stories that kind of, if you had to pick out one that say, um, uh, you know, what would represent, you know, something you had to really work hard for, and then had a, had a positive result. Like everybody goes through something like that. And those are the stories that I picked to try to influence how everybody can think in life lessons. That's so insightful. Thank you so much. And just, wow. I'm curious. So obviously I got to meet you through paving. Yes. So you were in my very, very, very first paving group launched hard to believe now in 2019 and a conference room at Newton Wellesley hospital, right before COVID, by the way. So it was very lucky. It was very fortunate. Pre pandemic days. I know. And so, um, so that's how I know you, but I know well before that you were a coach, you were doing all these amazing things, but I'm curious, you know, after your cancer diagnosis, you know, how did that reshape or maybe sharpen your sense of purpose as you think about reflecting on that? Yeah. And, and probably one of the first questions that, that comes up that people will say when they, when they find out, you know, Oh, you're a breast cancer. I like to say thriver as, you know, we do survivor thriver. Um, how did it change you? Like, like that is, that is a question. And I, you know, the answer probably is similar to most. And I'd like to say that it gave me, it gave me the lens of grace and it gave me the lens of being able to let things go with clarity and the things I found that bothered me. And I held onto after the diagnosis of cancer and after going through, um, hell. Um, and I would like to say, you know, there's, there's that quote when going through hell, keep going. Right. And, um, you know, that I, that I'm like, I'm not going to, that's, it's not going to bother me anymore. You know, I'm not going to hold onto that. And the grace to say, you know what? I went through that during my journey and my personality. Um, I, I worked full time and I coached and I was that person that said, you know what? I'm, people aren't going to know, right. I am not going to know. And I'm not going to share with it with other people other than in my, my circle, my team knew, cause you know, I, I, they had to know. And there were some times I'd be sitting across from lunch with somebody and I had my wig, which looked perfectly like I just got my hair done. And they would say, Oh, your hair looks so nice today. And depending on my mood, I would just say either thank you. Or if I was a little snarky, I may say, and it's going to look the same way tomorrow too. And then, so some people didn't know in hindsight, what I, what I realized is now I'll stand up on a table and I will say, I survived. I am here. And I want to share going through it. My mentality was more to my, my athletic personality of resilience, of persevere of people. This is not going to slow me down. I'm going to push forward and I'm going to just continue to go. So the lessons learned, you know, clearly the hard way. Hopefully these lessons can be shared with people who don't have to go through something like that. Right. And it's the idea of really look at a, you know, you talk about giving grace to yourself. Like not everything is like you say, the destination it's along the way. It's a long journey that we're here for. And giving grace when, when things are not going your way, how can you get out of it and how can you pivot and how can you change that? So, um, lots of, lots of life lessons built in with that. And, um, so here we are. And by the way, the, the paving the path to wellness program, and I'm so fortunate I was able to be in that and we, and we were in person and I would come back and, you know, run in after practice and on, on the evenings that it was there. And, um, it, it, I would say it kind of reaffirmed like the things that I kind of knew, but then to see you all with the research and the backup and the, uh, the ideas and to be part of that group, uh, was really, truly a magical time. So thank you all for that. Oh, thank you. It was so wonderful to have you in that group. I'm still reflecting on that. It feels like it wasn't seven years ago, but it kind of was hard to believe. Dana, did you have a question for Sherry? I saw you unmuted. So I didn't want to. Yeah. Yeah. Sherry, what you just said is, is so helpful to hear. And I want you to be with me in all of my clinic visits with patients that are getting treated for their cancers or, or alongside me doing a paving session, because I feel like so many of the things that you said, I say, but I do think when it's someone who has already gone through it, I think it carries so much more weight. Um, and people really appreciate, um, hearing it from someone who's already gone through it before. So keeping that in mind and your unique role that you're a coach, are there any of your sort of like go-to pep talks or, or maybe one from your book that you might share with someone who's going down to the infusion unit for their very first chemotherapy treatment, or they're waiting for, you know, results or something where anxiety might be high. Yes. And, and, you know, in thinking about that, um, I don't want to say all of them because not quite all of them would, would resonate with that. Um, and, and by the way, you have my email and my phone, so reach out anytime. Um, the, you know, the, the, the biggest one I could probably say is, um, stronger together. Um, I know it's kind of a catchphrase, um, but we don't go through cancer alone. Um, it is relying on loved ones, relying on friends, relying on your doctors, my oncologist, uh, Dr. Michael Hassett and my primary care, Dr. Jonathan Snyder were there with me. They still hold my hand. Um, the journey is something that is still with me. And, and I, I would say still with me on a daily basis that it doesn't somehow come up, but it comes up in an entirely different mindset. So when you're experiencing that anxiety of the unknown, when you're experiencing the fear and, and it's, it's an incredibly daunting experience, relying on others, um, is something that is really crucial. And, and I would say, um, there's another pregame speech that I talk about, um, you know, your head, your heart, and your guts and needing all three. And sometimes they conflict, but, but, and, and I use a track and field reference actually with that. And, you know, I used to be a sprinter and a hundred meters was, you know, your head was the part you practice in the first 10 meters. Your guts was, you know, the 80 meters and your heart had to carry you through to the finish line. And I think those three, um, are needed in every part of the decision. Um, and, and then finally the last one would be, uh, what three 12 is, is a story about a team that I had in 2006. We were undefeated, uh, from Worcester Academy and it was the semifinals. We were down by nine points with three minutes and 12 seconds to go. That's a hard comeback. For, for girls, high school basketball. And we did, and we won the game and, and, and we ended up, you know, completing the undefeated season and three 12 to all of us collectively as a team represents the idea of, you can do it right. You can be resilient, you can push forward. And, um, you know, candidly in going through the treatments, I was, I was essentially halfway done. And I, I said to my daughter who was my rock, um, in her senior year in high school that, that her mom was going through this. And I said, I don't think I can do another one. And she kind of looked at me and, you know, clearly being in the locker room all those years and hearing my speeches had stuck with her. And she said, mom, you can do it. You are halfway through. You are closer to the finish line than you are to the start. You can do this. I'm here with you. And, and that kind of mentality, um, even, even coming from, you know, a loved one is something that is in the book and, and, and hopefully can take you, you know, through those hard and challenging times, which we all have. So by the way, Dana, fellow Holy Cross crusader, right? Like, yay. Yes. We figured that out before this webinar started that commonality between you two. I love it. Um, Sherry. Wow. Like what I love everything you just shared. And that's just such an amazing story to the three 12, but you really do focus on the importance, as you said, about like finding your people, your support network. You mentioned how much your daughter supported you. And of course I had to, Dana, I have my book here too. This is our paving book specifically focused on breast cancer survivorship. And of course, in the introduction, we talk a lot about what is lifestyle medicine and why is that important for individuals who are going through cancer treatment and Sherry, you just highlighted like social connection, social support is a key pillar of lifestyle medicine. And in addition to physical activity and nutrition and restorative sleep and stress management and avoiding risky substances, but like, you know, the social connection, the social support, finding your people, the people who are going to get you through and just give you these pep talks that you're highlighting for us. Like that is so important. And that was one of the gifts by the way of leading your group back in 2019, seeing how you all bonded with each other. You all had this shared, I mean, you can reflect on it cause you were the one experiencing it, but it was pretty amazing to witness how you all immediately just felt like you found your people. Yeah. There's definitely something to be said for, um, and you just said it, you know, finding your people, but you know, when you're talking about the experience and, and it was very authentic place and everybody, buddy, truly, you know, shared, um, you know, personal experiences. But when you're, when you're talking to somebody who has kind of been in that space, it does feel like, you know, yeah, I can share. Right. And then, and then, so, so the information on a, on a weekly basis, um, or bi-weekly, weekly, bi-weekly, um, was, you know, truly something that, that stuck, right. It didn't go, you know, like, Oh, whatever. No, you really did the workbook and you, and you did your things and you reflected. Um, I also joined, uh, two other groups. Um, I had never rowed before. Um, my daughter was a rower at CRI and here, here's a plug for We Can Row Boston. And she saw a flyer. So this is before everything online. She saw a flyer on the bulletin board that, you know, was about We Can Row Boston, which we joked that it's the best group you never want to be a part of because it's for rowers who have had breast cancer. And I never rowed before. My daughter's like, mom, you'd be great. You should try it. I'm like, okay. So I did, um, that, that, and, and I had the, the incredible experience, um, of, of rowing in the head of the Charles, uh, with the, the, uh, rowing survivors network, um, with the We Can Row Boston group. And excuse me, that, um, that experience of, of again, being with another group, we don't talk about it. It's, it's not like, you know, we show up and go, Hey, how's your thing? How's your, how are you feeling? You know, your hands are sore, your back, whatever. Um, but we all had an understanding and it was a way to gain, you know, physical strength, um, and confidence. And then I joined, um, part of a group called, uh, Haymakers for Hope, uh, which was boxing. No, I did not hit anybody. I hit the bag, but I hit the bag really hard sometimes. And that's a fabulous program. They do incredible research, uh, for all types of cancer. And, um, you know, that was a program where again, you kind of go and you, and you forget about, you know, the extra weight that you had, you know, gained from chemo and, and the, and the, and the drugs and the drugs that you're on and how it makes your joints feel. And you kind of lose that in, in the idea of, you know, I'm going to continue to get stronger and stronger. Um, so yes, um, your social network, the groups that you can align yourself with to help. Um, I, I am so glad you reminded me of your passion for those organizations, but that's just a great example of strategies you can use to get support. Also find your purpose. I mean, Sherry, you've taken a leadership role in the week we can grow, right? I mean, I know you're thinking on the board, right? Of that organization. So yeah, yeah. I was the president. So vice president, you know, it was one of those things. And I do have to kind of laugh because I showed up for my first practice. What did I know with my basketball type gear, which were baggy mesh shorts and a t-shirt. And, you know, my coach came up to me afterwards, uh, you know, uh, Molly Jordan, who I just love because she, she really gave me my initial, you know, love for, for rowing and teaching me how to do a new sport and said, he pulled me aside and it goes, um, Sherry, you're going to need to have different wardrobe. I'm like, what do you mean? Like, you know, and she says, the shorts will get caught in the, you know, in the seat going forward. You got to have like spandex or leggings or something, which I don't think at the time I, I owned a pair. So, um, yeah, I had, I had to kind of switch that, uh, wardrobe. Thank goodness. I didn't get caught in the slide though. Um, that first time, but yeah, that's so funny, but I love that. So yeah, the rowing groups, the boxing, I've heard all about Haymakers for Hope too. And I think some of my patients have actually, I'm remembering one of my patients did do it with them. And, um, I've done boxing one time and I have to say it was super, super great workout and super fun. So I can see how doing it with that organization would be really, really fun and finding this great community. So I hope it's okay. Um, Siri, I'm so glad you highlighted all these different resources for survivors and thrivers, right? I think cancer survivorship has changed so much. It I've been, uh, an oncology nurse practitioner for 10 years, and I think there's so many more resources available to patients, um, things that focus on wellness and living so well and health, healthfully after a cancer diagnosis. So those ones are really great. I've heard of, um, dragon boats also on the Charles that are cancer survivors. The YMCA live strong programs are really great program. And a lot of our paving participants will do that too. And I think what's really cool. If you guys, um, have a chance to look at the paving workbook, there was a paving participant who I believe had done the live strong program and then is now one of the list run coaches. And so it does speak to that purpose, right? It's like, you start, you do all these things because they're available to you as a, as a survivor and you don't go in necessarily thinking you're going to get out of it, what you ultimately do get out of it. Um, and then you end up helping other people too on their journeys. So I'm so glad you brought that up. Yeah, no, I highly endorse and, and it just, it just helps. Um, it really just helps and, and pick, you know, whatever it is that you want. And, and even I'm sure there's, there's, there's many more programs out there, but certainly something where you can be physically active, um, because then you're taking, you're taking your mind totally away from, you know, the, the, the experience that you just had fighting, uh, with cancer. So, yeah. And I should also highlight, I love this conversation. Um, you know, one of the, in fact, this week in paving, we're discussing physical activity, the important role of movement as part of cancer survivorship. And this topic can be very intimidating and overwhelming to many people when we're giving the recommendations from the American Cancer Society and ASCO and American College of Sports Medicine, that individuals with a history of cancer should aim for 150 minutes of moderate aerobic activity each week and strengthening twice a week and flexibility and balance. And people hear all that and they're like, Whoa, so overwhelming. And we do understand that, but that's why Sherry, you sharing these resources, like finding a community of individuals who have been through the same thing. I mean, it's so hard and trying to work together for a common goal to learn how to row, to learn how to box, you know, doing it with that social support in that community is so special. And also perhaps may lead to finding your purpose. As Dana noted, I'm serious, at least two of our paving graduates have become live strong instructors after doing the program, since they were introduced to it through paving. So it's just amazing to share all these stories. They're all interconnected. Um, Sherry, another, I'm sorry, I just have another question. It's all in my mind. So when we often discuss purpose in paving, um, it's very common that someone will kind of raise their hand, you know, we're on zoom, but you know, still raise their hand and say, I love this conversation, but I honestly don't know what my purpose is. And I honestly don't know how I'm supposed to find it. So how would you address that? Yeah. And that's, that is really a great question. And, you know, I guess from, from the, I'll, I'll tackle it from the lens of a coach. Um, there's, there's a thing I used to tell my players very early on in the season, because if, if you think about, and it could be in the workplace, uh, it could be in, um, you know, if you're in a play, it could be someone who is in an orchestra, whatever, you know, group setting when you're, when you're with other people, uh, is we talk about two different things. One is your role, right? And I would say to my players, your role is something that you do, right? You're getting rebounds. You're, you know, making the assists, you're scoring in your office, your, you know, your title, you have your title, you have your job responsibilities. That's really your role, but your value, everybody has value and everybody has their own very personal touch of what the value is. And I would say in the context of the team, you might not get minutes in a, in a tight game. I might play, you know, seven or eight people and, you know, nine through, through 12 or whatever would not see the court during a game. And so what, it doesn't mean that you're not important. It means what is your value? And I'll just give it an anecdote. Um, I used to give at the end of every game, different awards, the, the nails, the glue, uh, and the game changing play, but also the most valuable teammate. And there was a game we played. It was down to every, every, you know, possession down, down to the wire. We ended up winning. Um, but one of the last possessions called a timeout and the water bottle of my best player went, well, you know, kind of, no one could find it. And it was like, she needed water. And, you know, again, the 12th player on the, on, on the team ran and got water and gave it to the player. And she was in that moment, our most valuable teammate. So, so everybody has a different value. So finding your purpose, I'd say you ask yourself, and again, you had it kind of in your slides, but what, what, what do you bring? And no one can replace you when you leave the room, right. We all have our own, you know, uh, handprint on this earth. And in saying that we all can have something that we can be, that we can bring. So your purpose, I would say, uh, is, is truly to find something you love, you know, live what you love. Um, you know, that was actually on a, on a, on a poster in a coffee shop in Budapest. And I was with my team. You talk about like a pregame speech, had no idea. I was walking along and I saw the poster and I was like, oh my God. And I used that live what you love as the pregame speech in the next game that we played. And because if you can do that, live what you love, you can find your purpose. You can find, you know, something that you can then contribute to the rest of the world or to yourself, start with yourself, community, the rest of the world. Um, and, and for me, my purpose, if you will, was I always wanted to make a difference based on what I had gone through based on my experiences. And I said in the very beginning as, as a storyteller, um, and that's kind of how I, how I coached, um, winning was great. Don't get me wrong. Um, but you know, the, the winning came from my players, uh, and how I put them together. But the, the goal was to, to help them along their journey and, and to really learn. Wow. So much wisdom and what you just said. And a lot of it very much resonates again with that quote from Viktor Frankl, but you explained it so beautifully so we can all understand it. Cause sometimes I feel like that quote, people are having like a tough time understanding that cause there's a lot packed into that, but thank you for explaining it so beautifully. I do have to share, um, also a comment as you were speaking from, um, one of our wonderful paving leaders, oncology, social worker, Kirsten Anderson, who I lead paving with right now. And she said, I love Sherry, what you said about what is this purpose for this day, this particular day, again, reflecting on that concept of the little P purpose that I did mention, you know, when we were doing the slide, just maybe it's just that little thing. What are you going to do today to make a difference? Right, Sherry? I don't know if you want to highlight that a little bit more. Yeah, absolutely. And it's, it's kind of when you, when you look at it and again, I said, there are times where I'm, I, you know, I, I'm talking to a friend and I'm like, Oh God, you know, I, I think I need to read my book because like, there's something that, that I need to, to change and to shift that mindset. And, you know, I don't think every day can be a game day. I don't think that's realistic, but I do think that you can, you know, when you jump out, there's, there's another thing we, we talk about. Um, and again, I talk about in the book and it's a very simple shift. So, um, and you mentioned before, uh, before I get to that gratitude. So there there's, and, and you can look it up on, I'm not reinventing the wheel here, but it's something that I do. Um, I, I do suggest people do, whether it's in the evening or in the morning, I usually, when I'm sitting having my cup of coffee and I got my little dog next to me and, and I'm just kind of looking at, you know, reflecting on, on what's, what's ahead of me. I like to say, you know, what am I grateful for? And if you do that every day, just pick one or two things. Usually coffee fits. Usually like that's one of the first things, coffee, uh, my dog. And then, you know, it could be, it could be the sunshine. It could be yesterday. It was 70 degrees. It could be, you know, you, you spoke with your, you know, your mom the other day. It could be any little tiny thing that you're grateful for. Write it down, do it for like 30 days in your brain as, as the experts would tell you, uh, you know, neuroplasticity, it then will, will shape what you would then think down the road. Right? So if you are positive, if you look at things with gratitude, then it will shape the next thing that you will look with more gratitude as opposed to if you're thinking very negative, which is why the mindset, uh, is so important. You know, the book is called, uh, winning mindset, right? How do you shift that mindset? And one little shift I can get to, which, uh, I, I really, I highly recommend people do you shift. There's one word shift and you shift half to, I have to go to work. I have to eat my vegetables. I know you're smiling Dana, cause you probably know this with get to, right. And I used to say to my team, girls, you don't have to run sprints. You get to run sprints. You know why? Because at the end of the game, you're going to have more energy and you're going to get to probably win. We get to be on this webinar. You know, you get to meet amazing people, even though you, you, you know, experienced this, this horrific journey and we'll all say it's, you know, going through it. When you get to the other side, please guide you then get to have a different perspective. So that little mindset of shift get to first half to is something that, that, you know, you, you get to go to work in the morning, you know, so you get to have an income, you get to work hard. You know, there's, there's a great quote that I will, will add. Success only comes for work in the dictionary. And, you know, it is, it is a grind sometimes. And to be able to look at that grind as an opportunity is something that can shift that mindset to something positive. So, so gratitude and, and that little shift. And then the third thing I would say is, you know, create a confidence card for yourself or, you know, other people when we, there's two ways to look at it. You could say, what am I good at? You write it on a card. How do I approach things? You mentioned that, that Dana is one of the kindest people, you know, and I think you probably are. And, and Dr. Commander, I would say you're one of the most brilliant people that I've ever been around. You're, you're like, gosh, you shine and, and it sticks and you impact people in such an amazing way. Write that on a card. Say Sherry just said, right. And then when you need it, right, which I don't think you do have a bad day, but when you need it, you look at it and you say, you know what? Yeah, I got this. And, and one thing we would do with my team, and certainly you can do this in the workplace as well as, is put your name on a card and, you know, whether you have five people, 10 people, whatever is in your team. And then each person writes, you know, a little something nice about you, and then you pass it around and everybody writes something. And so you end up with a card that literally has 10 people or however many saying how wonderful you are. And isn't that nice when you get to look at that and, and it picks you up when you need to pick me up. Oh, thank you. Um, true. So true. This is such a lovely way. Somehow I just saw that it's 1258, but this is such a lovely way to conclude this webinar. And I do in our last two minutes, Amy, if you want to come off your camera, you can too, but I thought we could all go around as, since it's so special and say what we're grateful for today. And I'm going to start. So I'm truly grateful to Amy from the MGH Bloom Center for organizing this incredible series for all of us, for our patients, for caregivers, for people outside of MGH around the world who joined this webinar because of your hard work, Amy and organization and all the stuff you do behind the scenes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And I'm also truly grateful to Dana, the kindest person I know who is a paving leader extraordinaire and an amazing oncology nurse practitioner and friend, and also Sherry. I'm so grateful that I got to meet you because of paving seven years ago. Ah, and thank you for sharing so much brilliance with us today and your book with the world. So I'm going to pick on Dana to go next. I was like, I think that's just the most perfect way to end. Of course, now you're going to make me in that role. So I, I just think as we've had fun with it, Sherry, you know, I'm going to say, I am, I am grateful for the foundation that our shared alma mater instilled in us, like men and women for others. Right. And that's something that I try to do in taking care of my, my breast cancer patients. But really, I am so grateful to hear how you're coaching and how that has influenced you getting through your cancer treatment and then how it's going to help all of us to take care of our patients and, and get them through these tough periods where it's hard to see the light at the end of the tunnel. It's hard to see bigger picture. Like what is my purpose? Um, I, I feel like I learned so much from the talk here at you today. I can't wait to pick up your book. I want to find out what the best way to get your book is so we can support you. Um, I want to, I want to express my extreme gratitude to Amy, to Dr. Commander for always including me, um, in this work. It's been so fun to, you know, see the program grow. Um, I've been part of the team for the last, I think six, almost six years. Um, I missed the in, in-person sessions. Um, I was smiling so much earlier when you said you get to, cause Dr. Commander says that on the regular, and I feel like she says it about her running. Um, and I think it would be a missed opportunity if we didn't get a chance to highlight the amazing work that she does with her two feet. Um, you know, putting those miles in and fundraising for cancer patients too. Um, and then of course the Blum Center for, for giving us this time in this space to be able to bring paving to a larger community, because right now we're only able to get it to our breast cancer survivors and only so many people a session. And so these recorded sessions are going to be really great because we can have patients go to them when they're waiting to join paving, or if it's a topic that they had to miss during their actual paving session, they can always go back and it's sort of like this on demand option. So thank you guys. Right. Well, I'll go. So I don't have to be the last one, Amy, because clearly you can bring us home. But, um, uh, you know, I, I, I'm so grateful for the opportunity to be here and for being one of the people who were in the original group. Um, you know, sometimes you come across these things. I actually don't recall how the information came to me, um, to join. And it truly was a blessing for me. Uh, as, as I mentioned, um, you're doing fabulous work and, and clearly when, uh, one of the lessons that I had learned and I talked about, you know, being grace and, and surrounding it, but surrounding yourself with positive people, getting rid of the ones that like, you know, they hung around for a while, but no, not anymore. Once you go through this and you guys are all shining stars. And for me to be, you know, to, to, to kind of be a part of this is really exceptional. So I'm so happy that I get to do that. So thank you for, for including me in this webinar and last, and last plug, you can, you can get the book on Amazon. Um, you know, it was a number one, uh, Amazon best release, a new release. So that was exciting. And, um, yes, so that's, that's where you can get it. So thank you for, for actually asking that Dana. It's amazing. Thank you all. I would have to say, I am grateful and thankful for Dr. Amy Commander and the paving team for this opportunity. It's just been such a wonderful collaboration with you all. You have such an amazing team. And as Dana mentioned, to be able to open this up to the MGH community beyond the paving program, it's just been such a wonderful partnership as well as our special guest, Sherry. Thank you so much. And yeah, I look forward to continuing this great work together. Thank you everyone. Um, Sherry, I'm going to put the full name of your book in the chat. Someone just asked, I just want to get the full name. Can you read me the full name? Sure. It's, uh, it's called pregame. Okay. Colon, a winning mindset. That's what I thought, but I wanted to put the right thing in there. So I'm putting it in the chat. So for folks who want to look it up on Amazon or a bunch from Sherry's amazing website, um, and definitely a great tool also when thinking about purpose. So thank you all for joining us today. Thank you everyone. I also included in the chat, please save the date for our next paving webinar titled paving the way to restful nights strategies to improve sleep after a cancer diagnosis. That's going to be held on Wednesday, April 8th, also at noon. I also included the link to the Blum center website where you can get more information on the upcoming webinar, the zoom link to attend, as well as the recordings of our past webinars, including this one. All right, everyone. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Bye. Thank you. Bye. Bye. Bye.