 sara.com. All right, welcome everyone. My name is Sarah Alger. I'm the director of the Russell Museum at Mass General Hospital. Apologies for the inconvenience for the fact that we decided not to have the in-person portion and the associated soft drinks and cheese cubes this evening. Turns out the snow isn't due for another hour or so, but yesterday we decided to make the move just out of caution. A couple of notes before I start introduce tonight's speaker. So I introduce tonight's speaker. So on March 10th, our next lecturer will be Dr. Robert Goldstein, the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Public Health and a former MGH-er on the history of public health in our state. Be on the lookout soon for that registration link. We will have it in our newsletter and we'll post it to russellmuseum.org and to our Facebook page. We will post it to our website page and on our Eventbrite page. Throughout the presentation, feel free to post questions in the Q&A and Lucy will field those questions at the end. So Lucy Ross has been the hospital's archivist since 2017. She holds an MLIS with a concentration in archives management from Simmons University here in Boston. And some of you might remember that she gave a love of and a lovely talk last year, sort of touring us through the MGH archives and special collections. And that recording is on russellmuseum.org. And with that, I will turn it over to you, Lucy. Lucy Ross- All right. Well, thank you, Sarah. So a little bit about the topic of this talk. Grace Whiting Myers presided over the MGH's Treadwell Library for nearly 30 years at the turn of the 20th century. She founded the profession of medical records librarianship, began the first training program and professional association in the field, and trained many librarians at MGH and beyond, earning the title of fairy godmother from her colleagues. I'll be showing you the story of the evolution of medical record keeping through the lens of Myers's career and legacy. And I'll start this presentation with a quote from an obituary for Grace Whiting Myers, written by MGH then director Nathaniel Faxon. Quote, She was a little bit of a story that she knew her. On one occasion, a jovial staff member ventured to tell her a story, which he thought was innocuous, though it did have a slight double entendre, whereupon he was banished from the Treadwell Library and told, Don't you ever come back until you have apologized. He fled in haste, but finally mustered courage to return and say he was sorry, intended no wrong, and was forgiven. So that's just a little intro to Grace and her personality. So a bit about her background. She was born in Worcester, Mass on November 14th, 1859. She was the second of four children with an older sister who died in infancy, one brother who died very young and another who survived to adulthood. Born into a collecting family, her father had a large home library, which Grace organized according to her own scheme and collected items like coins, minerals, shells and pictures of English cathedrals. Her mother was in ill health for much of Grace's young life, and Grace served as an auxiliary caretaker for her brothers. I'll quote from her autobiography, which you'll hear quoted many times throughout this presentation. Quote, The older brother was one day having something of a scrap with a neighborhood boy out under my open window. And in the course of it, I heard him say, If you don't let me alone, I'll call my sister and she can lick any boy in the neighborhood. I promptly appeared at the window, and that was quite sufficient. I must have been a terror. But that was his feeling about me all his life. My sister could always do anything. I wish her self-confidence had been as great. End quote. She attended Worcester Classical High School as a graduate of the class of 1878, when she also wrote the words to the class song. She hoped to become an artist and spent the following year at the School of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, then called the School of Drawing and Painting. In the early 1890s, Grace began to support herself, her family suffering, which she referred to as reverses of fortune. She soon married, but she and her husband were effectively separated shortly thereafter. They remained legally married, but her husband won't reappear in this story, aside from this footnote. An update to Grace's will in 1945. Quote. I have intentionally omitted from this will any provision for my husband, George Francis Myers, whom I have not seen and who has not contributed to my support for nearly 50 years. I do not wish him to share in any part of my estate. She took up various temporary jobs, including one fortuitous one organizing the private library of a trustee of MGH. She was hired with the title of assistant librarian, the librarian then being a role held by the chair of the library committee at the time, Dr. Arthur Cabot. I'll back up a little bit here and give a bit of context about the history and state of medical records at MGH as of the time of Grace's start date in 1897. Clinical record keeping began at MGH on the admission of its first patient on September 3rd, 1821. In the beginning, records were kept in large folio volumes by the visiting physician and the visiting surgeon, what would today be called chief of medicine and surgery, respectively, with ink made in the hospital. In 1830, the records were placed in the charge of the apothecary, which would be called the pharmacist today, who seemed to pick up all the odd responsibilities that the board could think of. In 1841, a special committee was appointed to see that records were carefully preserved. And from 1839 to 1855, all records were indexed in huge volumes by a physician especially appointed to the task. The writing of them became the duty of the house physicians and surgeons and later in 1851 of the house pupils. These positions would be the equivalent to today's residents and interns. In 1857, the head of the library committee became directly responsible for the care of the records. A pupil was obliged to have all his records fully completed before he might receive his diploma at the end of his term of service. In 1896, the pathological laboratory was established under the care of Dr. J. Homer Wright, and it quickly became intimately associated with the record room because pathology was the department giving the final word concerning a diagnosis and reports from the laboratory were immediately sent to the record room to be filed with their respective case histories. Out of this combination grew the famous clinical pathological conferences of Dr. Richard C. Cabot, also called the CPCs. And they continue to this day as the case records of the MGH published monthly in the New England Journal of Medicine. Now that we've got the lay of the land of medical records of the period, I'll speak to the history of the Treadwell Library. In 1847, the members of the visiting staff began to realize the importance of having medical books close at hand for ready reference in connection with patients, and a small medical library was started with the purchase of a few standard works on medicine and surgery, and a subscription to periodicals such as the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, American Journal of Medical Sciences, The Lancet, and a few others. Eleven years later, the library of Dr. John G. Treadwell of Salem, Mass, numbering some 2,500 volumes, was received as a bequest together with a small fund providing for its care. The donation contained some rare and valuable books and the best medical and surgical literature of the day. With this bequest combined with the existing medical library resources, the Treadwell Library came into existence, and a suitable room was prepared for it. In time, the library became indispensable to the hospital staff. Dr. Benjamin S. Shaw, the then resident physician of the hospital, today this physician would be president or director of the hospital, became its first guardian and librarian. Dr. Benjamin S. Shaw, the first guardian of the hospital, was the first guardian of the hospital, and then the first guardian of the hospital, was the first guardian of the hospital. Dr. Benjamin S. Shaw, the first guardian of the hospital, she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she saw she 28 periodicals were regularly received. The use of the books was confined exclusively to the medical and surgical staff, and no one else ever dared enter the room. Gradually, more liberty was allowed, and House officers were permitted to use the library on afternoons after the last staff member had left. As the cataloging of records progressed, making clinical histories more available, study and research began in earnest, and the library became a busy place at all times. House officers were as free as their superiors to come and go, and the shelves were full to overflowing, with books and records reaching literally from attic to basement. I said earlier that the hospital at that time had the record of every house patient since its opening, but it's not clear just where they were kept in the early days. The rules of the trustees, written in 1821, state that the apothecary was responsible, but the exact geographical location of the records in those days is uncertain. The medical library that became the Treadwell was in existence in 1847, and the librarian was charged with the care of the records. Between this and other notes from the period, it seems safe to assume that the records, either from the first or beginning soon after, were kept with the books of the medical, later Treadwell, library. In any case, records were certainly on display in the Treadwell at the time of its move to the second floor of the Bullfinch in 1893. So we come again to Grace's introduction to life at the Treadwell Library. She was appointed assistant librarian in the autumn of 1897, assuming she was to care for the library of medical texts. A few weeks into her tenure, she was informed that she was also meant to care for what were simply termed the records, which is to say the medical and surgical volumes gracing the shelves. She enjoyed the work from the start, though was initially stymied by the medical vocabulary. Quoting from her autobiography, Quoting from her book, she was asked to write, how am I ever going to steer my ship among all these islands with their long names of Greek and Latin origin? Fortunately, with the medical library right at hand, there was ample opportunity for study. She began the work of arranging and classifying the books according to the still relatively new Dewey Decimal System, first published in 1876. The house staff were initially incensed that they could no longer find the volumes that they used to navigate to by habit. But in time, there was widespread acknowledgement of the superiority of the classified arrangement. An anecdote from this period that resonates all too well with me, it was at the time customary for the house staff to hold evening meetings in the main room of the library, followed by supper. This was already a thorn in Grace's side due to needing to clear the large central table of its many periodicals and replace them by opening time the next morning. But staff were also accustomed to treating the library like their living room. One morning, Grace found an entire shelf of tastefully bound books spattered with salad dressing. From her autobiography, I had already suggested holding these affairs in some other place, but without making any impression. But this time, my ire was aroused and without waiting for it to cool down, I went to Dr. Howard's office and let off steam. It was effective. After that, no more suppers were held in the library. When she began, she was placed in charge of what was called the Relics Room of the hospital, which was a collection of artifacts dating from the early days of the hospital's history and crucially, the first successful demonstration of ether for surgical anesthesia, one of our historical claims to fame. Then is now the hospital's original operating theater, now called the Ether Dome, held several cases of the hospital's cases of artifacts and surgical instruments and accessories, along with articles of interest. There was also a row of six stone crocs marked for each day of the week between Monday and Saturday. These had been used to store surgical sponges and were refreshed once per week, with each sponge being used as the day came. It's not clear to me whether these sponges were for distribution of ether or for something else, but either way, yikes. Those artifacts and many of their fellows are now under the care of the MGH archives and special collections. And the archives weren't formed until 1939. But I get ahead of myself. On the record side of things, Grace encountered even more challenges. One of her first assignments was to compile the year's medical and surgical statistics for inclusion in the annual report. But the committee rejected it as, quote, too bad to be published from her autobiography. Never again did that happen. Before the end of another year, I knew all the itises, the ectomies and the ostomies. And anatomy was becoming familiar, for I had been allowed to attend the lectures in that subject given to the nurses, though the superintendent of the hospital could not see what possible advantage it could be to me. The Treadwell contained a catalog case of cards arranged according to disease beginning in 1872 and running through 1894 with handwritten irregular additions into 1897. Grace began to keep her own catalog of medical and surgical cases organized by diagnosis. She also began a catalog of patient names under cover of darkness, mostly for her own use, to save time in hunting down cases. In time, this catalog was discovered by house staff and found of too great a use to be kept secret. Prior to this, the only way to see if a patient had been previously admitted to the hospital was to go through the admission file kept in the general office, then going to the record room and locating the relevant file by hospital service and date. Another major contributor to efficiency in the Treadwell Library was a typewriter, purchased after Grace spent an entire day copying a particular requested record in longhand. She made it her mission to consolidate the medical records into one location. They'd previously been stashed throughout the hospital building, the original hospital building, the Bullfinch. Quoting from her autobiography. As the volumes became too numerous to file in one room, they were stored in various safe places in different parts of the Bullfinch. Some were in an attic room, some in a dark closet under a stairway, some in a vault under the front steps. All perfectly safe, but absolutely inaccessible. That vault, incidentally, later became the site of the MGH's first X-ray equipment, operated and mastered by, once again, the hospital's apothecary. After much consternation and work, volumes were gathered together in one place and remediated of mold and mildew. According to Grace, despite some creative numbering choices on the spines of the bound volumes, not a record was missing from 1821 to that date. She began to study the care of records at other institutions like Boston City Hospital and the Bellevue in New York. And she was quickly rewarded for her hard work in classifying and organizing the medical records from her autobiography. During my first year and as I was gradually learning the value of my work to the medical staff, one of the surgeons came into my office and said, Suppose you could find a record for me. I thought I could at least try and asked for information. Well, said he, her name was Mary, and I took a cyst of the ovary out of her that weighed about 30 pounds. And that's all I can tell you about her. I agreed to hunt and he agreed to come back later and see what luck I'd had. I went to the old catalog, found ovary and under that cyst. Then I copied references to all the Marys and went back to the record room. At last, I found one that seemed to fit the requirements and had on it the name of the right surgeon. There were others, too, which had possibilities. So I put the pile of volumes on the table with the one I thought was the one on top. And two or three hours later, back came the surgeon to see what luck I had had. I showed him the pile of books and he sat down and picked up the top one. I sat opposite him watching. In less than a minute, he clapped one hand onto his thigh and said, By George, this is it. You'll do. No compliment that I ever received has meant more to me than that. It gave me a feeling of confidence. Having some trouble. There we go. In 1898, the Spanish American War began and MGH played a part in treating the sick and wounded soldiers. Many were suffering from malaria and typhoid fever and tent wards were erected on the lawn of the Bullfinch building, seen here, both to make room for the extra beds needed and to provide the ventilation that was deemed to be most helpful to these patients. Records of these cases were kept in a separate volume, summarized and provided to the government at the conclusion of the war. Though it was arduous work, it provided grace with valuable experience that she'd need at the outbreak of World War One. A couple of other notable events of her early years at the Treadwell include early in her tenure when she was invited to join the Association of Medical Librarians, organized by the eminent Dr. William Osler and headquartered in Baltimore. Grace was actually already familiar with the good doctor, as he was a lifelong friend and longtime neighbor of her sister-in-law. He proved a charming host and Grace found the meetings of the AML to be most helpful to a newcomer to the field and to sow the seeds of introducing bulletin work into the Treadwell Library. Her first speech in public was 1905 at the American Hospital Association's annual meeting in Boston on medical libraries and hospitals to general acclaim and several reprints in English hospital publications, including London Hospital. In the autumn of 1908, she badly strained her right arm, replacing a heavy volume on an overhead shelf, and took a sojourn to Jamaica for recovery. As someone with a current shoulder injury stemming from bearing too much weight overhead, I feel for her, though I have not been granted a Jamaican rest cure. I won't go into much detail on this trip other than to say that Grace loved the island and learned to quickly to avoid tarantulas on her shuttle boat to her destination, and that her arm woes were not cured by the warm salt air, and she required surgery upon her return. She was grateful to learn that the library hadn't fallen into disarray for the two months she was gone, and that her hard-won staff had proved their worth in keeping things running. Quoting from her autobiography, I have never ceased to be grateful to them for their never-failing interest in their work and their willing cooperation in everything we undertook. Her title changed from assistant librarian to librarian and from record clerk to record librarian. And by 1912, she had a staff of seven at her beck and call. One day, towards the end of the year, she was talking with physician Henry A. Christian, who was soon to become the physician-in-chief of the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, one of several precursors to the current-day Brigham and Women's Hospital. Quoting from her autobiography, he said to Grace, Mrs. Myers, why don't you call together the record clerks from the four or five other big hospitals here in Boston and see if you can't help each other? You must all be facing the same problems. I grasped at the idea and never did I cease to thank Dr. Christian for that suggestion. Here was the beginning of what we now call the American Association of Medical Record Librarians. It was looking in the distance, but none of us could imagine it. She went on medical leave once more in 1913 and spent eight months at the sanatorium in Clifton Springs, New York. Once she regained her strength and was on the mend, the director of that institution suggested she look over their records and arrange a system to care for them, which she did, throwing in the training of another clerk who would stay on into the bargain. And this is just a great piece of correspondence from Dr. Osler to Grace Whiting Myers about her excellent paper on medical libraries and hospitals, which I just had to include a copy of since we have it. And now while she was away, a classification of disease was adopted by the hospital. The Boston hospitals nomenclature later called the Massachusetts General Hospital classification and based on the U.S. government's international list of causes of death. The standard nomenclature of diseases and operations would follow in time, but the MGH classification was used well into the mid 20th century. Though the first edition was already in use by the time she returned to the hospital, Grace edited all the subsequent editions up to the ninth. And now I'll just give a quick note on how medical record keeping was evolving during this period. A physician writing about his experience as a resident in 1905 said, Then, inpatient records were written in longhand on separate sheets, which had to be carefully transmitted to Mrs. Myers and the Treadwell, who, if her eagle eye detected any errors or omissions, dispatched a polite but firm order that they be corrected at once. Nurses spent long hours copying temperature, pulse, and respiration charts with large round dots and ruled connecting lines. All took great pride in producing clean, complete records, although some of the handwriting was not too legible. Perhaps this was why Mrs. Myers objected to the introduction of typewritten cards, on the grounds that it would show up the poor spelling of some of the House officers, who could disguise it with poor handwriting. And now from a, quoting from a 1914 article on record keeping at MGH, which explains the organization of medical records at the time. In the outdate patient department, the records are centralized and in charge of a record clerk and for assistance. The patient does not touch his history, neither does anyone not intimately connected with the institution. The social service record reinforces the medical record when investigation is requested. And the admitting physician in the outpatient department reviews the records and requires the correction of omissions by the department responsible. And in the hospital for inpatients, the histories were centralized and under the care of a librarian, Grace, and her four assistants. There are four card catalogs, one in which all the hospital cases are filed alphabetically by name, on which is a miniature history. Two surgical catalogs, one anatomical, one with diagnosis. Each surgical case is filed by the anatomical region affected in the diagnosis made. And one medical catalog in which the main organs of the body are grouped. Cases are filed by the diagnosis under those organs and all others by their diagnosis. Great care is taken to obtain absolutely correct information concerning a patient's full name, correct address, and names and addresses of friends. Charts are inspected on the day following discharge for accuracy, neatness, and completeness. Histories of patients discharged are inspected each Monday. And catalog cards when ready to file are inspected by the librarian. No one with the exception of hospital staff and house officers is permitted to see the records. An abstract or copy may be given under proper circumstances. And after one year, all surgical patients are asked to return for examination and a catalog kept of these results of of the examinations. This end result catalog requires the entire time of one clerk. So another contemporary advance was that a course of hospital care of hospital records was established in 1914. And the course was three months long with pupils being sent in most cases from other hospitals. MGH had the oldest school as well as the first accredited school for the training of medical record librarians. In 1935, the school was accredited for affiliation with Simmons College and Colby Junior College on a degree-granted program. The first three years of the program were spent on the college campus and the fourth year in the intern internship period at the MGH. In the spring of 1916, the US entered World War I and a hospital unit was arranged to help with the war effort. Grace was told to reduce the size of her staff of seven by half. She gasped and asked the hospital director, how can I keep up to the work? That's up to you was her response. Two of the staff applied for permission to join what would become Base Hospital 6 in Toulon's France as secretaries and another decided to go to the record department of a nearby military hospital while the rest stayed on throughout the war, eventually joined by several regular volunteers. She remembered the lessons of her first year at the Treadwell and the problem of wartime records and tried to get ahead of the demands of an on her time by proactively setting up a system to keep track of any records that might be requested by the government at a later date. We have a pretty solid record of what she thought helped and didn't as she wrote an article about medical librarianship in times of war just prior to the US's entry into World War II in the hopes of helping other professionals grapple with new and extraordinary demands. In it, she talks about how the Spanish-American War caught her flat-footed and single-handed and she didn't want to repeat that when World War I began. At the end of the Spanish-American War, the Surgeon General requested records of every military case treated at MGH. Luckily, there were already separate war volumes for medical and surgical records, but other records were scattered across the books for different services. Her three biggest suggestions to the wartime record keeper were preparation, carrying on, and peace, and she detailed how she tried to embody these virtues during World War I. With preparation, she got approval from the hospital director and later director of the World War I Base Hospital VI, Frederick Washburn, to begin the preparation of a catalog of cards. Information for these cards was drawn from the Army record blanks, which was what they wanted recorded, and then they got information from the Surgeon General of the Army and Navy to see if cards like these would be sufficient to reflect military cases treated at the MGH. The response was yes and send new ones on a certain day each month until the last patient is discharged. Grace kept blue cards, which were easily distinguishable from the standard white, in duplicate for all military cases, one for the MGH's records and one for the Surgeon General. These were ready to go before the first patient arrived. Now, carrying on. Work was bound to increase and your resources might, or will, be cut, and expectations and the work have to be managed. Grace's staff was cut by half, but there was more work now than ever. Quote, I let four of my nine assistants go, and thanks to the efficiency and the loyalty of the remaining five, we did it. Not as it had been done, but insufficient amount to satisfy those for whom we labored. Supplies were stretched and an all-hands-on-deck attitude kept everyone going. And now the final piece was peace. It was a little lofty, but peace begins at home. And operations require unselfishness and the smooth operations that you do have control over to give what you can to help the greater effort. Another major contribution was Grace's war bibliography, as it came later to be termed. On a weekly basis, all through the World War, the Treadwell sent a bibliography on the medical and surgical aspects of the war to Washington, made up from the periodicals as they were received, before they were filed away on shelves. The work was reported at a meeting of the Medical Library Association, and attracted the attention of the Surgeon General's Library in Washington. And after that, she received a request to send copies of these bulletins to the Red Cross headquarters, so they could be further copied and sent all over the country to military hospitals and cantonments, and to many libraries and overseas. It was the only piece of work of the kind that was done anywhere, and was the immediate cause of the publishing of the war supplement of the Index Medicus after the war ended. Years later, Grace happened to visit Washington and took a tour of the new Red Cross facility and library. As she was leaving, her tour guide showed her a volume of the entire collected war bibliography, bound and saved, in her words, for keeps. She took great pride in this compendium, and felt that she had truly helped the war effort in the best way she knew how. Lastly, the Treadwell kept a catalog of every member of the hospital family who was in service. By the end of the war, they each had a complete, concise report on the activities and whereabouts of each person. And after the war, the Treadwell became the place to display memorials to those who had served, and gradually things at the hospital returned to relative normalcy. In the midst of all this, Grace was charged with moving from the stately quarters of the Bullfinch to the even statelier new Mosley Memorial Building. The new quarters were larger, with room to grow. A few weeks after opening, a staff member came by for the first time since the move. My, this is a palace, he exclaimed. Then he bowed very low to Grace and said, and how is the princess? Grace returned it with a curtsy, quote, as gracefully as possible. A large vault was built to house valuable books, and the bound volumes of records from 1821 to 1916. Eventually, bound record volumes from 1916 to 1922 were added to those in the vault, while outpatient records were filed in a cabinet on shelves in separate folders. Record storage space was expanded once again in 1927, with the goal of collecting all of the disparate patient records from all the services in one location. Grace did a tour of several large hospitals, including Johns Hopkins, Bellevue, and New York Presbyterian, to see how they were handling their clinical records. She went home with, quote, lots of ideas, some new friends, and a strange feeling of satisfaction with her own ways of handling records. She made a report on her findings, and work began to begin using a unit system of filing, in which all of an individual patient's records would be filed under one centralized unit number. The unit system began to come into use in 1922, but wasn't universally implemented until the late 1930s. In 1918, the American College of Surgeons began to regularly inspect hospitals for the purposes of standardization and classification by letter grade. A class A grade was given to hospitals that were, to quote Grace, A1 in all respects, including medical records. The ACS visitor who met with Grace and found her methods of record keeping fully satisfactory was a Dr. McEachern, and this turned out to be a fortuitous connection. Quote, she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she continued she began convening in 1916 and 21 as of 1923. In the early 20s, 1920s, Grace was finding herself more in demand as a consultant on how record libraries should be arranged. She found herself faced with astonished and incredulous looks when she suggested that these newly built spacious facilities would be outgrown in a matter of years, only to be proven correct in due time. She was also asked to consult on systems of record keeping and to refer staff to newly formed medical records departments. In 1924, after 27 years in service, Grace decided it was time to retire from her position as librarian of Treadwell. Quoting from her autobiography, I was satisfied now to pass it on to other hands, even though the spending of my days in any other place than the Treadwell library I had grown to love made me sick at heart. She decided, if the powers that be would allow it, to continue her work on an extension of the hospital's history following her retirement in 1925. The first volume of MGH history was published in 1851 and covered the period from the very beginnings of the MGH when it was just a germ of an idea in 1810 through the first 30 years of hospital operations, after it opened its doors in 1821. Written by Nathaniel Bowditch, son of the famous navigator and long-time trustee and chairman and vice president of the MGH, it primarily used the hospital's board of trustees minutes to reconstitute a blow-by-blow history of the hospital. A new expanded edition was released by fellow trustee Reverend George E. Ellis in 1872. There had been no subsequent edition, so Grace petitioned for and was granted permission to compile one using the hospital's records. Her sources included board of trustees records, files of the hospital secretary, minutes of the medical board, annual reports, and outside sources like the Warren family papers at Mass Historical Society. She completed the history covering the period between 1872 and 1900 in 1928. The period covered was a momentous one for medicine generally and the hospital specifically. There was a growth in the hospital campus from two buildings in 1872 to seven in 1900. Please do not ask me to enumerate the MGH buildings today. There was an increase in bed capacity from 180 to about 300. There was a change in the name of the the affiliated mental health facility, McLean, from an asylum, considered outdated and unpleasant even by 1920s standards, to hospital. The training school for nurses opened in 1873, only the third such professional nurse training school in the U.S. and it continued operations until 1981 and now exists under the aegis of the MGH Institute for Health Professions. The ambulance service was created and the director moved out of the original hospital building. Pathology expanded greatly with dedicated autopsy facilities opening in the mid-70s, a building in the 90s, and the hiring of a full-time pathologist, which as we've seen also had consequences for the contents of the patient records and the specificity of treatment and diagnosis. Creation of a department of photography, which would then grow to include uh rink gonology or schiography services as x-rays were then called. Specific clinics and services began to take shape like orthopedics and pediatrics. It also included the advent of antiseptic and aseptic practices in surgery and the move from the days of surgeons in blood-stained velvet frock coats to the adoption of PPE like gloves, though robust precautions wouldn't start to become universally mandatory until further into the 20th century. The book also gives a clear and detailed uh set of information about the physical location of different departments, which came in clutch for the museum team about five years ago when we were trying to trace the occupants of each area of the Bullfinch building uh in anticipation of the bicentennial of the building's opening and the virtual tour that the MGH Russell Museum created for the occasion. My favorite bit of correspondence about her book is really more of an assessment of her character and her work in general from a letter from Dr. Richard C. Cabot found co-founder of the MGH social service and the aforementioned clinical pathological conferences both of which began during Grace's tenure. It is easy to be pleasant if one is not strict and easy to be strict if one is not pleasant but you have the distinction of uniting these two essential qualities so fine when they are married to each other so weak without each other. You have raised and maintained our standard of records and thereby you have done one of the greatest services that can be done for the work of a hospital staff and so for the whole institution. For this you needed to not only be faithful but strict but you have always helped to maintain another great standard in the hospital the standard of courtesy and good humor and good manners. Because I too have cared very much for these two standards technical and cultural I feel grateful to you as I look back on all that you have done for us and with us beyond the respect that your fine work commands in all who have known you there is with all who have known you long a real affection. A crucial source for the next volume of history authored by Frederick Washburn and released in 1940 was a humble notebook kept by Grace from 1903 to 1930 which she called her hospital diary. This book records notable changes in hospital life with a more personal touch than those recorded by more official records. At the bottom here you can see a note abdicating the blame for shoddily invest addressed invitations is one such personal note. This also wasn't the last time that Grace dabbled in MGH history because in 1948 she completed an index to that first previous volume of MGH history authored by Baudich and expanded in 1872 by the Reverend Ellis. I personally use this index on the majority of my working days to fact check specifics of the hospital's early years and the advent of anesthesia and I can't imagine the first 75 years of that book's unindexed existence. Here are two bits of praise from the MGH librarian and archivist at the time of its release and I can see they were just as happy to have it then as I am today. In 1928 the American College of Surgeons had its annual meeting in Boston at the Copley Plaza Hotel. Dr. Malcolm McEachern then director of hospital activities for ACS requested that Grace assist him with a convening of medical records workers from across the country to organize a special section on records. Grace knew her colleagues in the Boston ARL would be thrilled and her network of medical records professionals activated to set the program for the conference. Over 90 record workers accepted the invitation to attend and meetings were full to capacity throughout the conference. On the last afternoon of the conference, quoting from her autobiography, I remember it was a very warm day and the windows were thrown wide open. Right in the midst of the proceedings the fire department went flying by. Bells clanging, boys shouting, the sound of running feet, all the usual commotion of such an occasion was to be heard. It was a sort of final applause for our performance. We had to stop short for a moment. When quiet was once more restored, the proposition was made that we form a countrywide association then and there and that we come together once a year for meetings such as the one just concluded. Before we knew it, we had become the Association of Record Librarians of North America. The name was changed to the American Association of Medical Records Librarians in 1938, then the American Medical Records Association in 1970, and finally, the American Health Information Management Association Association Association of Information Management Association, or AHIMA, in 1991. The first annual meeting of the AAMRL in Chicago, Grace was president and lightly terrified, but took heart in the spirit of shared work and the few familiar faces she spotted in the audience. In about 1930, members of the local group agreed it was time to form a state association with eastern, central, and western branches that would come together once a year. The Massachusetts State Association of Record Librarians, now called Mahima. Grace was once again elected to be the first president of that association, serving until 1933. Quoting from her autobiography, I as, quote, honorary president for life, have long ceased to figure as an active member, though never have I ceased to figure as an interested one in all that pertains to its life and growth. So, am I not a fairy godmother? My interest in it all has never flagged. How could it? I do not know who gave me the name of fairy godmother, but it is the dearest one I ever had. So this is the first, on the screen, the first reference that I could find referring to her as a fairy godmother, though it does appear consistently in the records of her collection. After stepping down from her association presidencies, Grace kept tabs on their field, regularly writing articles for the Bulletin of the National Association, including the word building series, giving extensive etymology for common medical words. Remember how adrift she felt when faced with medical vocabulary in 1897, and here she was passing along the tools for others to succeed in the same path. In her later years, she took up work at St. Luke's Church in Alston, teaching Sunday school for children and Bible study for adults, and later writing many articles based on the subjects being taught along with the history of the parish in 1934. In 1948, she published a brief autobiography at the behest of her friends in the association, many quotes from which you've heard today. During World War II, she compiled a booklet called Notes of Triumph, filled with national anthems, familiar hymns, and biblical quotations. It was intended to be given in a pocket-sized format to a unit of MGH nurses, but was later requested for publication and distribution to departing troops by the Congregational House of New York. Every one of an edition of 5000 was distributed. Other service during this time included the knitting of 58 pairs of sea boot socks for the troops. After the war's end, Grace continued knitting for children in need. Grace continued to be the first time to read. And now I'll give a very brief note on historical medical records and medical records at the MGH Post-Myers. So though nearly all house admissions of an individual were collected in one folder in the 1930s, it was still possible for a patient to have an outpatient record, a Baker Memorial record, a Phillips House record, and an Eye and Ear Infirmary record, entirely separate from their general hospital record. Grace continued to be the first time to read. The situation was given careful study over a period of months by the record committee, which in December of 1936 recommended the adoption of a unit record system whereby the record of each individual patient in all departments of the MGH and the Eye and Ear would be collected in one folder under a unit number and all subsequent admissions of any department be chronologically included. This was approved by the trustees and managers and thus a development in record handling, which started many years prior, reached its ultimate goal on January 1st, 1937, when the unit record system was put into action. This was a major task. Blocks of numbers were issued to each unit in the hospital, and a number was assigned to the patient by the hospital department to which he was first admitted. Thereafter, all data referring to that patient was filed under that number. For new patients, it was easy, but for old patients, it required the collection of all of their previous records under different services under the new record number with references to where the complete records could be found. To carry on this work, approximately 20 clerks were trained and began work on January 1st, 1937. Gradually, order came out of chaos, and by mid-year, it was possible to begin to reduce the clerical force. By the end of the year, the system was working smoothly under the direction of normal records room personnel. And now a little note on the delivery of the records, especially this curious contraption you can see in the outpatient department. It was called a Lampson carrier, which was a sort of zip line for records. You could clip the papers onto a carrier and then zip it down the line to the requesting department. This was in place, if not in use, well into the 20th century, until the demolition of the clinic's building. Other records were sent via pneumatic tube, which is a delivery system that's still in place in the hospital today for select items, and a dispatch service that traveled throughout the hospital by foot, acting as couriers, patient transport, and other duties. Now, another unique post-Meyers addition to the world of medical records at MGH was the medical transcription training program. In 1961, MGH's medical transcription office was tucked away in a basement, filled with transcriptionists who would take dictation by phone from floor staff and add it to patient records. Participants in the medical transcription program would spend one year in training, one year in active service, and would then be considered ready to fly the nest and take transcription work elsewhere and make room for the next batch of would-be transcriptionists. A former pupil recently donated these photos and notebook, which document her transcriptionist cohort and a concise list of the frequently used words, and crucially, in an era before spellcheck, their proper spelling. And another interesting historical note is that a computer programming language called Massachusetts General Hospital Utility Multi-Programming System, commonly referred to as MUMPS, was created by Octo Barnett and colleagues in the MGH Laboratory of Computer Science in the mid-1960s. This language allowed for the storage and processing of large volumes of medical information, which had not been possible before. This language came to be used worldwide, not only in healthcare, but also in finance. The MGH Hematology Laboratory was said to be one of the first, if not the first, MGH lab to be computerized. MUMPS enabled the electronic processing of laboratory tests. MUMPS programming, sometimes just called M to sound less diseasy, is still used on the database side of modern electronic record systems like EPIC. At the current day and since the early-mid 1990s, records are kept at the hospital system level, so at MGB versus MGH. I'll close with two quotes from Grace, the first from an article written in 1933 about the previous hundred years of medical record keeping. Quote, the old records are written in ink that was made at the hospital and which has never faded in all these decades, and there is no difficulty in reading the handwriting, in spite of old-fashioned S's. There was plenty of time to do things well. How will it be with our work in 2033? In our typewritten records, for instance, are we always careful that our ribbons are in good condition and not worn? A clerk who is doing this part of the work does not know the importance of this point unless the head of the record department takes pains to explain it. What sort of records will there be in 2033 when none of us is here to know? I believe they will grow in accordance with the foundation of which we of today are laying. We must build with high ideals, by true conscientious work, and by exerting an influence that will reach far down the future's broadening way. Let none of us who let none who come after us find cause to do ought but bless us, as I have over and over again blessed those two founders of the Massachusetts General Hospital, Dr. James Jackson and Dr. John C. Warren, who wrote such fine case histories a full century ago. Grace would live another nine years after the publication of her autobiography, passing away at the age of 97 in 1957. Grace's final quote, which closes her autobiography. and fade into insignificance. Much has come in the way of staunch friendship, towers of strength in time of need. I have been able to make life a joy. And I thank God that in these late years, he has guided my feet into the paths of peace." And I think that is all I've got. So yeah, if anybody has any questions. Thank you so much, Lucy. That was fantastic. I know it's hard to do a hand clap, but thanks to those of you who are doing the hand clap here. Any questions you might have, feel free to put in the Q&A. While we wait for folks to type, Lucy, I have a question for you. Do we happen to know whether Myers's shoulder surgery was performed by Ernest Codman? Ooh, that's a good question. I do not know that. But I wouldn't be all that surprised, I guess. So Codman is another fascinating figure in MGH history. Probably some folks recognize his name. He was sort of a founder of the idea of end results, what would ultimately turn into the idea of quality and safety. But he also happened to be a well-known shoulder surgeon. All right, I'm looking in the Q&A. I'm not seeing any questions yet, but don't be shy. Oh, and now I'm seeing. So someone asked Lucy's current role. I'm the archivist of Mass General Hospital. All right. Okay, we'll give folks another moment. And this is all to say, I don't know that I have answers to any questions beyond what's been presented. So another fun thing that I'll note is in your very first anecdote about the staff member she kicked out of the library, that staff member was another favorite of ours, at least in the Museum and the Archives, favorite figure, who was the apothecary at that time. Someone said, Lucy, you rock, which is very nice. Sure. But yeah, the coincidences and especially the put-upon apothecaries are some of my favorite threads in MGH history. And Jeannie says, thank you for giving me a dose of MGH on my Florida hiatus. Oh, yay. I hope it's warm. I hope it's coming in. Okay. We'll just give one more moment in case anyone's typing. Also, I was just gazing out my window. It has yet to begin snowing. Well, Murphy's Law really did kick in. Such is life. Such is life. And you got a thank you from a Treadwell Library colleague. Thank you, Stephanie. Thank you, Stephanie. All right. Well, with that, I think maybe we'll close. I will say, for those who missed Lucy's presentation, oh, right? Sorry about that. Feel free to find the recording of that on the RussellMuseum.org. And also, the recording from tonight should appear on our website by early next week. So thank you again, Lucy. And thanks, everyone, for joining. All right. Yeah, thank you. Thank you for the opportunity to present. And I should note that this was first put together for that successor to the local Association of Record Librarians, which is today called Mahima, last year for their, I believe it was the 90th anniversary of the forming of the group. So that is why this presentation exists. So thank you to Mahima. And one late breaking question is, what was the title before it became Ahima? There was a long list. Actually, hold on a second. Let me see if I can find it in my notes. Because, yeah, I give a rundown, but it's a long. The one prior to Ahima was. So first, it was the Association of Record Librarians of North America. Then it was the American Association of Medical Record Librarians. And then it was the American Medical Records Association before becoming Ahima. Fabulous. Thank you. All right. All right. Well, with that, we'll wish everyone a good night.