 naringin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin. T3, fibrin, niacin. T3, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naring Welcome, everyone. My name is Andrew Wiley. I'm one of the current chief residents. And today I'm very happy to welcome you to our Grand Rounds with Dr. Anna Pinto. Dr. Pinto's research and clinical interests focus on epilepsy during the first two years of life, considering all aspects of these heterogeneous conditions. She has dedicated her training and motivation to understanding and improving the challenges of seizures, migraines, and neurologic impairments in Sturge-Weber syndrome. Her mission is to enhance the understanding of the potential mechanisms underlying seizures, diagnostic assessment, treatment, and prognosis. Seizure is the most common neurological symptom manifested in Sturge-Weber syndrome patients, yet the pathophysiologic process involving epileptogenesis in this syndrome is not fully explained. Seizures often occur during the first year of life and can be drug resistant. Studies have shown that the duration of epilepsy impacts the quality of life and neurodevelopment in these patients. She leads a dedicated multidisciplinary Sturge-Weber syndrome clinic, and her center is recognized as one of the centers of excellence expanded to the Sturge-Weber Foundation Clinical Care Network. Her Sturge-Weber syndrome research receives funding from the NIH Brain Vascular Malformation Consortium, and she serves as center PI of the Sturge-Weber syndrome project, with one of the study goals focusing on urine biomarkers. Her research group pursues Translational Neuroscience Center-funded research in collaboration with the Department of Radiology. She's been actively working with the vascular biology group at Boston Children's Hospital, and their studies have shown that the somatic mutation in the GNAQ gene found in Sturge-Weber syndrome and other capillary malformation specimens is enriched in endothelial cells. She hopes to promote improvements in all aspects of life for patients with Sturge-Weber syndrome. In her current role at Emory University, her mission has expanded to promote excellence in the diagnosis and management of epilepsy in children and adolescents. Her work focuses on delivering high-quality, evidence-based clinical care while developing innovative clinical programs that improve diagnostic accuracy, streamline evaluation, and enhance patient and family education. Through multidisciplinary collaboration, mentorship of trainees, and ongoing clinical research, she aims to advance the field of pediatric epilepsy and improve the lives of the children and families they serve. Please welcome me, and please join me in welcoming Dr. Anna Pinto. Thank you, Andrew. It was very nice introduction. Thank you so much for having me here. And I've always feel like coming home, right? Being in Boston, being at Mass General. I had this wonderful year during my internship here. I met so many great people, made so many great mentors. And it's a great pleasure to be here today and share with you the work we have done for the past, I would say, 13 years. So, the major disclosure right now is a grant that's ongoing, particularly to find more as the pre-symptomatic studies we are doing right now. And then, of course, the goals of this presentation would be more for us to understand about this very old disease, right? To describe more of what we have understood from the pathophysiology of this disease and what exactly could be associated with the epilepsy and how to, based on evidences we have from basic research as well, clinical experience, and how can we manage those patients. So, what exactly is the Stardew Weber syndrome? Still, despite of all the advances, it's a neurovascular disorder that the classic triad, it would be the port wine birthmark, the cutaneous birthmark we're going to discuss about the distribution. The brain involvement is mostly located in the leptomeningocapillary malformation as well with ophthalmological complications, that the most common one being the glaucoma. Then, this timeline of this old disease, it's a Stardew Weber since the first description. It has had a period that over 90 years became mostly associated, everything we knew about the disease was based on the advances on radiology, right? Since we started improving more, we could learn more. So, most of those publications are related to the advances and how we could see the disease. Not only until 2013 that a huge momentum for that disease came in terms of trying to understand more the physiopathology related to this gene and what else we could understand. So, one of the things that came was to understand more about the distribution. I still hear a lot of people describing the V1, V2, V3 distribution. We know now that this is more related to the embryonic migration. Then, we have the host, right? Since we got the mutation, we're going to talk about that, where exactly the cell that hosts the mutation and primarily where is exactly the disease coming from. One thing that I'm very proud to discuss today with you guys would be exactly the thoughts on getting the pre-symptomatic treatment. I think there was a huge change in understanding how we can start helping these patients while getting answers, right? Even if you don't have all the answers, we still can start doing it, heading to that direction. And most recently, we get the animal models published and we're heading to a very new adventurous time about having more clinical trials based on now the ability to test more medications since we have now the animal models available. So, the gene. We'll result in activation of angiotensin, that is a pro-angiogenic substance, as well as inflammatory. We're going to see that's going to be a huge contribution for understanding what could be going on on this patient's brain. So, as Andrew mentioned, at Boston Children's, Lan Huang was the PhD who, through her work, discovered that the gene is the cell that hosts that gene is endothelial cell. So, we know that everything we're going to be seeing is primarily most expressed on that cell. And we have not found any other, for example, neurons, astroglia, nothing that could be also host in that cell. So, primarily for the brain, the only specific location would be the endothelial cells. Since the first description, we had other genes, all of them related to the G protein, all of them somatic. I will show you, share a case with you from the GNA11. That is, it has been one of the mutations that has been associated with some atypical cases. And I'll show you some that I think is going to interest our adult colleagues. So, the clinical features, despite of this whole advances in gene, and I'll tell you more about what we're hoping to accomplish in terms of genotype, phenotype correlation, is still a clinical description. So, basically, the classic, as I mentioned, is we have facial malformation, the capillary, we have the brain, and then you have the ocular complications. The type 2 is the one, we are going to clear them based on the cutaneous distribution. The risk for our eye remains a lifetime, and this is very important. So, that's why sometimes when people say, what would be the difference between study wearer type 2 and just having the port wine birthmark, is the location. Because if the location continues to carry a very high risk for ocular manifestation, then we know that this could be a lifetime complications. From our colleagues from ophthalmology, they say sometimes they get patients very late there when they already got very high pressures of the eyes, they never checked. And very often, they are asymptomatic. The type 3 would be the one only neurologists will see. Those cases would be the ones who come in either with a stroke-like event or focal seizures. And when you go for brain MRI to try to identify what's going on, you're going to find all the features associated with study wearer. So, the type 3, and I'll show you more about our work on that. It's a rare form of study wearer, and basically only neurologists will see. This form of study wearer, typically, they don't have ocular complications. It's mostly neurological. Of course, you can have visual field cut, but not glaucoma and other vascular complications. So, the cutaneous birthmark, like I said, we know now the distribution has nothing to do with the trigeminal distribution. Through some studies, the conclusion is that the location and extension would put the babies in a higher risk. And that's very important for neurologists, particularly child neurologists, to recognize exactly that aspect. Because you're going to be the counseling for those parents. So, basically, the forehead, upper eyelid, this midline here, too, it's very often seen associated with brain involvement. And those are the most common cutaneous manifestations that will have high risk for brain involvement. Those would be the ones you need to investigate and continue to follow until you can clear the patients. So, just to remind that this is a developmental disorder, meaning that the neurological symptoms may change depending on the age. Early childhood is the most active phase. And that's why you're going to see most of our efforts has been on trying to identify neuroprotective strategies. Most common manifestations, seizures. We can see very early stage hemiparesis. Usually, it starts late infancy, but we can already see other early signs. Visual field defect is also commonly seen in developmental delay. One thing that happens is that during school age, learning disabilities and reading difficulties are the most common associated features. Here, we start to see more of the headaches and eventually some stroke-like events. In adults, what we see more is mental health issues. And there are some studies showing that only by having port wine, patients can face a lot of mental health issues, even if they don't have brain involvement. Stroke-like events are very common at this age. And it's very interesting. We just got a message from a patient in Canada who one of the providers are having a hard time managing those events. Cognitive concerns from this whole chronic process. Epilepsy tends to be the least of the problems if the patients already got the seizures under control. However, some patients, particularly bilateral surgery, can continue to have issues with frequent seizures and headaches. And the headaches, very often what we see is a typical migraine or migraines with, I should say, migraine with neurological symptoms. Those are the most common. And sometimes they overlap with what they call the stroke-like events. So where exactly is the, where are the major concerns inside of the brain that points towards to study Weber syndrome and what are the vessels involved? So in the brain, the most common feature is going to be, and I'm going to use this picture here to show the leptomene induced space is where we find most of the capillary malformations, the venous capillary. So we don't have arterial problems. Very often, some patients, when they do the investigation, they add angiogram with the arterial investigation, MRAs. But sometimes we can do this once just to make sure you don't have any other vessel involved. But it's not the primary problem in study Weber. It's the deep venous anomaly is one of the hallmark of the disease and the leptomene induced space. So what are we going to see? The classic brain involvement. We are going to see the capillary malformation with the capitation of the contrast. Medullary veins increase is something we see. I have seen some cases that sometimes we see a very nice coupling, like between like the deep venous and the superficial vein system. But sometimes we see absolutely no connections, almost seem that they can be isolated as well. And then, of course, in resulting of that, we see brain atrophy, abnormal white matter signals. It's one of the things we see very early stages. And calcification is one of the things we're going to see as well as a path. And the calcification is one of very interesting, intriguing findings. So what have we learned from the association with pathology and vascular biology? So one of the things that came from studies is that so this is an OR picture of a study Weber. So this is pretty much what we see capitating contrast in the leptomene in geospace. So this abnormal vasculature. And this would be relatively normal brain appearance. And then, of course, this is more extended disease here. The first time actually we're discussing cases in our meeting with the vascular biology, somebody mentioned something very, very interesting. And we all agree that those those vessels, they look inflamed, even if you have like an abnormal increase in numbers or tortures, as they are abnormal. But it's also could potentially have some inflammation associated with that. With that, we start having some specific investigation from that observation. So one of the things that came from that study was what's exactly in common the brain capillary malformation has in comparison to the skin, because the gene is common to both. So if you if you want to test your patient, you can go from the birthmark and you're going to find the same gene in the brain that has been shown. That's the same condition, the same gene mutation. What would be the difference in common? They have enlarged vessels. They were found to have more leakage, fibrin leakage. So they are and also the leakage and the break on the barriers of the cells is related to inflammation. So we know that this is possible to have. I will tell you more about other conclusions on that. And and also they found potentially abnormal cells. And during this study, we didn't know exactly what cells were there, but it seems that they have some atypical and this is a marker for lymphatics. At that time, we were very excited about trying to discover what would that be? One interesting thing is that on the skin, we see more sprouting and they have other specific characteristics on the skin that we don't have in the brain. There are some studies showing that the index for proliferation, the vessels could be increasing study Weber, but reviewing those studies and checking with our also some of those tissues with know that study web is not a proliferative, different from hemangiomas and other vascular abnormalities. So study web is not proliferative in nature. However, it's possible that during a specific phase, you may see some proliferation of the vessels during that time, but primarily is not proliferative in nature. And this is I think it's very important when you think about how to manage the vascular part. And the next was exactly to try to identify those abnormal cells that our pathologist also detected. And we discovered, though, that it was part of the atypical macrophages. And so the whole aspect of having inflammatory response was very important for us to identify some, again, physiopathology on this condition. And it's very important, those aspects, because it's from several years or maybe decades, the primary thought would be you have abnormal vessels or you have abnormal perfusion. Therefore, everything you see in study Weber is related to hypoxic ischemic injury. Right. And of course, we have a brain that is under a lot of poor reserve. So basically hypoxia and poor perfusion is part of that. But the notion that we also have inflammatory process going on could explain some of those neurological symptoms. And then, of course, knowing about the permeability. And we know that when we have increased capitation of contrast, this also can imply that there is a breakage on the barrier of those vessels. And if increased endothelial permeability, how can we identify those abnormalities? So through some brain samples in the skin, we also were able to do that and reverse that specific permeability by treating. So basically, the study was about getting the endothelial cells, use the mutant cells, the documented, the breakage, the leakage, and then treat and then recover that. Knowing that this is a part of the pathological aspect of the disease. So on that in mind, we know that we're dealing with a neurovascular disorder that not only can produce hypoxic ischemic, poor perfusion, but we're having now inflammatory and leakage as a part of the physiopathology. So in the end, what I wanted to show, particularly for this audience, is that this is going to be part of my clinical experience as well on recognizing some of the MRI patterns. And they can be very helpful when you think about counseling for prognosis and treatment, including selecting patients for a surgical approach. So one of the most classic manifestations would be to have a unilateral disease. And in this unilateral disease, you're going to have sometimes whole hemisphere involved equally. And then one of the phenomena that happens in study web is people may have heard about burnout of the hemisphere. If they have a lot of seizures, they potentially could have very ischemic lesions and they create this very severe atrophy. And some of the patients, when they go through that phase and some patients, they do have that kind of evolution. And you see that the seizures tend to have a better outcome when you go to it's almost like they have their own hemispherectomy by having this kind of phenomenon. However, there are certain aspects of this brain that can continue to produce seizures, such as calcification. So even if you have a better outcome for seizures, you still have a risk for seizures. So it's important to put that as a consideration. The ISM study is also showing that some cognitive aspects, it's almost like they have time to create neuroplasticity on the brain that is doing OK. So at least you can have a better cognitive outcome. One thing about this particular case, for example, if you're studying a patient with this kind of MRI appearance and you see nothing happening on the other side. But when you're doing the EEG, you may find some epileptiform features. What we have concluded is that they are not predictive of this side of the brain producing seizures. So it still can be a good surgical candidate, even if the EEG showed bilateral epileptiform features. I think it's important to mention. Another one that I want to call your attention is when you have unilateral disease, but it seems to be different from the lobes involved. And you have the most common location, and we know that also from the ebrionic parts of the hemangioblasts, that this area here, the occiptoparietal and temporal. The occiptoparietal is the most common areas involved. Temporal also very commonly involved. And then sometimes you have frontal. When you have, I have some cases that I had primarily frontal involvement. Those are the cases that are often associated with more behavioral problems and cognitive problems. And I mentioned that this could be also a case that should be under your radar for surgical consideration. So another case, too, would be when you have a very isolated study webber. So sometimes you see them arise, you repeat the images, and they have a very localized disease. If those patients tend to have intractable seizures, those are very excellent cases for surgical consideration as well. And then, of course, the brain bilateral brain involvement. Those are the most defiant cases, right? Because they have commonly what we see is symmetric, not symmetric, but they usually evolve same area. So, for example, if they have posterior area involved, you see the contralateral also posterior areas. It's not uncommon that they will have uneven affected areas. So when you have bilateral study webber in one side is clearly markedly more involved, those cases can still be surgical candidates. I'll show you this case specifically. I'll show the outcome of this one. When you see bilateral study webber, you know you're going to be dealing with seizures. Seizures can be very hard to treat. Patients are often associated with status epilepticus. Those are the most common patients to be challenging on all kinds of outcomes neurologically and from the epilepsy perspective. And as a matter of fact, the whole pre-symptomatic, you're going to hear that aim more of the most complicated cases. You're going to see that we feel that the consideration of pre-symptomatic treatment will help more of those cases that when they tend to be more severely affected. So, and another pattern that I want to show you that's very interesting, I have come across some of these cases that when you see the deep venous anomalies, so for example, this patient had very early images, 12 months of age, and then at the age of three, you could see some increased vasculature. You could see more, not necessarily, sometimes we see some of, there are some evidence that potentially reroutes vessels, but for the most part, they are the same vessel. They just become larger on the architecture. In those cases, for example, this particular patient has no parenchyma involvement. So it has no atrophy, no calcifications. They had, this patient specific has port wine birthmark. This patient, I followed him since I left, he's already 12 years old, never had a single neurological symptom, not even headache. Sometimes I see patients with more complicated headaches. I would consider, I counsel the family for possibility of stroke-like events as a possibility of manifestation. But this is very interesting that we can see this pattern on the MRI. And those, so all the time we put together all the pictures and all the different manifestations and the clinical outcome, what exactly makes this brain become like, and this patient, when you use the contrast enhance, you can see mild leptomine in GU enhancement. So exactly what can create a phenotype like that, radiological phenotype, and with very minimal neurological consequences. And then, of course, the calcifications. Calcifications can be, it's one of the most common progressive signs of the condition. So, for example, when you're doing a series of brain MRIs in a patient, study webber for whatever reason, you may see that for a certain age, and the age, I would say age four, it's very common by the age of four, you stop seeing much more atrophy or more the vessel changes. I mean, just saying that because it's a more clinical observation, don't take that number as a final progression, but just in the ballpark is pretty much where we stop seeing most of the progression. But then you continue to see calcification. So calcification is this thing, if you go and quantify, you're going to see there is a progressively worsening of the calcifications. When I first started reading more about those patients and the cause of the calcifications, every study would say dystrophic calcification, which is more so commonly associated with lack of perfusion. And you have particularly other areas that affect the calcification. They seem to show that dystrophic pattern. However, there was one study that called my attention once that mentioned in electronic microscopy that showed the parts of the calc on the basis of the vessels, meaning like a vascular calcification. So it's possible that study webber may have both mechanisms, and that's become a problem, too, because calcification alone can be a source for seizures, particularly the amount of calcifications and depends on where they are located. There are groups of experts in study webber trying to understand more about the calcification and see how they could treat potentially like challenging headaches or other symptoms that could be associated. What would be the best way to treat those patients? One thing about the calcification is the only case I saw, there was a baby who he was born with a very severe cardiac malformation and he had a study webber. So we could see his abnormal disease. Brain MRI and this baby had only one seizure and he passed away at the age of nine months because of his cardiac issues. Because of that, we had a chance to look into his brain before he even had major neurological symptoms. And we could not see any calcifications on the images and he had already calcifications, dystrophic type in his autopsy work. So with that only evidence we have, it's possible that calcifications can be as early as any neurological symptoms, even though you don't see on the images. And the first pattern we could identify was the dystrophic one. And then the type 3. There was one study we published in 2024 when we took all the form 3 we had. It was a single center. We got our cases and we kind of decided to see what exactly the EEG pattern. There is one pattern here that is the type 3 is the most fascinating one because I have seen, including adults, who had like a CT scan or MRI done because of headache. So the patient never had a single seizure and never had a stroke-like event. He was, this man is specific, one in his 50s. And then when he had the studies, they found the study, like potentially type 3, but based on the features. He ended up coming and meeting with me because, you know, some of those patients, they don't get to hear more about childhood disease, right? So sometimes I offer like to see adults, at least to give some answers as far as I know. So he came, and then of course I always feel that is a two-way street of learning, right? I get to meet all these adults who never had any symptoms, so create more this whole natural history of the condition. So, for example, this patient here was founded by accident. So there was a 6-year-old at that time. He was biking in New Hampshire, fell, started vomiting, and then had a CT scan. They found the calcification, but they thought it was bleeding. So he was transferred to Boston Children's. He had all the tests. I was like, no, there's a calcification. It was an incidental finding. I continued to follow him all the way to college, and he never had a single symptom. So I have seen patients completely accidental, incidental finding. Another one was a patient who, I have seen those patients too with more deep venous anomalies symptoms. I saw at this patient specifically, the only clinical symptom was stroke-like events. Had one stroke-like event and then show up, and then we did the whole investigation, found features similar. And then, of course, because we don't have those patients, I can, full disclosure, since we don't have their brain to study the mutation, and we don't have anything in the skin, we still assume that those are the case. There was one study in Australia from patients who had a type 3 stagioeber, and they had the brain tissue, because they had to go for surgery, tested and discovered the same gene mutation. So we know we're talking about the same from that appearance of the MRI, but it's more for us to understand on this condition. And this was the case I saw. So this patient, she was at that time a 54-year-old woman who got into Brigham after having a neck massage and had this whole left of the massage with very confusional state and inability to speak. And so when she entered the hospital, she was, of course, flagged a stroke, and she had all these studies. And then they found this MRI pattern on her. During that time, they also put her on EEG, found that she was having seizures at that time, too. So she was treated for seizures. And then based on the, so that was her CT scan when she entered. That was the brain MRI. And what they noticed was, so after, and then, of course, they did something, like all they need to do, they did a PET scan, they did the whole paraneoplastic panel, because, of course, they would see somebody. She had birthmark. She had a cutaneous birthmark. So even though they did everything, thinking, okay, we're going to take this seriously, this might be something we need to understand, they did all the tests, including LP, found nothing. And then finally, they sent me a message. They said, well, look, we have these adults, we think might be a study member. Would you please review the case? And then one thing that caught my attention was the pattern of the birthmark. It was very light, routine, like very interesting how it looks like, and she never had any laser treatment. And so we were able to do a punch biopsy and we tested, and she had this GNA11 variant. So one of those, so the big message would be for our adult colleagues, and if you find a typical case, what they call adult onset of a study member, very likely we're missing case from childhood, because this particular woman at age of 54, she had, like, pregnancies. She had, like, went to college, she did whole, full life, not a single neurological symptom until this neck massage. You know, so very interesting, though, the aspect. And we have seen more and more cases. This case helped me also to identify some of the typical case I have in clinic. And one of the things that caught my attention was the lack of calcification. So all the time I seek patients who have all the features, mild cases, no calcifications. I keep that gene in my mind. I need to check on the time. So the pre-symptomatics. So one thing about the pre-symptomatics that when I first started seeing patients with study member, the huge anxiety was to meet that beautiful couple coming with this precious baby. And then all these questions. And back in the day, you would say to the family, go home and call me when the baby started having seizures. And explain to the patients how the seizure would look like. And it was always devastating. It was, like, crying everywhere, including me. Like, I was like, oh, my God, we need to do better for this family. Because, you know, of course, they were very worried about the babies. And you knew, depends on the location. You're going to hear from the baby next time. They were coming in, very likely going in status epilepticus, going to the ICU, because it's a very classic presentation for the first seizure. Then the big challenge became exactly how can we make this early diagnosis? So the first aspect of, OK, so can we identify the high-risk babies? Can we offer something instead of just go home and wait for the seizure to start? These two pictures here were we used for grant application. This one was obtained at the age of seven days. It was read as normal. And then we all agree, like, for example, if you look at the naked eye, see the sequences. This was when we work on the ADC map, more research sequence. We could see some abnormalities even at the age of seven days. This patient had the brain MRI done. Family was reassured. Brain MRI was normal. By the age of four months, entered the hospital having seizures and co-abnormal MRI. This family at the age of four days had the MRI. Even when we applied the research sequence, we could not see major abnormalities. And then this little girl entered the hospital at the age of three months and started epilepticus. That patient ended up having hemisrectomy because the seizure was so bad. We couldn't control medically. And then she ended up having surgical approach. My point is that when you have a very early, both families, the two in common, what they said was they felt false reassured. So one of the big message that to avoid early images with early reassurance, that this is only cutaneous and could be just birthmark. It's very important for having the timing, you know, to get in the right sequences to be able to clear the baby in the beginning. So that would be the big challenge for us as well. So what we have is still a big challenge. I'll tell you more about what we have considered for triage. There are some studies noticing that enlargement. This is actually clear enlargement of the choroid plexus. Choroid plexus is a structure in the brain, mostly done by endothelial cells. And most of the time, the increased volume of them can be noted, is already present in the prenatal phase. So that would be one of the markers. The only piece is that they only imply deep venous structures. It doesn't tell anything about the parenchyma. So you could still have, like that case I showed, all the deep venous anomalies, but never had anything. So it's not necessarily a good marker for seizure, but could be a good marker to tell you that maybe there are vessel involvement. The med, they call this brush sign, the medullary veins. And the other time we look at a baby's brain, MRIs. And we can see that sometimes they do have some increased medullary veins as soon as they're born and then seem to be better a little bit with time. So even though it's a good sign to see, we have to understand, you know, that some of the things could be developmental as well. Those are the most common findings we see. From my experience, and also we can always try to create more of the evidence that that is true, is that the abnormalities on the brain, MRI associated with seizures are atrophy and the white matter changes. So there are these old descriptions about accelerated myelinization, right? You see the old features, they say, oh, they bring MRI, you're going to find a white matter abnormal signal. And this is associated with myelinization. I have discussed this several times with pathology. Pathology feel that we don't have enough evidence to call that. Radiology feels that the most common explanation for that signal would be that myelin is altered there. It's possible that with hypoxia, only good endocytes could accelerate the process, but there is nothing on quantification of the myelin. So that's why pathology has a hard time accepting that. So from more recent publications, people try to avoid a term in consideration that we don't know for sure. So both those like the atrophy and the abnormal white matter signal are the most common signals that we can see associated with seizures. So if you get this baby had an MRI at the age of 56 days, it was one of the presymptomatic patients we were able to put on the medication. So and then where we are on the presymptomatic, the lack of a good biomarker, when you find already the cases for the most part is already late. Most of the studies have been retrospective and the perspective is already like changes in in practice. All the time you see an abnormal MRI, it's very hard to not offer the presymptomatic treatment. So I feel that there is a change on what we can provide clinically while, like I said, while we're still waiting for the best, the best way to do that. And what would be the best strategy? Another disclosure, despite of what we have offered the families, we don't know if this is yet. The best, you know, neuroprotective strategy we can offer. But this is already proved to be a good one in a way that some of the so the first hypothesis paper was a retrospective very only could go to publications and hypotheses. We didn't have enough data. Then we create more of that evidence. And we now know that there is a significant change on seizure prediction and outcome, knowing that one of the most important prognostic factors is the early onset of seizures. So if you can delay the seizure onset and if you can delay altogether, you can impact that outcome from the epilepsy perspective and developmental aspects. Dr. Krish and I will share a patient who has been seizure free despite of having abnormal MRI over two years of age now and never had a seizure and in presymptomatic. Dr. Krish and I will tell you later that sometimes the question becomes like, OK, when are you going to stop the treatment? Right. And then so other questions will come as we continue to see the good news about this treatment is that the intercedural medication that has been used is the one that has very little side effects. So it's still when you think about risk and benefit is to protecting more than causing harm. So for high risk babies, what we have decide that we should, of course, as soon as you see the babies and the babies to ophthalmology, dermatology should see. I have seen a lot of patients that I need dermatological confirmation that this is actually a port wine because babies can have all the birthmarks, the salmon patch, you know, they can also have like just dilated vessels, which is the salmon patch and not malformed vessels. So sometimes when you get into what exactly the dermatological diagnosis, they can be very helpful, but usually they see dermatology even before they see neurology. The eyes always should have like the follow up the first year. First year should be very close follow up because we know is the most common risk factors for ocular manifestation. Glaucoma being the first one, but we can have choroidal hemangiomas. There are other retinal retina detachment from abnormal vessels on the choroidal layer. So we know the ocular could be a very problematic for them. So then what would be our first recommendation to get the MRI between eight and ten weeks of age? Then if you if you try to get that window, it's a very good window for you to start seeing already some abnormalities without sedation. We can do the rapid feeding. You can put a good protocol for the most part. If I have a very good protocol, I don't necessarily need contrasts. There's a little bit debate between some of the centers because the contrast is always going to be the gold standard to see the leptomene injury enhancement. However, like I said, since my interest on the first MRI is already signs of atrophy and white matter changes, I don't need contrast for that. And then we can use SWI for getting more of the vessel part. So I feel that I can get a lot of information with a non contrast, non sedated first MRI during that age. What from the NICU people when you go see the patient to hold the anxiety to not get the MRI because people are going to get very anxious about that. If the case is very severe, sometimes you already got the MRI abnormal right then. But the studies have shown that the highest amount of false negatives is before the age of six weeks. So that's why between eight and ten weeks is still when they are not old enough to fuss on the MRI so we can get this study done here. And then, of course, if you have the normal MRI, you continue to observe the patient and get it. The patient is still going to need a second MRI. Here they say after one year of age. In my practice, I like to offer two years because we know as a child neurologist, the best stage to image patients about age two. You avoid all those, you know, complete myelonization and things that some developmental findings that sometimes you see on the MRI. So I like the age of two. If you can carry all the way there, get the MRI. And then if the MRI is normal, the contrast and very good protocol, you know you're not going to have anything showing up later. So that's a very important thing for clearance in the neurology perspective. And then, of course, another part of the clinical observation is the use of EEG. Another full disclosure, even though I think EEG is important, we should continue doing so we can understand what kind of EEG can be important. It's less EEG is less harmful. However, it's very rare to see spikes. It's very different to tuberous sclerosis. For example, we see some spikes very the first beginning. Instead, you have because of the atrophy and the lack of epilepsy from features. Sometimes you get a normal EEG and the patients already have abnormal MRI. Another point is that you need to do a quantitative EEG because the most common abnormalities is slow waves or, you know, abnormalities on voltage. And sometimes it's very hard to appreciate them if you don't quantify them specifically. And of course, you have to do more sequence. And the EEG has not proved to be superior to MRI in predicting seizures. And that's why, for example, right now, I try to understand what's the role for the EEG. And I had one case, an actual case from Alabama, that the family had the MRI. I'm sorry, it had the EEG. And because the EEG was called normal, they decided not to pursue the MRI and the patient had a seizure. And actually entered the hospital and started epilepticus. And then, of course, they got, oh, maybe the EEG was not totally normal. But again, based on what you could see, it was nothing major. So that's why, and then to me, that family was falsely assured. Oh, no, you don't have to do MRI and they make a decision to not do it. And they missed the opportunity at least to try to have the pre-symptomatic treatment. So that would be part of my disclosure. And you're still finding the best way. And then, of course, if you find that I bring about MRI abnormal, what can you do? What I since I started doing this, I have offered the levatoracetan and aspirin for those patients. And there was a time we were wondering about, oh, should we just offer the antisedural medication? But then the conclusion was that aspirin has a very interesting aspect on the study. However, it's not must have medication, of course. But it has shown in retrospective studies that it's very good for patients when they have stroke-like events and when they have intractable epilepsy. The levatoracetan at that time, there was a lot of discussion which which medication should be given. And the decision for levatoracetan is because of the low side effects profile. And because we didn't have any other one, why not try that one? And that's pretty much the choice. It was not later. We tried to find something about the mechanism. But bottom line is that it's the first one the babies are going to be taking anyway, has a relative low side effects profile. So it's easy for the families to accept and prove to be effective in some cases. So that's why it was the decision. Again, it's not the perfect decision. And more trials will come. And I am hoping you guys will hear more about them as well. So the stroke-like events is another thing that's what there was even a study that we did at Children's. That's when you have a neurovascular disorder and you enter the hospital with a weakness, like worsening weakness on the same side. The first thing they do is make it like go for a CT scan. I had some patients who had like delayed on going to the ICU because they have to wait for the CT scan to make sure they're not having an intraclinal bleeding. Or I had patients like delayed transfer from one hospital to another waiting for that or trying to put the patients under sedation to get the CT scan so they know they're not bleeding. So what we conclude is that if the patient had a sudden expected deficit, they don't need CT scan. They need hydration. They need treatment. They need like antiseizure medication. Sometimes could be an unwitness seizure. And they came in with thought paralysis because we know that the weakness after the seizure could be more pronounced and prolonging instead of ever. It's very often those stroke like events with now in the literature, you may find like sudden hemiplegic attack. So they have a different names. Right now actually we have a task force trying to understand more and create more algorithm on how to deal, treat those events. They are they can be common in toddlers. I have actually one patient who threw a tantrum at the age of 18 months because he didn't want to go to school and got immediately like a week on that side. It's very important to know that every state. So what we did to try to help on the avoiding unnecessary testing was to create the evidence that CT scan help or not. And so a single study, the net children's with all the case we had. Or I remember we collected the cases from cases and from all the CT scans they had all the time they came to the ER and they're not a single case. The CT scan helped. And it's true in our community. When you talk about that, people would say if you can hold, if you get a call, say, oh, surgery, every patient came in, worse and worse. Just don't do the CT scan. Just do everything else is expected. The same side. You don't have that. All the cases described in the medical literature with intracranial bleeding. Either the patient was in coma and then, of course, if they're in coma, it's not expected deficits. Right. Another one was completely unrelated to Sted Webber. So bottom line is that this disease does not carry any specific risk for intracranial bleeding per se. So that's very important, too. So in terms of epilepsy, and I have some more few minutes, I just want to show you some of the case. For the epilepsy factors to consider, we'll go the same as we measure all epilepsy cases. Seizure duration. Estatus epilepsics are very common. That patient I told about, the Alabama baby had a three month at there by the age of 11 months, had three status epilepticus. So in the end up going to surgery because it was living on the ICU from a medication was not helping. So a seizure duration is very important. Seizure frequency, of course, severity. And another point in Sted Webber, too, is not uncommon. I had one case, too. The patient had seizures already in three medications developed aponeic spells, epileptic aponeic spells. So apnea as epileptic manifestation is not uncommon and can be already one of the seizure types that would push you more towards your surgical decision because it's not resolved. That that moment, remember that time she was doing like CPR like every week, twice a day, things like that. I remember getting a call from the nine north. At that time was nine north nurses saying, oh, we're very uncomfortable with this patient here. So imagine mom at home if you guys nursing on the neurology floor. Right. And then, of course, cognitive decline. I had one patient with frontal spasms that needed to go for surgical for that. Patients keep in mind that they will have already from the disease pre-existing deficits, hemiparesis and visual field defects. As a matter of fact, I had already two babies that I noticed hemiparesis in the pre-symptomatic treatment. Didn't develop seizures, but they show some hemiparesis. It's very interesting that neurologic symptoms already present, developed, but no seizures. So interesting that we can have that, too. And family preference. I had some patients who actually point to that direction, particularly for the patient has chances to become seizure free and hemispirectomy will give that. So all the modalities we're going to discover what we can do. So basically the unilateral hemispheric disease that that was the case, this patient specifically had infantile spasms with her study. But this patient actually ended up having a venous infarction as a complication that passed off. But we decided at that time that the only area affected was here. And even though she had some mild signs that all the parts, including like the deep venous anomaly, because this I'm showing the sequence here. But she had a little bit more evidence of study, but it was very mild. So the disconnection make her seizure free, no deficit and in follow up MRI. What I noticed is that no major progression. So that's one of the things we're talking about. Potentially removing the most, you know, challenging aspect of the neuro excitability may help not not progressing the disease as we as we can imagine. That was another patient that was our study weber type. I'm sorry, study weber with bilateral a study weber. You can see here massive abnormalities in the right posterior quadrant with also affected left sided. Right. So bilateral case. And then she underwent a disconnection and she as you can even see here, like the study weber was also in the front. You can see signs to the follow up MRI very minimal changes, no progression. So she's a bilateral case and she became she was seizure free for many years. Right now she just came start having seizures again. And she is actually the first case. John decided for intracranial SIG was the first patient that was underwent that. So keep in mind that some of the patients for surgical approach is we go after the lesion. Right. Sometimes we can consider, oh, it's a good case to put duro, subdural electrodes. There are some cases reporting the literature for the most centers. We go after the lesion and if the lesion matches where the seizure comes from, it's the most straightforward case for surgery so far. And keep in mind what I show about those vessels. So sometimes vascular complications can be higher on the population if you think about invasive monitoring. And sometimes they don't need. That was one of my first cases that I actually ended up going for surgery. So this patient came in in status epilepticus and had this very, so like very unique kind of lesion here and the PET scan showing and all. And this is his OR picture. And then he had the whole removal here. So sometimes this patient actually he ended up not even having the definition for intractable epilepsy. He's not having seizures with so many, like almost like EPC from December all the way to February. And then in March he's already had his surgery. So sometimes again, to keep those kids under your radar and think what we can do for them. It's very important. So what I would like to leave today would be exactly this whole principle. You know, I forgot one thing. I'll come back for that one. So again, I think the next direction for us is going to continue to see what phenotype genotypical relation. We're going to continue to learn more about the gene and including the phenotype on the radiology aspect. Here, I just wanted to show you the two animal models, which is the big thing on for us now. So the first one published by the John Hopkins group. They look into some specific pathways. It seems to be a good model. There are some limitations on this model, including the fact that we some specific and again, full disclosure too, is more related to the very, very basic research. It seems that some of the things on that model may not duplicate, replicate entirely what we have found on the on the physiopathology. That's all I'm going to say about that without complicating myself. And the second model that was just published by February by the group at Children's have some of this, those trying to cover the gaps led by the other models. So it seems that we are reaching more of a model that could include the skin, the brain, because of course, this disease, we need to understand all the three major organs involved. And then what I would like to leave for today would be exactly this to identify the high risk babies, be working on the pre-symptomatic approach. Post-symptomatic meaning if you don't manage the seizures, are these patients manageable by epilepsy surgery? One thing very important, a hemisphoerectomy is the single intervention that can make somebody seizure free in Studerwebber entirely if they have the well selected case. So I think it's very important, particularly when including family preference. Some families say I would prefer to go for that route and particularly if the patient is a good candidate, it's important to take into consideration. We're still looking into good, reliable biomarkers in the biomarkers in Studerwebber are the two major aspects of the disease. One is for initial diagnosis and the second one is the progression. Who's going to be the good responders? Who are going to respond to medications? Right. Who is going to evolve into more severe form of the disease? I think it's kind of two aspects. And we continue to work with multidisciplinary groups to find artificial intelligence outcome predictors is something that we are working on trying to do. And again, rare disease can be very difficult on finalizing all those. But I have John McLaren working with me. You guys all know him and it's been very, very good collaboration. So in full disclosure, this little logo was my son who did it for me. And I thank you all for the attention, the invitation for having me here today. Thank you. Any questions? So we'll open this up to the audience now and anyone who is in our group virtually as well. Feel free to put a question into the chat. Dr. Pinto, thanks for coming and thanks for your brilliant presentation. Can you comment about the fact of the unilateral allily of this disease? And when you compare to patients who present bilaterally, is this at the time of the embryogenic mutation? Or so is it kind of a mosaic for the cells or is more of the expression of the RNA and protein level? Dr. Pinto, yeah, I think we're going to learn more about that as we learn. But the first impression, the first theory, hypothesis was the timing. The timing would matter, including, for example, if you have the complete, you know, manifestation, including like, for example, since the gene is the same, after the differentiation, if the somatic mutation occurs, you can only have the forthwine. And the same about the brain after certain aspects, you only have one and the early you get. And then I remember having some discussions that some, of course, there are some experts that don't feel comfortable just getting that as a final answer. So that's why I feel that we're going to learn more as we go for now. The hypothesis would be the timing related to the mutation. Dr. Pinto, Anna, that was great. You covered a lot of different areas of the disease. It's pretty complicated, but very interesting. I just want to pick your brain a little bit on some practical things. You mentioned your approach to seizures and, you know, pre-symptomatic therapy with aspirin and Keppra, which is great. What do you do when a kid comes in with severe headache or the kids who do come in with, you know, they've bumped their head and now they're hemiparietic or they have a monoplegia? How do you manage those? Yeah. So, for example, the patients, when they have sudden hemiplegia because of either trauma or something happens and you notice could be part of the disease. And the only manifestation is that they don't necessarily carry the risk for having like aspirin, for example. It could be one time thing. And sometimes we follow them without major treatment. So, for the headaches. Again, there is another group working on trying to understand, including, for example, calcium blockers as a preventive for those headaches. Would that be better, superior to the others we have from the disease? So, because of the, for example, the stroke like events, they are often associated with seizures. So, for example, treating the patients with increasing their antiseizure medication, hydration. It seems to improve. Some patients, when they come in with, for example, a typical migraine with vomiting and having like headaches and sometimes they have a worsening of their weakness and you see the goal. It's a mixture of headache with neurological symptoms, could be a stroke like event. Those are the cases. And these was very interesting because, for example, depends on how severe is the stroke like event. One of the recommendations has been to use asthma dose of steroids because of this idea that inflammatory process could be contributing to that. And anecdotally, some patients get much better on that. So, for example, I have done already some patients, but again, true disclosure would be somebody who would call from another hospital. Even in my own institution, I have very few cases that I was able actually to treat with steroids because it's not so common. But again, being an expert and sometimes having this relation to foundations, people can reach out to you and ask questions. So, to me, it's a great privilege to be able to do that because I learn a lot and be able to follow patients that even if I'm not personally involved. So, for the stroke like events, if it's recurrent or if you're dealing with a very severe one and you put the leads on patients and not having seizures, very severely affected, very weak, is not recovering. The use of steroids, asthma, those protocol would be a way to. And then in your experience, sometimes these things go on for days and you start to sweat, you know, that you've missed something or whatever. I mean, what's your experience in terms of the resolution of things like hemiparaces or headaches? Yeah, it could be exactly what you said. For example, we have some patients who do even have leave the ICU because they're so worried about the trajectory this is going to take and you don't find anything more positive on that can take weeks. As Max Takioka from Boston, he once published four cases that one of his patients took one year until he was back to baseline. And just by observation, you know, and then, of course, some patients can return to a baseline but achieve a different baseline. And the reason why he knew those cases were actually recovering from that in South because the patients actually went back to all the first baseline. One thing very interesting about that, too, is the the idea that there is a just a recent publication about the potential. I didn't bring that this one. You absolutely right about so many things instead remember potential. The increase of the medullary veins could be protective. So sometimes we look into MRI aspects, for example, this particular patient that they published was somebody who came in in having a lot of symptoms and they noticed that comparison to previous MRI and the one that was enlargement of the medullary veins. And then once the episode resolved, it went back to the same side is the same size. And then the idea is that could that be that that vessels open up during that time, you know, as a protective mechanism. So that would be and again, hypothesis is just observation. And as you can imagine, some patients may you may think you have the answer and then you try again and you don't find the same the same aspect. There was one patient who had a very severe stroke like event, did not recover for weeks and been up doing everything, including PET scan and trying to find, you know, like was there something that would be more permanent and you couldn't find anything that could lead us to prognosis. And then the patient start getting better again after weeks. It can be very unsettling. Yeah. This one very nice presentation. The one question is about pre symptomatic. You just said ASM. You didn't specify what drug it is. Is something left to us or what is the drug that seemed to work the best for that? Exactly. So that's very very. I think so I put the antithesis medication because there are some publications on oxycarbazepine, which did not prove to be superior to levatracetan. As a matter of fact, I tried when I first saw I said, oh, why not? We can try and see which one could be better. And then the patient who I put on oxycarbazepine and actually had so bad epilepsy. And another thing, too, that oxycarbazepine, if you really want to use the baby's like, you know, as a therapeutic does, you end up having like low sodium and you have to do more blood work. And this counts as comorbidity for a baby. So because if you put the patient levatracetan and you have to do anything other than just just the weights is much better for the family than to have every three months. You have to go have blood work and vitamin D and this and that. So I and there is no proof to be superior. So oxycarbazepine has tried. And there is a work from Europe, of course, mentioned above all proc acid, which you felt like. No, thank you. That's I wouldn't think that was superior. And again, could be even more because in Europe they use way more proper cancer in any age compared to United States. But again, and again, it didn't prove to be superior. And back in the day when we're trying to find the best medication, I even had a one to one meeting with the bourgeois. I even asked him, like, what do you think? And then he helped me like even to create the mechanism because exactly we didn't have anything better. And that was after looking all the evidence is all of them. That was the least side effects. And that's why. But again, it's not it's not the perfect one. And we are hoping to find something more. So since we're talking about that one trial that's going to start just this year is going to be using cannabidiol because a very interesting medication cannabidiol is because if you think about the endotelial stabilization, right? Because this medication has different properties other than ant asphaltic. And one of them is the stabilization of the endotelial cells. So is that possible? Sturge Weber would be a disease model that could benefit from those different mechanisms. So we're going to start looking into other options, but I still don't have any. Another question is I've I've seen a few. Children was Sturge Weber between age. Two and four. they seem to have some autistic regression and seem like it's very challenging but one kid I remember she was having all these features of autism and went to Lurie Center and kind of recovered from it completely but she was on Kepra so I don't know if that made a difference we made the adjustments of the dosage and everything but the other kid had a very challenging course and I think she had fairly long term features for autism so how often do you see this autistic regression in these children? So autism is not so often associated with the web as it is with the tuberous sclerosis and other conditions but we have seen more and more cases so in common what I've seen is bilateral cases seem to have more and frontal lobe involvement with the behaviour and the case I've seen with autism the majority of the cases they don't have to the point that once the first case with autism starts showing up associated with stud web people are wondering about is that a different disease? And then of course I think autism has just become more common and then once you have no abnormal brain it is set up but from the most part it's not a common association it's not a yeah Thank you Any other questions? All right before we go anywhere I'm hoping that we can do a group picture in the front of the amphitheater for Dr. Pinto Thank you So I will summon everyone up here especially you Thank you Thank you