 int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int int Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hi. Good morning, everyone. We will get started now with some department announcements. Thanks, everybody. Thanks, everybody. This is a new thing we're starting today. We all the vice chairs will rotate to give brief announcements before Grand Rounds. And thanks for joining online and thanks for joining here. First announcement is we want to revamp Grand Rounds. So if you have any ideas how to make this more engaging, we have the best speakers you'll see today. Tanuja Chitnis is a great example of the quality, the academic expertise that we bring to Grand Rounds. Just keep us with ideas. Please email Tammy Kaplan. She's really focused on bringing Grand Rounds again to that sense that everybody shows up and everybody's asking questions. So a couple announcements. There are requests for applications for a vice chair associate, not vice chair, associate division chiefs in three areas. One is headache and facial pain. One is general neurology and one is movement disorders. So if you are within those divisions and you're interested to see what the job looks like, please go to the vitals web page. And the final reminder is that March 17th. Let me just double check that I have the. March 17 is our faculty town hall to talk about the new compensation plan. So a lot of work is being dedicated to the new comp plan in March 17. We'll be able to answer a lot of questions, get further ideas, and it should be a great meeting. So thank you, Rosina. Hi, everyone. My name is Rosina Aziz-Bos. I'm one of the pediatric neurology chiefs. It's my great pleasure to introduce Dr. Tanuja Chitnis, an internationally recognized therapist. Dr. Tanuja Chitnis is the inaugural chief of the division of neuro immunology at MGB, a professor of neurology at Harvard Medical School, and holds the Cindy Larson Chug endowed chair in neurology at Brigham and Women's Hospital. Dr. Tanuja Chitnis founded the pediatric multiple sclerosis center, the first of its kind in New England. Dr. Tanuja also founded the translational neuro immunology research center at Brigham and Women's Hospital. Dr. Tanuja Chitnis, MD, The center brings together clinical and lab research, bioinformatics, and data analytics teams to identify biomarkers, algorithms, and therapeutic targets that advance bench to bedside breakthroughs in neuro immunological diseases. Dr. Tanuja Chitnis, MD, Her research has significantly advanced our understanding and treatment of multiple sclerosis. Dr. Tanuja Chitnis, MD, She has led numerous phase one through four clinical trials, including landmark phase three pediatric MS trials that were published in the New England Journal of Medicine. Dr. Tanuja Chitnis, MD, Through this pioneering work, she has also mentored and trained more than 15 fellows, shaping the next generation of clinician scientists in this field. Dr. Tanuja Chitnis, MD, On a personal note, I can say that Dr. Chitnis is our neuro immunology guardian angel at MGH, promptly and graciously lending her expertise to every neuro immunology case we see on the wards. Dr. Tanuja Chitnis, MD, We are very grateful to learn from Dr. Chitnis throughout our pediatric neurology training, and we are delighted to have her share her experience with all of you today. Dr. Tanuja Chitnis, MD, Please join me in welcoming Dr. Tanuja Chitnis. Thank you, Rosina, for those really kind words, and it's just an absolute pleasure to be with you here today. Thank you for everyone who showed up in person under threat of snowstorm and all sorts of weather and February breaks, so really appreciate you being here. I feel like I should take you all for lunch or something afterwards. Dr. Tanuja Chitnis, MD, So I'm going to really focus on an area of my research and clinical work, which is pediatric multiple sclerosis. Some of you have seen me speak about other phases of MS, but I think this is one of the most important presentations of multiple sclerosis, some of our most challenging cases, and we've learned a lot over the past 15 to 20 years about this particular presentation. Dr. Tanuja Chitnis, MD, And I'm going to start with a very thought provoking question. So does multiple sclerosis start in childhood? And by the end of this talk, I will, you know, have a show of hands and see how many of you think that is the case and if I've been able to convince you of that. So to get started, this is the SMS code for attendance, and these are the details of this grand rounds presentation. AMPA PRA credits are also provided, and this is an accredited program. And these are the disclosures, both of the organizers as well as myself, and I've served as a consultant for various pharmaceutical companies and those involved in biomarker development to multiple sclerosis. So in terms of our learning objectives for today, so what I'd like to share with you is, and really hope that, you know, we can learn together about the identification of the effective age on MS disease presentation and course. Understand the therapeutic options for pediatric multiple sclerosis. And then also understand early risk factors and immunobiology of MS that occur during childhood or adolescence. And is this really a key risk period that we should be looking at? So I'm going to start with a case, and this is a 12-year-old girl who presented with right eye pain, blurry vision, and right hand numbness for the past three days. And she, on exam, had evidence of visual acuity decrease, 2080, a right APD, decreased color vision, and she had a sensory deficit on her right hand. And her MRI, I'll show you in the next slide. And so you and maybe Rosina or Andrew are called to the emergency room and you're assessing this case. And, you know, the first thing you're going to look at is both the clinical presentation as well as the MRI. And here, you know, the thing I want to draw your attention to are these periventricular lesions, which really, and I'll give the punchline away, you know, are pathognomonic for multiple sclerosis, as well as these sort of hazy lesions in the spinal cord. They're not longitudinally extensive, but more punctate and not well circumscribed. So in terms of a workup, so, you know, Andrew or Rosina, you might think about, you know, what should I send and what would be my typical workup? So these are some of the blood tests that you, over the years, have become very adept in sending, and I don't need to advise you any longer. But, you know, MOG antibody, QP4 antibody, some of the inflammatory markers, EBV serologies is now also an addition to our armamentarium. And also my favorite new test, NFL or neurofilment light chain. And this is just helpful as a marker of axonal injury in any case presenting with neuroinflammatory disease and gives us a sense of how much damage has been occurring and is present. On CSF, we like to see an opening pressure. This can help us particularly with diagnoses of MOGAD or MOGAD, protein, glucose, all the usual things, all the clonal bands and kappa-free light chains. And remember to send that serum tube as well. So that's very important. And then also we can get AQP4 antibodies in the spinal fluid. MOGAD antibody is available through a research request. So if you send the AQP4 antibody, then you can ask Mayo Clinic to run the MOGAD antibody. And then, you know, depending on the presentation, we'll get various encephalitis panels and possibly an autoimmune encephalitis panel. And then we'd like to have an MRI, both of the orbits, the brain, spinal cord, and also ophthalmology exam. So that's the ideal situation. If we can get that all done in a few hours, that's even better. But, you know, not always. So amongst the differential diagnoses, and I think I see patients across the age spectrum. I have a pediatric and adult clinic. And so I think about differentials for MS according to age group. In my younger patients, I'm certainly thinking about ADM or acute disseminated encephalomyelitis. I'm also thinking a great deal about MOGAD, NMOSD to a lesser extent, and leucoencephalopathies, and some of the genetic disorders that present in younger children. And in my older cases, this is a very similar differential, maybe slightly different order. And then in my older patients, I'm thinking about migraine and rheumatological disorders. And in much older patients, stroke and neurodegenerative diseases become more prominent. So these are just some things to think about, you know, according to age. And, you know, although we have a broad differential, we can start to parse it down by various factors. So otherwise, you know, our typical TINDS differential, we think about all of these other demyelinating disorders, autoimmune syndromes, vascular disorders. Catacill was actually one of the most common misdiagnoses of MS through a UK study. So something to think about, and particularly in patients who are presenting with prominent headaches. Infections, you know, always in the differential, metabolic diseases, and of course, tumors. So, you know, those are just broad differentials that are running through your mind as you're in the emergency room seeing this young patient. So the key differentials, I've talked about three things that we should really look out for. So acute disseminated encephalomyelitis is a post-typically post-viral syndrome inflammatory in nature. And the key features are lethargy and encephalopathy. So we see this quite often in kids. And these are usually our patients who are presenting between the ages of three and seven, who have a very fulminant presentation, large lesions, fluffy lesions, and they're lethargic and very, and somewhat encephalopathic. Our MOGAD patients, we'll talk a little bit about that. That's a whole lecture in itself, but typically presenting with bilateral optic neuritis, transverse myelitis, brainstem syndrome, encephalitis, and then serum MOG antibodies are typically positive. CSF, you know, we're still learning more about this. If it's present, it certainly is very suggestive of MOGAD. But, you know, serum is really where the money's at. NMO, we have an NMO expert in the audience, Michael Levy, but bilateral optic neuritis, typically more posterior transverse myelitis. And also serum and CSF AQP4 antibodies are key. So ADM, we mentioned that this is a post-viral syndrome and typically presents with very fluffy, diffuse lesions. And down below, so that's on the top line, and then down below is our pediatric MS case. So you can immediately see the difference. And, you know, really in the emergency room, you can probably diagnose our case, our young patient with MS based on the fact that they're well circumscribed periventricular lesions and not these fluffy subcortical lesions as we see in ADM. So just another nice mnemonic for looking at lesion location and especially when we're thinking about where is the optic neuritis, if it's unilateral and short in nature and not a very inflammatory disc, then I would be thinking about multiple sclerosis. If it's bilateral and anterior, you probably will have maybe swollen discs, then it is more likely MOGAD. And if it's more posterior than NMOSD is really probably the differential diagnosis. And then similarly with spinal cord, there are various patterns that you can pick out. And also with the brain lesions here, again, perivascular or periventricular lesions in MS and more brainstem fluffy lesions in MOGAD. And then around the aquaporin for rich areas in NMOSD. So, you know, these are just patterns to keep in mind. And so you can probably have a good sense of what's happening really at first presentation. So in our case, some of the results came back. Now you have seven whites, 90% lymphocytes, normal protein glucose. Your antibodies are pending and they won't come back for about a week. So you have to make a diagnosis and figure out treatment and, you know, probably think about prognosis, right? You know, without that information. Negative CSF for various PCRs. There's three alloclonal bands and then her NFL levels are elevated slightly. So I think with all of this, certainly the diagnosis is becoming much more clear as multiple sclerosis. And we can, we'll talk about diagnosis and diagnostic criteria and then treatments. So the McDonald criteria for multiple sclerosis has been a sort of set of criteria that's been iterated upon for the past 20 or so years. It really rests upon three pillars. So clinical criteria, which includes clinical attacks, objective evidence of lesions and no better diagnosis. So that's the caveat. You know, you can diagnose MS, but you as the clinician have to have ruled out everything else. And, you know, that's the small print in this, in this criteria. So that rests upon the neuroimmunology expert to make sure that you've done a thorough job with ruling out other diagnoses. There are MRI criteria, which rest upon dissemination in space, so lesions in various areas of the CNS and dissemination in time. And then additional criteria, which change from time to time, but have largely now rested on CSF tests, now advanced MRI features. So this is the most, the latest iteration of the McDonald criteria is published in 2024. And basically just going down this algorithm, you know, someone who is presenting with an attack and signs of MS will go through a workup. You've excluded all the better explanations. And then now you have an MRI that shows lesions present in two or more areas of the CNS or patients who have 12 months or longer progression with spinal cord lesions are also eligible for this diagnosis now. And that was, you know, sort of unifying, relapsing and progressive multiple sclerosis into one framework was one important goal of the new McDonald criteria, this iteration compared to 2017. And then there are additional criteria. So if you have any of these, the CSF positivity, something called CVS positivity and dissemination in time, then you also have more supportive criteria for multiple sclerosis. So, you know, these are some important updates for these 2024 criteria. And this is what MS experts really, you know, think about day in and day out. Not everyone might do this, but just to keep in mind, these are the tests that we're looking for. And so we're looking for dissemination in time, and we would need a brain and spine and optic nerve evaluation. The optic nerve was a fifth addition to this dissemination in space criteria. We want CSS positivity with all clonal bands and or elevated caper free light chains. So this is part of the CSF panel that can be sent. And then advanced MRI metrics, which can augment the criteria, especially if you have a confusing case, central vein signs, six or more, or paramagnetic rim lesions can help you clinch the diagnosis. And so all of this is in the service of diagnosing our patients earlier and also starting treatment earlier, since we know that treatment, early treatment really portends a better prognosis. So this is the rhyme and reason for all of this. There was also a change to add in radiologically isolated syndromes. We all run into cases of patients who get an MRI for a headache or maybe head trauma. And then there's incidental findings of demyelinating disease. And so if you go through this algorithm now, and if there are everything else was excluded, the fine print has been met and you have lesions in two or more areas of the CNS. And then also meeting some of these additional special criteria, then you could diagnose MS based on the RIS sub criteria. Now, this also, this new McDonald criteria also said these criteria apply to pediatric MS. However, if ADM is the first presentation, then the second event needs to have new T2 lesions. And if the, especially if the patient is 12 years or younger, then absolutely test MOG antibodies. But we test them in many of our patients older than this. And then also for those of you who see patients who are older than 50, carefully consider comorbidities, small vessel disease, migraine, are certainly major differentials and additional MRI criteria might be required. So that is all going into the diagnosis of pediatric MS, the differential diagnosis, and all the caveats to think about across the age spectrum. So pediatric multiple sclerosis. So I started a clinic in 2004. I was a new neurologist on the block, and there were a lot of kids being referred to my adult clinic. And so I thought this is not the right place for them. They are an adult waiting room. And so we wanted to set up a clinic that was specialized for kids with MS, teenagers, and of course partnered with our long-term partner, MGH. So what we've discovered over now of about 20 years of investigation is that about 5% of all MS cases are pediatric and onset. About 90% of cases are age 11 or post pubertal, which is really important probably in the pathogenesis. And there are similar presenting symptoms in disease courses MS. And, you know, when I started, we weren't sure, is this the same disease as adult MS? MOGAD was a major differentiator. And once we were able to parse that out and differentiate MOGAD cases from true MS, then we could see, yes, this is absolutely the same disease as presenting in adult MS patients with very similar symptoms as we've listed here. And there, again, over 20 years of investigation has turned out similar genetic and environmental risk factors, including the HLA-DRB1-1501 allele EBV low vitamin D as an adult MS. So another question is, you know, is it the same disease? Yes, at its basis, but there are some important differentiating features. And one thing that we found very early on is that we were getting more phone calls for relapses to my pediatric clinic compared to my adult clinic. And so Mark Gorman, who was a fellow at the time, took this on as a project, and we found that there was an increase in relapse rate in children compared to adults and two to three times as many relapses. So a more inflammatory disease. And I think in general, we know that the pediatric immune system is more inflammatory, a quick up and down as opposed to adults. We have there's more chronic inflammation. Another major differentiator was a slower time to locomotor disability. And many of my kids, although they will have many lesions in their brain or spine MRIs, they will be walking absolutely fine. And they will physically on their neurological exam look fine. And so there's a slower locomotor accrual of disability. And this has played out with the EDSS. But despite this, my 25-year-old pediatric onset patient will have more disability at that age than my typical adult MS patient. And that obviously is very difficult for a young adult dealing with these challenges. And another difference, and this is sort of, you know, being evaluated in different data sets, but early on, more cognitive deficits. And I think just inflammation on a developing brain can lead to more issues. Now that we have better treatments and earlier treatment, it's becoming less of an issue, but certainly something to pay attention to. And all of our patients will see a neuropsychologist. So this is the graph showing a higher relapse rate in kids compared to adults. So again, two to three times as many relapses. And this is also borne out with higher T2 lesion loads on MRI in pediatric MS compared to adult MS. And similarly, we found more inflammation in their T cells. We looked at IL-17 producing T cells, and they were more frequent in our pediatric MS patients compared to controls and also in subsets compared to adult MS patients. So another sort of interesting study we looked at was whether relapse rates were better or relapse recovery was better in our pediatric patients. We said that they're more inflammatory, they're having more relapses. So why are they walking better? Why are they doing better physically? And indeed, we did find that there was an improved relapse recovery in our pediatric MS patients compared to adults across the age spectrum. And so this could be an area, and in fact, we're following up on this in the pediatric network and looking at reasons as to why our pediatric patients do better. And could we bottle that and potentially use that for recovery in adult MS from relapses or disability accruals? So this is the fountain of youth potentially and something that's being investigated quite thoroughly. We talked about significant cognitive impairment and many different domains can be affected, including complex attention and naming and recall. But in particular, we found that there were lower processing speed scores in pediatric onset patient adults compared to adult onset MS patients, even with the same disease duration. So suggesting that there is more damage done in pediatric developing brain. So again, many reasons for treating early and treating effectively these young patients. There's also a failure of age-related brain growth, which is superimposed onto brain atrophy in pediatric MS. And this is occurring not only in the brain itself, but also in the thalamus. And we've talked about slower time to locomotor disability, but higher disability scores at a younger age. And then also looking at other outcomes. So following our patients long-term, we found that many of these patients are not working at the age of 50 compared to our adult onset patients. And again, a disease in the formative years is quite challenging. So, you know, all of this is to say, I think we absolutely needed to treat patients early and effectively, and especially in pediatric MS. Patients are accruing disability, not by Pira, but by raw. So relapse associated worsening. And so very important to treat relapses effectively in our younger patients. In our older patients, Pira or progression-independent relapses is the predominant mechanism. So now in our case, we've established that she has a diagnosis of MS. And I often discuss the longer-term prognosis with patients and their parents. And, you know, I always share with them that there's very good news in the field, that we have treatments to manage this disease, that you will go on to have a very good long-term prognosis, that you'll live a very normal life, you'll go to college, you'll have a family if you want to, and all of those things. So I think that's very important when someone is diagnosed initially to share the long-term prognosis and really positive news about how far we've come. So what about the pathogenesis of MS, and where are we in pediatric MS? I think we're right here in the beginning. And when we think about the pathogenesis of MS, and this is evolving, we think about an initial inflammatory cascade in which there might be a response of T cells to a primary epitope. There's potentially damage that's occurring. There are more proteins, peptides, that are released. And this really results in something called epitope spreading, in which there are secondary responses through effector, additional effector T cells. And then this results in more damage and antigen release. And then the innate immune system in the CNS gets involved, activated microglia, dysfunctional astrocytes. And this probably sets up the situation of progressive MS, which shares many of the mechanisms with other neurodegenerative diseases. And certainly inflammation across diseases is an area of much research. But we want to stop the disease as soon as it starts and really here at this very first onset. And that would be ideal in these young patients. And how could we do that? So we have many treatments occurred that have been approved now for adult MS in the United States. We started off with beta interferons. Many of our fellows here today never went through the beta interferon era, where it was really challenging. These are, you know, they were state of the art drugs back in 1996. But they carried with them quite a number of side effects, including injection reactions, and were very challenging. And also moderate, really minimal efficacy. We had chemotherapy type of drugs, novantron, cyclophosphamide. And then we started to get the first antibodies. So MAPS really refers to monoclonal antibodies. And we had Tisabri, which was approved and then taken away within about three months. Very effective drug and taken away because of side effects of PML and then reintroduced later on. We began to have oral drugs, fingolimab, dimethylfumarate, teraflunamide. And that was sort of the oral era. And then we went back to some monoclonal antibodies. And I think things really changed with the introduction of ocrelizumab. And this was a B-cell therapy really built on the heels of studies in rituximab. And this has changed the field moving forward. And now we have a number of B-cell targeting drugs for multiple sclerosis. So all of these drugs are available. We choose from them depending on the patient. And that's also one of the challenges and interesting areas of study is which drug for the right patient at the right time. So, you know, getting back to age and pediatric MS, a really interesting meta-analysis that was done by a group at NIH found that the younger the patients are administered these disease-modifying drugs, and this is taking data from all of these drug trials put together, they found that the younger the patients are at administration, the better effect it had on disability progression. Now, a lot of these industry companies were very upset with the study at the time and said, well, you know, you're saying that we shouldn't use our drugs later. And, you know, that's probably not the case, we should. However, the best effect is when these drugs are administered early, probably at the onset or close to the onset of disease and through the relapsing phase. So this is where we absolutely need to use these treatments effectively and safely. So how do we treat kids with MS? We said that these are a very inflammatory population. We started a clinic in 2004, and we were all using these drugs off-label. There were no approved therapies until about 2018. And so we were kind of figuring it out as we were going along. And so I had the pleasure of working with a group of pediatric MS clinicians. You'll see many familiar faces. This is something called the Pediatric International Pediatric MS Study Group. I chaired this group for about eight years, and we together tried to figure out how do we bring together treatments, guidelines, and also clinical trials. We put together a consensus statement around trial design. We got input from regulatory agencies, from industry partners, and other groups, and came up with a consensus statement. And this started the sort of track to doing studies that were going to be approved by regulatory agencies around the world. And so we defined what our primary outcome measures could be, especially relapses, and then also including things like cognitive testing within our trial design because, of course, these are important for longer-term outcomes. And so this has led to the launch of a number of clinical trials. The ones in green have been completed. Some have been stopped or did not complete for various safety reasons. And, you know, now we have a pipeline of drugs that are in the process of getting approved. We're still not doing very well, especially in the U.S. Jelenia is our only approved drug in the EU. They're a bit more flexible in terms of their approvals, and so there are more options and choices available through EMA approval. And we will see, I think, that Ocrevus will be approved fairly soon, and this is a recent study that was presented. So one of our first drugs that was approved is fingolimod, and this is a drug that targets the egress of memory TH7 T cells out of the lymph node through the S1P receptor. This is modulated by fingolimod and essentially is the exit ticket for these effector central memory T cells. And we compared fingolimod to beta interferon, and, you know, back then we were—the only drug we could really give our patients was beta interferon, which was not fun for anybody, especially if you're a 13-year-old kid who doesn't like injections. And we found not only was it very effective in preventing relapses, but also very well tolerated compared to beta interferon. And so really great results from this study and really great results, especially on quality of life, both from the parents and the kids. So our next drug that was in development is natalizumab, and this affects the—this is an antibody to the alpha-4 beta-1 integrin, which is present on T cells as well as other cells, and interacts with VCAM preventing cells from migrating through the blood-brain barrier. And so this is a drug that was quite effective, again, in adult studies. Small studies looking at PK and PD were done in pediatric MS. The younger patients had quite a lot of variability in terms of their PK and PD scores. Older patients were more similar to adults, as one would expect. And it did not make it to a phase 3 trial, but natalizumab was evaluated in a large Italian open-label study and found very effective suppression of relapses as well as MRI activity. However, disease activity was still present even after 20, 30, 40 months, so it wasn't a complete stopgap for treatments. And it also comes with a risk of something called PML, progressive multifocal leukemia encephalopathy, and, of course, we monitor JC virus antibodies with this drug. Rituximab, so that was a game changer. Steve Hauser was here a couple of months ago speaking about B cell therapies and some of the challenges with getting B cell therapies to be accepted as a concept, and it was a very challenging time. I do remember some of those debates, but, you know, has many effects on the immune system as well as probably, you know, it's the greatest effect as being a reservoir for EBV, which we'll speak about. So, ocrelizumab is a drug that's approved or Ocrivus is approved for adult MS. So, now we're in the era of, well, we're trying to do studies in pediatric MS, but should we compare this to certainly not placebo? And it was well accepted that we should not, you know, have inferior drugs in pediatric MS. We want all patients, even if they're in a trial, to have good options. And so, we did a non-inferiority design, and this is sort of cutting edge in terms of how do we do trials with some of these newer drugs. So, this is a trial that compared ocrelizumab to fingolimod, and both arms were placebo, double-blind and placebo-controlled. And this study showed that there was a non-inferiority margin was met, and so ocrelizumab was non-inferior to fingolimod, and one could even argue superior to fingolimod, but that was not the primary outcome. And so, this is a very positive trial and very exciting to see these results. There are a couple of trials that are now moving forward, another one looking at Casimta, comparing, again, in a non-inferiority type of design, that drug, ofitumumab, with fingolimod as well as saponimod. So, you know, I think the paradigm for treating these young patients, and this is really whether you're seeing a patient who is 14 or 24, is that younger patients are more inflammatory in general and do need highly effective therapies. The situation might be different if you're 44 or 54. You know, there we start to really think about the cost-benefit ratio, and, you know, and I think here is where personalized medicine really comes into play. But in general, we want to bring on the heat and use high-efficacy treatment for early pediatric MS and young adults with MS. But, of course, we want to balance the risks and the benefits, and, you know, the risks do come with many, many flavors, infections. We've seen pneumonia, sinusitis, and some drug-specific adverse events with these highly effective therapies. So, that is the challenge that we're currently facing. We have good treatments. Now we have to figure out how to balance them. So, some things that we've discovered over the years is that B-cell therapy increases the risk of COVID hospitalizations. We knew that with adults as well. But this was also borne out with pediatric demyelinating diseases, and age does not play a role in this or comorbidities. So, I think this is certainly a drug effect and something to keep in mind. Sarah Conway, Trevor Glenn, and others looked at rates of infections in B-cell therapies compared to S1Ps and found higher rates of infections. And we do see some of these cases of sinusitis, pneumonias, and other infections, particularly with B-cell depleting therapies like Ocrevus. And, again, this is something that we need to mitigate and deal with as a field. So, in the clinic, we think about shared decision-making and really discuss all of the options with parents, with the usually teenager, and also make them aware of both of the short-term issues as well as potential long-term issues. I also tell them that you are not married to a drug for any given time. We can always switch. And if you make a decision now, we can always—we will be monitoring and have the potential to switch if there are breakthrough events or relapses. So, I think now we have a good understanding of the disease course of pediatric MS, the effect of age across the MS spectrum, as well as treatment options for MS. So, our next question is, what about, you know, the biology of this disease? And one of the paradigms that's emerged over the past few years is that adult MS patients are probably presenting five to ten years into their disease. And typically, you'll see a patient who presents in your adult clinic. They've come in now with an optic neuritis. But when you start asking them questions, they will say, well, you know, I did have hand numbness about three years ago, but I ignored it. I thought I just fell asleep on my arm and it went away. You'll see MRI lesions that are consistent with T1 black holes. And so, you know, there's a lot of evidence that this is not the first clinical presentation of MS and not the first event of MS. And so, is pediatric MS closer to the true biological onset of MS? That is our question. There's also a lot of literature now on a clinically silent prodrome that's occurring in particularly adult MS, pediatric MS to some degree. So, you know, what's happening here? So, thinking about this MS prodrome in adult MS, a number of studies, but particularly led by Helen Tremlett and colleagues looking at cross-associating Canadian databases of an MS diagnosis with hospital admissions and drug claims and physician claims. They found that there was about a one to five year gap where there was a period of increased hospital admissions, increased physician claims, increased use of different drugs such as antidepressants or drugs for nonspecific needs. So, you know, many where from five to 10 or so years prior to an MS diagnosis. And now this has been borne out by a number of different studies and, you know, different symptoms, somewhat nonspecific and not clearly associated with a neurological syndrome, but very suggestive that there is some prodrome that is important that we should be paying attention to. There's also an opportunity for earlier MS diagnosis and if we could identify that prodrome, you know, there's a patient who's coming to your general neurology clinic or your PCP's office with a lot of new complaints that they'd never had before, then that could be a case for, you know, thinking about multiple sclerosis. So, is MS, you know, does it start in the five years before the adult MS presentation? What about pediatric MS? So, there have been a number of studies, including ours, that have looked at the prevalence and the ages at which pediatric MS patients present. And the striking thing about this graph is that most of our cases present at the age of 11 years old or older. And here we have an increase in the female to male ratio quite dramatically at age 11 or 12. So, certainly this is my going to be the crux of my argument is this period is the key period for MS biology to occur. So, what do we know about this period? We, of course, this is when menarche hits. And we know that menarche also heralds the earlier onset of MS. So, in our study from this was from the US network as well as the German study, again, found higher incidence of MS starting at the age of 11 and an increased sex ratio favoring females. And earlier menarche onset of menses has been associated with younger age at MS diagnosis, whether you're an adult or a child. So, menarche is somehow closely tied to this whole process. And this is also borne out in a study from the Netherlands. So, in our pediatric MS patients, we looked at age at menarche and the onset of disease. And we found that 80% are post-pubertal or post-menarchal in onset. And also, they did have a younger age at menarche compared to age-matched controls as well as from an NIH database. And so, again, menarche probably plays an important role. And there are a number of different roles that estradiol has or effects of estradiol on the immune system, including enhancing TH1 responses, inflammatory cells in general, survival of autoreactive B cells, antibody production, and then also decreased regulatory function. So, we are looking at the role of estradiol in different ways and on different outcomes in both our pediatric patients and adult MS patients. This is a study being led by Danielle Kiefer. And we are finding that estradiol in vitro increases dramatically cell gene expression, including HLA expression in MS patients, but not in control. So, more to come on this. And I hope that we'll be sharing more of this data with you in the next talk. So, another striking factor around the pediatric MS clinic is that many of our young patients are obese. And obesity has been associated with MS risk. This is a really seminal study from Cassandra Munger and Alberto Ascario that looked at the nurses' health cohort and asked, well, you know, for those who developed MS versus those who did not, what diagram best depicts your age or your body morphology at each age? And it was actually body morphology at the age of 20 or below that was associated with a higher risk of MS. So, not at the time of diagnosis at the age of 30 or 40, but really at the age of 20. So, that, I think, suggests, again, that adolescence is a key period for MS risk. In the pediatric MS clinic are about 50 to 60 percent of our cases are obese or very overweight. This is, you know, part of our regimen as well. We advise on weight and diet and exercise. But you can see here that BMI scores were quite high in both boys and girls. And this is associated with an increased risk of pediatric onset MS. So, we've talked about risk for MS, menarche in girls, estrogen. What is the role in boys? And one of the things that's important to note is that testosterone, especially in the presence of adipose tissue and aromatases, is converted to estradiol. And so, there is a role here for both boys and girls. Adipose tissue also itself is more inflammatory. And there are a number of adipokines as well as cytokines that are harbored in adipose tissue and can be released. And we looked at a number of different adipokines. Here we looked at something called FabP4 and found it was increased in pediatric MS patients, as well as a decrease in something called adiponectin, which is actually anti-inflammatory, very similar to IL-10. And this was decreased in pediatric MS. So, we are starting to see a relationship of inflammatory factors in the adipose tissue contributing to MS risk. Another interesting study that we did, and this is in adult patients, but I think really bears some mentioning here, is that higher BMI was associated with more severe optic neuritis, particularly in male patients. And not so much in the females, but really in the males. And when we looked at various levels of estradiol and leptin, we found that these were associated with higher severity or more severity of optic neuritis in males. And these are adult patients. So, you know, these also could be contributing to relapse severity. Relapse is becoming more clinically apparent as well. And that's important for adult patients as well as for younger patients. So, with the sort of epidemic of obesity worldwide and increased in earlier age at menses, it might not be surprising why we're seeing younger cases of MS overall. And certainly this is an area that needs to be addressed. Another thought-provoking question I will pose is, is younger age at MS presentation due in part to adipokines and estradiol causing more severe clinically apparent relapses? So, although, you know, there have been studies showing that younger patients have T2 lesions that are not clinically apparent, is the fact that they have now all of these inflammatory factors making those lesions and events more clinically apparent. All right, more, lots of food for thought. So, last couple of minutes, we'll talk a bit about risk factors for pediatric MS and does this inform pediatric or MS pathogenesis. So, it's really a mix of genetics, the environment, endogenous factors, and I think 15 minutes won't do this whole topic justice, but we'll just try to go through what we do know, at least in our current studies of pediatric MS. So, we know that HLA-DRB1, which is an MHC molecule, is certainly the major risk factor in pediatric MS as it is in adult MS. So, again, similarities with disease pathogenesis. Interestingly, our younger patients are more racially heterogeneous, and this is a HAP map which is looking at different ethnic backgrounds of people with MS. And in our younger patients, we're finding that there's more diversity in terms of racial backgrounds. And also, at least 40% of our patients had one biological parent born outside of the U.S. So, we're seeing nontraditional groups now being affected by pediatric MS. And this is important because it's no longer just a genetic disease, no longer of, you know, only people from European backgrounds, but we're seeing many different backgrounds are being affected. So, sunlight and vitamin D, there has been a traditional association. The further you go away from the equator, the less sun there is and the higher incidence of MS. And this is true in the northern hemisphere as it is in the southern hemisphere. And this is Tasmania down here, which has a very high incidence of MS compared to sunny Brisbane, Australia, which I went to recently. And also, sunlight exposure in childhood decreases the risk of MS. So, this is a very well-done study that carefully looked at sunlight exposure through questionnaires and found that, you know, not sunlight exposure at the age of 20 or 25 at diagnosis, but really younger age exposure to sunlight in the adolescent years was key. And also, lower vitamin D levels, less than the age of 20 increases MS risk. Again, this is a study from Cassandra Munger and Alberto Ascherio pointing to this period. Another set of studies has looked at age at migration, and this determines MS risk. This was first noted by Milton Alter in 1966, looking at migrants to Israel and found that there was an increased risk of MS if you moved prior to the age of 15 compared to after the age of 15. So, we have low risk and high risk areas in the world. If you move from a low risk area, and this is also borne out with the Caribbean to the UK, then you adopt that higher risk if you move before the age of 15. A similar study from Dahlia Rotstein, who was one of our former fellows, looked at this in Canada and found again that age 15 or younger was associated with a higher risk and that risk went down with the older you are at the time of your your migration. So, again, pointing to this risk period. So, there has been a landmark study looking at Epstein-Barr virus seropositivity, and this precedes an increase in neurofilament light chain in the serum and the onset of MS. And this was really a landmark study by Alberto Ascerio and Kato Bornvik that looked at, you know, in a very detailed fashion, a DOD cohort and demonstrated this serial association, which in many people's minds set the stage that EBV is indeed the most important environmental risk factor for multiple sclerosis. So, EBV is necessary but not sufficient for MS onset. I think there's lots of questions that are out there. What other factors are necessary? How do these factors interact with EBV and how does this all cause autoimmunity? There are a lot of theories, and I think this is a topic again for another talk, but current theories of MS pathogenesis that involve EBV. There could be increased survival of pathogenic B-cell subsets, insufficient immune control of infected B-cells by cytotoxic CD8 T-cells, and also the emergence of antigen-specific autoreactive CD4 cells. So, you know, that in a nutshell sort of summarizes this diagram, and there's a lot of very exciting work that is coming down the pike. So, what do we know about EBV? We have Alberto's amazing study from the DOD. We also know that in pediatric multiple sclerosis, not all kids are going to be EBV seropositive. And so, this was a nice cohort of patients to look at. And again, finding that there was a higher incidence of EBV seropositivity in our pediatric MS patients compared to age-matched controls. And this is borne out across a number of studies with an overall hazard ratio of 2.38. We have been looking at FIP-seq studies, so looking at a number of antigens that are expressed by phages and then can be expressed and analyzed. And this is looking at a number of factors, including EBV as well as other infectious disease-associated factors. And here we're finding quite high levels of EBNO1 responsiveness in our pediatric MS patients compared to healthy controls, also compared to MOGAD as another pediatric control, and quite strongly across the board. And certainly EBNO1 responsiveness is what all these seropositive studies are based on. We're also finding EBNO2 and some other lytic EBV antibodies that are associated with pediatric MS. So, this is a very interesting area of study. We're looking at various peptides now that might differentiate pediatric MS from controls and might inform the earliest phases of disease. Interestingly, there's a lot of responsiveness in a region that is homologous to a number of CNS antigens. This is, again, a topic for another talk, but certainly peptides such as Glialcam, Cryab, MBP, Anoctamin have been associated with MS in general, and we're finding this associated with pediatric MS as well as some unique regions that are only associated with pediatric MS and might inform, again, of the earliest responsiveness in disease. This is a review article that is summarizing various studies that have looked at antibody and CD4 and CD8 responsiveness to various antigens. I'll leave that for further reading and, again, a lot of work that's being done in this area. So, infectious mononucleosis is also an important risk factor, and this increases the risk of MS at least twofold compared to other childhood infections. And, again, this is a study from Alberto Asgerio now in 2001 and has been reiterated in various cohorts, including most recently a cohort in Germany that looked at 32,000 patients and found the exact same thing. So, amazing that these results have stood the test of time. So, what's interesting about all of this is that infectious mononucleosis, of course, occurs during the adolescent years. This is when the immune system is maturing, including T cells, B cells. The thymus is diluting, and, again, this is a very pro-inflammatory period in one's life, and so this might coincide with developing the immunological features of multiple sclerosis. Another question that we are asking is, MS due in part to failure of controlling a primary EBV infection, especially at infectious mononucleosis? And does this enhance the MS disease process? And a number of groups have been looking at this question. Could IM be a time point to enhance viral control through vaccinations, antivirals, or cell therapy? And could we be screening patients who are presenting with IM who are at high risk for MS, especially in the adolescent years? And could IM inform us about the optimal control of the EBV viral process where MS potentially fails? So, this is an area that we're starting to look at in our pediatric patients. And can this all inform primary preventative strategies for MS? So, we know that any virus is generally controlled by CD8 cells, by NK cells, and particularly optimizing cytotoxic cell function. So, a number of factors are produced, NKG2D ligands, and also granzymes, which are important for eliminating virally infected cells. So, we looked at a group of our pediatric MS patients, controls, and also adult MS patients. But very interestingly, comparing our pediatric controls to—our pediatric MS patients to healthy controls through single-cell RNA sequencing, we found that there was a difference in their CD8 populations. And very interestingly, we found decreased granzymes levels in CTLs in pediatric MS patients compared to controls. So, this is an area that we're following up on. There's much more work to be done. But, you know, there could be really a primary failure of controlling B cells that are infected with EBV very early on in disease. So, why is this important? So, why is this important? Because there are a number of vaccine trials that have been launched for MS in general and are primarily targeting younger patients, RIS, early MS. And this, you know, these could be informed by some of these findings in very early MS. There was also a cell therapy that targeted EBV-infected B cells. It was given to older patients with MS, particularly progressive MS patients, and this failed. And I think that possibly the reason is too little, too late. So, to start to end here, I'll leave you with my initial question. Does MS start in childhood? And I would argue that yes, this is in individuals who are genetically susceptible, who are in a risk period with high degrees of inflammatory factors, including hormones and adipokines. EBV is certainly playing a role in all of this and interacting with these factors. And this is probably when the immune system is primed and may lead to the immune factors that will result in lesions in the brain. We have started a study to look at adolescent infectious mononucleosis and MS risk, where we'll be analyzing in a comprehensive fashion antibodies, T-cell responses in teens with pediatric MS compared to those with IM and also with controls. And this is with the US network of pediatric MS centers. And so, finally, I'll leave you with a last case for you to think about. This is a case that I saw about two or three months ago. This is a young girl who presented with facial weakness, tongue deviation for one month following mononucleosis. She had monospot positive mono and this was her MRI. I think the other one of the interesting features here is that this shows a balos pattern. So sort of target like lesions is preserved areas of myelin. And that's more of an aside. But everything has been has turned out to be negative. So she does not have MOGAD. She does not have a QP4. She doesn't have lethargy or any of the features of ADM. And her 70 MRI did not show PRLs, central vein signs, and she does not have all of the tunnel bands. So one month after IM, infectious mononucleosis. So is this a case of MS at its very onset? So I don't know the answer for sure, but I think it is. Anyway, I'm interested in your thoughts. So to summarize, hopefully I've been able to share with you the diagnosis and clinical course of pediatric MS, treatment of this disease, and adolescence as a key risk period for MS pathogenesis. And studies in this area might inform preventative and early treatments for MS. And we're excited to get started on those. So I'd like to lastly just share a few pictures. This is the pediatric MS clinic over time. We've had a number of fellows who've gone on to start their own clinics in various parts of the country. And including Grace Gombolet, who was one of our recent, not so recent grads, but near and dear to us. This is a picture of the International Pediatric MS Study Group, the U.S. Network of Pediatric MS Centers that I work with. And also my laboratory and our division. And I'd like to thank all of the supporters of our studies, all of my laboratory members. Those are listed here who participated in the studies I've shown. Our CLIMB study group, particularly Howard Weiner, who started the study, and collaborators at the Broad Institute. Thank you very much. First of all, it's a fantastic talk. And your leadership in this area is just phenomenal. It's great to see it all come together. I was wondering your thoughts on current trials in pediatrics. You showed the innovative trials. I think you got a Martin prize for that a couple of years ago. Are there some new things now, especially with new biomarkers, of ways to do maybe shorter trials? Or what are your thoughts about that? So, this has been an ongoing debate with regulatory agencies and particularly the FDA. And we've had a number of discussions because it would be great to do both short trials, maybe just have an open-label study for many of these drugs. But regulatory agencies are insisting upon a comparator. We'll see if things change now that we have a larger armamentarium. And also in terms of a biomarker, so MRI lesion number would make the trials potentially shorter and also decrease the numbers involved. And so, we propose that. They're not right now willing to accept that as a primary endpoint. So, a lot of reasons why. But yes, we've as a group with the international group, we keep going back to them and asking these questions. Great presentation. And thanks again for all you do for the kids and for adults with MS. So, two questions. One relates to risk very early on in how it compares to the hygiene theory, right? Or even studies that shows that kids that goes to daycare may have less MS. And how infections play a role in this higher relapse rate in kids. And the second one is much simpler. Are you seeing a rebound inflammation in patients in Fingoli mode that you have to stop? And whether this will inform how we transition some of those kids from Fingoli mode to Ocrolizumab? Yeah. So, these are great questions. I'll start with the second one first. And I did have a patient who had been on Fingolamod. We had wanted to transition them. She stopped for 10 days and then had her relapse. So, that was a learning episode. And, you know, now I transition, in fact, with an overlap of drugs. And I start, you know, if I'm starting a B-cell therapy, I'll start it two weeks before I'm stopping Fingolamod and then continue on. I think biomarkers could also play a role in this transition period. And that could be a period for monitoring things like NFL during the transition. So, the hygiene hypothesis. So, these are a number of studies. And I think I won't necessarily do it justice. But my thoughts are around that. So, a number of factors play into earlier EBV infections. So, daycare, higher number of children in the household have been associated with lower risk of MS, possibly because of earlier EBV infection and maybe better control of the virus. There's also a question of socioeconomic status and EBV infection, you know, age at EBV infection and higher SES has been associated with higher age at infection. And so, during that risk period. So, it is a little bit difficult to disentangle the two. And I think we also need to bring genetics into the question. But, you know, probably it has to do with viral control at time of acquisition. Okay. I'll give one opportunity for anyone who is participating virtually to ask a question. All right. So, one more time to thank you to Dr. Tanuja Chitnis for joining us today and for your wonderful presentation. Thank you, Ellen. Thank you, Ellen.