 What's up guys, quinn hennic, quinn hennic here of clinical athlete Newport, got another clinical athlete rehab case for you. This is a 33 year old male who works a desk job and trains for power lifting recreationally three times a week. He also attends periodic hiking trips once every one to two months. So his chief complaint is right knee pain with a previous diagnosis of tendinopathy. So there was no previous imaging as far as ultrasound to confirm tendinopathic changes, but he did have an x-ray which was totally clear and obviously that doesn't address the tendon, but he's got tendon pain which began in 2017 during a training period of high squatting and high hiking volume both combined. The pain is located right below the kneecap and kind of up under the kneecap, he says a little bit, and can also travel down below to where the insertion is at the tibial tuberosity. And it's aggravated with squatting, running and hiking. The pain increases with increased load and hiking mileage. And he reports that his hiking consists of zero mileage leading up to a trip and then a very concentrated dosage of mileage on the trip. And so currently the knee is not painful during power lifting training. So that's good, but he's keeping the loads below 60% of his previous one-rep maxes. So the weights are really light right now. And he does report fatigue with heavier loads, but it mentions that he shifts away from that knee or shifts to the left when the weights get heavier and or he feels fatigue starting to come on during the set. He notices that he unloads that leg. And then his secondary complaint is right foot pain also starting at the same time in 2017. The pain is located in the area of the sesamoid bone, kind of where the right MTP joint articulates there. And that's aggravated by hiking. It's not aggravated by power lifting training. And the pain is also dependent. It's a dose response. So it's dependent on the length of the hike and the degree of elevation. So the terrain has an effect on the foot pain. Objectively, we found right knee flexion, extension range of motion was all normal. His body weight squat barefoot had him do like 10 reps was no pain in the knee. I didn't really observe anything that would grossly say, wow, you know, movement wise, it looked like a pretty good squat. He hits below parallel. His back angle didn't really change all that much. He allows his knees to track forward naturally. Feet stayed flat. So there wasn't really anything to pick up there, which is not surprising because he's not feeling any symptoms and his pain doesn't really come on unless it's loaded anyway. We tested right knee isometric extension torque with a tensiometer at about 60 degrees of knee extension. It was an isometric test. And we found a 90% limb symmetry index. So his right knee is 10% weaker. And it also hurt. So when we tested that, it was a little bit weaker. 10% is not that bad, but it did create his familiar symptoms. And interestingly enough, I usually I have people do like a graded warmup set. So they they'll push 50% of max effort, 75% of max effort, 90% that will go max effort. And his 50% max effort actually also elicited symptoms. So at about 50 pounds of foot, about 54 foot pounds, he was feeling his symptoms already. So we've got some load intolerance there. Then we did a single leg decline squat. The decline was at 60 degrees and he was actually able to get 90 degrees of knee flexion to stand back up with no pain even on the right side. So that would actually surprise me. I didn't expect I thought that was going to hurt. He was able to do that though. As far as the foot, no, his great toe extension, ankle dorsiflexion, that was all within normal limits. There was no pain. I was doing, you know, passive overpressure was nothing. Couldn't really pick it up there. Not tendative palpation if I pressed right on the ventral MTP joint. We did a single leg calf raise barefoot for 20 reps to test kind of muscle capacity there. And he was able to get 20 reps on both sides. But he mentioned that the left side, he felt like he probably had five reps left in the tank. On the right side, he said maybe two. And he acknowledged that it fatigued faster. He also said that in rep number six, his familiar symptoms began to emerge. So right away, just in a single leg calf raise, he's able to recreate his symptoms that he also feels during longer hikes. So it makes sense. So, you know, the right tendon seems to be a little sensitive to tensile and compressive loading, as would be the case with tendinopathy. And we did note that mild extensor mechanism weakness, but the load intolerance less than 60% of one rep max was probably more significant there. Right foot pain, also an apparent compression and kind of dynamic impact intolerance. So both of these things, you know, stemming from spikes in training load, be it hiking or squatting back in 2017. And sometimes those things just stick around. You know, I wasn't, we weren't there to kind of see all the factors that played into it. But the sensitivity has kind of come and gone, you know, since then. It's unclear of the causality. You know, we tested the right single leg calf raise. We tested isometric knee extension. It both confirmed that there's a capacity issue or deficit on that right side. You know, chicken or egg. We can't say that that's a causal issue of what he's feeling or vice versa, but it's a deficit that we found. And so, you know, some great exposure and some direct loading to those areas. It's certainly warranted. I don't plan on referring him out for any other imaging or referrals or ortho consult or anything like that. There's no need. He already has a good powerlifting program and I have a good working relationship with his coach. So he's going to train as is and we can modify things as needed. Since we were able to recreate his symptoms and his knee pretty easily with that isometric leg extension at relatively low loads, I'm just going to have him do those leg extensions because that's an exercise where you know what you're getting. You know, the transference is not all that great with powerlifting, but he's already doing powerlifting. And he's subjectively says he shifts away from that leg when it gets hard anyway. So let's do something that directly loads that area. So I'll probably have him hit leg extensions twice a week at, you know, three or four sets, eight to ten reps at a one to two reps in reserve. So relatively intense. I'll have him do it where there's no full lockout of the knee and extension and he doesn't rest at the bottom. So it's three seconds up, three seconds down, just a constant tempo and a constant tension. So it should burn, should burn pretty good. He already has rear foot elevated split squats in this program also. So we're just going to roll with those. And I told him to just kind of the same idea, you know, don't, don't release tension on that. He can use shin angle to load that tendon, just get the quad to burn up. And, you know, we may even throw in some things like bicycle squats later on. We'll see how things go. If we need to modify his actual powerlifting training in regards to frequency of squatting, which is twice a week right now, tempo, load, volume, all those things we can. It's just his weights are already really light because he's just working back into things. And like I said, I have a conversation, a relationship with his coach. So we'll do that on an emergent basis. He's on my clinical athlete rehab retainer program anyway, which means I'm monitoring him through the process and we'll make changes as appropriate. So I hope that was helpful guys. These cases are posted on the clinical athlete website and also in the clinical athlete forum where we're actually able to take a deeper dive into the discussion. All right. Thanks.