 immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately immediately And that's been studied a lot. And are you aware of any similar studies on lumbar discs in regards to their adaptive capability? There are – I can give you researchers, and I've read their stuff, and it's confusing. A researcher named J.C. Lotz, who's been publishing for 20 years, has mouse tail models and stuff like that. They load up mouse tails. So guess what? If you just compress a mouse tail for a month, it starts to break down. But if you compress it and relax and compress and relax, it's anabolic. It builds up. So load is good for the disc in a mouse if you work with mice. But they never – that's just neutral. They never go into – I mean, the boogeyman has always been flexion. There's so many research groups that show in a cadaver model, if you repeatedly flex a disc, it will delaminate. But they do thousands and thousands of cycles. And the big issue, of course, is that it's dead tissue. And I would say, like, if you took a tendon out of a dead person and you pulled it thousands and thousands of times, it would crumble as well. But we would never say, don't run. That's the – Well, one of the arguments with the Jefferson curl, it was like in order to do the Jefferson curl is I'm creating adaptability. I'm giving myself a buffer. And if people aren't familiar with the Jefferson curl, it's just imagine somebody – imagine the opposite of the deadlift that you would typically coach, essentially. It's just full – From the top down. From the top down. Segment by segment. You flex one segment at a time from your neck to your lower back as far as your tissues will allow. And you extend one segment at a time from L5 all the way up to your neck until you're in the standing position again. Rinse, repeat with progressive loads. One of the – Christopher Summers, one of the old USA gymnastics coaches anecdotally told me that he would have people do – or he would have his athletes progress over the course of a couple years. Jefferson curls holding a barbell with body weight for sets of 10. Oh. With – and standing on a box. And these gymnasts are – they have a lot of range of motion. And so, you know, their face is basically at their toes in a Jefferson curl position holding a barbell with their body weight. And they're doing these things for multiple sets. Then the argument was we're giving them that buffer. And these are gymnasts, mind you. Again, what's the cohort that you're talking about? Well, we're giving your tissues a buffer so that if you are subjected to a certain position, you will have been prepared for it. But we don't – but what you're saying is we don't necessarily know – we're not doing longitudinal studies on the tissues to know what adaptations are occurring, really. No. No. No. And it's actually – yeah, we just don't know how adaptable the disc is, right? And, like, we don't even really know if the wear and tear hypothesis is supported. There's a number of researchers who have said – like, I believe in, like, using load to catalyze tissue, positive tissue adaptations. And I like to think that that can happen with the disc, too. But, I mean, if I'm pretty honest in the literature, it's more like your disc is going to change just based on your genetics, right? There's really not much that you can do, right? And the tendon stuff kind of supports a little bit of that as well, you know? And so – but interesting. This is – I've heard – I was talking to – oh, my God. What's his name? Dave Tilley. He's a gymnastics coach. Yep. And I was asking him about this idea that, you know, if you do Jefferson curls or something, people say that will cause the disc to elongate. Like, the fibers will be, like, more flexible and allow you to have mobility, right? That's sort of the idea. But if you do deadlifts, it'll stiffen up the fibers. But what's interesting, and this is, like, a property of all connective tissue. This might surprise you guys, and your readers or listeners can go check this out, is that we're getting to – just an idea here. I know of no research that shows that you can actually lengthen connective tissue besides pregnancy. Hold on here. This is why. When you strength train – we'll talk about tendons for a second. When you strength train, so the muscles are contracting, and what are they doing to the tendon? They're pulling on it, right? And so the tendon undergoes about 4.5% to 6% strain if you're pulling around 80% to 90% of your max. So the tendon stretches, and you hold it for a bit, and then it relaxes. It's a spring. And if you do that, you know, every day or three times a week, as you pull on that tendon, meaning stretch it, it gets thicker a little bit, and it gets stiffer, meaning the material properties of the tendon change. So does that make sense? The tendon becomes stiffer. Yep. Now imagine you're doing a stretch, right? A passive, boring old stretch. What are you doing to the tendon? Pulling on it? You're pulling on it. What does the tendon undergo? Strain. Like probably less than an isometric contraction, but it undergoes strain. Why would it lengthen now? Whereas before when we pulled on it, it stiffened up. Do you know what I mean? Yeah. So I'm sharing my day with all of your listeners here because I found one paper that shows it gets less stiff with stretching. But it actually wasn't stretching. It's dynamic stretching, not static stuff. There's surprisingly no literature showing how we can stretch tissue. So taking that tendon model to the disc, I don't see how we can lengthen, like make a disc more pliable. It seems like we can only make it stronger and stiffer, which would support what you said about that gymnastics coach doing those positions. And it's not even the disc that resists flexion. It's all the other passive tissues. If you go to 100% flexion or 90%, the disc is only contributing 95% of the passive extensor moments. It doesn't get loaded a lot. You've got to go way beyond what the whole system can handle before you really start pulling on the disc. If you want to research here, it's Patricia Dolan, and this stuff is 25 years old. So I don't actually know that. I think you can just stiffen up a disc. I don't know how we would ever lengthen it. That would support the idea of the Jeffords or curl, but I don't think it's a really good exercise to do anyway. The connected tissue conversation is interesting. And now you don't know if it's a conversation of what's happening to the actual collagen or the matrix. Because when I dive into the tendon literature, to your point, there's a bomb. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The bomb review in 2015. Well, yeah. Oh, yeah. The nuclear stuff, too. Where it doesn't – collagen turnover essentially is minimal after age 17. But the author's last name, BOHM, did a review in 2015 of – Oh, Sebastian Baum. Oh, Sebastian Baum. Sebastian Baum, yep. Yeah, okay. I thought you meant the bomb. No, well, that's part of the conversation is a tendon on average seems to stiffen with progressive loading. Stiffening is a mechanical property. But what also tends to change is the material property of the modulus. But I've seen a couple one-off studies and they're after the bomb review came out showing that eccentric loading caused a decrease in tendon stiffness. However, these are – so one-off studies of only eccentric loading. We don't know where they were necessarily starting from compared to the general population and the windows of time are like four weeks. So in my mind, I'm thinking is there kind of like an adaptation where if you are subjecting the connective tissue to constant stretch on strain but in a stretch position, is there some material stretching that occurs initially but then there's like kind of this upswing of stiffness that occurs if you were to continue with the loading program over time, something like that? Was it a Blazavich study? I need to – I'll need to look. I'll shoot it to you. So there is a Kubo study. He always shows stiffness increases. I'll – You're blowing my mind. I'll send it to you because Kubo – the Kubo studies that I'm thinking of are like 2001, 2004. Yeah, yeah. And I'm not – the reason I'm not prepared for this is because I wasn't prepared to talk about this. Sorry, sorry, sorry. No, it's okay. But I will send it. I'll send it to you. Yeah, yeah. And tell you because I was very comfortable with saying that very just kind of easily that tendon stiffness increases with increased loading and then that, that. And I came across a couple of studies that I wasn't as comfortable saying that. And I was kind of – The only person I know who says that they don't increase – that doesn't increase stiffness is Jeffrey Barrow's work out of Australia. And he cites a Blazavich paper. But when he talked to Anthony Blazavich about it, who's a sports science researcher out of Australia, he's like, no, it's the muscle stiffness that decreases. Like stretching will decrease muscle stiffness and sensory stiffness, but not tendon. That's what he says with the eccentric stuff. So I would go back to the – yeah, I want to see that, Quinn, if you can send it to me. But I would just wonder if it wasn't muscle or somewhere like maybe there's something right around where muscle transitions into tendon. And that might be where we can get a stiffness change, like to decrease or something. The only way I know how to decrease tendon stiffness is bed rest and injury. Yeah. Jared, say something so I can look – Oh, shit, shit. I think I know what you're talking about. It's a patellar tendinopathy rehab program. They showed a decrease in stiffness. No, that was a heavy slow resistance. That's another one. These were healthy tendons. So that's another one. I don't know. So that's a weird one because you just load up a tendon when it's injured and in the patella it gets less stiff. But that means once it gets healthier, at some point in time it has to get stiffer. But there was a ConsGuard article on the patellar tendon as well using the same exact protocol and they found an increase in stiffness. So it's just this – it's like it also comes down to what measuring tools are you using. And Scott Morrison brought this point to me is that all these studies have such small sample sizes. Is it possible that we're just missing – we're so myopic in who we're looking at that we're just – we're missing any type of big pattern because maybe we are taking 12 people that happened to – their tendons happened to decrease in stiffness when we look at this. And then we're like, oh, shit. Yeah. But then the BOM article is just another configuration of studies with small sample sizes. So it's – just because you have an average of small studies doesn't necessarily mean that's generalizable either. I don't know. But – Yeah, sure. I got you guys off topic. No, it's good. And this is what I mean. You get into the weeds of biomechanics like this and if you use stiffness as a surrogate or a guide to rehab, it's just silly. It's tough. That's why you should just say what attributes in you do we want to develop? Power, speed, strength, endurance, whatever it happens to be. Okay, that's what we'll do. What do you want to do? What do you have trouble doing? Okay, that's what we're going to do. Why do we even care about tendon stiffness? Yeah. Well, it's – The same thing back to the spine. Why are we even worried about it then? We don't even know how to adapt to the load, so we're freaking out about it. If it hurts, maybe don't do it. Okay. Like, do you know what I mean? It ends up being that simple sometimes. A hundred percent. Like, fuck.