 aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, aromins, ar And so we have almost 70% of our community-dwelling older adults in Canada who are completely sedentary, do zero activity. And the literature on sedentary behavior says that in order to mitigate the negative consequences of sedentary behavior, they would have to participate in 60 to 75 minutes of moderate to vigorous intensity exercise to combat those changes. And so other than the master's athlete cohort who may be actually doing that, some of normal aging is just lack of movement. Well, I think the things that you got going on and the education that you're putting out there is definitely putting a dent in that. This was a great, great conversation. What projects do you have coming up and what do you got coming down the pipeline? In regards to the master's athlete collective, stave off, institute of clinical excellence, all that stuff. Yeah. So I'm really trying to grow the master's athlete collective. I think the goal for me is to get between 500 and 1,000 profiles of people across 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, 100s I would love, who are continuing to participate in sports. And then I'm hoping from that, like my long-term plan with the master's athlete collective would be to get a group of physical therapists who are specializing in different sports and have them provide programming for master's athletes with the consideration of some of the clinical variables as well as the performance side of things and kind of blend the two together. In terms of the Institute of Clinical Excellence, I've actually just taken on a second course. So I teach the modern management of the older adult course, which is a live and an online cohort, which works to, we kind of have the hashtag old, not weak, where we're trying to really push the progressive overload part for exercise prescription with the geriatric population. And then we actually just launched a pregnant and postpartum athlete course, which I'm going to be leading. So if you, what we saw, and this comes true in the master's athlete, there's so much about peeing on the platform and all that kind of stuff. What we saw as a huge gap was we have internal pelvic floor physical therapists, and then we have orthopedic physical therapists who don't even want to touch it, who are just like, no, I'm going to refer. But sometimes they're not asking the right questions. So the idea with this course is for individuals who don't want to be internal pelvic floor physical therapists, how can we help our pregnant and postpartum moms still continue to be active and participate and perform, considering all of the changes that happen through a woman's body if she goes through pregnancy and into that postpartum period. So I've linked up with an internal pelvic floor therapist, but we're looking on the performance musculoskeletal non-internal side. Because I want to get guys, like I want to get more men like comfortable saying, you know, like, how was your pregnancy? How was your post, like, how was your delivery? And now you're having back pain. Like, what are some of those considerations and feel comfortable with that? But I feel like sometimes when it's the internal side of it, it just tends to be a female dominated world, which is fantastic. But I would like to encourage more men to get involved in some of those conversations and feel comfortable. So that kind of blends. I feel like I blend the older adult master's athlete and pregnant postpartum. It's kind of a sliding scale and continuum. So I'm really excited about that. That is really exciting. And my wife went through both pregnancies powerlifting the entire time. And that conversation and being able to broach those topics is vitally important for us to continue to move forward in that realm. So it's really exciting. There was a social media post that came up about how women should be fined for peeing on the platform. And, yeah, it was a female coach that had said it. And there was quite a backlog. And, you know, like, there's still some education, I think, to be had in that world. But I was even getting messages. So I weight lifted up until probably about 32 weeks pregnant. I was obviously changing some of the variables. And that's what we talk about in the course. But I would get people saying, aren't you afraid you're going to miscarriage? And I was like, what? Like, that literature is so old. Like, I can't believe that this is still, like, being asked of me. And so, yeah, so there's definitely a need there. So that's cool that your wife was powerlifting through both pregnancies because I'm still lifting three to four times a week. And this baby's about to pop out. Yep. We made a couple changes, some considerations. One of the biggest ones, she's a conventional puller. And as she got more pregnant, we just kept bringing the feet closer to cheating in sumo. And it just kept with it. And you make modifications as it goes. And we ran into the same thing. You know, aren't you afraid? You're going to hurt the baby. Aren't you afraid you're going to miscarriage? And, you know, that's still getting perpetuated not just by coaches but physicians, OB-GYN. It's the whole community that's still part of one of the narratives. So it needs to be addressed. Yeah. My last weightlifting meet was at eight weeks pregnant. Was I eight or ten? Something like that. Awesome. Yeah. I had a high-risk OB-GYN give me the all-clear. The only thing that I was worried about was contact because you're not supposed to be placental abruption can go up if you're in contact sports. But because my body was so used to that contact point of the snatch, it wasn't really a big deal. And PR'd my snatch that day. It was a good day. Good day's had by all. And, yeah. A lot of fun coming. Well, you talked about the fear of the clinician to even flex a hip past 90 after a post-op. You know, so it's like I think that type of fear where we're talking about a pregnancy is probably much, much more deeply rooted even within the clinician. So it just comes back to education. Yeah. Just while you're doing the stuff that you're doing. And in medicine, right, we tend to err on the side of caution until proven otherwise. We saw the same thing in strength resistance training for kids with growth plate stuff, that perpetuation because of theory, but it was disproven. And we see the same thing in breast cancer literature where individuals with lymph node resection were told never to lift more than 10 to 15 pounds or participate in resistance training because of risk of lymphedema. And, again, that's been debunked. But sometimes that is still being perpetuated. We tend to err on the side of caution until proven otherwise. But then that 15-year knowledge translation gap comes into play. And then it's a nasty spiral. So these kind of podcasts are great because we can start debunking some of those myths.