 col sixt sixt sixtus colretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretretret change brought about by a cue or a new exercise or whatever it may be. We had Melissa Davis on the podcast a long time ago, and she made a statement that stuck with me for a long time, that real behavior change can take anywhere between two and six months. And the longer that behavior has been ingrained or performed, the harder it is and the longer it takes to actually overcome. So we accept that to an extent with things like nutrition, typical behavior change, that sort of thing. But people don't look at it through the same lens in regards to performance or movement change or the change in your squat technique. And I want to start really getting people to conceptualize that as a long-term process. A single cue is not going to fix your squat. A single cue is not going to put you in a better position in the bench press all of the time. So it's one of those things that we have to start to accept as a process and start really looking at habits, movement habits, communication habits, all those things as some form of behavior change. It's something that you have to do repeatedly over time to make stick. And that's really where motor learning comes in. You have to expose yourself to whether it's variations, whether it's well-executed technique or whatever it may be, and understand that you're going to have bad days that aren't necessarily going to look or feel the way that you may want them to. That's all part of the process. That failure is a learning opportunity for your brain. And you have to not just track those successes, but track those failures and understand that it's part of the process. So basically, in a long-winded way of saying this, what I'm trying to get across is if you want something to change, if you want your squat pattern to change, or you want to get better at deadlifting, or you want to, you need to understand that it's not going to take one weekend, it's not going to take one workout, it's going to take months and months and months of really, really dedicated training. That doesn't mean it's not fun. It's an absolute blast to do that stuff. But if you can conceptualize it in a healthier way, then we can start to decrease frustration when it comes to training and get more out of it. The same can be said if you're going through a type of injury or pain scenario, understanding that, especially if you've got, say, like chronic low back pain, something that's been bugging you for a while. We talk about this a lot on the podcast. It's all over Instagram, not just clinical athlete, but many, many other avenues. It's a process. You're going to have good days, you're going to have bad days, and you have to stack wins on top of each other. Because really, again, what we're talking about here is behavior change. We're talking about breaking a habit, breaking a behavior, breaking an expectation or prediction that your brain is making, so that you can make an actual positive change, whatever that positive change may be, whatever your goal is, whatever's sailing it to you, right? So that, that's the key point today. Understand that these things take time. Motor learning takes time. Changing your squat techniques takes time. You may get a cue that clicks, and you go, oh, and you figure it out for a training session. And you go, oh, great. And then it's like a golf swing. Two weeks later, all of a sudden, it's gone again. That's because you have to continue to work on that and diligently work on that. And there's a bunch of ways that we can go about that whole process, but that's not really the point of this, this post or this video. So just keep that in mind. It's all about perspective. If you understand it's going to take an extended period of time to get these things going, and moving forward and create real change, then you can accept that and you can have more fruitful training and probably a better mindset towards it. And that's the message for today.