 вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам club to life. So thanks for being on as always Kevin. Of course, Quinn. Always happy to be here. So forward to it. Yeah, this will be a fun one. And then I think you're going to be the point man on a lot of this conversation because I think you're getting a lot more of of of this on your end as far as what we're going to actually talk about. But if anybody is interested in the impetus of this journal club and the motto that we have, we kind of modeled it after a smart guy named Benjamin Franklin, who way back in the day started a weekly club that was called the Junto Club and it was a quote on quote mutual improvement club. But it was basically just a room of smart people discussing topics and issues of the day. Kind of like what we're doing here. But they had an important policy and that policy was that all discussions would be conducted in the sincere spirit of inquiry after truth without fondness of dispute or desire of victory. And so that's become our clinical athlete motto. These meetings are conducted in the sincere spirit of inquiry after truth without fondness of dispute or desire of victory. It doesn't mean there's not disagreement and and good strong discussion. It just means that we're not in it to win it. We're not looking to come out as a victor of the discussion. We're all on the same team here and we're just trying to be less wrong. So the topic of today's meeting is a critical review of the hop tests. And I've made a few poll questions. I'm going to launch that just to get a feel for the room. So there's three questions that should be popping up in front of you here. The first question is who are you? Clinician, student clinician, coach, trainer or student coach trainer. Question number two, have you rehab or trained an athlete with a past ACL reconstruction? And question three, for the clinicians, do you use hop testing as part of return to sport testing for ACLR? And you know, if you're a strength finishing coach and you get athletes who have prior history and you can take them through hop tests too. So you know, feel free to answer that question as well. So looks like the majority of the room are clinicians or student clinicians, about 10% coaches, trainers and almost 90% have rehab or trained an athlete with a past ACL reconstruction. That doesn't surprise me. And then the majority of you, 85% use hop testing as part of your return to sport protocol. So probably a relevant paper for you guys. So this is good. And I'll show you, let's end that poll here. So you can see those results should pop up. So the name of this paper was, is it time we better understood the tests we are using for return to sport decision making following ACL reconstruction? A critical review of the hop tests. And this paper, the kind of the format of the paper was similar to a format that we, a paper that we looked at a few meetings ago on stretching, where that paper was only one author, James Nuzzo, this paper has three authors, but it's a kind of a review, but it's not a systematic review. It's not a meta analysis. It's not a study in and of itself. They're not pooling any data or anything like that. It's kind of expert opinion on a current topic, which you know, take that for what it's worth. We also had a paper, the last meeting on strength and power training in rehab that was a similar format, kind of expert review. I like these papers because it puts things into context. It, it, the practicality is there. It's more of a kind of a discussion format that can get you thinking. Keep in mind that it's based on expert opinion. So the biases of the authors are going to come out with that, you know, their interpretation of the literature is, is going to be what is in the papers. You just kind of kind of take that for, for what it's worth, but they, I'll just do a quick overview and I'll kind of throw it to you, Kevin, and see what you thought about it. And then we'll just get to the discussion going. So they started with kind of a history of where hot testing came from starting in the, in the 80s and 90s, you know, clinicians looking for a practical low cost way to assess function. And then they kind of got into the literature of looking into reliability of the hop test. Like is this, are these repeatable tests? And in general they are. We'll dig into some of the nuance there. And they talk about the relationship of hop testing outcomes compared to strength outcomes. You know, is their relationship as somebody improves in hop testing, are they also concurrently improving in their strength values and also in their subjective reports of their function? And then they get into some of the nitty-gritty of which tests are a little bit more sensitive to change over time. Do we need all four tests? And when I say four tests, there are a lot of hop tests. The first half of this paper and kind of the, most of this paper, the first half of it, and kind of the entirety of the paper is based on four common hop tests. The single leg hop for distance, the single leg triple hop, the single leg crossover hop, and the single leg six meter timed hop. So those are the four tests you can look at figure two if you want to reference those. So those are the four main hop tests that they're kind of talking about. And then the rest of the conversation branches off of those. But then they, so they ask the question of do we need all four of these hop tests? Are some of these tests measuring the same thing? And so are you just measuring redundancy? At that point. From there, they talk about other tests. So all four of those hop tests that I just listed are horizontal tests. So they're jumping forwards. But what about vertical jumps? What about lateral jumps? What about jumps with rotational elements? So they kind of dig into some of those and some of the literature, which is a little bit more sparse on a lot of those tests. And then they get into some interesting conversations, which I think I'm interested in towards the end of the paper talking about the issues of comparing the the involved side to the contralateral side. Is that enough? Is the contralateral side a good reference? And we'll talk about why and why not. And then also the idea of movement quality, being able to pass the hop tests. But what strategies are you using? And are those strategies going to be viable in a chaotic environment on the field? So just because you passed the test, does that mean that you're that you're truly ready? Or does that mean that that system, the need, the system of the knee is ready to withstand forces, repeated forces, and we'll dig into all that stuff. But so that was an overview of the paper. I liked the paper. I like summaries of certain topics like this, because what it allows you to do is to dig into references. So this is one of those papers that I'll use as a as a cross reference. So every time that I want to think about like, ask a question about hop testing, I'll probably dig into this paper, look for the references for that particular question, and then dig into those references if I want some of the hard data. So you can use papers like this for that. But Kevin, what was your impression of this of this piece? Yeah, I mean, I share a similar feeling, this is in regards to the general format of papers like this, I think, especially for something like a journal club, it's great because it really fosters discussion. They don't get so bogged down into some of the details of the nuances of a specific study or a cohort, and it really allows maybe a little bit more practicality and a little bit more clinical implications for broader questions. But I really like this paper because I think it even sort of builds off of, you know, the last, was it a couple clubs ago where we were talking about more of like a dynamical systems approach to kind of analyzing movement and sport specific. And I think it really addresses this sort of issuer concept that we need to remember that asymmetries are going to be task and quality specific. So I think having coming into this paper with the idea or the question in mind that we shouldn't necessarily expect to see the same between limb deficits or differences across multiple tests is really important when we start to talk about intervening or addressing some of those deficits because we need to have something that is sensitive enough to identify whether a deficit is there, but also specific enough to guide us in some of the applications. So I think they bring up a lot of great points in getting into some of those details on what is this test measuring? What is it telling us? How can we use that to guide decision making? So I really enjoyed this paper for those reasons. Sensitivity and specificity conversation is an interesting one. I think it's important with these things because we're looking, if we're looking for a sensitive test, we're looking for a test that's going to pull out all of the true positives. If we have 100 people, we want to test that of all of those 100 people, for those who have the thing, we want a test that's going to identify all of those people, all of the true positives. So beginning, screening, that's why we want a sensitive test. We want to identify all those people that we want to work on and that we want to intervene on. And then as we're looking to discharge somebody and as we're looking to see if somebody's ready, we want to test that then is going to identify all of the true negatives. You know, of those 100 people, for the of all of those 100 people, those who are ready, those who no longer have a need that's affected, the true negatives. We want a test that's going to identify all of those people to say, okay, you pass this test, you're ready. And they really highlight some of the limitations with with individual hop tests, some being sensitive, some being specific, some being, you know, and kind of a myriad of the two. And if we're using, you know, hop test as discharge criteria, but yet we have hop tests that are not specific, we might be like they mentioned holding somebody back because they didn't pass the hop test. And in turn, a test that's not sensitive enough to pick up on a deficit, you know, can have its own problems on the front end as well. Because athletes can figure out a way to pass it, you know, and so we'll talk about that as well. But I thought that was an interesting point. The sensitivity and specificity can can flip people's brains upside down. And it does for me as well. But it's important to think about that. What is the test providing you at different time points of your plan of care? Kevin, do you guys use for like your general battery of hop testing? Do you use all four of the basic ones that they lay out? Oh, this is something that I've actually kind of got the ball rolling with in terms of changing this a little bit based off of this paper and some others in particular. So we actually recently started to move away from using kind of like the standard University of Delaware, you know, all four tests. And it actually started playing around with like a single leg vertical jump and then a depth hop as well. In addition to the single hop for distance and the triple hop for distance. So that's relatively new prior to I mean, I think at the very least, I think if we're performing the baseline battery of looking for you know, 90% quad index, 90% hamstring index and performing those four tests is a good place to start. But we have kind of shifted away from utilizing strictly these four. So I use a drop jump and a depth drop. I use those as separate constructs. So I use a for me a drop jump is we're going off of a 30 centimeter height or we can we couldn't go lower at first, but it's reduced. It's minimizing contact time. And then I use a depth jump for maximum height. Now in an ideal world, we want minimal contact time, maximum height, but I separate those two constructs into those particular tests, but that's vertical, like you said. But before that, and before that, we do a single leg vertical jump that's not off of a deficit. It's not off of a surface because it's just almost has a progression. But yeah, and then the single leg hop for distance in this single leg triple hop. I don't use the six meter timed hop test. I have before and I'll and just kind of giving background on where I'm coming from this because I want you're right now getting a ton more experience with I think direct post op and I'm sure there's people listening in right now that are getting a lot more than me. But it's been about four years since I was getting post ops or more than that before I moved to California when I was working in a more traditional out orthopedic clinic where I was getting post ops coming in directly and I was seeing them through the entirety of their plan of care. But now I'm seeing people six months or later, sometimes even further out. So I'm still using the hop tests, but they're pretty high functioning. And so that's why I can kind of start with something like a depth drop or a depth jump because we've got time, you know, away from that. But yeah, six meter for single leg for distance, single leg triple hop, and then a couple of those vertical constructs. So that's where I'm at too. So I guess I kind of like that natural evolution. Yeah, I think I just as I've started to learn more and more and just kind of recognize some of the issues that they pointed out in this paper, I've been utilizing them or putting not utilizing them less but putting much less kind of stake in the outcomes or the performance on the hop tests just because for some of the limitations that they mentioned in here, where you know, are we really how do we really gaze at we're getting a max effort on something like a hop test, different compensatory strategies and things like that. So I think I've gone away. It's still something that I think is can be valuable and provide insight into just general progression throughout the plan of care, but I'm placing less importance on them now, given some of the things that are highlighted in this piece. Two questions for you. Do you do all of your how often do you test these and do you do all of them every time you test them? So one of the benefits with working very interdisciplinary is we've actually started to get we're using epic values as much as we can now. So if someone comes in, let's say they're meeting with the ortho, they're planning to have reconstruction done, kind of utilizing even this paper and some of the others kind of looking at do we need to perform all four tests. What we'll do is they meet with ortho, okay, come over to the clinic real quick. Let's run you through single leg vertical. Let's run you through single leg horizontal for distance, triple hop for distance, and then a depth jump on the non involved. And then we'll use that preoperatively to give us a baseline for what we're kind of shooting for. And then I would say that probably around like depending on where the person is at progression wise, probably five or six months or so start to really look at it. And then every four weeks will will do along with like isokinetic or isometric testing as well. Okay, so so six months every so six months is about when you really start to look to gather the data. Yeah, just to kind of get a general gauge. I mean, you could do it beforehand, but I'd say around like five or six months, they're probably I mean, they're through a running progression by that point usually. We're starting to introduce some more, you know, stretch shortening cycle type stuff. So, so that was when I was seeing people from the beginning. Four, four, four months was my was generally when we would clear people to run like sometimes we'd clear them at 12 weeks, but 16 weeks was probably more on the average. And then that's also the time that we started to gather data on some of these hop tests, but like the paper mentions the learning kind of the learning effect. And you're not going to get I mean, think about anything that's supposed to be maximal effort. You're not going to get a true maximal effort. There's going to be like they're going to be apprehensive, especially in the beginning. So, we almost use those for those two months of like four from four months to six months. We still gathered the data, but didn't take too, didn't put too much stock in it because you would just see those numbers climb because it was like beginner gains and then from six months on then you wouldn't see such a steep increase, but it would still be steady, but we'd say that's probably more of like an accurate gauge of like their improvement. Like we were trying to get through that repeated bout effect and that learning curve in the beginning. Now, the pre-op testing because I'm jumping ahead on all my notes here, but that's good. Like I have not done that and I have questioned about that because it makes so much sense just on paper because they said one of the issues with comparing symmetry to the contralateral side is that okay, let's say you got injured, you have uterary seal, you have surgery within six weeks or whatever, but you're still not like training that hard. So, you're detraining through that period and then there's eight to 12 weeks after surgery where you're like, so that's months now that the contralateral limb has not been trained. Now, you may test strength on the contralateral limb like ASAP after surgery, but as far as these hops, so that's a long time for your whole body to become detrained. And so now you're trying to get your involved leg to be compared to your contralateral leg and create symmetry, but now your contralateral leg is deconditioned in that shape too. So, you've just brought down the ceiling. So, you might have symmetry, but it's a very low ceiling and it's lower than it needs to be to just sustain the forces in the environment. Now, the hop testing pre-op makes so much sense now because you've minimized the time that the contralateral leg can detrain. So, you test that leg and then you use that as a reference standard, but my question is like during single leg testing, they have a torn ACL on their other leg and they hop on their good leg. Is there not like a, I'm just trying to think about doing that having a torn ACL. Is there not a little bit of an e-brake or like fear of what if I lose my balance and have to like put my other leg down? How does that work logistically? Well, I mean, I'm sure it's definitely there, but I think the pros outweigh the cons. I still think if we're looking purely from just like a performance aspect is how much horizontal displacement can you produce, I still think it's a better gauge overall, even though there might be some sort of subconscious e-brake or restriction happening. I mean, you have to remember like if we're not talking about going back to like level one pivoting sports, I mean, you can operate pretty well on an ACL deficient knee. So, is that that player? Is that present? Probably, but I still think it's a better baseline number for us or a better goal to shoot for even given there may be some sort of subconscious guarding or you know, decreased effort happening. Okay, but that's not been like a something that they report to you like they're worried about what if I lose they asked you like what if I lose my balance and have to put my other leg down? Yeah, I mean, most of the time I haven't really had run into that issue. I suppose that it could be, but we like to see people pre-up anyways just to try and get some load through the quad anyways, restore range of motion. Usually like try and see them two, three weeks before surgery if we can. So, okay, because that consistently when I worked in the insurance model that we would do that too. We just didn't, we didn't test hops. We would test their quad strength on the contralateral, but that's new. I mean, it makes perfect sense. I'm just want to get my head around the logistics of that and Paul in the chat says he's spent a lot of time getting pre-up data and finds it helpful as well. So, and the evidence is speaking to that too. So, if you know if at all possible something that you guys can do and if you know if you're seeing teams if you have the opportunity to be training different teams or you're doing, you have connect, you have some type of relationship with teams. So, you could get pre-injury data too, you know, preemptively assuming that some of them are going to get hurt through the season. You maybe you run the teams through some hop testing while they're healthy and then you've got good data as their baseline. So, if they were to get hurt down the line, you know, that's something you compare to too. So, Daniel asks, will you guys do close connect change strength testing, for example, single leg squat or retro step down for height or quad or hamstring dynamometry to qualify them to begin hopping and or hop testing. So, do you have some type of cutoff there like a 80% quad index before you let them hop? From a strength, so if we kind of go on this, like a criterion based sort of schedule, let's take, let's use running as like a benchmark, right? So, if we say that I want to see someone kind of go through like a jog walk program prior to start to really start to look at hop testing, generally for that I want to see like around like 70% quad index probably before we start running like a quiet knee, something that's, you know, that they're not presenting with positive sweep tests or you know, range of motion is normalized. So, I would say if they're hitting at least 70 around like for return to run and we say we're another month out or so. So, I would say probably the earliest that I would want to start to implement that would be like at least a 70% quad index, but I think that's probably a range as well. I don't necessarily have hard and fast data. I see it more as, okay, you hit 70, range of motion looks pretty normalized, knees not constantly swelling up or we've gone through a return to running program. Now we can start to play around with some hopping or jumping progression. So, I would say maybe that's more like my gauge in terms of like limb symmetry. I don't necessarily say that you need to hit this before we start to implement hops. Terry asks a good question. Do you think testing too early may bias clinicians toward trying to get the patient to pass the test plays into the learning curve? Yeah, I mean, I think that works both ways. I think the more often you test, I mean, the athletes are smart, whether they do it consciously or not, and the paper even touches on this. If I remember correctly after reading, some of the athletes, they were some of the symmetrical athletes, their jumps were not as far. So their absolute numbers were not as good, but they were symmetrical. So whether these athletes are learning consciously or subconsciously that symmetry is kind of what we're looking for. They can figure that out over time. And I would suppose that the more they're exposed to the test, the more they figure out what you're looking for and what they need to pass. But at the same time, trends in data, the signal starts to come out the more data points that you have. So my thought is the more reliable testing, the more repeatable testing data points you can get over the course of care, the better. I think that outweighs is doing it less frequently. So they kind of forget what they're doing and forget what you're looking for. But then you're always, now you might be always dealing with the learning curve because it's too infrequent and they have to, now they're like getting used to the test again and you never get that full output. I can see it working both ways though. Yeah, I see that. I think being mindful of just magnitude and direction of asymmetries, probably the biggest thing to kind of guide this. So like, are you trending in the right direction? And in some cases, if you take like, you know, I think in a strength testing, you're basically testing them to get as as good as possible at the test and then they're still having difficulty with it too. So I think as long as you're not using it as a standalone, I'm not necessarily too concerned about that. I think the big thing here that I always have to tell myself is to quote Eric Mara, who we just had on podcast, will release his podcast this weekend. I'm excited about that. But he says the test tests, what the test tests and hop tests, test your ability to hop. They don't, it's a quad index, test your ability to create torque. So, you know, that doesn't necessarily mean that they're going to take that strength and then use it in a strategy that you think is optimal. You know, that's, that's the limitation of testing. A test is you're designing it the environment, you're constraining the environment to hone in on a particular aspect. And that's one of the issues with hop testing is that it's not as constrained. And there's a lot of things that can, that the athlete can do to pass your criteria that you can't necessarily see or measure that then doesn't necessarily transfer. So they talk about like, the movement quality aspect. And I pulled two, I don't even know if they referenced some, but I pulled two, a couple studies showing that an athlete can, they can pass your 90% criteria for hop testing while using strategies that don't actually load the knee. And so the test is testing their ability to hop, but the strategy that they're using may not actually show that they can load that knee and absorb load through the system that you want. So that's where you want to look at strength testing. They can pass hop tests with a quad index that's very low, with low quad strain. So it comes down to there's no, no, there's no one construct that you want to be looking at. We talk about a battery of tests. Yeah, 100%. I mean, that's the problem with like the arbitrary cutoffs, right? Because there's no real, it doesn't really account for the kinematics, especially if we're talking about like the hop test right there. I think that's what makes this very difficult is that the closest thing we have maybe to like a best predictor is probably torque production, or just general isokinetic strength testing at this point. But I think, again, you need to take multiple elements and assess multiple performance indicators or use multiple KPIs to kind of gauge where that person's at. And just one of the limitations that comes with something like the hop test is the lack of accountability for how they're performing the movement or the kinematic variables of it, which they touch on nicely in this paper. David asks, he asked in the chat, so guys, remember too, if you have a question about that you want us to touch on, use the Q&A box. But David asks a good one. He says, can you speak more about that non-knee loading hip strategy? How do we identify when that is happening? Well, yeah, I mean, it's a...  it's an eyeball thing. It's 30 degrees or more of knee flexion. So if we say that a lot of ACLs happen with 30 degrees of less of knee flexion, so a pretty straight knee landing on one leg, we're looking for the athlete to bend past that threshold and to be able to absorb that force. So what you'll see is Eric Merr's got some great blogs about this as well, but what you'll see is a relatively, the athlete will land with a relatively straight knee and forward trunk flexion, and what that does is it shifts all the load back into their hip, which is a viable strategy to get the job done for that particular task. If the task is just jump as far as you can, or jump as fast as you can or something like that, then it's just distributing load. But the thought is they're doing that either because they haven't relearned how to absorb load through that knee or they don't have that quality. They don't have the ability to resist the external torque that's required to offset the ground reaction force. They don't have the internal torque capability of that quad, of that extensor mechanism. And so what they do is they lock a knee and they shift all that load back into their hip. And what we wanna see is a knee that can bend and then that can flex and absorb that load. I pulled a couple papers. There's a title for one, and I can send you the full papers on here, but there's a few pieces. I just put those into the chat. But there's a few pieces that show how one can pass the hop test with the myriad of strategies. So now to your question, you might have five different clinicians looking at a person and one saying, oh, that's a hip strategy, big time. And the other saying, well, I don't know, I think it's a knees bending. And the other two or three, you know. So that's where all of this stuff is still very subjective. It's easy to conceptualize knee strategy, dichotomize into hip strategy, but like in real life, it's very fluid and there's a lot of room for interpretation there. But as in general, that's kind of what we're talking about when we differentiate those things. Let's see, and then Paul had a question here. And Kevin, maybe you can speak on this as far as clustering these tasks, but he asks, do you believe any of these even in cluster are predictive of re-injury? As far as I know, no, I think if you actually utilize the hop test, it actually decreases the predictability from what I understand based off some papers of predicting re-injury. There's actually a reference out in here somewhere, but the only thing that was shown a strong association with ACL re-injury was isokinetic strength. And some of these tests are showing some redundancy as well. So they showed, it was like the triple hop for distance and the single leg hop for distance. There's a high correlation there of those two tests in regards to their outcomes, in regards to the measurement. So what that means is those two tests are potentially measuring the same thing. So you might read that and think, oh, well that's good, these tests are correlated or that means they're repeatable or valid. But that's not necessarily what they're saying. They're saying, well, if you just did one of those two tests, you'd probably be getting what you need out of that information too. So that's what they talk about with, should we be testing all four? And I did see some discrepancy. They talked about the single leg hop for distance and the crossover hop showing low correlation, meaning potentially those two tests are measuring two different things. So potentially you might wanna have those two tests in there and what are those things that they're measuring? Look at these are the questions. Well, they're measuring what they measure. The crossover hop is measuring the athlete's ability to kind of control, you know, medialateral direction over a 15 centimeter deviation. Yeah, I mean, I picked up on that too and it was actually interesting. And this is where we kind of get back to where we're talking about asymmetry is gonna be task and quality specific, right? I can't remember what paragraph it was, but they were talking about, was essentially an example of someone's, you know, reaches normative values or shows good LSI and like a single hop for distance. And maybe they're speculating here, okay, they have good torque production, they have, you know, good strength, but maybe they're scoring lower in like the triple hop for distance. So is this maybe an indication where this person lacks the ability to absorb and produce force? So maybe they're like their reactive strength is kind of lagging. Can we maybe utilize or gauge how someone's performing on like a triple hop for distance versus a single hop to maybe become more, you know, accurate or precise in our loading prescriptions based off of how they're performing across these tests if we assume that they are in fact, testing different constructs. And I think that's one of the real things that I thought was really valuable just to kind of like the narrative and discussion around this paper is how can we, okay, we're saying that hop testing is not great as a standalone, but can we maybe shift the way we look at them in terms of using them as information to guide specific programming considerations or honing in on areas where, you know, what biomotor abilities do they lack? And I think that's something that we're, I think they still have a lot of value. Jared Boyd and Jennifer have, I think maybe similar questions. I'll do Jennifer's first, I think it's a little bit more straightforward. Do you cue them to perform the qualitatively the way that you want? So for the vertical jump, if you're, let's say you're seeing some, some valgus or for the horizontal jump tests and you're seeing some hip strategy or something like that, are you queuing them out of those things? Are you saying, this is the, this is the task? Go. I really don't, cause I just kind of want to see what strategy they're utilizing and I feel like, I don't want to bias them any one direction. So first time through, I'll just kind of explain it, you know, here it is, just single leg, jump as high as you can, or, you know, spend as little time as possible on the ground and then just kind of let them have at it and see how they kind of organize around the task. Cause that flows into, I think, what maybe Jared is asking. And he says that, would you say there's still merit to assessing the qualitative output of the hop tests, meaning being cognizant of the strategies that they're using to achieve symmetrical quantitative outputs. Many athletes may employ a hit bias loading and landing strategy as opposed to quad. Maybe this is not innately wrong, but provides more information regarding his or her psychological readiness or load tolerance aversion. I think that's the sound spot on to me. And it's not, I think Jared, you make a good point. It's not right or wrong. And like this is where the clinician, you determine what you feel is going to translate the best and what's going to create the greatest likelihood of success and reduce risk as best you can. And it's not that a hip strategy is right or wrong because I'll tell you right now, planting a locked knee into the ground, is a real high output performance strategy. Like locking that sucker and just jam. Like I want you to go, everybody should go watch javelin throws after this meeting. And I want you to watch the last step of a javelin thrower as they plant. Their technique is a locked knee and to jib. I mean, it looks like they just jam their hip back into the socket. Like I have thrower friends, a couple of the weightlifting coaches at the gym were collegiate throwers and they were telling me like, yeah, you want to lock that knee as hard as possible. Like that plant leg, that hip feels like at various points of the season because they're hammering it so hard. Because what it does is it creates all that ground reaction force and it transfers it all to the implement. They're basically trying to lock down the system. So we're not saying these strategies are good or bad, but it's when you don't have another option. It's when on the field, if you don't have another option for that knee other than to lock it straight. And so if we subscribe to a locked knee is a potential mechanism, landing on a locked knee is a potential mechanism for ACL injury, the more exposure that you put into that strategy over and over and over and over just from exposure alone could be increasing your likelihood that one of those exposures could lead to something. But if you have the ability to bend your knee and absorb that load, it just gives you more variability. So that's kind of what we're talking about is like providing the athlete with movement variability and hopefully they choose the strategy that's most viable. Sometimes that strategy is to lock that sucker down if performance is the goal. Yeah, I think we have to kind of remember context here too. So there's a big difference between like movement nihilism and like being neurotic about movement, right? But I think in the context, if we're talking about someone, this is someone that we're considering, okay, they've already torn their ACL. So we know that this is a mechanism that they maybe didn't have the availability or the option to get out of or it was already a compromising position for them. I think it's a different question when we're talking about someone if we're trying to reduce risk or, quote unquote, prevent injury, I think that's a different conversation. In terms of someone that's post-op, continuing to kind of utilize that strategy, I think that's when we're probably more likely to intervene. I don't know that I would necessarily do anything to someone that has not had an ACL reconstruction that is kind of utilizing that. Because like you said, in many cases, it's a performance solution that they've come up with and likely become very good at utilizing to complete the goal task. But at some point, even the person who had ACL reconstruction is gonna utilize strategies that then maximize performance. But to your point, in a rehab setting, like we wanna give them more options. It shouldn't be their only option. And I think to Jared's point, if that is, if you're seeing that consistently as their only option, lock knee, put all of that force into the hip, it may clue you in on they are either not confident or they don't have the buyer motor capability at this point to create the torque necessary to absorb that load with a bent knee. Paul, so let's see here. We've got a bunch of questions. So Aerie and Paul kind of talk about force plate data. So I don't have a force plate. Paul says that they've moved away from ice kinetic testing because it poor validity for return to sport. The strength is good, but the variability of sport is hard to test. Paul, is that, when you say ice kinetic testing is poor validity for return to sport, is that more of a something that you're seeing from a clinical experience over time? And so you can throw that out there. We talked about, I think, I can't remember which meeting it was. The quad, the test test for the test test. So if you test quads strength in an isolated way, that's what you're testing for. But that's in my view, and I feel like the body of evidence would support this, is that that's kind of a baseline. You should check that box off first. That doesn't mean that they're gonna use it. And maybe that's the point that you're getting at, but they at least have that. They at least have an extensor mechanism that can withstand load. And there's no better way to test for that, that very baseline biomotor capability than an isolated open kinetic chain test. I don't have an ice kinetic dynamometer. I use a pole dynamometer. And we just do isometric. So I don't test iso kinetically, because I don't have that, but I test isometrically. And our goal is to start ticking that box off first, because it's part of the beginning of the conversation that we had that somebody can pass hop tests and have a quad index that's much lower than their limb symmetry index of their hop testing. And so we're trying to, I'm using open kinetic chain quad testing to try to bridge that gap. And it's that, it gives me at least that snapshot of what's their underlying capability in that regard. So we still use it. Couple of you guys are asking about force plates. I don't have a force plate, but I'll tell you also that Susan Sigward had a paper looking at athletes from three to five months post ACL, who were doing squats, who visually looks symmetrical, but are utilizing strategies that offload the quad. And I can put that paper up here too, but essentially it's very, very hard. And a force plate can kind of pick up on the subtle weight shifts, but essentially the athlete can shift kind of into their forefoot. They can do really creative things to not load their knee. And I will say, just to kind of build off of Paul's point right there. So I actually, when I was out at USC this fall, I talked to Susan Sigward about that. And I asked her, was that in the presence of normalize quad torque? And it actually was. So they were still finding ways to offload that side, even though put them on an isoconetic machine and their force production was passing standards are relatively good. So it was almost like an ingrained learn mechanism that was still present, even though we had reestablished the ability to produce torque and absorb force, produce force through the extensor mechanism. So there's probably something there to that. I still think, like you said, like low hanging fruit, let's make sure that we're hitting peak torque and things like that. So I still think it's definitely something that I will continue to utilize and I think should be. But the big point there was you asked her and she hadn't, but they tested it still. Yes, yes. It wasn't, oh, it wasn't, you didn't ask her and then she said, well, we didn't test that. And then you don't know. Cause it surprised me. Cause like, I was like, oh, like, I'm going to get her with the Scotch a question, you know? And she's like, oh no, they had, they had established, they had normalized on their torque production or torque production on the quads. That surprised me. Cause I thought all the participants in that study were like three to five months, like pretty early. I think there's another paper. Isn't there one that was like, like two years out? Oh, that's not the one that I'm talking. Okay. So that would make sense then. I'm talking about one where they, they look at it three or five months out. I believe I'll pull that one up though. So let's, we got all of your questions here too. I don't want to get too off base, but great questions, Paul. Do you recommend, so for clinics that do not have the equipment for ice-tnag testing, what do you recommend as a supplement to best match other than manual muscle tests? Well, not manual muscle tests. Chad, I'd recommend getting a crane scale. So you can get a, a 60 to $100 crane scale on Amazon. And it's a pole dynamometer that you can hook up to a chain and you can have somebody do a seated isometric knee extension for max torque. And you can get a peak, you can get peak torque that way. So that would be my recommendation. I have a dynamometer that runs about $800. It's a Mark 10, but a crane scale will give you that. And I would say that's a minimum, there you go. Manual muscle testing is not good enough. If we want, we want somebody to be able to create the, a degree of torque that matches their body weight, like you're not going to be able to hold that. They're going to kick, they're going to win. So you're not going to be able to get a peak if you just do a manual muscle test, if you, if you do it right. So I would recommend a cheap crane scale to get some type of peak, peak torque value. Brian asks, so by the way, we're getting it probably getting away from hop testing, but fuck it. Brian asks at the end of the day, what's the difference between a KPI that you find that works versus a quote unquote studied test so long as it's repeatable, reliable and valid and can measure actual change improvement? Well, I mean, that's a good question. So you can make up your own KPIs. It's, it's the real, it's the reliability in the valid part. Who determined the liability and valid. So at least the hop testing, you know, it has, it has controlled studies behind it to show reliability. So if you, if you pick your own tests, you can do your own reliability studies. Validity is a little tougher, cause what are you comparing it to as a reference standard? You know, so those, those terms are generally, we're saving those for, for data that has been peer reviewed and, and, and kind of established, but ultimately if, if you have a repeatable test, that's probably like the low, the box to take off first. Can I repeat the way that I, you know, administer the test? If that answer is yes, okay, cool, and we can, can we can move on? But yeah, I mean, I think you guys after reading this paper are probably realizing that there is no one battery of tests that's the gold standard for return to sport. And especially when it comes to hop testing. Ivan asks, what do you think about using video fixation and other methods of motion analysis? Could they be more accurate for decision making? Do you use them in your practice? I use the my jump app almost exclusively. We use the my jump for the, any test that like they mentioned the six meter time test, which I actually don't use, but they measured the, or they, they mentioned the reliability of that test is, is the worst of the four, because you're looking at a bunch of different things. You have to look at when the heel comes off. You have to look at when they cross the finish line. The my jump app, it's, it's 10 bucks. It might be two bucks now, cause they were running a sale, but it allows you to slow mo and, and to get frame by frame of when an athlete lands, when they take off from when they land. And so that's the app I use for all of our vertical jump testing. And, and anytime I'm really trying to determine really pinpoint moments in time. And it's really, really helped us to be a little bit more reliable with those things. I don't get, I don't, we don't use wearables and I don't have force plates. So I'm not getting into too much of the weeds there. Do you, what's, Kevin, what do you guys use for motion analysis? Do you have anything like that? Yeah, there's, so I use, I don't have access to like a motion capture, like a motion analysis, like full lab, but we do have like a single force plate. And then I've used my jump app as well. Are things like coach's eye in terms of like things that are a little bit more I guess, practical. So I think those are probably your best bet if we're kind of utilize what we can in terms of for those that don't have access to some of like the higher end sports science side of stuff. Yeah, so coaches I works to Jennifer asks, would you say that you have varying expectations of limb symmetry success percentages, depending on the activity that the individuals wanting to return to and who the individual is? For example, a young athlete wanted to return to high level rugby. You need the limb symmetry to be a higher percentage than an older individual who goes for a three time, three times weekly run. I mean, yeah, it's just it's, it's informed consent, right? It's the problem is those people who go on a three times weekly run may also go on a ski trip or may also play like pickup. Whatever every, every three weeks or something like that. It's just a conversation to be had. Like we want to get you as strong as possible. And here's a general cut off that we want our, our higher level people to reach and we're going to strive for that. But for you, it may not be necessary for most of the activities that you do. Even boom. And, you know, Kevin mentioned that if somebody has a 70% quad index, we can probably just start running. You could probably start doing some things, you know, so. Generally to your question. Yeah. The answer is there's discretion there based on their goals and who we're talking about. But the process, you know, doesn't necessarily change. It's just kind of informed consent of here you are. Here are the risks. If you're just literally just going to go on a run three times weekly, then. Yeah. The ceiling's a lot of the floor is higher. You know, the, it's not as the barriers, not as high to entry there. So there is discretion. You have any thoughts on that? No, I think I would probably echo the similar things. I think this is where if you have, I mean, you can find normative data for pretty much anything out there. So I think that's another thing to just like to consider. But I mean, you'll test some people and, you know, not involved side will have, you know, peak torque of 1.5 Newton meters per kilogram. So I think if we're starting with like something that is that low, I would still try to encourage, you know, maximizing limb symmetry as much as possible. So I think taking into consideration, like absolute force production is something to consider as well. I mean, it's a different story if somebody's non-involved side is five, six Newton meters per kilogram and they're involved side is, you know, one or two. I think I would be more concerned with a large asymmetry of that degree versus someone that is overall just not proofs due to much of force period. Well, and a lot of those studies on relative torque were done with elderly masters populations, and they were still up in the three. Yeah, I mean, I was per Newton meter. 3.0 like I is that's like every day person walking around is kind of, I forget the lead author on that study, but I mean, yeah, it was like general population, like 3.0 Newton meters per kilogram. So I think it's something that I think you should probably utilize in terms of a goal that you're shooting for. Max asks, do you guys implement a myth I pull in return to sport decision to assess lower extremity strength in addition to quad strength? I have for my ACLs again, I'm seeing people who have probably who have already been through currently have already been through a course of care in general. And a lot of them are in the barbell sport realm or training with barbell sports. We do, but it doesn't necessarily inform my decision from the knees perspective. It's more of just like general system strength because there's a lot of there's a big difference between isometric what an isometric myth I pull is testing in what a very constrained quad test is, because there's a lot of, you know, the isometric myth I pulls using a lot of things, and it's a different position. We use we're playing around with the unilateral isometric myth I pull, we're also playing around with a unilateral squat unilateral partial squat. So they're in like a quarter squat position. And they're hooked up to a pole dynamometer. And they've kind of anchored so they're anchored to the ground and they've got one hand that's just balancing against the wall. And then they just push with one leg as hard as they possibly can playing around with that too. But I mean, I mean, looking at symmetry in the same way that I would for these tests, but those things don't have any other reliability or validity data or not as much behind them. Some of that's a lot of testing is starting to come out a lot more, especially with the groups from the UK, which is why we kind of started, but I don't see any reason why not. But I may be testing something that's not terribly relevant. Like if it's a soccer player and they can put 400 pounds into an isometric myth I pull, what does that tell you? And the test they're offloading one side or the other, it's hard to see unless you're sitting on a plate. So kind of just depends on what you what you're trying to get out of the test. Paul asks, how does time, i.e. neuroplasticity play into testing and return to sport decisions? So do you guys look at that? Are you looking at nine months like trying to get to that point? Or if they if they're objectively meeting all of your return to sport battery at seven months, six months, are you pushing that? Are you looking to say, okay, you know that we can we can start to talk about it? Or do you have do you use that time construct as a cutoff as well? I mean, I think it's going to be situational specific, obviously, but in my mind, just kind of looking at some of the data where we've seen that athletes that have power deficits and even athletes without strength deficits were still there's a paper, it was one of the references in here. And I think it was a paterno study or a Hewitt study was in the AJSM. Both groups were at high risk of re-injury. And I think based off of everything that we've seen, where we're getting as much as like A-50% reduction in re-injury rate for every month delayed up to nine months, I don't see any reason outside of very special circumstances that I would ever clear anybody to go back before nine months. And a lot, I mean, that's a nice thing about working with there's a couple surgeons here that they say like, it is going to be a nine or 10 month process period. And that's very nice. Because when they come to you and now they already have that set down from the surgeon. So to me, I would be hard pressed to find a rationale to discharge someone back to sport outside of unique circumstances before nine months. Yeah, I don't know what the magic is about that number that just happens to see be where things where the data starts to just pile around. But there is something to time. The problem is when you use only time as a criteria, and you don't look at any of these other measurements. And then if you only look at these, and they've got limb symmetry indexes of that all pasture criteria, there's also something to just letting that tissue normalize for longer than six months, longer than seven months at seep. There's something going on there. We just don't know what it is. Now, again, it's your discretion. Like, if you've got a collegiate athlete, who's either got a scholarship on the line or a potential pro contract on the line, and this is their last chance to pursue that, if you've got a professional athlete, some, you know, whether it's a contract here, or something like that, you know, there's always a, well, what about this situation? It's a matter of informed consent. You're still putting these, you still have these metrics in mind, and the athlete is informed of where you want to go, and is also informed of the risks if you don't get there. And so, you know, so we just keep that in mind. Jared has a good comment here, and he says, I think tests allow you to develop a more efficacious intervention by limit  including the level of noise at play within the individual system. It improves our stratification of key variables and where our efforts as clinicians need to go. So, if we don't perform isolated quadtesting but perform an integrated test like jumping or hopping, we don't see what we think we should. How would we discern which variable to manipulate and how to intervene? So, to that point, it's not either or. They're telling you different things. And then he goes on to say, perhaps looking at it as if you jump poorly and don't have sufficient quad strength, then you need quad strength. But just because you have quad strength doesn't mean you have the ability to integrate it within an emergent movement like jumping. Thus, warning a different intervention as opposed to simply strengthening. Yeah. And I think we're all ca-pauling. We're all kind of getting at the same thing. Is that nothing as a standalone is going to get you to the finish line? But it's also constantly checking in. And we, so I test, I have people, I see people less frequently. And I think a lot of people do. I see them about once every four weeks, but we do tests every time they come in. But I want those touch points. Because one touch point every quarter, like it's just not enough to me. That's what they were, you know, a test is how they, how you are on that particular day, which hell, if you had to come in three hours later after a nap and, you know, a nice meal, maybe you test higher, even on the same day or there would be, or vice versa. So give, you know, repeated exposures to testing, getting some data points, looking at where those, where the signal's starting to come out at. And then knowing that each test as a standalone is limited, but as a big picture might clue you in with your decision making. And that's really all we're trying to do is make the most informed decisions that we possibly can. And they're all, we're never going to have all the information. Yeah. I mean, I couldn't agree more. In many ways it's kind of a process of elimination in some ways, just kind of like, well, is it this? Okay. They have this. So why are they not in it? Yeah. I think that's the challenging thing is it's really just trying to build. Things, you know, constraints of the individual and then letting things play out as they may, but you have to test in order to figure out what you're working with. And then it's a process of elimination from there. Stephen asked real quick, he says, do you have any videos of some of those tasks you're playing around with a dynamometer, the partial single leg squat? Yeah, I do. And she can shoot me an email and I can send you a video. And I didn't just make those up. So those are, I'm pulling those tests from a lot of literature that's coming out from Chris Bishop and a lot of the crew over in the UK who were looking at asymmetry and unilateral work too. So, but I'll definitely, I can send you a video, Steve, you just shoot me an email. Diane asks, the paper notes various reasons why the contralateral limb is not always a great comparison. And we kind of talked about that earlier. How would you set up preseason hop testing? Well, kind of depends on, if you're a coach or clinician and if you have relationships with the programs, but you could do, I mean, you could do like a weekend thing where you'd just spend an entire day running a bunch of athletes through these tests just to get, you know, healthy athletes just to get some baseline data. You could do this, you could do it each quarter. You could have them set up appointments to come into your clinic just as like wellness screens and then you could just run people through hop tests at various, you know, points in the offseason, something like that preseason. It kind of just depends on your situation. It sounds like if they've already been injured and you're looking at pre-op hop testing, Kevin, as you mentioned earlier, you guys just organize that as part of your treatment plan. Yeah, just like go right across the hall and just be like, hey, so they're here preoperatively, send them on over, it will be, you know, 15 minutes or whatever, get the data, send them on their way. I'm trying to see if, let's see what else I have here. Vertical jumps. What about side, any of the side hopping or like rotational hops you guys mess with? I've not played around with much of the frontal plane stuff, I'll be honest, or kind of like the transitional hops, you know, 180, 90 degrees. I think it's interesting, I just, I haven't, I haven't explored it much. Well, and that's maybe the difference now between what you train and what you test. Because some of these tests, like you can make a test so hard that you're just nobody's going to pass it and that's where you like lose out on your true negatives. Like it's like the rotational test, sometimes it just seems like we could test for anything, right? We can make anything a test, like what Brian's point is, if we can try to repeat it, try to make it reliable, but you know, we train in the frontal plane and we do different rotational jumps, you know, jump facing one way, get the land facing the other way. Yeah, and then jumping the other way and, you know, quarter turns in the air and landing on one leg or something like that. But as far as making it a test, I haven't messed around with that stuff either. But go ahead. Yeah, I mean, they kind of touch on this in the paper too, like the sensitivity is not necessarily great for some of those from what they were kind of putting forward in the paper either. So again, I think it's one of those things where you have to kind of weigh your options a little bit, but I haven't dug into the literature enough on them to really feel strongly one way or another. I just haven't explored it too much. So I can't really, can't really say. Brian asks, I tried to ask this earlier. I think this question is in similar vein. Do you think it's worth us as a profession then to advocate for people coming in for wellness screens to get the relevant info? Well, I think that's a question that's. I think that's a bigger question because that's what people are we talking about and what constitutes your wellness screen? So specifically when we were answering Diana's question, it was teams and we were going to do testing for very specific things like hop testing, or maybe we get a quad index to a hamstring index. If we think about what we're preemptively trying to test for specifically in ACL land, what are the tests that we're probably going to be using if they were to tear their ACL? Maybe we test those before they get hurt so that if they are to get hurt, we now have a baseline to really compare off of. Now to extrapolate that to now, should people come in for wellness screens? I think it's maybe too broad of a question to give a definitive yes, no on that. And we're not necessarily advocating that you even have the teams come in and do the hop testing. It's just if you want to, you know, if your coaches, if you know coaches and teams are looking to decrease injury risk or are looking to maximize or optimize their return to play. And you've had a lot of people come in post-op from these particular teams and you want to see if the help with overtime with your re-injury rates or your return to play, you implement something like that. But it's a very specific cohort with kind of a very specific aim. We would just have to talk about what you mean by wellness screens, I guess. I'm not one of those people that's vehemently against utilizing our services at various points of the year looking at things. At the same time, we just have to define what we're talking about. Let's see here. I think that may be all I had on my end. Kevin, you got anything? What's that? I would kind of just like to open it up for anyone that wants to contribute in terms of what does your sort of return to play testing battery look like? I think that's always good just to kind of see what other people are doing. And I'd appreciate, you know, and welcome input from anyone because we're not exactly doing too great out there in terms of re-injury rates, et cetera. Paul, yeah. So like, I'd like to know other than or hop testing, like we can keep it on test there too, but like any 510.5 testing or like anything that complements these things. Do you guys go out onto the field, Kevin, and do various late stage stuff? Yeah. Like a 510.5, sometimes like a yo-yo depending on the individual sport. It has to be, you know, somewhat representative of energy system demands. Yeah, Paul says he's using various runs based on the sport. Yeah, and still doesn't test all that the sport is. So that's, yeah, just so you guys know, there's no consensus on any ACL battery of tests. But I'd also say at least, you know, have something, you know, a lot of these, a lot of the evidence that'll say, well, having tests didn't show any or didn't, wasn't predictive, doesn't help us in our decision making. A lot of times the heterogeneity of the batteries of tests are so different. And if we're not even utilizing the tests, we can't say that they don't matter. And that's, you know, one of the big points is like we should at least be looking at some stuff and then we can kind of have a common ground to have a conversation. John has a question here. Do you think some of these tests are too easy for the athletes, such as the crossover hot test only being 15 centimeters wide? Do you think it would be beneficial of having the width of the lines on the subjects height? No, maybe. You know, it's one of the things where if you make it too wonky, it's less reliable. And it just becomes so hard that they nobody passes it. But that could be something you train with. But yeah, it's interesting question and start to normalize some of these tests relative to the person. Instead of just having these very rigid guidelines that everybody gets 15 centimeters, because if you're really tall or really short, that's a different challenge, right? Or six meters for six meter time top test. If you're really short or really tall, it's different challenge. Yeah, I mean, I think, you know, just to kind of echo what Paul is saying here in the chat is, you know, nothing is going to replicate the sport. The best thing we can do is identify constraints of the person and, you know, utilize clinic or gym time to target those constraints. But, you know, if you want to replicate the sport, the best way to do it is a, you know, a great return to play and ultimately return to performance. So we can only target constraints of the individual in my opinion. So I agree with what what you're saying there, Paul. Gino asks to touch on Kevin or he says to touch on Kevin's point. I do think our ability to rehab individuals post ACL is problematic due to basically everything we've talked about. And this was basically alluded to but how much is ours or the athletes fault. Dustin grooms, who has some research suggesting an ACL tears a failure of the central nervous system. As it was said, we can cross off every single box in terms of jump test, quad strength, but at the end of the day, it seems like if that ACL is going to tear or re-tear it's going to happen regardless. Just more of a general statement doesn't have to be said out loud yet. Well, and I think Paul is getting that some of this some of the neurological stuff too. So I'll be, you know, I'll be totally transparent that Dustin grooms research flies over my head 99 times out of 100 and I like I've seen him speak a few times at CSM. And I'm like, Oh my God, I mean, I, there's something to this, obviously. We're real far. And so we're pretty far from being able to kind of bottle it up and make it something that's practical in the clinic and like have a battery of neurological tests that tell us something. And so right now we've got things that are are lower, the lower the barrier of entry to losing some guys. Right. I mean, there's a reason that re-tear every way they are. We do these batteries of tests and make all right decisions. That's why we can't prevent injury in the first. We talk about the risk. So your point is well taken. And Paul's point is well taken that testing is not the end. I'll be all not going to tell us everything. It should happen sometimes, but I think it's still to Jared's point earlier, gives us something to jump off from. But we need to improve for sure. And the, the nervous system stuff is definitely a hole to go down. It's a deep one. You should get dusty on the, on the podcast. Yeah. So Terry kind of follows up with that different reactions to commands while problem solving change visual stimulus. You could go the Samuel Marquora route and start doing some brain fatigue. You know, to what end, I don't know, but I'm sure there's something to this. Like many meetings back, I think we talked about fatigue and its factor of these things and like showing that fatigue doesn't matter, but like the quality of that. I still got problems with that man. We're not even inducing fatigue in those studies. Anyway, yeah. I'm with you guys. I think there's something to that. So if you're looking for some of that. As training neurological input, look into some of Dustin grooms work, because he's spearheading a lot of that stuff. David says one of my previous TAs at UD named Ryan, sir, is this key sir, is it key is doing a lot of research on the neurological changes around ACL tears using transcranial stimulation to look at Hoffman reflexes on the MG or something like that over my head. Since I'm not up to date on it, but something to look into Jennifer says HS physio. So maybe you're in the UK, or, you know, over there. They have 15 minutes so a battery of test such as these provides a fountain from which the physio can maybe work with. Yeah, so there you go. I mean, so now you're getting under the constraints of your environment to as a clinician. And so what's going to give me a snapshot what's going to give them information to at least make some decisions. I get a max, I get a peak torque measurement. I get a hop test measurement or gives me some information to go off of. It's not optimal. It's optimal that satyrs to close person. And it informs you to some degree. So it's got to go but for your contributions, Paul, we really appreciate it and ask fatigue not related injury risk. So we think I think is but I but the evidence maybe suggest the evidence suggests me it's not but to Kevin's point earlier, those fatiguing protocols aren't, we don't know how fatiguing they actually are. And a lot of them just look at like, Oh, well, there's the ACL injury rates are not higher in the fourth quarter compared to the first quarter but what does that tell you. What if the player just like, they had a good rest, they sat out the third quarter. So they weren't fatigued going into the fourth quarter, or whatever, you know, I think it's we've got to look at like we're not actually measuring if they are true fatigue and then the question is well what does fatigue, what is fatigue, and how are you measuring that is that psychological physiological some combination of two so like that is just, but there. I can't imagine there's nothing there. Yeah. So, he talked about now time. So, he says I know we are going towards more criteria, but still with time based constructs in terms of tissue healing ACL maturation one study discussed waiting up to two years. I think they decided that in the paper to do we need biology to take course yeah then we talked about this a little bit I think earlier in the conversation. And then that they try to wait nine month period is kind of that sweet spot that's generally what's in my head as well I think there is something to just letting mother nature do something to those tissues, just letting let's letting the more time that that needs becomes normal part of the system, the better. So, the problem with that with two years is that a lot of us are going to miss out on things that would affect their future, or maybe two years and now you're just out of college or two years and you miss out on that scholarship you miss out on that contract so I was a lot of limitations when it comes to that in an ideal world and also just the patients buy in like. So, it's going to be a two year process you're not going to return your sport, we're going to hold you back put you on a leash for two years. You know, in an ideal world, if there are no like constrain as far as contract scholarships and the athletes, going ho on whatever you want for them yeah probably two years. But you're just, you're working in within the you know real life constraints but I do think to your question. So, it's a really good time. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, the two year I think, Tim he was the one that's kind of spearheaded or first kind of floated that idea out there. So if you guys are interested in that I'm sure you'll be able to he's done tons of work in this area as well so I think you know it. It's a piece of it right so we want to be criterion based but we also have to be time based so you have to respect both sides of it like you said. Because a tendon needs to start figuring out how to be a ligament. There is so the thing is so common. Don't always appreciate how crazy tissue eventually learns how to be new tissue yeah it's not not surprising it could take two years and so isn't. I can't cite this off my head. So in the religament, ligamentation phase, the humanization phase, where that tendon is or whatever the graph that they're using is real is learning how to be an ACL isn't it most vulnerable. I think it's not like the 12 to 16 week mark, where it's actually degraded, and then it starts to religament ties and go the other way. I actually, let me pull this actually just had a PowerPoint with this on here looking at when the graph was most vulnerable. The tissue healing it looks like a almost like a like a like a checkmark or like a 90. Yeah, yeah, 90 swoosh. See if I can find it here real quick. Well that's what David says yeah strongest initially gets weaker and then gets stronger again. And then while you're, while you're going. Jared says, there is some literature that shows we self regulator output biomotor capacity during the perception of fatigue in order to limit threat to homeostasis however I'm still biased the accumulation of fatigue may contribute to to inability to maintain variability with which I equate to health yeah he says I don't know either but I think you're right. I mean, we'll go back to it will reduce this down to the hip versus knee strategy think about when you're tired. You're really tired or like your legs are tired at the end of the game or end of the quarter or end of where you've had like a lot of back and forth say you're on the soccer field and you've had a multiple sprints repeated sprints. And now you're required to jump and land. When we talk about like energy efficiency. It's way. It's way and a lock me like happy if your legs are already burnt. And now you have to bend and absorb. Like that's just more energy. It's why like you think about, again, this is anecdotal but like on the free throw line if you've ever played basketball. When your legs are tired and you're on the free throw line. It's real hard to bend your knees and to like, you know, get into that shot use your legs for that shot it's way easier to just stand there with locked legs and just try to use all your arms and they talk about that like you always say the other. You know your legs are the first thing to go in your jump shot when you're tired so I think that's to Jared's point you start your, your voice starts to shrink. Yeah, so here it is right here so tissue necrosis remodeling loses strength weakest at about six to 12 weeks ACL graft appears like a ligament. But is that 50% tensile strength at about 30 weeks out. And Brian in the he says that to you at 8 to 12 weeks is most vulnerable so about that you know like we're running some in some cases. Exactly. That's what when I first learned that I was like oh shit like that almost scared me too much. But like, okay, think about somebody that goes back after six months. What did you say 30 weeks right. So there's something to time by biology doesn't move all that fast. When it comes to this stuff. Not everybody's Adrian Peterson 30 Kevin to my so asked can you when it loses tensile strength 30 weeks. Just repeat. Yeah, so 16 weeks college and bundles start to appear 26 weeks we have evidence of cellular repair decreasing the graft is at its weakest at roughly six to 12 weeks and about 50% strength at 30 weeks. Sweet. And there you go. Well, let's see what's the reference for that. Let me see here. Lauren Steve want to know and I did in all of us. Give me one second here. If it's a blog, you can just tell the truth. Oh, I'm not sure what the reference was I pulled it off a slide here. I'll post that in the forum though. I pulled it off a slide if anybody else has a reference, but it sounds like we were all kind of on the same page. Yeah, I've heard that too. Yeah, it's 12 weeks. So kind of one of those eye openers to and who asked about, you know, Daniel so always talk about the pendulum sewing and we talk about that a lot in these meetings. So from time to criterion based. How about how about they're both matter. And so that data right there is kind of an indication that there's still something to time. Brian says he also put it off a slide with no reference. Well, listen, this is her. This is the herd. So like all of us seem to be on the same page that we've either heard or it makes sense. And we've all kind of like that check mark. So, people saying the same thing for it to be false. It has to be true. Let's just we'll just put it right down. It's a, it's a validated theory. I think, I think that's all on this. It's a good one though guys I mean, read it again. It'll it'll give you some avenues to dig into a little bit more. Sometimes some of the uncertainty helps because if you're just, if you're doing something along the lines of what it's talking about, then you're, you're probably doing as much as you possibly can, based on what we know, at least, at least from these, we were talking about these particular tests. So sometimes the uncertainty can take some pressure off, you know, but just, you know, start somewhere you can look at all these tests there's YouTube videos on on these things galore. Stephen says first clunk laugh at Journal Club awesome discussion. Thanks man I'm glad you enjoyed it. So we still need. So we have a couple topics for the next meeting. So this, this topic, literally one by one vote. We had a hundreds of votes and it was the other one was not out management of ACL. So that's in the hat to, but maybe we save that so we don't do to ACLs in a row, but somebody throughout motor learning in the forum as a potential topic. So we're just throwing out there. We're always willing. Daniel says thanks so much. Yeah, thank you for coming. But otherwise, Kevin are you still looking hard for that paper. Yeah, I'll find it. Are you afraid or just spouting bullshit. No, it's not bullshit. I know there's a, I try not to say anything without a reference. I mean, if it's, it's ultimately it's my fault because I started throwing out the whole. Isn't this a thing that maybe I read but I can't remember either. It's fake news. It's fake news. Kalani. The, I think he just put a, yeah, he just put a paper, the ligamentation, ligamentization process in anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. What happens to the human graph a systematic review of the literature. And he says this is what was referenced in his muscle scale ACL lecture. Cool. Thanks for that. So everybody in the chat. So that's one. And it's a systematic review. So maybe all the papers that we're thinking in our head or are part of that review and then we can be happy. Yeah, Brian, you're good. Okay. I give people time to copy and paste that reference but otherwise, you guys have a great rest of your day we've got we're going to release Eric Maris podcast it's actually part one of two. I'm Dinger and then very relevant to our conversation here because we're talking about the need talking quad ACL very, very relevant. Jared threw out some potential topics motor learning blocked versus random practice I like that I love dichotomies differential learning. That would be a good one too. Thanks man. Thank you for participating we definitely do your, your thoughts. So, yeah, anytime you can join, we would love it. If you don't know Jared was on the clinical athlete podcast as well. And it was a really good we also did a webinar for us and just money. Right.  вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам