 voiigectectects, voiigectects, voiigects, voiigects, voiigects, voiigects, voiigects, voiigects, voiigects, voiigects, voiigects, voiigects, voiigects, voiigects, voiigects, voiigects, voiigects, voiigects, voiigects, voiigects, voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiigects voiig strong doing so, but started to feel some of these symptoms towards the end of that cycle. The triggers are the bottom of the dip and the jerk, so that abrupt kind of stretch shortening cycle phenomenon. And same with the push press, ascending in the squat or kind of the reversal out of the hole. So a similar mechanism. Sometimes if the knees are really flared up, breaking the bar off the floor during a pull will elicit symptoms. And then the feet landing in the catch. So that kind of dynamic impact can also be a trigger. A decline squat was painful at 90 degrees of knee flexion. So anything above that actually felt pretty good. But as he descended into that single leg decline squat, that elicited his symptoms, pain with a body weight snap down. So you're standing tall and then you just quickly snap into hip flexion and knee flexion that elicited symptoms. So basically we're trying to recreate the scenario of his feet landing. Tender to palpation and an inferior pull of the patella, left versus or left worse than right. And then knee extension torque, which we tested with an inline dynamometer. Relative torque, 1.5 newton meters per kilogram of body weight, which is not real good. And both sides were painful. Now pain inhibits force output. So, you know, chicken or egg here, we don't know, but there's a, there's a tolerance issue for sure. And then if we're just looking at that number, potentially a capacity issue as well. So we'd like that to be a double that at least three newton meters per kilogram of body weight. So we'll be working on that. So we're going to start with some bicycle squats or essentially hiking his heels up even more so than his weightlifting shoes, a more narrow stance and really trying to put load in those quads. We're going to do that twice a week or twice per seven to 10 day micro cycle. We're going to overload jerk dips. So for sets of three, just the dip portion of the jerk. So he's going to essentially try to put the load into that stretch shortening cycle. And we're going to do that for reps. We're going to overload that movement to try to build some tolerance there. We're going to work on, we're going to do lift offs in the snatch and the clean grip. So essentially a poor man's leg press where you use the pole, but you try to break the bar off the floor with your legs instead of, he has a tendency, and I know this lifter to kind of shift back and to almost shield the quads from load and put, to put everything in his hips. We want to actually work him into doing the opposite and increasing the torque demand on the quad. And in our back pocket, some, some things that we might do to modify training is a no quote unquote, no feet snatch and cleans where he starts and stays in his receiving stance so that he minimizes the dynamic impact of his feet landing. We'll go that route if we need to also pauses in the dip of the jerk and the push press, not only overloading the dips and just doing dips, but also pausing at the bottom of the dip to basically decrease the stretch shortening cycle. So now, uh, the impulse is still there to drive, but you're going from a dead stop. And so it may be a little bit more, uh, tolerable on the, on the tendons. And then we can progress to reincorporating the regular tempo of the jerk. And we can do that for squats as well. So racks, uh, rack squats, pin squats, going from a dead stop, a slow lower dead stop reset, and then drive off the pins takes out that dynamic stretch shortening, uh, bounce out of the whole of the squats. So all of those things I may throw in maybe one at a time, maybe all at once. If things don't, uh, start to turn around a little bit with our added load, I'm also going to throw in some banded knee extensions, some seated knee extension isometric pushes into a band. He doesn't have a leg extension machine, but we'll, we'll use a band instead. So we'll just kind of monitor that over time over the next 30 days and see if there's any change and tweak is needed. Next up, uh, another weightlifter male in his thirties, he's a weightlifting coach and also an international level weightlifter. So very high level left sided upper trap and neck pain following a heavy jerk and front squat workout about six weeks ago and accompanying radiating nerve symptoms down the median nerve distribution on that left side. The trigger is anything from front rack to overhead. He can train behind the neck jerks, behind the neck, push presses completely fine load as normal. It's anything front rack is all, or the front squad is also okay. The clean is okay. It's from the front rack to overhead is what creates his symptoms pain in the neck, left side of the trap, but also into the arm and the median, into the hand median nerve distribution. So, uh, he hasn't been going, he's been avoiding that trigger for the past three and a half to four weeks. Pulls can also be a trigger. So like heavier, clean pulls, kind of that traction force, not to, to a lesser extent than the front rack to overhead, but also can be a trigger. Um, his shoulder range of motion is just fine. Uh, he's got plenty of flexion. He's a, you know, he uses his international level weightlifter. So all, all this stuff was good. I wasn't able to recreate his symptoms with passive shoulder motion. What recreated his symptoms very consistently was left side bending by itself a little bit down into the arm, definitely into the neck, but left side bending plus neck extension. So that kind of diagonal pattern, like putting your ear in your back left pocket that recreated the next symptoms and also down the arm as well as supine neck extension. Shoulder flexion plus left side bending, recreated symptoms, uh, supine passive neck extension plus side bending also recreated symptoms. So it was very consistent, uh, with that, with that pattern, median nerve testing, the upper extremity by itself was negative, but then added the lateral side bending, the lateral side bending, boom, recreated symptoms, uh, for what it's worth when he was in supine. If I took him into side bending to the right, cervical side bending to the right and also added kind of a lateral glide from, if somebody is laying in front of you, their heads here, side bending them to their right and then adding a manual glide from right to left. I just held that for maybe 30 seconds and then I took him back into left side bending, which did, which had recreated symptoms. And then that was, uh, symptoms were decreased and almost gone. So for whatever that's worth, if we want to consider that my manual therapy treatment, I did it for about 30 seconds and basically just said, okay, well, you know, if this is creating your symptoms, potentially creating a little bit of a, of an impingement, you're sensitive to that position. When I put your neck into left side bending, it gives you that kind of jamming feeling. If I take you the other way for a little bit and then take you back, it feels a little bit better. So that's, you know, just that short-term desensitization. But I, I think if we spent any more time than that on that particular thing, I'm not sure if that would give us any long-term return. So, uh, it's just one of those things. And, and, you know, I'm always interested in conversations about that stuff, but just make a note of it. Uh, and then we went out and we just tested a little bit of jerks. We worked up to A-50 kilo. I want to see where his tolerance was worked up to A-50 kilo split jerk, push press. We just worked light loads for a little bit and he was totally fine with that. So, you know, and to note, uh, his symptoms have been decreasing over this time too. So daily tasks, he was almost able to recreate his symptoms, just reaching these, that's no longer the case. So he's a daily activities. Don't create the symptoms. Training doesn't create the symptoms cause he's been avoiding his triggers. And so it's kind of time now to just start working back into those things. And so we talked about a graded exposure program, basically, uh, throwing in push press twice a week. And then if that for, for, uh, two weeks, if that feels good, then one of those days turns into a split jerk day from the front rack, but no heavier than he had push pressed. And then we can just, if that's fine over a week or two, we can just start to chip away at the loads, but all the while train behind the neck jerks and behind the neck push presses with the normal prescribed load so that he's still getting that stimulus, but we're just kind of working back into the front rack plus overhead. Uh, and I'm going to throw in some single arm dumbbell press twice a week just to make sure that we're not shielding that, that side away from any load and, uh, had tested handheld dynamo dynamometer in flexion, abduction, and also elbow flexion. And there were no, uh, significant asymmetries from like a mild tunnel standpoint, uh, DTRs, upper extremity were all normal, no change in sensation or anything like that. So even though he was getting nerve symptoms, it didn't seem to be affecting motor function. Um, so we're just going to keep an eye on things. I think that whatever that front squat to jerk workout was that he did six weeks ago just was a little bit too much and flared them up back there. And who knows why, you know, the neck sometimes when we do jerks, we tend to kind of do some wonky things with our head. So maybe it was just one of those things that just was a little bit too much in that moment, but it seems like things are calming down. So, uh, really for him, it's just going to be about working back into things slowly because I, you know, I don't think there's going to be any huge roadblocks there, but we'll monitor for the next month or so. Next up female in her twenties, left-sided SI joint pain, off and on for three years during her lifting career, but exacerbated more in the last three months after starting a new program, uh, or kind of working into her program with more intensity. Triggers are the descent and the reversal out of the squat, re-racking the bar. So that kind of like rebound effect where you all of a sudden unload that compressive force and you feel that, that, uh, those symptoms back there, no pain with an arch in the bench press and no pain with deadlifts. So it's really just a squat SI provocation tests, thigh thrust, Faber, uh, SI compression, we're all positive fade dur for the hip, all negative hip range of motion was good. She's a prior dancer. So has all, all the range of motion, handheld dandemometer testing for sideline hip abduction and a prone hip extension strength. No, no pain exacerbation and a symmetrical force output there. And, uh, we did a single leg isometric bridge. So we have one knee elbow and knee and I liked it. And we just held that isometrically as kind of a capacity test. And on her right side, she got to a minute and I cut her off because we don't want to be there all day. But she says, that's like a seven or eight RPE on the left side, which is the side of her pain. She only held the 40 seconds and then failed. There was no pain, but it was just a capacity issue. So we made note of that back extension, isometric hold or the Sorenson's test a minute and 20 seconds with pain towards the last 10 seconds of the test. And we'd like to tack on probably another minute there and have it just be pain free. So again, kind of balancing this tolerance capacity, no pain with maximal isometric mid-dite pull, mild pain with isometric pull at the knee, her body weight squat, kind of, kind of wiggly for lack of a better term. A lot of just a lot of kind of caving inflection that would probably not be supportive of a back squat of a heavier load. But when we put a barbell on her back, her position's actually cleaned up. So I'm like that too. She's one of those athletes that the body actually organizes itself a little bit better when there's some weight on it. And we worked up to about 60 kilos pain free up to that point. And then 60 kilos was where she started to feel her symptoms. And so we made that a teaching point. Like that's your intensity threshold. You, she had not been squatting up to this point. She had taken several weeks off because of this issue. She didn't want to make it worse. But I said, we got to, we're going to have to start working into this. I mean, you've taken all this time off now and the symptoms are still there. So we got to find that Goldilocks zone of nudging that threshold and grading exposure to those sensitive tissues, but not so much where you have a setback. So we said today, 60 kilos was your, was your intensity threshold. We get our work just at, or just below, you know, 55 kilos for the day. You make note of that. And then we look for that threshold to rise over time. We were able to squat 60 with minimal discomfort with cues of, we slow the tempo down. So there wasn't as much dynamic bounce and reversal out of the hole and, uh, just controlling trunk position. So really that the tempo allowed her to just keep her trunk and pelvis pretty much motionless through the movement where she, you know, just gets all force transfer from her legs. So that helped. And those are cues that she'll use moving forward, uh, with, you know, I, I just made the point to her that we're being methodical with your movement right now to control positions. But when this thing dies down and when you get just stronger and less sensitive, you'll be able to squat, whatever the way, whatever tempo and positions that allow you to lift the most weight, that's what you'll do. But right now we're constraining those things a little bit to work back into it. So we're going to get back to squatting twice a week, and it's just going to be a feel out process for these first couple of weeks. And then it's just about getting her back strong. I'm going to throw in some, uh, single leg back extensions, which I like. Basically you unhook one leg and you just, you just have one leg. You're just doing back extensions there. And it's really, uh, demanding of, of that one side that posts your chain all up and down. We'll do her, her triggers are the squats. So we're going to do a little split squat action, front foot elevated one day, rear foot elevated the next day. Um, again, it's a unilateral issue, so I don't know why or where, but if we do a split squat, we do it on both sides and we, we change the angles up and the kind of force distribution demands by doing different variations. We, you know, we cover our bases and then I'm going to throw in some loaded supine and sideline bridges, glute bridges, but we make those hard. So they're not just these cupcake throwaway exercises. We, we position the body to take advantage of torque demand. And so it's just, it's a straight up biomechanics. What positions can I increase the torque demand maximally on the lateral and the posterior hip? That's the exercise. And we put the load in a, in a spot where it tests that fulcrum, that axis of rotation. And, uh, we go ham on those things and just, just building up some capacity there. So hopefully all these things make a dent, but really it's just going to be about working into things and, and, you know, going slow enough that she can tolerate it. So I'm going to monitor her, uh, going forward and we'll make any adjustments as needed. So lastly, a male in his twenties competitive weight lifter at the local and regional level, low back pain history of about five years, but had been controlling it really well until this last exacerbation started about four months ago after a meet. So he's ramping up for a meet, he peaks for the meet. And then after the meet, he started to experience this pain again in the back. It's low, it's kind of the small, the back it's in the spine area, sometimes offset to the right muscularly, sometimes offset to the left, but it kind of originates right dead center. And that like L2, L3 area, uh, triggers unracking and re-racking squats, both back squat, front squat, sometimes the reversal out of the hole of a heavy squat, sometimes pulling off the floor when the bar, especially when the bar is at the knee, no pain with overhead snap to clean and jerk, no radiating pain or nerve symptoms and no imaging. So it stays pretty localized. Sometimes it kind of goes like into the, the lateral hip area, if it's, if it's really bad, but generally just stays right there in the lower back and never goes down the leg or anything like that. We were able to recreate the pain in the clinic pretty consistently with extension based movements. So standing hands on hips, lumbar extension, overhead lumbar extension with one foot on a four inch block. extension was worse when the left leg was down, actually no pain when the right leg was down and the left leg was up on a block. So kind of differentiating side to side there seemed like a little bit more discomfort center towards the left. Flexion movements totally fine. So forward flexion, no problem, full range of motion, uh, able to kind of palm the floor almost prone extension. So he's laying on the table, prone PA pressure. So he's relaxed and I'm just pushing down on those vertebrae, essentially extending them passively recreated symptoms, propping up on forearms, him propping up on hands also recreated his symptoms. And then the extension portion of the cat camel exercise. So it was really consistent lumbar extension and flexion was consistently no problem and comfortable. Hip range of motion, no problem, uh, straight leg raise, no problem, no pain, but was able to create his symptoms with a bilateral straight leg raise. So I had him lift both legs up and then I cued him to take five seconds to lower his legs down. So it essentially becomes an ab exercise, a leg lower, and he recreated his symptoms at the very, very end of the movement where he noted his back started to lift up into extension. So again, consistently kind of an extension intolerance, but we did the same exact test five seconds later and I just cued him to keep his trunk anchored and that felt better. It was hard as shit because he has to use his abs. He has to control his position, but he was able to modify his own symptoms in the blink of an eye. And so I think that's a powerful thing when I don't have to do a thing to you and I can just cue you in or out of a certain position and say, that's a cue that you can take with you in training. Now, again, it's important that I make these notes. It's not that extension is bad. It just happens to be that you are currently sensitive to it. So if we can, if we can move you into a different position, if we can change your movement and that changes your pain experience, then that's what we do. The expectation is that as your symptoms desensitize, you can go back to moving however you want and there shouldn't be a problem. But for right now, again, we can strain those, those patterns, uh, to push the needle a little bit. So let's see here if I miss anything. Isometric mid-thi pull, no pain, isometric pull at the knee, apprehensive, but didn't recreate symptoms. He said I'm a little bit apprehensive. Sorenson's isometric hold, two, over two minutes, no pain. So that was good. Bodyweight squat. It was damn, his squats are, are damn good. He's got that beautiful weight lifter squat of just super, super upright, super low. And, uh, so positions aren't really his issue. It's more of a load tolerance problem, but we're going to get his back. You know, it wasn't, even though his pull testing wasn't painful, it also wasn't very strong for how good his lifts are. So, you know, we see this often anecdotally with patellar tendinopathy and stuff like this, where the weight lifter is very explosive, very springy, but their top end strength numbers are not that much different than their weightlifting numbers. As in the person's front and back squat maxes are not that much heavier than their clean. Uh, and in this case, his, his pull testing was, it was not as strong as I would have expected it to be based on how much he can clean and jerk. And so I think giving him a little bit of a, of a strength buffer, essentially making his back brutally strong will help. And we're going to do that by incorporating pauses in the pull. So he's going to break the bar off the floor and pause and inch off the floor, pause at the knee, really building up that positional strength. Uh, we're going to do tempo and pause squats, mostly as a way to keep him, that's going to control where his trigger is, which is reversal out of the hole. But if we do tempos and pauses, it kind of constrains that. So we can still go as heavy as he can within those constraints, but we just don't want to keep pissing the area off with squats. And I'm going to do, we're going to do bilateral and single leg back extensions, kind of in a segmental fashion where he's flexing and extending one vertebra at a time just to get his back comfortable moving, uh, through each, each segment split stance or rear foot elevated RDLs, which we did in the clinic. We practiced those and gave him a 12 kilo dump, kettlebell on both hands. And we did some rear foot elevated split squats. I think those will be good to throw in and we'll do some trunk stuff like some rollouts and some leg lifts because I was, we were actually able to recreate his symptoms with that extension leg lower, right? Or that kind of extension bias. Meaning if you're going to, if your body is going to quote unquote break, it's going to be in that movement into lumbar extension and that will recreate his symptoms. So I actually want to train that and we'll use movements that do the same thing. So a barbell rollout, if you're, if you quote unquote break in your position, it's going to be lumbar extension. So that exercise will teach you to be strong within that. So we'll do those movements. Um, and the same with leg lifts and things like that. So we'll throw that stuff in pretty frequently just to, just to get strong. Uh, essentially it doesn't seem like it's, it's anything to that needs further imaging or anything like that. It's just a, it's a compression extension sensitivity and we just kind of kind of work into it. And, and, uh, I think some of these additions will really build up some of that tolerance and capacity back there, but we'll see. So we'll monitor that for the next month as well. Uh, but hopefully that's hope for you guys. Thanks. Oh, serious.