 s that it takes to get to that load with the execution of the lift. So my question to you, Marco, is how much does technique and just the eye test, like the form of the movement, the execution of the movement matter in regards to a push press or a push jerk? If it looks a little sloppy, but they're still getting the dip and the power output, can we live with that, I guess is my point. Yeah. That's a tricky question, actually. Well, especially under heavy loading conditions and for the split jerk, I would say, like the heaviest one, it's going to be very important, the technical efficiency. But, well, look, for this, we have just done a study. On the 1RM performance, not kinetics and kinematics, 1RM performance on the push press, push jerk, split jerk, across cross feeders and weightlifters. What we've found, both population, they are like, they've got, used to train with this kind of exercise, so they've got weightlifting experience, but the weightlifters, they differentiate, especially at the split jerk, because it's the most technical exercise. However, the cross feeders, they don't differentiate between the push jerk and split jerk. It means they lift similar loads using the push jerk or the split jerk. I think it is because when they do, for example, race or any of these workouts, 30, clean and jerk, they don't do a split jerk, so they do a push jerk. And that's why for, I would say, training specialization in these ways, it differentiates a lot between sports. In my opinion, for targeting, like the lower body triple extension, if my goal is to increase the power production for my athletes, the push press, push jerk, split jerk, just targeting like the deep, as you said, like a good propulsion phase. If you don't have like a perfect technique, or maybe you take the bar over here, like with the elbows a little bit flexed, or something like that, it would be enough. So we are not weightlifting judges. So I would say so, but especially for weightlifters, you can see like the differences, but these differences are based on many, many, many years of training and many repetitions. And you can't get that with general sporting population, and it's not your target. They don't have to lift as a weightlifter, because they are not. I ask the question, mostly because it's the most common one that I receive, regarding using the weightlifting movements in any capacity, clean snatches, jerks, for sports performance. It's the time that it takes to coach it. It's the cost benefit. And if you're a university, and I get that, I don't, I totally get that. And you can get similar power and force by just doing pulls. As far as lower body production goes, just doing the pull instead of doing the full clean or the full snatch. But it also doesn't take that long. If you're still training other things, it's not as if it's picking these variations or nothing. And now you're going to spend like all that time while you're training to get good at the push press or good enough at it, that you're not going to be training anything else. You're still, can still do traditional things. If you've got an athlete for four years at university, there's plenty of time. You start them their freshman year, learning the positions under very light loads, attaining a technique that's proficient enough to, to be able to sustain higher loads as they get better at it. But you've got all that time in the world. And I would still say if you've got a summer with an athlete, that's probably still plenty of time. Even if I have zero experience with this stuff to get them doing the movements with a load, that's sufficient enough to create some type of stimulus while you're still getting them strong. That's my thought on it. It doesn't mean that you have to have them in there. It just means that the time thing, unless you're literally only seeing this athlete for a week. Yeah, sure. You don't need to, there's not enough time. It wouldn't matter. But generally our time periods, I think are adequate enough. What do you think about that, John? I think there's two, I think there's two aspects to that. I think the first one is, I think you have enough time as long as you don't allow the weight room ego to jump too much. You see, you, you mentioned getting stabilized technique. Um, to manage that and manage the loads and make sure the list are still successful, um, with that overload. And then also not having, I think a lot of coaches when they, when they look at any movement really, and we can go into powerlifting with this as well, or any type of exercise, they look for this perfect thing. And if it's not perfect, then they don't, they don't allow it to be trained either. So there's a fine line of like, what can I get stimulus with and what they can continue to learn and sustain. Right. And then what's, what's too, what's too much. Right. Because we have this guise of perfection. So I think, I think there is plenty of time. You just have to be diligent with it and allow them to practice and allow them to explore a little bit. And if you've got four years in a university setting, that's a lot of time. Yeah. That's not even. Yeah. It's a lot of time. I mean, yeah, I've taken kids over a summer and gotten them proficient enough that the next summer they come back and they've done it enough and they look really good. Yeah. I see your point. Sorry. No, no, no. I was just going to say that my, my thoughts echo what you said, John. I think that there's, there's plenty of time in that. Um, if we have an understanding that we don't need things to be perfect, according to these preconceived standards that, that most coaches are going to have in their heads, then it can be a very viable and useful strategy, you know, to improve the performance that we're, that we actually care about. And we talked even just in the beginning, there's going to be some variability in execution. We talked about the longer force development and the shorter first, like you got to allow that stuff to come to the forefront. Marco, what are you going to say, buddy? Yeah, I see your point. And I could add that, as you said, there are some exercises and sugar melt. Uh, so that, that for example, the jumpsuit, um, the hand high pool, and this kind of exercises, you can learn the technique just in a couple of hours. You don't need more than that. So you can start targeting these exercises, knowing that your objective is to improve, maybe the power production, then you can work on some more technical aspects, right? To progress, right? To target or to overload, maybe a more difficult technique. So if you, if you know how to do it, you can always, uh, program, you can always program it. And I would say, and I would like to add, uh, because I did a conference about this in, in Spain, like, uh, one week ago or two weeks ago. And I said that the main problem, for example, in my country is that if the coaches themselves, we don't know how to perform these exercises. So many times I can tell you that these exercises are not teached because we don't know how to do them. And if we don't know how to do them, how can we transfer that knowledge to our athletes? So in my opinion, there is something that it's really important that apart that you know, the theory, you have to train them and you have to train how is the process of learning and not developing the same process that you do with yourself to your athletes. But you have to know what does it feel? How, how do you fail a power clean? And you need to know how is the feeling when you fail a power year? And you need to know how is the feeling when you fail a jump squat with 150 kg on your shoulders? Better you than your athlete. Because that's your work. I think that's our work. My thought as, as John and Jared were talking to, and then you basically just reiterated it is I think we're just scared to go overhead. In general, there's a little bit of a stigma there where it's, we don't, well, we just don't want to go there. Got to be careful with overhead training. Got to be careful with overhead training. You see it with baseball players a lot. At least here, I see it where these high school coaches and, and college coaches, some of them are saying in the summer that you're, that don't train overhead. These kids will come into our gym and they'll train with us in the summer. And the, you know, they'll tell us that their coaches don't want them going overhead. And I, you know, again, it's about dosage and, and these types of things. But I would say that would it not create some, you know, risk reduction if your shoulders are just strong in multiple planes, I would say, especially for a throwing athlete, those velocities are, are crazy high. And the arm is, it's not straight overhead, but it's, it's out there and it's up there a little bit, you know? And, and so I don't, I don't get the inherent fear and maybe it is, coming from exactly what you just said, Marco, which is we don't, the coaches don't understand the movement themselves. And so they don't prescribe it, which I guess is fair to some degree, but maybe we just need to start getting back to training ourselves. Do you see, and there's, yeah, sorry. There's another aspect of neuromuscular control that, you know, we're talking about force development and that sort of thing, but a long-term benefit of high complexity movement is just greater degrees of freedom in other high complexity movements. If you start teaching a kid as a freshman, how to do cleans. And like you said, hang cleans that you can do, hang power clean, you can teach in an afternoon and you can develop that over a length of time to create a really high complex exercise that will have neuromuscular control benefits later on down the road. And it might not be completely applicable, applicable across all field settings, but it at least can help with those degrees of freedom. My off base. It gives them options, right? Well, it gives you more options. I agree. If you're using the gym for specificity, then you're missing the boat. I don't care what you're doing because the weight room is not specific to your sport. It's, it's what you said, John. Thank you.