 rsatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatanatan a little lower cost, but had a higher rating. So we got this crane scale off of Amazon for about 60 bucks and it's rated at a thousand pounds or 500 kilograms. So it's cheap and it has a higher rating. Now it's whether it's valid and reliable. So how does it compare? Well, if we just, if I just kind of do a crude, uh, test here, 21.5 it's peak 20.7. So within a pound, well let's do zero that out. Do an actual weight. Same thing. 37 up top 36.1 down low. Okay. So within a pound zero on these out, let's do something a little heavier. 45 pounds up top 44 and a half. So, you know, within a half, well 40, 45 and a half up top 44 and a half. So about a pound off consistently. Um, it's not bad. You know, if we're talking about isometric mid thigh foals with some of our, our male weightlifters were maxing out this gauge. So if we're talking about a pound, you know, give or take a, not a bad deal for 60 bucks. Now the problem is I'll show you this with this mark 10 three series, we can set it to peak tension. So let's set at peak tension. And what that means is it's going to capture the highest peak. So that way, if we're not looking at it, you can, you can pull to a peak and it's going to keep that value up there. A similar function is, uh, is included in this crane scale. The problem is it doesn't hold or capture that top value unless the weight is stabilized. So you have to hold that for a count or two because it's meant to, you know, hang, it's meant to weigh things that are hanging. It's not necessarily meant to measure a force in a clinic like the, the mark 10. So, you know, if I were to pull really hard, but then let off of it, it's not going to capture that peak. And that's a problem if we're doing isometric mid dipole testing or knee extension torque testing, where somebody maybe just kind of like poops out or they're holding to a peak, peak, peak, peak. And then they let off the test. It's not going to catch that value unless the, unless their peak is stabilized. So that is a problem with this particular model. And I don't actually know if other crane scale models will capture that peak in the same way that the mark 10 does. And that's one of the big benefits of here. So if you guys know what, if any models of the crane scale that does that a little bit more in a, in a more sensitive manner, uh, shoot it out there, but just wanted to show you guys a low cost alternative to a pull dynamometer that you can use for pull testing or knee extension torque testing or, or whatever else. all right, seeing reliability. Hello Spencer. Hello. All right. We're going to zero both of these out. So zero, zero, okay, go ahead and go ahead and pull on Spencer. Whoo Whoo Whoo Whoo Whoo Whoo Whoo! Amen.