asingborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborborbor would say these things 100% correlate to pain and decreased function. We're just a rusty hinge, that side. I think the pendulum can swing, though, a little bit too far to the other side to say that these things aren't even contributing factors in any respect to movement or function or potentially the perception of pain. Where do you fall on that continuum? And then how also do you educate and use the literature to educate your patients who are coming in, a lot of them probably with these degenerative changes. And unfortunately, they probably know about it because they have a medical history of imaging and these types of things. Yeah, that's an amazing, amazing question. Thank you very much. Way to go, Clint. Um, so there, there's two examples that I think are really pertinent to the master's athlete. One is in the back. So degenerative disc disease, and one is the hip and knee. So, and the reason why I bring them both up separately is because the literature is actually different on these body parts. So in regards to the back, I hate the word degenerative disc disease because it sounds super scary and it's just arthritis in the spine. Um, that's my own bias. But what we know from the literature very strongly is that degenerative changes are going to happen over time. It's why we lose height. We lose space in the disc. That is a very normal part of the aging process. Because of that in the Canadian system, now what we've known is that what we see on x-ray and MRI isn't necessarily guiding our treatment very well. And because of that in the Canadian system, uh, primary care physicians have to justify and give a good justification as to why they're sending a client for an x-ray or an MRI related to low back pain. And if they do not have that justification, then they have to pay out of pocket. So in that case, the literature isn't supporting that these degenerative changes are leading to changes in medical management. And because of that, they've actually retracted how much funding that they are getting for those imaging services. We've tried to do, yeah, we've tried to do the same thing for arthritis in the hip and knee. And you're right. It is a huge pendulum swing because now we are having physical therapists and rehabilitation professionals say, it doesn't matter if you have bone on bone arthritis, you just need to get stronger or you just need to do this or you just need to do that. What the literature shows is that it's very multifactorial that you can have individuals who have a lot of joint space narrowing at the joints in the lower extremity with no pain, which led people to say, well, that means that the x-ray doesn't matter. But we also have literature to support that people who are having symptomatic hip or knee pain and show progressive loss of joint space on x-ray are more likely to have increased pain and increased disability versus those who haven't shown progression on x-ray. So what that means to me is that one, it's multifactorial, right? So there's going to be things other than just the fact that you have joint space narrowing that is going to decide if you are having a symptomatic presentation of arthritis or not. And two is that serial x-ray imaging does have a place. And so because of that, when again, I'm speaking to the Canadian system, when we are deciding if a person is going to go on the list for a joint replacement, there are two major contributing factors. Is there signs of progression of arthritis or reduction in joint space on x-ray? And what is a person's subjective presentation? Like what is their level of pain, disability, loss of function, quality of life? And in conjunction with those two factors, which makes sense and it completely correlates with what the literature is saying, then we will make that decision. And so I think we have to be very careful to not do selection bias with the research because there is research to support that people can have no pain and also show deterioration on x-ray. But we also have the literature that says, especially in a lower extremity arthritis in the hip and knee, that sequential x-rays with progressive decline, you are more likely to see an increase in pain and an increase in disability. So I think, you know, the answer is, is in the is in the middle. And I've, I've been fortunate enough to be able to keep up with the literature to kind of, to make an informed choice with that in terms of how I educate my clients. So I tend to be more on the biopsychosocial side for back pain. And I tend to be a little bit more in the middle for hip cities. That makes, that makes a lot of sense to me. I love the last point that you made. I, I'm informed enough to, to have the conversation because it's not going to be like, no matter what, it's not going to be all right. This is probably what you should do based on, based on this. It's, it's going to be, well, there it's informed consent, right? So they, they, you're, you're informing the patient of their options and their presentation and what we currently know, we've taken all their factors into account, what we currently know, it will hopefully lead to the most likely outcome. And that's, that's the best that we can do. Um, so that's interesting. And for me, it's refreshing to hear that it's, that you're taking that not as a blanket statement one way or the other, but you're taking into account, uh, the different body parts and, and, you know, considering both sides of things. Um, I'm a big pendulum swing guy. So my pendulum swings and then, um, always meet right back in the middle. So it was, it was interesting to hear that. What research would you like to see come out in the next five years or so that would guide your practice a little bit more? What, what questions do you still have, or maybe research that you plan to do yourself? Don't get me to do another PhD. Somebody's already said that I'm, I'm 36 weeks pregnant. So everyone's like, there's no literature on strength training and like, like competitive power lifting, weight lifting training and straight training. You should do a PhD on that. I'm like, let me finish one. I'm going to go to one PhD for supporting you. Come me into another one. Um, but I would like somebody, um, so the way that the masters athletic world has kind of evolved is that, uh, swimming and track and field were the, the two sports to first start implementing age group categories. And so when we're looking at the literature, it really reflects that. So we see a lot more research being done on the endurance or the power endurance type of athlete. So I would love to start seeing individuals follow power lifters, follow weight lifters, follow CrossFitters too. Um, and see kind of, um, some of the physiological changes or lack of physiological changes and declines that we're seeing in the world of, of strength focused sports. Uh, because right now the, the research on that is actually relatively sparse. So that would be probably the biggest gap that I would like to see. Cause right now I'm just making inferences from what we know in like track and field, 50 meter for indoor and a hundred meter sprints, for example, and trying to translate that over to my strength and power athletes with what I know about physiology. But it would be nice to, to see somebody kind of focus on that a little bit more. It would seem like it would be easier to do as well because the sport is very objective as far as like just the load progression. Yeah. Well, yeah. Cause the cross-sectional data in the endurance level, um, world is kind of looking at records over time. So they're looking at longitudinal data from the seventies, which I don't know how much of that would actually be available for weightlifting and powerlifting. I'm sure it's there. Um, yeah, yeah. And I think there's going to be more ability to research these athletes because the biggest thing we're seeing is that in terms of record breaking events, the masters age group categories, especially in the 50 plus age group are breaking records on a consistent basis, much more than the younger cohorts are. And that is probably a reflection of participation in the sport and people who are continuing to be active and pushing their boundaries. And so, um, we're going to have a bigger pool in both on both sides on the endurance side and the strength side. Um, and that is so clear from just me trying to get profiles for the masters athlete collective. Sometimes I can't keep up with, with the, the, the graphic design work behind it because I get reached out to all the time, especially as the platform is growing a little bit, which is awesome. What are some of the principles that you were taking? You mentioned the sprinting literature, the track and field literature. What are we learning from that? Or what were some of the principles that you were finding from that, that were kind of like light bulb moments that, oh, I can try to apply this, you know, to my population. Yeah. So one of the things that was really nice and pleasantly surprising was around, uh, training frequency is that people are still training at a relatively high level in track and field, which for endurance, we tend to see a lot like their training volume can potentially be a little bit higher, especially if it's cycling and swimming, but track and field, we're seeing masters athletes still train pretty hard and pretty often. So I've been able to translate that over. And then, um, their ability to still maintain speed work is been, um, a big one for me around how that can translate over. So, um, some of that reactive training and, and those type of programming variables are still continuing to be applied in that population. And so I've continued to apply them in my strength athletes.