 One of Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Deixa Well, people think if I'm changing your movement, that needs to be permanent, and the previous movement was bad and was what caused this issue. Can you talk a little bit about that misconception and that paper in general? Do you have a way to teach people how to symptom modify or give them a hierarchy of options? Yeah, I do. This is sort of the idea that a lot of people do. The point of the paper was you have all these gurus and really well-respected people who have – it looks like they have very different ways to practice to help the same person. And I was like, what are the common themes? And the common theme that I think is they find someone who has – you find something that hurts, and then you teach someone some way to control their symptoms so they can keep doing that movement. But then really, you get them back to doing the things that they love and they want to do. And that's like the biggest common theme. And then what they disagree on is like the ideal way for people to move. So in that paper, I compared Peter O'Sullivan's approach with someone who has low back pain and Stu McGill's approach. For Peter, someone will come in, it hurts to flex. They're afraid to flex. They avoid flexion. When they go to bend over, they don't flex at all. So they're an avoidance coper, and he teaches them relax, breathe through your belly, you're safe to flex, slowly start doing it. And the person's like, oh, wow, I can flex. I feel fantastic. He doesn't say this is the right way to move and bend over. He says this is the right way for you right now. It's the George Costanza School of Rehab. Whatever you're doing, do the opposite, and it comes out golden. And then the other model is the classic spine stability model. And I think these people are accidental. These people are endurance copers. They might deadlift, train hard. They just do lots of flexion. And for whatever reason, they couldn't adapt to that. And so the flexion pattern was now painful. So you're like, oh, okay, you keep flexing your back and it hurts. Here, I'm going to teach you not to do that, right? But you're going to keep doing the thing that you love. So in that group, they do try to do a more neutral spine. But both schools of thought are whatever you're doing, let's change that, get you to control your symptoms, and then keep doing the things that you love. That's it. It's so simple. And then, sorry, you asked what's the hierarchy of things that people can do. If you're a therapist, I say, like, just keep doing the stuff that you really feel comfortable with. Like, if you already put your hands on people, that's the thing. That'll be one of your symptom modifiers. But find the thing that hurts, modify with your hands, and then get people to do it again. If you're, like, a spine stability person, you like to do spine exercises and, you know, all that stuff, well, find the thing that someone has trouble. Like, say it's hip adduction hurts. Well, take the bird dog. You know this one, Jared. We do this. I do this one all the time because that's what I do. Take the bird dog and now turn the bird dog not into a hip stability exercise but an exposure exercise into hip adduction or spine flexion or extension, whatever it happens to be. Like, I'm sensitive to spine extension. I did this one years ago, but now I have to do it for gymnastics. So guess what I do with the bird dog? I extend the hell out of my spine. I try not to move from my hips. I move from my back. There's some trainer freaking out probably. He saw me in the gym. They pull the fire alarm and hose me down. Well, there's a patient I was working with just recently. He's a firefighter, and he's got some pretty pronounced intolerance to lumbar extension and hip extension on the one side. And it's been persistent for, oh, gosh, 10 months or so. So nothing looked terrible. No red flags on assessment. So I was trying to start to expose him to some of that. But he was also pretty guarded when it came to the idea of doing some loaded things like deadlifting or that sort of stuff. So we just had him do some bridges with a lot of spinal extension. And I just cued him to do that. And he felt fine. So I said, do as many as you want to. And he did 100 and felt fine. So that was cool. And I also was cognizant of people walking by in the clinic and probably for him. But there was a reason. Yeah. And if I can comment on that, the clinical challenge there is like, you know, do you expose to get them to adapt? Or is it time to, like, avoid and settle down? And that's where we all have trouble. I've done exposure-based stuff. And I'm like, shit. Sorry. We should be backing off. And then. Yeah. Well, the follow-up to that same circumstance was that he felt fine in the clinic. And then the next week we saw him. He was like, I had to call into work the next day. And I couldn't do it. I'm like, oh, shit. Okay. Well. And I just kind of talked him off the ledge because he didn't want to do anything after that point. I understood why. This kind of guy doesn't miss work at all. And so I told him, like, okay. Yeah. Sorry. That wasn't the intended consequence. It gives us information. So we shot past that threshold. It was just this delayed onset. So we're not going to do that. We're going to do some other stuff that you feel okay with. And we're going to deliberately undershoot and make sure that you feel okay after the fact. But, yeah. To expose or protect is the million-dollar question, isn't it? Yeah. I want to bring it back to talking to the students. Quinn had brought this up before. So what would you encourage students to do if they find themselves on placement working with an instructor who tends to adhere to a particular? Yeah. So I think that's a good approach or tends to think that these minutiae or, you know, these details that lie in the weeds of biomechanics matter a lot. And, you know, say the student, by means of exposure to work that people like you are putting out, is coming to realize that maybe it doesn't matter quite as much. And that the things that do matter aren't that specific as far as the small details of biomechanics. How would you encourage them to have that? Well, how would you encourage them to conduct themselves in that situation? Let's keep it to a clinical placement situation for now. Yeah. So when they roll their eyes, just make sure that they turn away from the instructor. Oh, sweet. Excellent. No, I had to go through this because, remember, I went back to school after I did a master's, after I was at chiropractic college, after I was in practice for years. You went through my program, my PT program. Yeah. Yeah. So it's hard. But again, I would say, like, you know, don't, you know, put that person, put the explanations on mute. But look, look at what that therapist does well and what the patient's, what the patient's like. And try to figure out why that, why those people are getting better rather than the explanation. And so you can still, like, I can take courses from people that would probably really disagree with what I do, you know, but I can still learn a ton from them because I can take their skill set and put it into my framework with the principles that I think. Like, it's finding principles, right? And then how we apply those principles, we still all can do better. Like, I still need more skills in how I apply my principles. So I would do, if they can figure out what they're, which is hard when you're young and you're learning, what your principles are, and then you can see that the therapist that you're supposed to be learning from, what can I take from them? What do they, what does he or she do well? So that's the idea. For sure. It is, yeah. Yeah. And I've talked to a number of people who are on placement with an instructor who treats very differently from how the student wants to be treating or thinks that maybe things should be happening. But, you know, as the student, you, it is hard. You can't really disagree. You're kind of, you have to, I think, go along with it to a certain extent. But let's expand on that a little bit and say the student's now out of school, they're graduated, and they're their own independent therapist. How might you encourage them to go about having conversations or if they should have these conversations about, you know, do these things actually matter the way that we think they do? Or are these other things that are much less complicated really the important things? How can someone learn that on their own? Or how, how, or should they have those conversations with their colleagues, especially if there are differences in opinions or approaches? And if so, how should they go about those conversations? They, they, they can't change their colleagues. I've worked in plenty of clinics with friends of mine who practice differently and, you know, that we're not going to change them. But again, you can look at the people who don't practice like you and still figure out what are they doing that's good. Yeah, so you, you can't, don't worry. I would, I would not take that, get on that mantle. You're not going to change your colleagues. No way. That's why the internet's like, like, I felt so alone for so long. Like, I've been practicing like this for a long time. It was, it was different. And then with the internet, I was like, oh, wow, there's people like me. And now I think there's more. So it's getting easier. So go on, go, go find your, your own echo chamber. No, don't actually, you know what? If I could give any advice to people, like, and I do this a lot. So maybe it's okay advice is like, when you think, you know, something, go try to disprove it. You know, like, so the adapt, I believe we can adapt. But so, you know, the past year I've been looking for research on what are the limits to adaptability? Right. When should I protect more? Right. When should I back off? So yeah, like you try to disprove your idea, find, find those exceptions. And then it'll, it'll still strengthen your principles. If you know the exceptions. Yeah. Say something blindly. That's just stupid. We talk about challenging biases a lot on this platform and something that we strive to do quite a bit. And that leads to more, well, often more of that feeling of uncertainty, but that's, it's really a good thing because it leads to probably less saying stupid stuff blindly. Yeah, maybe. Maybe. Maybe.