 ooooh yeah! What's up guys, Quinn Hennick here, so this is going to be a video on how to make a low-cost sandbag. This is by no means the only way to make a sandbag, and for sure not the best way to make a sandbag, but if you, hopefully it gives you some ideas on how to make one yourself. I went to the local hardware store and got a 55 pound bag of sand. You can also use pea gravel or anything of the like. Duck tape. I've got trash compactor bags. You can use whatever you want, but at minimum probably a heavy-duty trash bag, but if you get a compactor bag, these are even thicker than heavy-duty trash bags and they're cheaper, or just as cheap. I'll do a screenshot and put this close up, but it's a compactor bag and they're just super thick and super durable. So that's what I'm going to use, and I've got scissors and a stapler. I'll show you what I'll use this for. It's not needed, but it'll be useful later on. So the first thing I'm going to do is fill the compactor bag with the sand. Now, I want to shape the bag. So it depends on, this is a personal preference, depends on how long or how short, how thick you want the sandbag. So I could just shape it like this, and it could just be kind of like a bowling ball shape, but I actually want it to be a little bit longer and thinner so I can drape it over my shoulder or drape it over one shoulder. So I actually want to make it the length of the bag instead of the width, and that's just personal preference. That's why I have the stapler, because the next big step is to shape the bag. I want to turn the bag on its side and then have the sand fill the length of it, but I don't want it to fall out. So it's going to staple about halfway across, or probably about three-fourths of the way across. So then when I turn it, the sand won't fall. Okay, that should be good enough. We'll go ahead and turn it on its side. Okay, so this will be about how long the sandbag is, but I'm just going to fold it over and then put a couple, a few rolls of duct tape around to kind of reinforce the size, and then we'll really wrap it up. Now, we've got the general shape. I'm going to reinforce the hell out of the ends by duct taping kind of across this way, over the top, and then I'm going to reinforce it around, and I'm going to do that on both sides. I'm actually just going to go ahead and layer a whole layer of duct tape so I can roll it and the bag doesn't tear apart. Okay, first round of taping is done. I started taping the ends long ways just to kind of get some tape around, but then it just seemed to be a better idea to coat the whole thing with duct tape and then to spiral it all the way around. Obviously, the more tape you use, the more reinforced it is, the more pain in the acid is also, so it's just about what you plan to invent. Now I'm going to make handles. So I'm going to make two handles that you can pick it up like this, and then I'm going to put one handle on the end to where you can lift it up on its end. So I'm going to take a roll of tape and I'm basically going to pull it to arm's length, and then I'm going to fold that in half. I'm going to put that in half on itself. I'm going to break that off. So I'm going to put this all the way around, and then I'm just going to reinforce it, but I'm going to leave some room where I can fit my hand. That's going to be my handle. I'll do the same thing over here, and then I'll do the same thing over here with one. I'll make three separate strips of these. And then this becomes my handle. Now, so this is two layers of tape. I'm going to go ahead and put a few more layers to make it a thicker handle, more reinforced. All right, guys, we are done. I've got my two handles right here. I've got my handle on the end. These are pretty sturdy. So this is a 55 pound sandbag, and those handles aren't going anywhere. This one. Pretty solid. Again, you can use as much reinforcement as you want. Now let's talk about the cost. So this entire bag of sand was $3.50, just one bag, $3.50. The duct tape I used about a roll, I used probably a little more than a roll and a half. Now, I wasn't very efficient. Some people could probably use less. One roll of duct tape was $5. So I used a little bit more than a roll and a half. So we'll say that's $8 total for the tape. $8 plus $3.50, so far as $11.50. The compactor bags, this whole box here was $4. There's five bags. I only used one bag. You could use the other four bags for your actual trash. So if you think about it like that, I only spent $1 on the bag. So that's a total of $12.50 for a 55 pound sandbag. So, hope that's helpful for you guys and hopefully it gives you some ideas on how you can make your own. Oh, shit. Put it like this. Or like this. Let me know what you think. Happy training. Squat up.