 Kvyzajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajajaj talk a little bit about the envelope of function and what that means to you as a clinician and if that's an education point that you use in the rehab process with your athletes. Oh yeah, huge education piece. I think education is going to be very valuable for any athlete. A lot of times, you know, it's funny, we think, oh, education is only going to be for patients that are having persistent pain because we want to make sure we don't instill maladaptive thoughts and beliefs, but the same thing can happen for the injured athlete that has something acute or subacute or that's younger as well. So, you know, using those educational resources and tools such as envelope of function can be valuable. You know, to me, what it means is we all have this relatively set, this relative set point of homeostasis with a little bit of allostasis as well, meaning certain variables that kind of change and move that allow us to maintain homeostatic set points. And so, if we have some disruption with that, whether it's an injury or whether it's pain, we're going to likely then start to lower our homeostasis or being able to perform things that we once were able to do without having any type of limitations or hesitation. And so, you know, what we start to see is that as the rehab process goes on, what we're trying to do is shift the curve back to the right to where we're starting to increase how much that person can tolerate, can sustain, can output without having any associated negative consequences. You know, it's almost as if the same thing could be with great exposure. You know, they're similar in a sense that, again, it's all about the specific adaptations to the imposed demands, but we just have to be very strategic about those demands that we're imposing on the system because we know there's a lower tolerance level to them. So, we don't want to overwhelm or overtax the system too fast, too soon. And that's kind of how I view the envelope of function, kind of slow and steady and having a little bit of some parameters set forth. Yeah, the education piece of the athletes, just anchoring to a context that they can understand is important. And the envelope of function, I really like because it's easy to understand and it can be, you can use a bucket if you want or whatever implement that holds a degree of capacity, but envelope of function coined by a guy named Scott Dye back in the 90s, which was originally with patellofemoral pain. But like you said, it can be applied pretty much across the board. And it's just like, what is your tolerance and capacity at this moment? And how can, and we can improve that over time. But it's, I think it gives a framework to where you are now and where we want to be. And instead of comparing yourself to who you were as the athlete, because a lot of athletes will do that, you know, it's, well, I don't know why I got hurt this time. I've, I do that. I worked at, I did that workout a hundred times, you know, or I've done this and, and to your point, you know, there's a whole lot of other factors that go into your envelope of function than just the training. Um, so I really, really liked that. And you talked about tolerance for a little bit, but I've, I've heard you talk about the heuristics that you use through the rehab process. And can you dig into, first of all, what is a heuristic? Yeah. And, and, and secondly, what are these, what are these heuristics that you use through the rehab process and, and just the kind of different phases of that? Yeah. So, you know, heuristics are basically, um, they're, they're shortcuts or, or pathways, so to speak, to allow us to come up with a better decision or understanding of something that we're presented with quicker. And it's not always the best I will say, because we can, uh, potentially, uh, miss certain variables. Um, but I think it allows you to bucket it and to a certain degree, yes, you're generalizing, but it allows you to bucket, um, certain presentations. And then from there you can kind of funnel or filter a little bit more, um, to really become a more strategic about what it is you're trying to accomplish or what the need is of that athlete at that time in that particular moment. Um, so that's what a, a, a heuristic is. It's almost as a, as this is just a bucketing of different categories and presentations. Um, and so the, the four heuristics of need that I've kind of allowed myself to, uh, become a little bit more, um, I guess, biased with, um, cause we all have biases, uh, are going to be, uh, tolerance, capacity, competency, and variability. And so the definition that I've made for those, uh, are tolerance, uh, is, is going to be the ability of the tissue to absorb, transfer, uh, or produce force, but making sure it's not exceeding its physiological limits that are potentially creating sensitivity and irritability. Uh, and so that's a little bit of the envelope of function that we just talked about, or that, that graded exposure, we we've kind of exceeded that. And so now we can't tolerate said activity or movement. Um, and this is really similar to capacity, but the way that I differentiate it with capacity is because we have moderate to high symptoms prior to reaching or even exceeding our capacity. We haven't even had an output yet. Um, we, we all, all we have is, is these symptoms that preclude us from being able to have any type of adaptation occur by reaching capacity, uh, capacity, you know, I would term as the ability to produce and sustain energy or, or some degree of output, uh, at an efficient rate and length dependent on the environmental demands or the tasks. Um, so, you know, someone might present with things such as, uh, you know, tendinopathy, um, and it happens, you know, like, Oh, my, my, my, my calf or my Achilles starts to become very achy. So yeah, with, uh, you know, the capacity piece, it's going to be, um, you know, someone might present with, uh, Achilles discomfort, uh, and it happens at the same, uh, time or the same mile with every run. And so to me, that depicts more of a limitation in their capacity. It's, it's going to be something where there's low sustainability or a depletion prior to completion is what I kind of call it. And so, you know, the onset happens here all the time. Yes, it could be a tolerance thing as well, but to me, it's more of a capacity. They can't sustain output to meet the demands of their required or desired activities. Um, and then we, we look at, um, the next heuristic. So we have tolerance, we have capacity, and then I have, uh, variability, which is, you know, I look at it through the lens of the ability to, uh, acquire and adapt to variable positions or have options or gears to choose from, again, depending on the, the environment, the situation, the task that's at hand. Um, someone, let's say a bodybuilder might not need as much variability as perhaps a gymnast. So variability is also going to be dictated by certain constraints, um, that, that I need in order to allow me to be successful at whatever endeavor I choose. Um, I think a lot of people throw the term, you know, variability around us as, oh, variability is just this great and it's innate and everyone needs it. Um, I think we all need it, but again, it's at a certain degree, uh, that we need it in order to be successful, um, at what it is we're trying to accomplish. Uh, and so, you know, with variability, certain subjective or objective, uh, findings or information that I'm hearing or looking for would be just habitual tendencies that someone might have environmentally potentially, um, or even, uh, habitual tendencies from a standpoint of, Hey, they just have this redundancy and activity, and we need to kind of reduce the monotony and allow them to explore different, different planes and different patterns, um, or a little bit of novelty, but still that novelty is going to be, uh, prefaced with some, some specific intent as opposed to novelty just for the sake of novelty. And it's complex, but it doesn't have any specific, uh, it doesn't warrant any specific adaptation. Um, and then lastly, we look at, uh, competency. So this is, you know, where it gets a little complicated, I guess, or it could get complicated and people could argue, well, well, what does competency mean? Uh, to me, it means proficient movement with optimal, uh, outcomes. So then you say, well, you know, we can get even, I guess, a little bit more, uh, specific and say, well, what, what is optimal, you know, to me, optimal is what's the best solution to a movement problem, um, for that particular individual. Uh, and so we're, you know, sometimes optimal might require constraints, uh, that it's more suitable for the solution that person needs. Uh, so, you know, competency gets a little bit more challenging, but for example, that might be someone who has never done a power lifting move and they're just not competent, uh, at it. Uh, and they need a little bit more of a, Hey, let's, let's try to go back or regress a little bit and start to, to build you back up, to give you the layers of the constraints you need in order to be a little bit more proficient or optimize your, um, your, your movement with this particular exercise. Um, and so, you know, those are the four heuristics that I think allow me to bucket individuals. Uh, and then from there, obviously you can filter even more and determine what it is that they, that they need, um, from those, from those buckets. With competency, I really like that you included, um, the, the word constraints. Cause it sounds like, um, you, you were including within that or then that idea, um, you know, or rather we're not saying that there needs to be, you know, one particular way for someone to, to do a thing. And there's not, you know, perhaps a singular solution for a movement problem. Because if we're talking about athletes, almost irrespective of what the, the sport or the activity is, they're going to be a myriad of situations that they might find themselves in. And we, you know, we've talked about dynamic systems and, um, you know, motor skill acquisition a few times in the last few months. Um, but with the, the highly skilled athletes, they've got lots of movement variability more so than say your intermediate athletes, just because they've got more solutions available to them. And you can train that, you know, to a large extent, just by manipulating the constraints of the task, uh, the tasks that they're subjected to, um, which then probably goes a long way in terms of equipping them to, to, to feel confident and then also to perform, you know, uh, as well as they can in a, in most situations they might find themselves in.