 alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, al l because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because I think we got a Jeremy sorted right to ask you right away. I think I saw your screen highlighted. That's perfect. Appreciate you, man. Thanks for coming out, everybody. Great to see you all. We've got Jeremy, we got Jay, Thomas, Sarah. We saw a salmon here before, Scotty, I'm pretty sure is in here too. Man, we got a good crew. And appreciate all you taking time to come out, hang out on a Tuesday night. Of course, I'm not alone. You all see the one and only, Zach Gabor. Zach, how we doing? Just pieced out for a second. We good though. I'm so excited to watch you guys do your thing and miss the energy. I wasn't trying to steal from it. Not at all, you're only adding to it, man. And of course, co-piloting this thing is the person of whom the CPC is a brain child. You wanna know me, John Flag. John, how we doing? I'm good, I'm just really happy you just called Zach Unawares. That actually just made my night. Perfect. Like he was completely broad-sided by that when he was gonna turn the camera off and sit back and let people in and you were like, well, let's talk to Zach. What does that have to say? It was great. I'm excited though, man. It's good to be back, it's good to have you back. It's good to see the people again and see so many familiar faces. And honestly, so many new faces. Like there's quite a few names in here that I have not interacted with and I'm really excited for that tonight. So I'm ready to get into it. Absolutely. All right, so let's dive right in. I'm gonna start screen sharing here. That coming through okay for you, John? It is now, yeah. And everybody else, we're gonna draw some ones in the chat if you can see that okay. Be ready to drop a lot of ones in the chat. Like we're very active with that sort of thing. So be ready for it. We're very practiced at it. Love it. All right, so let's start by kicking it off with what this whole thing's about, why we're doing this in the first place. So obviously we're gonna talk through a case study of a real life athlete that John and I, interestingly enough, both at this point have worked with separately and now jointly. And we'll explain more about how that came to be, but it really led to some unique viewpoints and approaches, often mostly because of necessity. You'll see what we mean in a little bit. But we thought this would be a really interesting thing because everyone talks about theory and practice, right? How do we take what we're learning in courses or what have you and what do we actually do with it when we've got a client in front of us in the clinic or if we're working with them remotely? This is an instance of us taking you through a real-life, real-time decision-making processes and showing you how we put the pieces together. John, anything to add on that one? No, I think you guys are gonna get to know our athlete pretty well here. We're gonna break the seal. I think it's slide four, just to let you guys kind of know how the rest of the presentation's gonna go. And then we're gonna hold questions till the end so Jared and I can get through a lot of this stuff. So drop them in the chat and we'll keep track of them as we go and pretty much create a list. So if you've got a question, just kind of throw your name in the hat and drop it there and we'll keep track of it. And on that note too, audio, visual issues, my computer is a track record of freezing my screen, for instance, if you have any trouble hearing us or seeing us, drop that in the chat too. We'll keep an eye on that, probably the person who's not actively talking. But between the two of us, we'll keep tabs on it, get us sorted out. So let's introduce Meg. I'm obviously heavily biased. I think Meg is one of the greatest people we ever meet. And she is a Canadian physiotherapist. I believe she was a resident when we first started to work together. She is a certified clinical athlete, powerlifting coach. She was able to attend actually the first live CPC that John and I ran since the COVID lockdowns at Pulse Physio here in Ontario, which is awesome, got to hang out with her. And just again, giving you back story as far as the lifter and the expertise she brings into this, as well as our perspectives. She is a national powerlifter now. She was not when we started. Spoiler, you'll see in the next slide, competing in nationals at the national level was a pipe dream. I pushed her on what she really wanted, what felt like a moonshot, like a really far reach or stretch goal. She said, I really want to see if we can compete at nationals in 2022. We began in 2020. So at the time when we started, she was 26 and she started weight training in the fall of 2014 and her hip injury on the left side was somewhere around late 2015. So she was able to keep pushing through, manage it with physio. It was in a spot where she could continue to train, something she monitored and had to adjust for. It was manageable enough that she was able to make the switch to powerlifting more specifically in the fall of 2017 and then turned around to her first meet in spring of 2018. And I loved that she competed relatively quickly because most lifters, myself absolutely included, just way too long. I think we got to be strong enough for X, Y, Z to compete. It's not true. That experience really goes a long way. Really helps us solidify people enjoy the sport or not. And she did. And then she had hip surgery. So she was diagnosed as having FAI and the surgery involved the labor repair removal of the bone spur cleaning up the joint. This is all August, 2019. And then she was extremely diligent with her physio and a rehab. I know this because A, I know Meg, she's like that. And B, I also know the physio who worked with her. Her physio was my classmate in school. And that's how Meg and I were introduced in the first place through that physio, that mutual connection. So we started working together in July, 2020. And I left this message, this sentence in here because obviously for us to do this, Meg gave her permission for us to talk about her, her story. And so I asked her, hey, look, Meg, can you just quickly run down like your whole story, high level view from start to where we are now? And this was the last sentence. My initial goal was just to get as strong as I could again with a pipe dream of Nats when you push me on what I really hoped for. And now we've done it twice now. And that is like classic Meg, how she talks, how she writes, but also showing that we can take a moonshot and work through a whole lot of stuff which you're about to see, but make it happen and not only make it happen once, but repeat it. So, John, we're gonna break the seal. We're ready? Now, I want you to know why because Meg is very forthright in her feedback when she writes things in the notes. So this is not the first piece of, go ahead and just show the slide, profanity that you're gonna see tonight. And I just had to break the seal and do it ourselves because you're gonna see some from Meg and you're probably gonna hear some from me, maybe not my Canadian friend, he was much better manners, but Jared, your turn, my friend. My turn, all right, that's your slide. Let me flip over to mine. We see that okay? One's in the chat if we can, John, we looking good? It's still on, there we go, now we're over. We're good, all right, cool. So this is all the way back to day one, right? We started July, 2020. And like I mentioned, her left hip was the surgical side, the side that was previously injured. So as we came into this, my head was main focus is let's get her under a bar with relative consistency and wanna keep her in one piece. We also wanna see how things feel symptom-wise, right? After you respond to this. Another factor, as you'll see from the titles of these workouts is that we had access to a full gym on some of these days. On another day, she had to train at her boyfriend's gym. And then the other day was training at home because this was also during one of the rounds of COVID lockdowns. So just a real world situation we had to navigate, right? So we know about the hip, we know what had led up to this point. She also had shoulder issues, a hamstring issue. She'll characterize as being a crunchy, proximal hamstring tendon. So these again are things, different pieces of the puzzle which we're starting to, we know they're on the table and now we're gonna see in the first few weeks of training, how can we get our foot in the door? How can we start to stack up some small wins? That will be a recurring theme. And just have her feeling like we're starting off with things that feel halfway decent, right? So as far as writing the program, I came in with a really loose structure. I'm figuring four to six weeks, that's kind of the timeframe I have in my head. I did not write four to six weeks of training at a time, but I figured in that timeframe, we're probably gonna get a pretty good read of how she's doing, how her symptoms respond. I'm gonna get to start to see how she's moving, what movement patterns I wanna start to work with and improve on. Then we'll decide if we need to adjust the program, maybe rewrite how it's laid out or just continue to roll as it is if we're seeing what we wanna see. So with that, as you can see from here, the way I had it laid out was, we were squatting kind of the main squat movement on day one, followed by some benching, tempo to keep things controlled, really work on some motor control and keep the shoulder hopefully happy. Second day was deadlift and bench. I don't often have two back to back bench days like this, this early, but just again, because we only had the full gym on these days, which had access to a real bench, we may do with what we could. Squats, goblet squat, because that's what we had available in terms of dumbbells in her boyfriend's gym, dumbbell floor press for the same reasons, some hinge accessory work, and then more of a berocessory accessory day on day four. So let's take a look. I actually wanna go down to second week, you can see my feedback and the much less luscious beard. It's not John's flag level, but we gotta start somewhere, right buddy? All right, so I'm looking again to see how she's moving. I'm looking to see the notes that she leaves as far as how her symptoms respond. Also here, right? So she communicated, she used the box to tap it just below parallel versus sitting fully onto it and back up. She said, I hope that was the goal. That told me that I could have communicated the intent a bit better. She ended up nailing it, doing exactly what I hoped that she would. So if we watch the video, I wanted that box to really act as a depth cue. And then we could build it up if we needed, reduce the range of motion if that was a trigger for her symptoms. I was pleasantly surprised with how well she was able to move through that range of motion and how much of it we got. So for anybody who's not familiar with powerlifting competition rules, we need that hip crease to be below, top of the knee and we're there, right? This is more than I thought we'd have to play with. Granted it's light, didn't expect it to be heavy, but still, that feels like a win, especially for a lifter who wants to be competitive again. And this is good for me as my coaching chair too. Bench, she's using a 20 pound dumbbell, mostly because a full Olympic barbell, talking about 45 pounds, that would just be a bit much for where her shoulder was at the time. So we find that entry point, we work with it, right? Felt shaky for sure, right? Some of that's gonna be neurological guarding, some of that's gonna be motor control that we can work on technique-wise, clicking on the left shoulder, all information for us to take in and analyze, log away, and use to inform our decisions here. Let me pop back out of here, we'll look at her deadlift. Deadlift is Meg's bread and butter, by the way, which is a very strong puller. So again, look at the notes, right? I'll put this later, but so happy to have to touch the blade again. Felt really solid. This is a positive day, this is early momentum, that counts for a lot. Not every day will be like that. Damn sure it wasn't for Meg, but to get those wins early does a lot psychologically and symptom-wise physiologically helps to tell us what's the, where entry point is and where we can build from. So I'm not seeing any issues really, in terms of how she's setting up. And again, I'm mostly looking to see, is she relatively comfortable, or what does she self-select to become comfortable? And she can pull off the floor, I like that start position for her leverages, she's not over talking her hips. I'm not worried about getting really tight through her lats, because it's not heavy. So again, this for me at the time, and for her, was a win. Pump back out. Maybe. There we go. Okay, one other thing, two other things, for this early stage. I wanted to see how she was gonna make modifications. And this was it. So she left a note for her, thumbnail idea. So couldn't get a lower weight. So she decreased reps, she achieved seven RV. This was great. We didn't talk about what I wanted her to do, or how we should approach a situation like that. She had to figure it out. She apologized for modifying again, and she also confirmed, is that a good move? It's a really good coaching moment. One, for me to see how she instinctively navigated it. And then to affirm, if that was in fact, what I wanted her to do, which it was, say like, you nailed that. That's exactly what I want, and just extract the principle. If it wasn't what I wanted, fair enough, being able to say, hey, you know what, did what you could with that day, that was fair. Here's what I'd like to see in the future. Because we wanna empower our lifters to have the tools and the principles to make those decisions on game day. Game day. As they train, and on game, you too, right? To assess what their body's selling them, the external factors that are gonna influence their performance, because we would again, wanna stack up these small wins over and over again. That's what moves the needle long term, gets us where we wanna go. Last thing, for this phase, it's like the Marvel Cinematic Universe, phase one. Looking at the language again, right? You'll see, maybe through here, and some other notes, sometimes she uses terms like, terrified of pissing off the shoulder again, or my shoulder's feeling cranky, or really nervous about XYZ. Again, gives information about physiology, about symptoms. Sometimes there was some latency in symptoms. The next day, she'd feel a certain way. This is all stuff that I'm taking in and using to inform how much weight we're putting on the bar, even the types of exercises that we're doing. Not changing a whole lot at once, because we're still early on you. Don't need to pull a whole bunch of levers, because then if something goes great, don't know really what did it, something doesn't go great, you don't know what did it either. But also it's a window into her mental state, her emotional state, which matters a lot. Before we move on, John, anything to add to that? No, sir, good to go. Good to go. Cool. All right, so now jumping forward in time, we are now in August 2021. Pardon me, 53 weeks into working together, 15 weeks out, this is the beginning of our first meat prep. She was preparing for the Canadian Powerlifting Union Central Championships. And one thing I want to bring our attention to is that this is a year and a week of working together and of iterating slowly on same shit over and over. There, I scored, John. I'm on par with you. Didn't drop an F bomb, but I scored. Give it time, friend. Give it time. Yeah. It's a year. It took a really long time to, again, assess how she's feeling, to work on the basics, build a base. Then we can start to do some things that you'll see here. The layout of the program is fairly similar in terms of where the lifts fall. Day one, we got a squat. This is her heaviest squat of the week. Some bench work as well, secondary bench day. We've got deadlifts. This is her secondary deadlift day. Her heaviest bench is here on day three. And then some leg accessories, same as some other accessories over here. And then her heaviest deadlift here, along with, again, some medium bench press. We also had more access to a gym at this time, so we took full advantage of it. Mm-hmm. I'm just reading through my notes, making sure I've got the right things to say here. And, okay, so one of the fun things we got to start doing here, because we took our time, because we built our foundation, is we started to incorporate some top sets. Nothing wild, but a heavy-ish triple, RPE7, for the lifts on the main days, for a few reasons. Main reason is that to compete in powerlifting, you are lifting heavy circles. Once, you have three attempts to do it, but you're lifting it one time, for three lifts on the day. So we need to start homing in on the specificity, in the training to start to prepare for what she needs to do on the platform. That also works as far as symptoms, because we hadn't incorporated top sets up to this point. We touched on, like, moderate to heavy-ish weights for her at different time points, but now we're gonna start to get regular exposures. So I wanted to see how our technique held up, where it'd start to break down, where were the inefficiencies, how could we address those things, that also had her symptoms hold up. Because, again, we wanna look at those triggers. Didn't say it at the beginning, but everyone who is here now and is registered and will catch the replay of this later, you'll get a copy of a webinar that John and I did on our framework for how we work with injured lifters. And one of those components is assessing triggers. That might be intensity. Every time I squat over two plates, my hip really bugs me. Or anytime I bench press four times a week, maybe that has more to do with frequency and volume, my shoulder really kills me, right? We're looking typically at intensity, volume, frequency, as three main buckets, and they're not mutually exclusive, they can interplay. But we are looking to see what's most responsible for people's symptoms at a given time, and trying to, again, stay below that threshold as much as we can, while also pushing adaptation, desensitization, allowing tissues to heal as needed, all that good stuff. A lot of works. Hopefully that made sense. If you're with us, still drop a Ronnie Coleman quote in the chat. Can I get a yeah buddy or a lightweight? That would be wonderful. I thought you might enjoy that, John. All right. So, actually let's take a quick gander, real quick gander at her squat, let's say. So, top triple 155, thought everything she would have liked, but I'm pretty happy with that. One thing about Meg is that she is not a particularly fast squatter. Maybe it's because of her hip history, maybe it's because that's how she's always been. Doesn't particularly matter to me, but that is important to note, especially as we get ready for game day, and progress to heavier weights through training, we wanna know how squats move on a really good day, an average day, a pretty poor day, because that's gonna be important for weight selection. Let's look at deadlift real quick, and we'll bounce on to the next one. Because again, actually, there. 255, RPEH question mark, RPE is a skill. So, I'm pretty happy with that, right? We can get tighter in her setup, but she's moving that weight. She looks pretty confident. We got a bit of rounding and losing position. I'm not particularly worried about that rounding from an injury perspective, but I do want to address it from a lift efficiency, and performance perspective as much as we can. I'm not rushing into it either, right? Because here we go. 1,000% busted RPEH, but really needed to fucking push a bit to let off some steam. Sorry. Again, coaching moment. Affirming she does not need to apologize for any of this. This is part of what training does. That's why it matters. That's why we wanna keep lifters lifting so it can be their outlets. And again, redirecting if I need it to, but she's showing up, she's doing the damn thing. Part of why I love mech. We good there, John? Anything to add? Nah, I keep rocking, man. All right. Okay, so now we're four weeks out of Central's, and this is a look into how I tend to start to structure things as we near that competition date. We've got a lot of fatigue being generated through training. We need that fatigue, because well, we need the adaptations that come as a package deal with it. We also wanna dissipate that fatigue in a timely fashion. That's what peaking is for, so we can perform on the platform, right? So we've got, again, some heavier lifts here. I'm actually gonna bump down to three weeks out. That's two. What did I do? There we go. So I often like to use the last day about three weeks out, there's a little bit. As an SPD day, heavy single for squat bench nevelth in that order, because one, it gives proxy for how things would be on meet day with the acute fatigue generated. Most lifters aren't doing heavy singles of SPD back to back to back, but that is what game day is. So again, from a performance standpoint, it's helpful. From a symptom standpoint, it's helpful. We get to assess all that. We'll look at it real quick. Felt super easy, and I'm happy with that. Again, that's Meg's speed. That's what I'd expect here, that's what I expected on the platform. She's happy, she felt easy, but figured she should stop here. Good decision-making, right? This is what we wanna foster in our lifters too. And already a post-op PR, so that's a win. So that's kind of the continued trend. I'm not gonna watch or play the other videos because we have other videos to show you. And then, we were down to the meet in November at Central, and I was able to coach Meg at the meet, so they're on game day. And it was not a bad day. I know Meg wanted more, but I'm gonna do actually. I couldn't get the videos to play very well up here. So instead, I'm gonna drop it in the chat. Many of you, I'm gonna go ahead and play so instead, I'm gonna drop it in the chat. Many of you wanna go try to check out her profile. You're welcome to. That should be the post, you can watch it at your leisure. But on game day, she competed as 52 kilo lifter. She went three for three on squats. She finished with a 102.5 kilo squat, or 225.9 freedom units. She went one for three on bench. And that's where I knew, and we talked about it right away, but she wasn't super thrilled about it. She missed the opener and the third, the opener she missed, because she jumped to command. It was a technical thing, not on string. The third one, I believe, was string. So she wanted more, but she finished with 52.5 kilos, or 115.7 pounds. Deadlifts, she went three for three, 130 keys, or 287 pounds. And she took silver, took second place, first meet back since her operation, and it qualified her for national. So we set out to do what we needed to do. And then also, a little tidbit, shout out to Matt Aire, who John is close friends with. We both look up to as a mentor in the sport and powerlifting. He's compiled a lot of data on the winningest power lifters at the highest level. Talking about USAFEL Raw Nationals, the Arnold, talking about IPF Worlds, World Games, the best of the best. And he's found that the strongest lifters are not always the ones who win the meet, but they are the ones who complete the most successful attempts. And on average, they're completing seven for nine attempts. That's what she did on the day. So from a coaching perspective, I was pretty jazzed about it. Anything to jump in with, John? They're still good. Still good. Cool. So after Central's, we knew she qualified for Nationals. There was a bit of a question as to when Nationals was going to fall, thanks to, again, some regulations around COVID and all that stuff. So had a few weeks of not downtime, but kind of offseason like training, excuse me. And then once we had a firm date for Nationals in mid-May, we started prepping for that. So you'll notice that, again, it's a pretty similar layout. John, we've mentioned already that Meg has CLAX disease. I can't remember. No, we have not. Okay, Meg has CLAX disease. That's a very relevant thing because we're talking about external factors that affect performance symptoms. So Meg on top of regular working as a clinician, adult life, she also, through the process of John and I working with her, has gone through a move or two, moved to where she's living, life stresses relate, relationship changes, things like that. But then CLAX being a very real thing, sometimes she has no control over when she gets exposed to gluten because she goes over to a friend or family's house or a restaurant and stuff slips in as it really wrecks her and it causes a lot of systemic inflammation. This is just another thing that we have to allow for and work around as best we can. So as we prep for Nationals, again, use the layout that was pretty similar to what we had before. Started to incorporate some things like a Boris deadlift to really work on positioning. And as you can see, I didn't explain what I really wanted her to, or pardon me, there was another note somewhere. But as we started to do the Boris deadlift, she was like, I don't know what this is. So again, opportunities for me to communicate better, but serving a purpose to work on the technique, drill the positions that we knew from Central's needed work and what would allow us to express the best strength on game day. Squat and deadlift. That was also gonna be some new challenge as far as acute fatigue, seeing how her back and her hip held up with that. Benching, some accessories. Close this. Squatting, some bench, another hinge pattern. And then her heavy deadlift towards the end. She tended to do well.  with or devil of stores the end of the week for whatever reason, which again is a pattern that we start to see with the lifters and we can start to cater to. Bouncing right along, three weeks out, again, you're gonna see that at the end of the week, I believe, oh, hang on a minute, towards the end of the week, we've got our SBD day again, and look at these notes, let's look at these real quick. She was caffeinated, she's riding, love it, I feel that. So, her squats, let's look at this one. I'm looking for confidence, looking to make sure she's at depth meeting competition standards, she hits that hole, she's not riding the brakes, she's grinding, which I expect for Meg and for this intensity, pretty damn good. Look at this, super fucking happy about this new PR, baby. And this is again, out of the meet, this is prior to the meet, we're still gonna dissipate more fatigue, so, well, the shoulder feels fine, I'm not sure how it's gonna do after devlets, but again, with these exposures prior to game day, helps us to know a little bit more what we can expect. There's some things we can work on in terms of positioning or maybe tension with the setup, but I'm happy with how she drove through that, that's really what I'm looking for at this stage in the game. And another way PR, fucking heights, hoping to do this again on the platform. So again, a window into how she's feeling and some of the uncertainties, but she's proven to herself that she's strong and she's giving us data to work with, right? I still get fucking hype, but that shit. All right. And, I'm gonna go ahead and say, and, oh, you lost my spot, it's fine. All right, so we're gonna look at Meg's lift here, fast forward to Nationals. This is in, oh, before we watch the video, Backstory for Nationals, this is in May of 2022, Hellish, wait cut, she's still competing as a 52, it was pulling out all the stops in terms of nutritional manipulation, we water loaded, and then ceased water intake prior to weigh in, we had to use some hyperthermic strategies, hot tub, tried to use Asana, there were logistical issues, it finished with her having to spit in the bathroom before making weight, and she just made weight. Tactically, it was great. But anyway, it was a hell of a thing. But with that, with travel, because you also travel out of province, I was there on Game Day again with her, which is awesome. With a Hellish, wait cut, she was still able to go nine for nine, this was, I believe, for 105 squat, it's the whole drive, just like we saw the testing day, pretty damn solid. This was also a very fast flight of 52 kilo ladies, there were six lifters in total, and that's a fast moving thing, you can estimate about a minute per lifter, and they're not adding time, it's six. So she's keeping up. Her bench, I don't think this was her third, maybe, no, I think that was, 60 keys is what she finished with, 132.3 pounds. And then with her deadlift, I'm gonna show you her second, I forget what that was. But she pulls it, smooth. One moment. And then I have, for some really weird reason, not the pole, but put down of her third, which ended up being 135 kilos or 277.6 pounds. She took fourth place. In the three lifters she took that were ahead of her, regular Team Canada world competitors. Again, a fast flight. The coolest thing about this is that she had fun. Like there was, she had a big smile on her face, she was focused when she needed to be focused, but she big smiles between lifts. She was enjoying herself, which was a marked difference from Central's, the previous meet, right? And again, took fourth, she was proud of herself, nine for nine day, all post-op, post-injury. Cool. We're nearing the transition. So John, get ready. And all of you prepare to be blessed by John's narrative. So then we enter our offseason. Enter offseason, it's gonna be more focused on, or there's gonna be less intensity, less volume, some different moving patterns. We didn't get too crazy with the initial iteration of the program here, because we knew where we needed to improve in terms of technique. And again, keep building the foundation so that come the next meet, she's ready to execute. So I try to incorporate fun and some novelty in the offseason, because people need it mentally, physically, it's what also contributes to the longevity of the lift room. So that's what we had. And again, squats and deadlifts early on in the week. Two count pause bench, some accessories. We got her, we didn't do top sets here, because again, less intensity, less volume, some benching, some accessories and such. And that took us through the majority of 2022. Maybe I had some visitors, I had seven, my door, my kids. It's bedtime. So that took us through the rest of 2022 into the beginning, well, towards the end of 2022 and the beginning of 23, started preparation for the next nationals. And then I got really, really sick. Like John mentioned at the top of the show. Some of you might be aware, but I contracted a really rare and deadly autoimmune disease, it's called HLH. So started to feel ill beginning of January, got worse and worse over the following weeks. And John, why don't you take over from here and tell the people how that transition happened? Because it wasn't gracefully. It was sudden. It was extraordinarily sudden. Just give me one in the chat if you can see my screen now. For lack of a better term, it went from like me talking to Ashley, Jared's wife, kind of like, hey, something's going on. Like he's yellow today. To, he's unconscious, he's in the hospital, we don't know what's gonna happen. And that happened right about here. And this is late January, early February. And I was very fortunate A to have a lot of communication with Ashley. So I knew that my best friend was gonna, at least I was gonna stay in the loop with what was going on, but also had the opportunity to help out in probably one of the most direct ways I've ever been able to. I can't tell you guys how much it meant to me to be able to support Jared through his illness, not by just thoughts and prayers, but literally by helping his athletes. And I was really fortunate to have met Meg in October, because here's the fun fact, when I jump in here, she's three weeks out from nationals, three weeks out from nationals. I was like, I was dropped into a bucket. So I had to do a really quick crash course on Meg. Fortunately, there was a whole lot of data. Fortunately, there was a whole lot of other things, but this week of programming was already written for me. The next following weeks were not written for me. And my frame of reference, Jared, could not communicate with me. I had his assistant coaches. I had a couple other resources too, like they were available to me, right? Like the last nationals prep, the last regionals prep. Like I had that stuff, but I didn't have who Meg was right now, which is a key factor here. I had a lot of data. I had years of training that I could pour through, but it didn't really tell me exactly who Meg is right now. So shout out to Meg, who was super communicated through this entire process. And I wanna kinda highlight what I jumped into, because we've got all the training here, and we've mentioned her feedback. She's super communicative, but we've got the first day, how are you feeling? Not great, energy's super low. On the second day, elbow not allowing this. Like we're three weeks out, and there's exercises her elbow is flaring up. Doing vertical pulls, doing pull downs, doing exercises that are typically gonna help support the growth of supportive musculature to be able to perform. My favorite piece of feedback on Thursday, how are you feeling? Fucking awful. We're on a roll. And granted, she's aware of what's going on with Jared now too, and she's also got other life stressors. So her stress level is mega, mega high. All I tried to come in and do here, which is a really important piece if this ever happens to you, is to just create stability. Just come in, take an idea. I took this framework, and I said, all right, cool. Like I understand what, just don't fuck it up basically. Just don't mess this up. And it's very simple, right? Because as you go to peak for powerlifting, you wanna take volume and intensity, and you wanna drop it down. I was really fortunate, Jared already had this SBD day that he typically puts in. So I was able to look at that and see what her performance was looking like. But I followed it up with the next week. And if you look, right? So we've got a normal stance back squat here. We're working up to a single. The next week, what am I gonna do? I'm gonna work up to that single, and I'm gonna start offloading intensity because I don't wanna hit to flare up even more two weeks out from nationals. When we know we have a weight cut, we know we have stress, we know we have all the other pieces of the puzzle that have to fall into place. So I start tapering intensity off pretty hard because she hit a heavy single here, she hit a heavy single here. This is about 14 days out. I don't need to do anything within that two week window. For frame of reference, for me, I really like to see for squat and deadlift, your last heavy attempts coming up to a meet 14 to 21 days out. Bench can be closer because it's smaller muscles, less coordinated effort has to happen, so it's less total fatigue. But, so the next week, I tried to stabilize things. A single with commands at 90% of what she hit the week before. Five singles on bench press, and I'll elaborate as to why. Jared knows it's one of my favorite things in the entire world. Two weeks out is five singles at 90% in five minutes. It is an absolute banger. It's an all-star workout, I'm gonna tell you that right now. And really did try to stabilize things, but you look at it, this is the highest level of fatigue. All Monday, she felt positive, her back and hip were doing okay, some things were going well, left elbow sucked. Super cranky left elbow was having like a really hard time with some of the back down stuff. The next day, absolutely trashed. Like her fatigue is super high and her stress is super high. And we're at this point trying to support her through to the meet. The nice part is, is she comes in beginning of the week, the following week, she feels solid going through her main lifts and she felt fatigued going into bench, but Meg is a smaller lifter and her ability to recover from bench sessions is gonna be really, really high. So she ended up going to nationals. We had a great conversation just trying to plan for what it was gonna look like and hit her openers here at 107, 67 and a half and 140 kilos. Jared can go into the chat and actually do that for freedom units, because I don't know the conversions off the top of my head, like regular people. But this was like my first iteration, my first experience. And it was thrilling to say the least, only because it's not what you're used to. However, from this point forward, is when I'm able to take the reins and kind of see what is going on. And I, from this point forward, have some massive benefits that I think a lot of people don't necessarily get. First and foremost, because of this SBD day here, I'm not a big advocate of starting with a new athlete and getting one rep maxes. I'm not a big fan of testing people early in a training process. However, I'm getting two exposures to absolute maximal lifting by watching her at nationals and watching her in her last week of prep. I chose to use this as an assessment tool. I was able to analyze high fatigue maximal performance, which is incredible data. So what did that look like? So when we started the offseason, we're gonna look at her squat first and hopefully these go through well. But Meg is a really cognizant lifter when it comes to like how she feels going through movements. So I'm gonna be really nitpicky because I know she feels things that other lifters may not report. And I'm gonna go ahead and buy you here so you can like kind of dig in and see it. But this is her last heavy squat prior to this nationals event. And she's always felt a shift away from her left hip. So involved tip is the left tip here. Come on buddy, play. And we'll see as she descends, you see a very slight shift away from that hip. And on the ascent. Levels out of the top, good solid bottom position, even though she's a little to the right, but you can see her come away from it a little bit. As a lifter, she feels like she is literally all the way over onto her right leg. So good piece of data there. Something I can use for training moving forward. I got two shots of bench press because I love bench press. And this first one is a sub max attempt, one of her last attempts, but we can start to see some of the data here anyway. And it's a great shot. Pay attention to the elbow and pay attention to the touch point. In my opinion, the touch point's a little high and you can watch how difficult it is for her to maintain elbow positioning. Watch as she gets to the mid range of the bench. Watch the elbow flutter. Is one of the biggest reasons I like a five by one at 90%. Because for all my US APL people who aren't gonna like what I'm about to say, the lats are involved in the bench press by stabilizing under an endurance load. They have to maintain position and she's not able to maintain position and tension in her lats to keep her elbow angle where it needs to be underneath the barbell. And we see that manifest in the next attempt, which is a 72 and a half kilo bench press. At this point, still post injury PRs, if I remember correctly here, Jared. So we're in a really good spot, but watch what it does. She completes this rep. It is a RPE 10 for sure. So it's a max effort attempt. But it's a high touch point. It drips back early and actually starts to twist onto her right and you see that elbow flutter again. So I'm watching these max attempts and I'm studying. Okay, after nationals, what am I gonna do? Here's her last deadlift and she missed her last deadlift. This is her last heavy attempt deadlift prior to going to nationals. And there were a couple of things I really kind of picked on here when I first saw it. First and foremost, I'm gonna get it to here, right off the floor. Her shin angle is already vertical. And on a conventional deadlift specifically, you want your shin angle slightly forward so you can push off the floor more adequately and create force with the quads before it gets to the posterior chain. She actually starts with her shin super vertical and watch her hips kick back a little bit on her. And now she's actually in no man's land because she's missed the opportunity to actually get into a hinge because she's left all of her leg drive. So this puts her in a spot where it makes the pull to the knee longer, fatigues the low back in the posterior chain and puts you in a position where you're stuck at the knee. So I had a great opportunity to break down her lifts at a maximum rate. So what did I do? Here's the fun part. I went back and I looked at all the training. I looked at the whole two years that she had worked with Jared. And I looked at structures and frameworks that worked for them at the time. And I took the information that I just garnered. I took the frameworks that Jared had used and I plugged them all together. So one of the things that I wanted to work on, I wanted to start getting some posterior change strength and starting to help with A, her squat and her deadlift. So I started with a wide stance high bar squat. Also went with some close brick bench for tricep work. Just gonna pause after that one. And started actually putting her in position she'd not been in. The cone deadlift is a wider stance conventional. I mean, it's a sumo deadlift, but it's you're almost just outside shoulder width apart to help build some of these positions. And also one thing I've found with her specifically that we'll elaborate on later is after heavy efforts, her recovery's impacted pretty substantially. And it creates a spike in both systemic stress. So like her entire stress level goes up, but also it impacts her recovery. So she's a little bit more sensitive to intensity and volume, especially after heavy efforts. So I immediately after nationals, her hip was pissed. So we had to go into some things like box squats and some other things to make sure that we were able to manage range of motion to keep her hip from getting pissed off again. So let me elaborate on what I mean by these box squats. Cause first and foremost, the only access she had was to a bench. But this also was a spot that kept her relatively asymptomatic so we could actually load it. Now, here's a really important piece. I still want her and I still want my athletes to feel like they're training. And the more we modify and the more we especially scale back, the harder that is to create that feeling. So in regards to stuff like this, Meg's a super smart lifter. She's going to be able to hit an RPE that allows her to lift a little bit heavier at a higher box and still get a lot of stimulus in. So I encouraged that. I said, okay, cool. We want to keep the intensity tolerable because that's still a trigger. We want to keep the range of motion somewhere that we can actually manage it. And then we're going to work around the constraints of the gym that we actually have. So that was our first block working together. And that lasted about four weeks. What happened after four weeks? Things got achy again, really achy. And she was going through a move. She was getting a new job because it was a very large move. She wasn't like moving across the neighborhood. She was like moving provinces over. So we had to make adjustments due to that stress level and the fact that during the move she drove. So she was like dropping into a bunch of different gyms as she moved across the country. So we had to make all of those modifications. But we start to see a little bit more exercise variation here as we continue to explore where her symptoms come from. Now the bench press, the bench press I trained like normal bench press. And this is something that I'm a big advocate of. If she has hip pain and it's not bothered by bench press, we're going to bench like a normal, like uninjured athlete. We're going to bench. It's benchy time. All the elbow bendies that you can handle. So we stuck with that and really did train bench press hard because we had more resources because her stimulus to be able to train squat was lower because squat was an aggravator. And because squat was an aggravator, it made deadlift less consistent. So as we explore this, we do another four weeks with some closed stance box squatting, some good bench pressing, right? It felt good. We're getting some really good reports now. We went from some of the more negative self-talk, some more positive self-talk. We're starting to see that shift. Right here felt clean, deadlifts are starting to feel better. And we found out really quickly how the use of specialty bars like a buffalo bar, which is a large curve bar that increases the range of emotional bench press. Can be very humbling, very, very fast. So put her in a position to get some wins, especially on bench that opened the door for more substantial training. The next block. So we had a, because of the move, because of the stress, we had a couple of bouts with the illness. We had a couple of things go on, but I also stumbled across really finding out that a fatigue for her, a threshold for fatigue for her was really about three weeks into training. We could push hard for about three weeks. That's it. Then the wheels started to kind of fall off. So we wanted to be really cognizant of looking at her training and saying, okay, we're gonna be three weeks up, one week down, we're gonna switch up movements after that, and we're gonna build off of this. But this is also when some of our technology had started to come down a little bit. We were able to actually get some volume in and really train hard. So you can see we're doing three sets, three sets of seven at an RPE six. She's nailing that stuff, feeling pretty good, feeling pretty good through the week. We still have, and here's a real key thing to listen to here as well, we still have weird shit pop up. And I'm sure you've had this with every single one of your athletes where something that's not anticipated just flares something up. We did cable lateral raises and it pissed off like everything. It pissed off her shoulder and her elbow and her thoracic spine and like everything. Here's the key. And one of the reasons why I don't show all of the progressions for each week is because what I tried to create for Megan, these blocks was actually stability. I have no problems slowing things down and saying, okay, cool, let's not overcompensate and over swing and deload you completely off all your exercises and take all the weight off you. Let's actually stabilize this week and see if we can get a slightly better performance at the same RPEs, the same weight at lower RPEs and build some momentum based off something that might have been minorly aggravating, but that we can accommodate and adapt to. Before I go and smash the brakes, drop a one in the chat. If you've smashed the brakes on an athlete and then their first response to you is, now I don't feel like I'm doing shit in the gym. It's one of the fastest ways to lose by it. It's one of the fastest ways to have an athlete come to you down the road and say, I don't think you believed in me. Never a position I want to find myself in with an athlete. So also fun, I love the SSB and you guys probably know that I'm trying to get a sponsorship with the lead FTS. So just go over to their Instagram and say, John Flag is awesome, please sponsor him. He's the greatest guy in the entire world because I could live off that barbell. It was, she had a question here because she never really used it too terribly often and she gave me a bunch of different angles and said, I don't know if this is quality or garbage work. So I want to show that really quick. And I want to show a couple of other things that I think are really important because at this point we've been working together for like three months, four months. And one of the things I had mentioned is post here chain and upper back strength. It looks like the upper back gains are starting to pay off. I'm going to tell you guys right now, the sign of a great squatter is a back that looks like that. That musculature is necessary. But really key component of this execution, if we watch, one of her complaints has always been a hip shift away from her left hip. And we watch these and we see her maintain position, rep after rep until fatigue starts to set in. About the fifth rep, we start to see a little bit of deviation, we start to see a little bit of shift. That gives us a good indication of, okay, five, six reps in, that becomes a volume threshold. The tissue itself is having a hard time actually stabilizing where we needed to stay. And we can use that as a frame of reference to program later on and say, okay, we're going to stay away from sevens and let's stick with four, five, as in sixes to build those tolerances. Skip ahead, I went all the way in and you can see I went with a hands-free SSB here. It's one of my favorites to continue to build upper back. But we kept it at five to six reps, which stabilized right in where we wanted to keep that endurance level where we needed it to be. It feels weird. And you can also notice she said, I was gluten on Sunday. Probably one of my favorite moments of all time is when she said she was gluten and I felt like, but did the hamburger get you? I don't understand, like somebody breaking your house and throw gluten at you. But it's, it's legit a term. It was a learning moment for me. But you can also see how these are the things that happen in real life that are going to impact training. So something else we had to adjust for. But we also see again, consistent change in self-talk and feedback. Feel better than last week. I'm happy about, I'm happy about the control here on the front squats. I'm feeling better. Set at 130, this was tough, but good. We're starting to hear the mindset aspect of it and start to take into play and start to move forward. So we led all this up to the Coup de Grau, which is a test week. And this test week was pretty fire. And I'm gonna show you the lifts themselves. You guys can take a peek at them. But she had an all-time PR on squat at 115 kilos. Her previous best was 110, so five kilo difference. She tied her gym PR. And I want you guys to watch that and think about the first one, because it's the same weight as the one that we had looked at pre-nationals. And then a 145 kilo or 319 pound. I don't know why 145 is one of the ones that I have in my brain, Jared, but 145 is 319 pounds. And she says RPE9, question mark, but rated to perceived exertion is one of those things that I have no problem judging a little bit. I think it was actually an easier than RPE9. But all of these, right? We felt pretty good after. And the nice part is it gave me a coaching moment here because coming off a ton of fatigue, a move, getting gluten, a new job, all these other things. We're hitting lifetime PR squats. Fun fact, when you're in the gym and you're testing maxes, you don't get an hour and a half between your squat and your bench press. None of us take that. We don't go take a nap over in the corner and listen to music. We typically finish up squats and we go over to the bench and we start warming up bench.  so we were able to match a PR under high fatigue immediately after heavy squats. It's a massive indicator. If she goes to a competition, she's probably going to hit 2.5 if not 5 kilos greater than that, just because of the rest involved. So let's look at the effect. This is the squat. It's a great effort. But when we look at the result here, this is a 145 kilo squat, or 115 kilo squat, sorry. Jared, what is that in freedom units? One moment. 3-5-3-4-0-7-15. No, excuse me. 254. 120 is 264. 254. 254. All right, perfect. So what we see though is a little less shift. It's a grind. This is a grind. This is a max effort lift right here. This is 100% what it is. But it's a lifetime PR and absolute confidence and depth, and that bar never stops moving. It's great effort. Now let's look at the bench. Notice some of the things that I said in the beginning of the presentation. I wanted to see a slightly lower touch point, and I wanted to see her elbows stay more stable. So before her touch point was up here. Now we're a little bit lower on the rib cage. She's able to cut this off, and it literally takes about an inch off the range of motion. Huge, especially for shoulder health. The more range of motion you can cut off, the less internal rotation you get at the chest. Underload. It's a great thing. Watch her elbows. Shaky, but less lateral movement. Watch them come out. Watch how she maintains position through the lift, and we see way less horizontal movement through the actual elbow. Is it amazingly well executed bench press and for all my super super bench nerds out there, if it'll play for me one more time. I want you to pay attention to the bar path. Before, remember how the right side of the barbell drifted around and actually started to turn on her a little bit and rotate twist. Watch how flat the bar path is and balance the bar path is. That's the capacity to go and take another two and a half kilos and make it on meat day. Last but not least, her deadlift, 145 kilos. I'm going to pause right. Hold on here. Okay. Remember the first thing I said in that first portion of the presentation. Her shin angle was far too vertical. That's all it takes. She had her knees flush with her arms before. Now her knees are slightly more through the window. Watch the leg drive she's able to create when she comes off the floor. Now she's in a position where she can continue to drive, get the weight into her posterior chain where it's a true hinge and finish the lift with authority. I got you bitch face. I mean, I got you. That that's that face. When you put it that lift down, I got you bitch. That's that's the face it is. One more time. I was stoked to see this lift to. It was awesome. But shin angle comes forward slightly a push off the floor better maintenance position gets to the hinge is able to lock it out. So, we'll wrap it up here. My key takeaways Jared's key tech key takeaways, use training to find triggers. Big advocate of constraining tasks, however we find a way to do that whether that's constraining volume, whether it's constraining intensity, whether it's constraining the entire training program to allow life to continue to move past us and watch the training program stabilize. In this particular case, one of the biggest things we needed to constrain was her frequency in regards to training of weeks in a row. Communicate, communicate, communicate. Now we're talking to a clinical athlete level up crowd. I understand that this is going to be one of those things is like dutch on communication is key. It's still substantially overlooked. And it always has to be a two way street with all of the conflating factors here with post op hip with silly acts with a move with a new job with multiple different joints involved that could flare up at any moment. We have, we have to communicate at a really high level, and she communicated thoroughly throughout on top of the fact that what you guys don't see is all the communication on slack. We have another communication platform we use because true coaches messenger sucks. But, like, I'd get a message from Meg. Like, during the move specifically like hey, I'm in this kind of gym. What do you think I can do in here all I have is this accessible. All right, cool. Hey, I'm sick again, or hey, I got orientation for my new job. I'm going to be working late. All right, cool. We'll make adjustments that way. But high high communication and anytime it fell off. We were reaching out and trying to re engage. Don't be afraid to slow things down and wait. If there's a single thing and I was, I was horribly, horribly guilty to this, especially early in my career. As soon as the flare up happened, I pulled everything back. I pulled everything back hard. I almost took all training off of weight, weight, make educated decisions, know when to stabilize training, especially when the world around them is spinning and give the program and the athlete the time to adapt. It's necessary. Because the last thing we want to do it's it's literally it's invalidating. It's invalidating to have a small things flare up and immediately be like, oh, you're not capable. Slow things down, make small adjustments and it sometimes make no adjustments at all. And let the plan, let what you put forth do its work. Don't second guess yourself all the time. Last thing, chip away at it. We just showed you guys three years of an athlete going from post op all the way to lifetime PRs and two nationals competitions in between. Understand that there are going to be shit days in between there's probably going to be more than you'd like, especially as a clinician we want things to be nice and smooth sailing. It's just not it's not how the world works. Unfortunately, I actually think at this point, fortunately now that I'm getting older, I think those shit days I learned more from than any of the other stuff in my entire life. But the work still has to get done. And like this is a key component. You, if you look through all of those true coaches a great job of like having green and red for things that were like accomplished or not. Did anybody see a whole lot of red on Meg stuff regardless of all this. Maybe one exercise through some time, or she would even check it off and say that she modified it like or did something with it. She always got the work done. She always got the work done. So support that when it comes to your athletes as well and chip away at it understand that progress is going to be slow. All right. Questions, Jared, do your thing. We didn't have any stuff come through the chat. I don't know if people were just enthralled through the entire time we're staring at my beard or what, but it's Q&A time for whoever's left with us. I mean, we were all staring at your beard. Before we jump into Q&A, which we're all eager to get, not to put her on the spot, but the woman of the hour is actually here with us. So, I just want to say is hearing this. Thank you for giving us permission to share this because we are all better for it. You know, being able to learn from the journey and everybody else. If you feel so inclined, please drop some thanks for Megan the chat. Because again, we all benefit from our willingness to share. So, questions and our absolute savagery and absolute savagery. Nice. Your beast. Love you. All right. Questions. Let's just do this on mute. Hit us. What do you got? I do have one. Let's go. Awesome case Megan dope as recovery. Love the consistency over years. It's incredible at that accomplishes my biggest question for really for you, Jared. And John to speaking to it is just like a little more detail on handling the communication aspects around flare ups, because I feel like that's one of the hardest things ever is like dealing with the totally reasonable frustration of people. And like, how are you kind of cope with that in terms of, yeah, just take it away. That's my question. Yeah. Well, early, early on, and may you can tell me later if I get this right or wrong, but early on I didn't want to come in too hot or too firmly with any particular approach in terms of just say make leaves a note about, hey, my cape really didn't like this. We got to flare up. I didn't want to come in and be like, either explain it away or put forth like, hey, we should look at it this way. But I really wanted to do, especially early on is here. Okay. Tell me where you're at. How are you feeling? What's your assessment of it. And then I would respond to that based on what she says. And that makes a lot of sense. Here's how I'm seeing. I kind of expected that some of this stuff would come up, right, because we're not terribly far out of surgery. We're getting back into more regular training this way. So it's expected. That's my ideas around how we can approach it. What do you think? What do you think we should do here? You know, I like to lead that way in general, not just with Meg, but saying that I've got ideas so long as that isn't back true. And that usually is, but giving them the space and the platform to say what their gut is. And usually attracts a long break. Or the very least, he gives us a good jump off point to create a good, a good amalgamation of where their heads at where my has that. And more often than not, that helps us to take that next small step forward and keep getting that work done like John said, while allowing us to cool off, settle down and look for maybe that next swim either directly related to the flare up or the affected body part or something else. John, what do you got? So I'm going to preface this with the fact that we have the immense privilege to communicate with our athletes on a much higher rate than typical clinicians because of the way that our coaching and businesses are structured. So there's never like a barrier between communicating with like Meg at any point in time, she can get a message over to us, we can start a conversation. I'm going to wait after Monday session till next Monday for somebody to speak to me. So understand that I am going to address this through my own rose colored glasses. For that particular instance, but for me, I think one of the first things that I do, especially with long term athletes like Meg. I mean, there's a whole handful of them over on the team right now is simply ask the question okay cool, have you been here before. And then the answer is typically yes. And then my next question is, what did you do last time. And then they're going to tell me what they did last time or what we did last time to help manage it. And then it's what did we learn from that experience and how can we make it better this time. And then we collaborate, co create on what that actually looks like, because one of the really important pieces is getting feedback from them on what has worked and what is not. And then we leave. Yeah. So Taylor Goldberg is actually a great example. She in her coaching with individual EDS has a flare up chart and she actually encourages flares, because then you can create a flair management plan. And she has like all of these action steps on how to manage flare ups and what works for these individuals and then she tracks it over time. And then the time you've worked with Taylor for six months to a year, you have a tried and true flare up plan for the way your symptoms manifest. And we can do the same thing here. All right, cool. Here's the thing. This stuff is not going to go away. It's not going to just magically disappear. Who's woke up in the morning and their knee feels really weird and painful for absolutely no fucking reason at all. It's just part of the lived experience. It is just, it's just going to be here. So, in regards to that, man, I'd much rather use each one of those experiences as a data as a data point, collect more and more information and come into each one of them more and more informed and equipped every single time. So, that's my handle. Exactly. Yeah, I dig it both both great feedback and I think yeah it's putting things in perspective. You know, like, this has happened before we come out the other side better for it. And I think sometimes as a, when you're coaching and working with people, you feel a lot of pressure like, Oh my God, do I need to change everything is this actually going to make it worse if we continue to go but having that reassurance for everyone. When you have that much data is super helpful and super empowering. We can actually elaborate on one other piece with that. No. Yeah, get on my high horse. So, as I start to rant, it's a soapbox, not a high horse. For new lifters and new athletes, this is actually something I think is a massive coaching moment. Because it's not going to be their first brush with pain and injury. And that's factual. We're not going to prevent stuff. We're going to do the best we can to do those sorts of things but like, especially the higher they try to fly towards the sun the closer they try to get to the sun with elite level anything, the higher you open your risk up for it. So, having that hard conversation the first time, I mean we get the benefit of I've got a couple high school kids on the roster that are, you know, going to high school nationals and going to youth nationals and doing some really cool things. The first time something flares up the first time they have a discomfort it is a massive learning opportunity to say okay cool we're going to manage this thing, but understand that it is going to be, regardless of whether you do this sport you go and do wrestling you go and do badminton you pick a ball, you go and do chess. I don't care what it is you're going to run into something that's going to have these sorts of feelings and emotions around it. So it's also an opportunity if you, if you have the ability to talk to somebody in their first experience with this sort of thing it'd be a massive growth moment for them, and their their athletic career. Step off soapbox. That was a good soapbox moment though. All right. Anybody else. I didn't even ask me a super long question. Jerm, ask a question. I will start calling on people. Mike, vague might as well ask one about herself. If people are, if people are actually live you can also unmute your video and say hi but it's all good. All right. Closing it in three, two, one. All right. With that, again, got to give around a thanks. First of all to Meg, and then also to all of you for taking time either live here tonight, or in future, hello future people watching this and really John and I hope that this was useful, but it served you in some way. And then you get to take some of these principles, these strategies and have now have them down your in your pocket, you get to use them for your own clients, whether in clinic or remotely, whether power over through or otherwise, because they can be pretty universally applicable in a lot of senses. I mentioned it earlier. Everybody registered for this tonight will get a copy of that webinar of our framework that John and I did on how we structure our approach for injured athletes. So that'll come through an email after the fact. Show them what else I'm forgetting. Think that's it. I think that's it look out for those emails look out for access to that. You're watching the replay. Thank you so much. I appreciate you guys. Thanks for everybody that came live. Hey Steph, it's good to see you. Honey Badgers for life. Let's get after it. And that's it Zach you got anything to say to close this out. I'm just excited to have you guys back in the mix and doing your thing and looking forward to more. Oh yeah. And with that, have a wonderful night. We'll catch you in the next one.