 And follow-up question, probably more important, are there just some general considerations to keep in mind when you're looking for a shoe? If we're talking about either for running in particular or maybe even a trail shoe or something like that. Yeah. So I'm going to... There's a specific weight for the pair of shoes. I am going to say it's 480 milligrams for the pair of shoes. Chris is going to be like, why don't you know this? But that's the weight that they should be. Anything heavier gets too heavy. That's the optimal weight for the pair of shoes. But as far as style or heel to toe drop, I have my favorites. But that doesn't mean that they're the best shoe. The big thing when people are getting fit for shoes is that they take out the inner and stand on it. And make sure that the insole actually captures their foot. If they're standing on it and they have a wide foot and they're on this narrow, narrow shoe and they're flapping over the side before they're even putting their foot in the shoe, that shoe's not going to fit them well. And you're going to start seeing that fifth net hanging out the side. And you're like, that's not good. So that's one way that someone can find a shoe that is well fit for their foot. And also measuring it to maybe like a thumbs width in front of or longer than their longest toe. And for some people, that could be their second toe. That could be their middle toe. Sometimes you got funky toes. That's cool. But measure it to the longest one versus just the first toe. Other specifics. I mean, a lower drop shoe is going to bias more of a forefoot strike. So more of an Achilles or gastroc load. So if someone has a history of Achilles pathology or calf strains, maybe going a little bit higher, they don't have to be in 10 millimeter drop shoe. And what I'm talking about, heel to toe differential, that's like the measure from where the heel is to where the toe is. So a higher drop is a higher heel. Yes. Yeah. But then you have like something funky like a Hoka, which has a lot of cushion, but still only maybe a five millimeter drop. But it has this like honky cushion. So, you know, that versus an A6 that has a seven millimeter drop, you know, that's where it comes down to comfort and what people are comfortable running in. You know, trying to get someone in the most minimal shoe that's appropriate for them is what I try and do. You know, I'm not like, oh, you need a stability shoe or you need a minimalist shoe. You know, I tend to start, you know, not that I'm giving people shoes or recommending shoes, but I say, you know, start with something neutral and then try something above it and try something below it and find something in between. That feels good. Running in two different types of shoes, so different brand, different style, different heel to toe drop has actually been shown to decrease injury risk by 39%. So that's something that I make sure to mention to runners if it's in their budget to have two pairs of shoes that they're rotating through, that that's, you know, worth investing in. So the foot and the muscle and tissues are always having to adapt to something different because, like, I run in Brooks Launch and on clouds. So I run a little bit different because one's, I think it's like seven millimeter drop and then one's like a four or five. So I tend to have a slightly more mid-foot or full-footed strike in the ons because it's a lower drop. And I run a little bit differently than I do in the launch. So, you know, and that's okay. You know, having different striking patterns or slightly different mechanics and different types of shoes is fine because it means that your body is able to adapt well. Well, we've talked about variation in training. That's just another way to do it. It's a task constraint. Right. When you say alternate, could it be, like, every other run or generally maybe potentially something like that? Yeah. I do it based on, like, longer runs and shorter runs. So my shorter runs, so anything less than seven, I'll run in my ons. And then if I'm half marathon or marathon training, those longer distance runs, I'm throwing on the brooks. It's interesting. Thank you.