 fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy, fresy We do. We have a lot of people and it's going to be good. I think we're going to get some really good questions because this is a topic that we probably all deal with. Speaking of, the Journal Club topic is exercise training for chronic low back pain. What's most effective? And we have a specific paper that we're going to be off of or going off of a recent review. I've made a couple poll questions to get a feel for the crowd that we're working with. Actually, just one poll question this time. So I just launched it. It should have popped up right in front of you. Just interested in the demographic at our meeting here. So are you a clinician? Are you a coach trainer? Are you a student clinician, student coach trainer? Let us know. Give you a few seconds here. Looks like we've got almost A-50 50 split. Oh, OK, there we go. Forty seven percent clinician, 41 percent student clinician, nine percent coach trainer, three percent student coach trainer. So mostly clinicians are student clinicians in the house, a few coaches and trainers, which, you know, we talk about low back pain. And whether you're directly dealing with that or not as a coach or a trainer, I'm sure that you've had clients and athletes who have come up to you with these types of complaints. So relevant to everyone, I think. So I'm just going to jump into the paper here because there's a lot to discuss. And again, if you have questions or if you want to chime in, use your control panel and we'll we'll we'll get you in here. So the name of the paper here is, by the way, Kevin, am I sharing my screen or you just see my face? I still got the poll question up. Oh, good. I'm glad I asked. All right. There's that beautiful face. Well, last time I was sharing my screen for half the meeting. You remember that? OK, the paper is which specific modes of exercise training are most effective for treating low back pain? A network meta analysis. The lead author here is Patrick Owen. And this is a recently published article. This in October, I think this came out. And the aim of this paper was to examine the effectiveness of various modes of exercise training, specifically in nonspecific chronic low back pain. So, you know, they make a note that about 20 percent of cases of low back pain are the is this chronic and nonspecific. But this subset equates to 80 percent of the cost that's associated with the care of low back pain. And so nonspecific, you know, they define as not having a distinct mechanism to the pain. The clinician is unable to identify specific structural mechanism or something in their history to. To be able to diagnose a specific tissue or implicate some type of structural abnormalities, abnormalities, something like that. And so the umbrella term of exclusion is nonspecific low back pain. And the chronic part of the descriptor is having the pain lasting any lasting longer than 12 weeks. So anything over 12 weeks, it was accepted into this definition of chronic low back pain. So there's always limitations when we're talking about these types of terms and descriptors, but that's what they were going off of. So. There were 89 studies total in this paper where they're looking at various interventions for low back pain, various exercise interventions, resistance training, motor control, neuromuscular exercises, Pilates, yoga, aerobic exercise, aqua therapy, stretching, what I miss, McKenzie exercise. And then they were comparing that to no treatment, comparing that to clinician hands on treatment. So manual therapy and clinician, no hands on treatment. So like general practitioner recommendations or education. And so this is a this is a meta analysis. So they're aggregating a bunch of different studies on the topic. And they were all randomized controlled trials of varying quality. So that's what we're that's what we're looking at. And then they're comparing these interventions with with themselves and they're comparing these interventions to no treatment, exercise therapy to non exercise therapy and, you know, seeing what we got. And what was interesting and I'll just kind of give a general synopsis of things. Well, actually, I want to make a note of the samples in these studies. Sometimes you get meta analyses that are just. They're they're a victim of the studies that are part of the meta analyses. So if the studies that you're including in your review or your meta analysis are very different from one another. Then you get. You get results that are hard to pin down to any type of any one population or to make real definitive claims. But it also is more like it is in the real world. So what we have in this study in this meta analysis here is we've got a bunch of studies with vastly different samples. So the sample sizes and some of these studies were anywhere from 20 to 240 people. The age ranges were anywhere from 20 years old to 70. The study duration anywhere from four to 24 weeks. Average duration of pain that the how chronic the pain was in the samples here. Anywhere from a quarter of a year, you know, a couple months or a few months, you know, that was their limit. Anywhere from 12 weeks to 14 years. So imagine the difference between those types of of people that that you're dealing with. Average pain intensity on a zero to 100 scale of 21 to 79 out of 100. So, you know, two out of 10, seven out of 10, almost eight out of 10. And then the frequency of the exercise interventions anywhere from one time a week to seven days a week. So all of these studies were aggregated into this meta analysis. So just keep that in mind. You know, when we're trying to when we're looking at the results and we're going to talk about the things that we're going to talk about, which is there's not a ton of certainty here. Well, that's that's why. But that is more reflective of the real world. If you go to 10 different physical therapy clinics, you're going to get and let's say all 10 of them do an active treatment of some sort. You might get five, six, seven, eight different types of active treatment. Maybe who knows? Maybe 10. Maybe all of them are just different. So you just keep that in mind. Essentially, what they found and there are some, I guess, more specifics here, but essentially what they found for. Pain, physical function. Subjective. So is pain subjective reports of physical function, mental health. These are some of the outcomes they're looking at. Active therapies such as Pilates, resistance training, aerobic exercise, motor control or neuromuscular type exercises. These things seemed to be effective on average for nonspecific chronic low back pain to varying degrees. Where there was some divergence was that it seemed that active interventions were more effective than no intervention, which no intervention seemed to be the least effective thing. So in your head, you could be like, well, no shit. But when you think about other cases like acute low back pain, therapy and no intervention, not much different. But perhaps in this subset of people, nonspecific chronic low back pain, doing something is better than doing nothing. And that something seems like if it has an active, an independent active component, like some type of exercise component, that seems to be more effective than a non-exercise thing. So all of those different types of exercise interventions that I listed seem to be more effective than therapist hands-on treatment like manual therapy techniques. Again, if you're looking at the specific techniques, you go into the supplemental paper and read up on that. Exercise interventions also seem to be more effective than therapist non-manual treatments or non-hands-on treatments like just education, for example. So not only does doing something seem to be better than doing nothing, but that something seems to be more effective if it has an exercise component with it. And I'll go ahead and stop there as just kind of a synopsis of things. But, Kevin, what were your thoughts on the paper in general? Yeah, I thought it was actually a pretty timely paper. I actually had an evaluation this morning with someone that had been dealing with back pain since 1994. So this thing came right up to my mind. It's like, oh, you've been dealing with back pain since damn near I was born. Let me talk to you about the science of pain, right? There you go. No, you know, I think to me this was a big win for aerobic exercise, actually. If you kind of look across the board at sucra values, aerobic exercise was performing really well in pretty much every marker that they looked at. I think if we looked at mental health, let's see here. For pain, at a sucra percentage of 80, which was number two. For physical function, aerobic exercise came in at 60, which was in the top four. For mental health, it came in at 80, which was tied for first. And then muscle strength, obviously you wouldn't expect aerobic exercise to perform too well there. Didn't really register. But to me, I think it just speaks to kind of the value of even something with just a general walking program for someone with chronic pain. And I think I'm definitely guilty because it doesn't exactly align with my bias. But I think that I definitely undervalue that to a certain degree. But more than anything, just kind of looking across the board, there's just so much stuff out here that we're trying to throw at this. And, you know, we talk a lot about a constraints-led approach to rehab and coaching on here. And for good reason, I think. But when it comes to chronic pain, I really just feel like identifying the constraints of the individual that need to be addressed is just really difficult. And if we can't identify those constraints, I don't really know how you can build, let alone implement, a plan of care that's going to be effective. So in many ways, I think we're kind of playing from behind from the get-go when it comes to this. And I think that's the real difficulty is just trying to understand what does this person need? And even more so, what are they going to respond well to? Do you also see the results, though? Because, you know, they have kind of their top three for each for pain, for subjective physical function, for mental health. But it did seem like pretty much all exercise interventions, other than stretching and McKenzie, seemed like it had a positive effect. I mean, we could look at that, and we're talking about averages here in this case. We whittle it down to the individual, and, you know, the conversation changes based on what they care about and what their goals are. But, you know, you could look at this as a refreshing thing in that just get them doing something novel, potentially, or something that they care a little bit about or something they enjoy doing or makes them feel kind of nice. And that can kind of change things up. Because, like, let's go back to the aerobic thing. Obviously, aerobic exercise can change physiology. How much of it for the patient that you just discussed, you know, having pain since 1994, if you get them on an aerobic exercise and it has an effect, how much is that is because of the physiology change in regards to their pain experience and how much of it is just, oh, I can, like, be a human again and, you know, kind of reframing things. But you could look at it as, well, hell, if everything works, then nothing works. If everything matters, then nothing matters. And you can also look at it as, well, maybe the pressure is not – we're not in that much – we don't have that much pressure on us to find the right exercise program. It's just let's start with something, and that's probably going to push the needle forward, and we can kind of fine-tune from there. Yeah, 100%. I think that's the other way that you can kind of look at this. It's another note that I had here is just find something to kind of get the person moving, right? Maybe address any unhelpful beliefs if they're there and they need to be addressed. But more than anything, it's just – it seems like it's a win for just movement in general.