 smith. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. R. yeah Catherine did you want like I just jump in or yeah I'll let you pick up all the pieces that I don't say but I think the other bit is that although angle you know had that this model a lot of people were getting to it in a lot of different ways so you know it's not really that long ago that the flag system started around pain you know the black and the blue and the red and the yellow and the green and the yellow flags were psychosocial flags right so we've been talking about it a lot of different ways and I think the the reason why the biopsychosocial model tends to hang together and stick with us a little bit kind of like Descartes is that it it sort of clearly says you know it's more than the the the linear dualistic way of thinking about it you know there's pain and there's you know the Descartes model is what I'm trying to say it's clearly more than that there's a psychological element there's a social element so I think that's what is attractive about it rather than a complex theory that maybe you know takes it is difficult to describe and to grab a hold of so so it will be with us for a long time and there's a lot of good in it right there's a lot of good in it and that's we're not trying to suggest that we need to throw the whole thing out we are just extending through the work of on top of the work of others are using the work of others the idea of just another kind of way of putting into words and it with examples and with explanations that are built on science and philosophy another way of looking at pain so so it's not we're not saying biopsychosocial is no good what we want that to be really clear there are some challenges with it and and and that is why we are offering another way of looking at it so maybe Peter you can maybe review what we said in the paper about the the the drawbacks yeah I think you brought up such great points too and it's the same with the biomedical model right it's like you don't just totally toss all that foundation once you you go to the biopsychosocial foundation right it's you just update certain pieces of it and try to be I think Quinn in your journal club you said just try to be less wrong right um and try to update update things so uh yeah and I think part of it kind of came off harsh especially with the title um which is a bit provocative and I know some people are like they see that and they're like damn it like I would just got a handle on this biopsychosocial model that's what the students yeah that's what they're saying they're like oh don't tell me this yeah not not nothing new again not something new again yeah I don't know where you find these they were bright like super like critical thinkers like great such an amazing like I was hyped that they liked the paper and they were they were they were thinking about how they can apply it and um I should really say like the when this paper like when we published it the goal wasn't to go to it to go to clinicians that wasn't that wasn't the plan it was to lay out a theoretical academic foundation which we would then strip down uh less less kind of philosophical jargon and then bring it to to clinicians and we I thought that we're going to have to have all these kt strategies knowledge translation strategies and and to get in the hands of clinicians but it's been a couple months and people have already jumped on it and are applying it and I'm like like some of these people I'm like you you're applying it better than I could like like which which I found interesting but uh back to your your question right so what are some of these limitations that we suggest in the in the paper I guess number one is we argue that it really lacks a strong theoretical foundation um especially when it pertains to the phenomenology of pain so that meaning that first person or subjective experience that really valuing that that narrative that the patient has so the biopsychosocial model doesn't explicitly have a theoretical foundation with that and we're not the first people to say that others have said it but uh we we kind of built on on those ideas um and there's other components uh contemporary views related to perception that aren't uh inherently embedded in that biopsychosocial model as proposed by engel and I guess the the biggest probably part of the paper that we uh in terms of limitations we talk about practical application how uh really because of that lack of theoretical foundation it's extremely difficult to start to apply in a meaningful meaningful way or or you can apply it but potentially we could optimize how it's applied if we actually have an extension or or these other type of theoretical underpinnings so we give a couple examples of of kind of what we see in terms of these biopsychosocial proponents doing including myself not too long ago so we we even published a paper I think it was like 2017 that was part of my master's like uh I think we call it like contemporary biopsychosocial exercise prescription for low back pain it was challenging core stability and talking about context and really we're advocating the biopsychosocial model quite quite strongly and we've shifted our views or at least I have quite a bit of a sense then um and so we argue that there's these individuals that propose uh that use the bps model in a very reductionist way so they they ultimately end up saying oh well pain is in the brain it's an output of the brain and uh really have this kind of disembodied view of of pain that doesn't really match our our contemporary views of perception and then we also talk about how people end up actually being dualist almost in a way where they say oh well if we can't find the biological factors these mechanical factors that explain pain it must be psychosocial or it must be psychogenic uh in nature it must be in the mind so you have like prominent definitions which you guys are I know are well aware of like the IASP international association for the study of pain uh they essentially say as a part of their definition to this day that if if there is no kind of physiological explanation the pain is psychogenic uh it's essentially a dualist view and I think it really needs to be updated and I'm not the only person there's many others that say that it needs to be updated as well because it it potentially stigmatizes patients so those are the types of things that we see like people trichotomize or dichotomize the biopsychosocial model and want to break it up and really that was Engel didn't want that like going into his papers he thought that it was the dynamic interaction but because of that lack of I think robust theory to really guide how it it pans out in practice it ends up getting messy like that I think that's one of the reasons why clinicians have been drawn so quickly to this paper and these kinds of concepts because you mentioned it in the paper we very frequently ask ourselves well how do we avoid communicating to the patient that this is just in their head right and we we do dichotomize quite a bit when it comes to this model and it's the one limitation that stuck with me was we're very so critical of the biomedical model and how dualistic it is but in practice we tend to also be dualistic with the biopsychosocial model where the five e's which we'll get to describing in here a little bit I think it hashes out and bridges the gaps to those dichotomies and trichotomies to people and and it gives them a more robust framework to kind of chew on and better understand what they're actually trying to accomplish um there's so many things in there and we we've the three of us have talked about this paper quite a bit there's so many things in there that gave us like oh okay that so that makes more sense right they're they're embedded that's why this is that's another aspect you can bring in so it helps build a bigger picture for people and fill in some of those blanks that we just haven't really had if that makes sense yeah that's great that's why i think people have been drawn to it because it it's it's helpful to conceptualize thanks for that yeah i thought people were just gonna like clinicians i was like if they get to it i thought they're gonna just toss it in the garbage too long too dense yeah not really like yeah yeah so you said something interesting earlier peter and for your the way that you guys framed this initially it was it was meant to spawn research questions and then you would plan to distill it down a little bit for clinical practice that actually makes a lot of sense to me because that was going to be something i want to talk to you guys about because people can try to compartmentalize compartmentalize anything right they can take these five e's that we're going to talk about and try to memorize those and say all right have i ticked the box did i do embodied treatment today did i do you know what i mean did i cover all the bases kind of like exactly how you guys were talking about in the paper biopsychosocial even though you've got this venn diagram where the three worlds overlap you still did i tick off the biological box and the psychosocial did i talked was i nice to him okay cool i did my psychosocial intervention did i tell them that their parent that their family member telling them their knee hurts maybe not a good idea okay cool i checked off the social box and then we could do it with this too these word these terms that we're going to go over the reason that this paper pulls on my heartstrings so much is because i see it as a parallel to the way that we tend to frame movement and motor learning through a dynamical systems lens and i know it's in there because you guys reference over james gibson and these these other uh researchers and and that are just kind of like forefathers of dynamical systems and ecological dynamics and these types of things and that's the lens that our community tends to use for movement and so now i'm reading this as a lens to to understand pain and this perception and action coupling that we talk about for squatting and running and sprinting and jumping and now we're talking about the experience of pain i fell in love right away because of that you