 and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, We also have the Clinical Athletic Forum, where we discuss and share ideas and resources related to athlete health and performance to join the forum or for potential listening on the Clinical Athletic Directory and for all upcoming seminars, webinars and events, details can be found on the website. This podcast can also be found on your favorite podcast platform and if that platform allows you to rate the show, we'd appreciate you taking the time to do that so that we can get this information out to as many people as possible. My name is Quinn Hennick, I'm a doctor of physical therapy in Orange County, California at Clinical Athlete Newport. On this show, we are joined by co-host Jared Maynard, who is the Clinical Athlete Continuing Education Director and a physiotherapist at Depth Physiotherapy in Waterloo, Ontario, Canada. He is also a strength coach and a competitive powerlifter himself. And we have our other co-host, John Flag, who is an athletic trainer and the powerlifting weightlifting and strongman coach at 301 Strong in White Plains, Maryland. And the owner of Rebuild Stronger, an online coaching platform for strength athletes. He is also a clinical athlete provider and lead instructor of the Clinical Athlete Powerlifting Certification. We are also very excited to welcome onto the show Dr. James Nuzzo, who holds a PhD from the University of New South Wales and is a former postdoctoral fellow at Neuroscience Research Australia. He recently authored a paper titled The Case for Retiring Flexibility as a Major Component of Physical Fitness. And that's what we're going to be talking about on this show. We hope you enjoy it. Dr. Nuzzo, thanks for being on the show. Thanks for having me. And I know that you prefer to be called Jim. So from this point forward, we will refer to you as Jim. But we wanted to get you on because you recently authored a paper that is titled The Case for Retiring Flexibility as a Major Component of Physical Fitness. And this always seems to be the concept of flexibility or that construct and then stretching as kind of an intervention, at least for our field in sports rehab and sports performance. It seems to be kind of a never-ending conversation. And this paper, I think, it was really, really awesome at asking some really good questions and getting us thinking about the topic. And it was a no-brainer for us to ask you on. So we're going to dig into that paper. But before we do that, can you tell our six listeners a little bit more about yourself? We might have seven, but usually if somebody says that we have seven, it means one dropped off. So we're pretty comfortable saying we have about six listeners at this point. But what's led to your current research tracks, your current interests in the field, maybe even getting into some of the impetus of writing this paper? Just tell our listeners a little bit more about you. All right. So my background is in exercise science. So I've got bachelor's degrees and master's degrees in exercise science. And those are from universities in the US, Flip-R-Roc University for bachelor's and Appalachian State for master's. In my master's, that was starting to focus more in on strength and conditioning sorts of research because I do have background as a competitive power lifter. It was not a very long career, but I do have a background in that and more strength, power, sports anyways, American football and that sort of thing. I eventually moved to Australia to do a PhD at the University of New South Wales in Sydney in conjunction with neuroscience research Australia. And what I looked at for my PhD was neural adaptation strength training. And then after that, I worked as a postdoc at Nura. And in addition to studying the things I was paid to study, I've started to do some side projects and this flexibility paper was one of those. And I'll give you this story on how it all started, if that's all right. Please. Yeah, please. Yeah. So what actually happened was I had no intentions of writing this paper. My interest in flexibility is not as really passionate as I think a lot of people, especially stretch gurus and those types. But what happened was I was working on a paper which is now published in the Journal of Applied Physiology. It's a corp review paper. So this is a series of publications that the Journal of Applied Physiology is putting out to improve reproducibility of results in science. And we were asked, myself along with Simon Gandivia and Janet Taylor, who are world experts in measuring things like muscle fatigue, muscle strength, we were asked to write this review paper for the journal. In doing that, we're talking about things like reproducibility of strength measurements, how to make them most accurate. And in building the case for just sort of introducing the concept of muscle strength, I was looking at the literature that correlates muscle strength with mortality rates and all the rest of it. When I got into that literature, there was this one paper published in 2002 in Medicine and Science and Sports and Exercise. It found like every other paper that muscle strength correlates with mortality rates. But what was interesting is that it had the sit-reach test in there as well, and it didn't correlate with mortality. And I think that's interesting because a lot of things correlate with mortality rates. Like it's not a lot of these measurements of fitness and performance. They'll usually correlate with mortality in some way. So I just found it very strange that that didn't work out. So that led me to do a little bit more on just looking at mortality. And I could find one other paper that looked at it, and it didn't correlate with mortality rates either. And then that just led to this spiral of me sort of getting interested in flexibility. And actually, is it all that important? Because I don't know about you guys, but I've heard people along the way complain about, oh, I can't reach down and touch my toes, but I can do this perfectly well. Or I can do this fine. And so there's been mumblings over the years about flexibility. But yeah, that was the initial step. And then I just got all in. I said, I'm all in. I'm going to look at it. And the more I got all in, the more I convinced myself that what I was doing was important, and people made it to here. Well, we here in the clinic, the narrative on flexibility is still very much alive. And obviously, we'll get into some of the nitty-gritty on defining terms and being a little bit more nuanced with contextual factors and what we are actually talking about when we discuss flexibility and stretching and these types of things. But one thing that I loved about your paper was the historical background that you provided from the beginning. I mean, the sit and reach test is 70 years old. But the notion of flexibility potentially being important in health and fitness, even dated back beyond that. And you give a really, really nice background to that. And it's just interesting to see how it evolved, not necessarily from evidence, but from just narrative and popular opinion, it seemed to be at least. But with that, the aim, so in section three of the paper, you laid out pretty plainly. And it says the current paper proposes flexibility to be retired as a major component of physical fitness. Can we kind of start at the beginning here and maybe trace back the construct of flexibility when it started to become on the radar for health organizations and why it started to be thought of as a major component of physical fitness and then maybe we can dig into why it's not necessarily? Yeah, well, to just very quickly answer the question why it was thought of as a major component, I don't know because as I lay out in the paper, the evidence was never really all that strong. So where I start in the paper is with Curtains, I think it's 1941 paper published in Research Quarterly. So Research Quarterly is a very important journal in the history of exercise science and physical education and even physical therapy. And this is where a lot of papers that have influenced exercise science sort of started from. For medicine and science and sports and exercise before the ACSM existed and so on. And Curtains paper, what he was looking at was it was sort of a review mixed in with some original data that he collected on swimmers and then some control participants. And I think what he demonstrated there was that the swimmers had higher levels of flexibility than the controls, which is not unusual. That's fairly normal findings from what I see. But what's so interesting about that paper, and I pointed that out in my paper, is that when he went to correlate swim performance with the flexibility, not only did it not correlate, he didn't even bother to report the correlations because he basically said, oh, there's no significant correlation. Yes, things just somehow evolved over time and people still just couldn't, I sort of guess, escape the fact that maybe it's not all that important, especially, and this is really important with my paper is the broader perspective and context is in relation to all the other components of fitness. So that paper by Curtain is the main one that got it going, really, at least as far as my historical understanding. And then over the time, the 50s and the 60s, you continue to have similar sorts of papers like cross-technal studies looking at sex differences in flexibility, maybe age differences and so on and so forth. You just find some of these commentary sort of style pieces that just sort of say how important it is, but yet they'd actually, if you look at the pieces closely, there's not strong evidence there. There was one interesting paper, which one was that? Holland in 1968 was one person who finally said something, oh, actually, the correlation probably is not as strong as we believe. That was a really good review paper that I found, but it didn't stop the momentum. So I think in 1980, that's when school fitness, well, I got to take a step back. So in the 1950s is when we got in the US, the president's group on physical fitness, Dwight Eisenhower was the president at the time. And the whole reason for that, by the way, which is another interesting historical fact, which is that the whole reason in the US that we have this president's count on physical fitness and we do school-based fitness testing is that in the 50s, there was a study published in the journal Research Quarterly that showed that American school students had lower levels of physical fitness than European students. And that included a test of flexibility among many others. So it just goes to show you how important and influential certain research papers can be. It was the cause of what we do now. I'm American, so I went through all those school-based fitness tests. And that paper is the reason why. So in 1980s, it started to pick up, the student reach was included in the manual for physical fitness testing, and it's been a part of it ever since. And I believe it still is. So just to anchor the conversation a little bit, we define and redefine flexibility in the paper with a couple of references as referring to the intrinsic properties of body tissues that determine maximal joint range of motion without causing injury. So with that, it can be a pretty nonspecific term, flexibility. So there's probably a lot of things that encompass the range of motion that is expressed. And you dig into that a little bit and you differentiate between dynamic flexibility, which is kind of our volitional motor drive of doing some type of movement pattern, or dictated by the muscle tendon stiffness and some of the properties therein. But at the paper, we're dealing more here with static flexibility. What we would think of as traditionally where we're not volitionally contracting the muscle and we're just looking to go to whatever that end range is. And you make an interesting point that that is subjective. Flexibility is, static flexibility is a subjective measure in a sense because you're really going to the tolerance of the person rather than to their true physiological end range. As in, if we could do like a thought experiment and you stretch to your perceived end range and then I snapped a finger and all of a sudden you were asleep or under anesthesia, you would hypothetically be able to go further. Then some type of feedback loop there would be switched off and then you'd be able to passively stretch those tissues further. Then I wanted to anchor as well as we talk about the paper, a lot of the narrative was based on the sit and reach test. Is that correct? That is correct. Do you want me to explain why that is? Yeah, I think so. Because then later on I'm going to ask, well, what can we extrapolate basically to flexibility as a whole? I'm not talking about other joints in the body, but yeah, let's start there. Yeah, so that's, I've seen on Twitter that's been sort of a bit of a criticism of it and I tried to address it early on, but the whole reason for it is because the sit and reach test is the test recommended by the ACSM for health-based fitness testing. It's the one that's included in school-based fitness tests in the US. That is the simple reason why and there's a lot of research uses the sit and reach when it, for whatever purpose, it's measuring flexibility. If it wants to correlate it with activities of daily living or whatever it is, the sit and reach test is I think probably the most well-known and it's continually used in research and in practice in terms of the fitness testing domain. So that's the main reason and I think it's going to be a fun about that, that it focuses. It's not exclusively about the sit and reach, but the majority of the paper is referencing papers that use the sit and reach test. Well, I also think it's important because I want to really get into one of the points I think that you've made really clear is flexibility seems to be task specific and you don't necessarily get more gold stars if you have more flexibility than the task requires and there might be other ways to train that provide you with the same benefit of increased range of motion other than static stretching that also provides you other physiological benefits. It seemed to be the crux of it and that's what really pulled on my heartstrings, but if we pull back from there for a second, I want to dig into the injury risk because we're John Jered and I are clinicians and a large body of our listeners are clinicians as well, student clinicians. It's still taught, we're not that far removed from school and flexibility was still a trait that was taught in school. We still test for it, passive testing. We got our goniometers in our back pocket, these types of things and we're thinking about not only providing them with more range of motion to be quote unquote functional to be able to do what they want to do, but also to decrease the risk of injury with static stretching, with providing them intervention to become more flexible. When you were doing some of your literature review and you were digging into the relationship with flexibility and injury risk, what were you seeing? What was the theme there? I would say the theme is that the evidence is not as strong as the common perception, particularly of I think the general population, but I think even amongst maybe clinicians who as well as you don't maybe you've been as much researched. To be honest with you, it's actually the least interesting part of the paper for me. I was interested in more of the other stuff because I'm not a physical therapist, so I don't deal out with injuries and that sort of thing. In the paper, I made the best effort I could to reference copperine reviews, which are sort of viewed as a very high standard of evidence where they consider all possible studies done on the topic and they evaluate the quality of the evidence as well. Because sometimes you can get a study that shows that stretching or flexibility levels do or do not correlate with injury, but then if you actually look at the quality of the study, it could be very poor or it could be very high. Copperine reviews tend to take that into consideration, but overall, there's just not a lot of strong evidence, particularly with the sit and reach test that it correlates with injuries. I referenced a couple of studies done in military populations where in one of the studies, and so what they would have done is they would have measured the sit and reach scores at baseline and then I think this is in military cadets, maybe going through basic training or they follow them up for a couple of years and look to see who does and who doesn't get an injury. I can't remember exactly which injuries they were looking at and that's all very important as well, but that'll be in the paper. What they found actually is that people with the cadets with the highest sit and reach scores were actually the ones more likely to get injured. There was a follow-up study, slightly different, but again in a male military population and what then that one found was that all was actually both the highest and the lowest sit and reach scores that were more likely to predict injury. So, there's that one, but what's interesting is that in females in the military, it wasn't predictive of injuries in any way and that's actually important because females are more likely to get injured in military training by far. That's like that evidence as well. So, yeah, I guess overall, the evidence is just not that impressive, particularly when you consider how strong the narrative is. There was two things that spoke to me as I was reading through and I kind of agree with you in that that section is not as exciting because it's just pretty much there's nothing to draw from it. I mean, again, your paper was so great at providing the historical background of these things. I mean, there's 300 references. I'm going to be pulling up your paper all the time just to cross-reference. But these studies, it just shows you the complexity of trying to identify risk factors for future injury when you have conclusions that are either contradictory or equivocal between groups where it's not providing you any nudge one way or another or it's correlational data where you don't know which way that that directional arrow is pointing and it's just a tough conversation to have. The other piece of it to me is, well, let's think about injuries that happen, especially in a sporting population or in the military. There's tissues being subjected to high forces and many times tissues being subjected to high forces at a high rate is then being statically flexible, the same type of trait because we talk about injury, we're trying to prepare the body. So we can call, we can simplify injury by saying, oh, the forces were beyond the tissues capacity to cope, whatever that means. But is reaching and touching your toes in a very controlled, slew manner allowing the tissues to just kind of accommodate the stretch, is that the same as sprinting and straining your hamstring under high loads done at very, very short time impulses or APOX? So it just says when we think about the plausibility of it, the physiological plausibility, that's also where I get hung up from an injury risk standpoint. I agree with you. I'd say section five was probably my favorite. And that's where we get into making a case for de-emphasizing, stretching in regards to exercise prescription. So if we're talking about flexibility, you set the stage of flexibility as a test, as an assessment, as a quality to test for, well, then there must be an intervention for it and that would be then static stretching. But you make a great case that static stretching is not the only thing that provides the benefits that static stretching provides. Can you go into that a little bit and maybe the case for some other types of training modalities? Yeah, so I guess to sort of just even take a further step back, I think people need to ask themselves, why do we do these physical fitness assessments in the first place? What is their purpose? And once you understand what the purpose is, so in my mind, it's to gain a sense of main information about the individual to then guide their exercise prescription, at least that sort of, to me, the main purpose, to identify potential weaknesses that can be improved. So that's how I sort of have made the transition in the paper from, oh, well, actually, if flexibility as a fitness component isn't correlated with a whole lot, then we need to take a look at stretching, which, so for the ACSM, for example, the main purpose for including stretching in a program is to improve flexibility. It doesn't really, maybe it says something about injury risk, but as I've shown, that's not really a valid claim. So if flexibility is not all that important, then maybe we don't need to have stretching. So that's the whole link there. It's possible stretching could be doing other things that might be important other than improving flexibility, but as I point out in the paper, that needs to be examined, and then organizations need to change their sort of narrative around it to say, oh, look, it's not just improved flexibility, it would be to do this, this, this, and this. But that's not being done right now. The main purpose of stretching is to improve flexibility. So what was the next part that I was supposed to get into here? Oh, yeah, so other modalities. So yeah, that's the whole thing. Is that it's almost like we're hung up on this idea that static stretching is the only time that muscles and tendons are lengthened or the only prescription you can provide someone. And that's just not true. Our muscles and tendons are lengthened when we do everything. We walk and squat. And so in the paper, because I've got a background in resistance training and measuring muscle strength. And again, this was not something I knew prior to getting into this paper, but resistance training. Again, this assumes you're having your clients go through full range of motion, which is what you're supposed to do with resistance training. When they do that, they can, for example, improve their reach scores. So I make the case that, look, even if you are interested in improving flexibility, even though I've demonstrated it's actually probably not all that important, but let's say you still hung up on it and you still think, oh, there's got to be something there. Well, that doesn't necessitate stretching as a prescription. I think in the paper I report, I don't know, 10 studies that have shown resistance training improves sit reach scores by somewhere between 10 and 25%. It's not as good an improvement in sit reach scores compared to static stretching alone. But who cares? I've just explained that flexibility is not all that important anyway. So it's just sort of a compromise, I guess, to say, look. I'm trying to be a bit humble here. Maybe there's some things we don't quite understand about flexibility that make it more important than I'm realizing. But even if it is, you don't have to do stretching to improve it. Well, I think you do a great job of being humble and getting that point across. In addition to section five being a great section, I really love section seven, where you make it very clear what you're not saying. You're not saying that no one should ever stretch, ever. The main argument is that this should be maybe revised as one of the main components of physical fitness. And maybe move to me a secondary thing and going back to what Quinn said, the flexibility that someone needs to have to perform a particular thing or engage in a particular sport that's task specific. So if someone doesn't have the flexibility to, I don't know, have a really nice efficient freestyle stroke as a swimmer, maybe they could engage in some sort of thing to improve that, but then again, like you've just gotten finished saying, it doesn't necessarily have to be stretching to accomplish that end. If the person enjoys it, sure. But I think also going back to what you said about the narrative, the strong narratives attached to this. As clinicians and researchers, we, not that we're researchers, but you are obviously, we've got influence over how people think they need to spend their time. And given that we can't manufacture any more time than we currently have, I think it's important that we tend to lead people in the direction that allows them to maximize the use of their time to the end of performing what they want to do as well as they might do that thing.  and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, for gym sessions or whatever the case may be. To me, that's a very inefficient use of time to take, let's say, five to 10 minutes of that 30 minutes and use it for static stretching. Because I don't wanna say the only benefit of stretching, the only well-documented benefit of stretching is improved flexibility, right? You might get some other stuff out of it, but what I put in the paper is, look, you can actually improve flexibility with exercise modalities that simultaneously cause more robust health improvements, so improvements in cardiovascular health, improvements in muscle strength. So that sort of individual, that general overweight person who needs to start exercising, I think we just need to be very honest and say the person needs to get moving and do stuff and stretching is a very passive, we're talking about static stretching, it's a very passive activity, and I'm not saying it doesn't have other sorts of benefits, but in the, my paper is all about looking at the big picture. And for those sorts of individuals, I just think it's a huge waste of time. If you take five to 10 minutes out of a 30 minute session, whatever it is, now, at the same time, again, this is where I try to be a bit more humble, maybe that static stretching is that person's favorite part of the whole thing they do in that 30 minutes. And if that stretching is what leads them to do the other 20 minutes of cardiovascular work, then fair enough. That's where you gotta just deal with people at an individual level, but as far as the recommendations go, and I think actually over the years, anyways, the stretching recommendations, I think have started to sort of decline as the evidence really hasn't piled in like people thought. So I think we're sort of maybe even getting there anyway, but I don't know, maybe my paper will speed up the process. I like the point that you make there regarding the personal preference, because that's one of the rebuttals that you'll hear. What if they just like it? And that's fine. I mean, people ask me all the time, well, what about stretching? And the first thing that I say is, do you like it? And if they say not really, that I say great, because you probably don't need to do it, we can actually get those same benefits. It's exactly what you laid out in your paper. If they say, yeah, I actually do, it feels nice. It helps to relax me. Let's say after a workout, or even as like a nighttime wind down routine. They do their stretch routine on the ground. It helps them get into that sleep mode. And I say, that's totally fine. We educate on what it's providing. Maybe more importantly, you educate on what it's probably not providing. So don't prioritize that over this stuff. So this stuff has to take priority to move the needle to wherever we're trying to go, that those other things can fill in the gaps if you like it. But just be more, the goal is being more realistic about what it's doing and what it's not doing. And like Jared said, I hope people read the full paper, because it's part of the last part, but it's part of what you say that you're not saying is that nobody should stretch, or that stretching doesn't do anything. It's just having a more realistic conversation. That's right. And in one of, I sort of always when I'm writing stuff, try to reflect back on my personal experiences. And I used to do a ton of stretching when I was in high school and playing sports, but mostly because that's what I was sort of constructed to do at the time. But let me give you an example of how, and it relates to the relaxation component. So, those people who are really sort of against stretching, one thing they might say is, never static stretch before a football game, for example. And I think I'm pretty okay with that. But when I was playing high school football, we used to as a team, go out on the field course beforehand, we did some of the dynamic movements and of course our football specific movements. But we also did a period of where we were doing your typical sort of team static stretching, right? Where you partner up with someone. And it's possible that doing all that stretching may have decreased our performance, it's probably not. But what was happening in that time was basically a form of meditation. So I was partnered off with one of my best friends in high school who, he and I both were starters. So we would have to communicate with each other. And during that period, you're hearing the music going, right? The crowds filing into the stadium, you're talking with each other about game planning and that sort of stuff. So this is where I try to just, I hope people don't get too confused. It's like, look, there can be all those things that are happening while you're stretching that could, I don't know, maybe help you perform it. I don't know, but in this case of sort of the relaxation and maybe sort of the Pilates and yoga realm as well, I think that's probably a lot of maybe what's happening there. I think we just sort of need to pin down. Like for example, the ACSM is not recommending stretching because it is a form of relaxation and good for your mental health or something. They're recommending it because it improves flexibility. So what we need to do is sort of refine our knowledge and understand maybe for those people that they're saying it's really good for them, okay, well, why is it good for you? And then what actually are the potential negative consequences? Like what might you be giving up as a result of doing that and not doing high load resistance training? Well, that comes back to talking about what kind of context goes around this highly specific activity. When we look at stretching, it's just a very specific thing. Its effect is to increase flexibility. However, just, I love the football example because I remember the same thing, right? There's like a power of ritual there where you're connecting with another teammate and you've got communication and you've got a social aspect that's involved there. So there's a lot of context that comes into an enhancement of the actual activity beyond its own specificity. I mean, you could say the same thing for something like strength training. Strength training on your own is great. You'll get the benefit out of it that you'll see from specific strength training, but a community environment around a supportive team tends to see people get stronger. Now this is all anecdotal type stuff, but when you're in that team environment, there's contextual factors that help kind of enhance what's actually happening. So I understand that completely. And I think something that's important to highlight here is we're talking about a highly specific task. And when we compare it to things like strength training or full range of motion movement, we're talking about another specific task that also has tertiary benefits like increased flexibility. And that's when we start talking about task dependency. You guys mentioned a sit and reach test. I can't for the life of me bring my arms very far behind my back. Is that probably an adaptation to my bench press? More than likely, because when my bench was lower, I've had better shoulder flexibility than that. So you have to take that into account when you start addressing this with people, especially in a clinical setting, instead of saying, oh, I think that's the one thing that we run into a lot is telling someone they're unhealthy or dysfunctional because they lack a range of motion that in all honesty, may be arbitrary. Yeah, so if I could add a couple of points there. Please. Historical perspective. So one of the reasons for Curtin's paper in 1941 and some of the early work on flexibility was they were concerned about what they call, quote, muscle boundness, which is what you're describing. Lifter is bodybuilders, getting so muscular that they can't move. So that was actually one of the main drivers for looking into flexibility. And yeah, I mean, that's, and look, I'm the same way, although not sort of as big as I used to be, but I can't for the life of me do the back scratch test very well. And I think that's a test that needs to be reevaluated. What is the significance of reaching around your back? When do you do that? I mean, I know it's sort of meant to be a general measure of shoulder flexibility, but that particular test, I didn't really even bother to look into it because I just think it's a bit silly. Hey guys, Quinn Hennick here. In light of our conversation with Dr. Nuzzo about stretching, I wanted to take this opportunity to give you exclusive knowledge of our new product, the StretchBand 5000. With this new innovative technology, you will be able to achieve the flexibility that you've always dreamed of. You can pre-order your StretchBand 5000 by making a deposit of $1,000 to my Venmo. All right, just kidding. In all seriousness, we do hope you're enjoying the awesome discussion with Dr. Nuzzo. And for real, for real, just in case you hadn't heard, Clinical Athlete is teaming up with a level up initiative and putting together the first ever CalLU Summit on September 19th, 2020 in Boston, Massachusetts. We decided to come together on this because let's face it. Clinical practice is hard and conflicting information can leave you feeling lost. With the endless amount of research and dogmas, clinicians may feel frustrated and confused about how to help their patients. The CalLU Summit is your solution to help you gain the confidence and clarity with key rehab principles, including exercise prescription, pain science and communication. We're centering these concepts around three common clinical cases that you may encounter. ACL reconstruction, low back pain and tendinopathy. Gain confidence in your clinical practice and find your path to success and hang out with a bunch of badass providers from our communities. For more information on the summit, head over to CalLUSummit.com. That's C-A-L-U-Summit.com. You can also find the link in the show notes. Hope to see you there and now back to the show. Just wanna jump in about adaptations and I agree, I think we hear these narratives come up often enough where a clinician might be assessing someone or even a coach for that matter and find that someone can't perform particular movement or test to whatever those standards are and say, oh, well, we're at higher risk of injury or you gotta change that, otherwise we're in a bad situation. But if we were to look at a major league baseball pitcher, their throwing arm almost certainly is more stiff than their non-throwing arm. And is that a bad thing? No, it's adaptive more than likely. It's probably why they can play in the big league or same thing with, I don't know the technical name, but rowers who have got an or on one side, they're probably gonna have some sort of imbalance or difference in terms of their flexibility on one side versus the other. And do we need to alter that? Probably not, because it's helping them in their given sport. So I think that, again, as always, context ends up being an important thing to discuss and we have a hard time making accurate blanket statements about this sort of thing. Yeah, so if I can jump in on specificity really quickly, the thing to keep in mind, again, with all this is, so flexibility, like the sit and reach test, it's really a surrogate measure. It's not actually the performance itself that you're interested in. It's the same thing when you measure, well, unless you're a competitive powerlifter, you're one RM. You're one, a one RM is, again, non-powerlifters, is a surrogate measure of performance or a vertical jump, for example, the vertical jump test. No athlete, for example, is performing the exact vertical jump test in their game. So it's a surrogate measure of performance. So the reason I've taken that up is this notion of specificity. So for example, if in a research study, and let's say it's an elderly individual, you wanna see what fitness measures correlate with activities of daily living or some other measure that's a bit closer to being an actual activity of daily living, so maybe an up-and-go test or something like that, if you think that up-and-go test is so important to look for a correlation of flexibility between it, then why not just prescribe to people up-and-go tests? Or if that's what you think is so important, why bother trying to indirectly increase that test or that performance by improving flexibility? Why don't you just practice the test? So this is something that's coming up in the strength literature right now, is well, where we're getting a bit hung up on what is muscle strength? How do you measure it to sort of be most reflective of performance? There's a lot of this now with sort of measuring vertical jump height as well, like why can we get better measures of actually, in terms of athletes, like in-game performance rather than these surrogate measures? And again, I think that's another thing to keep in mind with flexibility and the sit and reach. It's not actually your daily performance. Well, I don't make a point that I'll forget about, but just to defend maybe some of our female listeners, the only time that in clinic where it's been relevant, reaching behind your back, is for some of my female patients who have shoulder injuries and donning and doffing certain garments, but I just, it popped into my head because in case there's some female listeners that say, hey, I have to reach behind my back, I say, okay. But there's not a lot, aside from that, there's not a whole lot where you're doing something like an athlete's scratch test. But we talk about specificity and looking in the paper in section 4.8, you actually list a bunch of references and some interesting findings there per sport, where for example, swimmers exhibit greater hamstring flexibility and ankle planar flexion, shoulder flexion, trunk extension makes perfect sense, based on their task. Dancers have more hamstring flexibility, hip exterlitation, abduction, ankle planar flexion makes perfect sense with what they do. Weight lifters have more shoulder flexion than bodybuilders and power lifters. And power lifters and bodybuilders actually have less shoulder flexion than the general population. So then we go back kind of full circle to what John was talking about. And you know, what if John comes into the clinic and says, hey, my performance is really high in power lifting, but I can't do my, like to say his job is some type of manual thing where he has his usual shoulders. He's like, I can't get into positions. I say, okay, well, do you wanna, but his goals are maintain maximum performance and power lifting also be able to do my tasks and say there might have to be some give and take there. And you're looking at these sports, the other piece of it is, what if you just do the sport? Will you then adapt to these types of things? If you're looking for more range of motion to be able to do the thing, what if you just do the thing? And we're assuming that the training is appropriately dose the variations are such that they're modified in ways or if you can't do the very specific task of the goal, they're layered so that you can do somewhat of a variation that resembles that. And then you develop this specific flexibility over time. And if you're just one of those people who genetically, you don't quite have the trait, you're probably gonna get trimmed out of that pool anyway. Like as much as John wants to be a world-class gymnast, he's too big. And, and- Why you gotta crush my jeans, man? Or like, you know, with me, my bias, all this stuff is speaking to my bias, mostly because I've always hated static stretching since I can remember since kindergarten. It was, I hated it. It was the worst part of gym class. You're reaching forward to touch my toes. Like I get that neural tension back there. I just absolutely hate it. And I just never had a lot of excursion. I have more now, but I've also been competing in the sport of weightlifting for 10 years, which necessitates ranges of motion that are more extreme. And my flexibility has gotten a hell of a lot better without static stretching, just doing that type of training. But, you know, I just think that maybe some people are wired up for certain things and the sport almost chooses them more so than they train their body into the sport, or at least it works somewhat in both directions. I don't know, the sport specificity piece of it is always interesting to me. Like which way does the arrow go? Well, it's just- Yeah, just quickly, I'll just throw in there. I know it's cross-sectional data, for example, on swimmer's versus controls, or dancers versus controls, but it just actually speaks to the notion of, so I do think, I agree with you, there will be some, you know, different people have different biological propensities that make them sort of go in those directions, but it sort of speaks to the notion that you don't have to do static stretching, per se, to improve flexibility. It's likely someone could get involved in a swimming program or a dancing class or a gymnastics, and by practicing those movements, they would improve their flexibility without actually doing prescribed static stretching. So that actually sort of relates a bit to the later part of the paper about doing other exercise modalities that would have other benefits. Like if you were doing, you know, swimming, for example, you'd get the cardiovascular stuff. If you do in gymnastics, you get strength power or adaptations along the way, so. I think some of it too is people don't, they don't quite understand the training process. It was like, it takes a while. So if like, I went to a dance class and I tried to do something that involves kicking my leg really high, the first time, I'm gonna be like, oh my God, I need to go stretch. Like that would be my first inclination. Like I can't do this. I need to go do something different to now be able to do this. But when you think about it, no, you can just keep doing this, but just go as far as you can if the body's adaptable to whatever your structure will allow over time, you'll be able to kick higher and higher. It's like, I always give the example of when you warm up, you go into the gym and you've got squats, and you do that first air squat and everything hurts, and you're like, oh Lord, I need to go warm up for my warm up, and then you go off and you do a bunch of non-specific things where if you just stay in there and just kind of keep working into that squat 10 or 15 minutes later, you're actually feeling pretty good. And you kind of stuck with the specificity of the thing. Now my example with me in dance class would require much more exposure and there's a ceiling there, but I think maybe it's just that wanting it to happen, like realizing your deficit, and then thinking that you need to do something extra to get it fast, instead of just appreciating that you are here now, and that if you just kind of keep exposing yourself to this thing, it will improve over time. Now it's easier said than done on the outside, but. Yeah. Well that hearkens back a little bit to what he said about time, and it's something that we mentioned in the course quite a bit, is time matters. It is January 10th right now. That means nine days ago, a ton of people decided that they were gonna set some goal that means something to them, and 50% of them have probably already stopped. And their number one reason for New Year's resolution is to stop, is time. It takes too much time. I'm in the gym too long. This is too much. And if you're inserting things into your training program that take up time, that like Quinn said, he doesn't enjoy stretching. It's okay, so why put it in there? If it's getting in the way of something that's gonna get you a result that has other benefits, then why put it in that timeframe? If we're talking to people of the gen population or patients or something that are on a time crunch, if they enjoy it, 100%, I understand completely, but if they don't, why are we gonna waste that time? Hey Jim, you mentioned that you've, one of the criticisms of the paper, not actually remember what we said, I brought something up and you were like, that's a common criticism that I hear. Oh, it's just the fact that most of the researchers on the sit and reach. A question I wanted to ask you was, what else since this paper has been published, what are some of the questions or the common things that you're fielding, that either you addressed in section seven and people didn't read or that maybe, or maybe more things beyond that, common questions or rebuttals to the paper itself? So I'd say overall the feedback's been positive. I've got to say, so I've published over 30 some peer reviewed papers and I've gotten more sort of personal messages and emails about this paper than all my other papers combined, which sort of demonstrated to me, oh wow, like this is something people are still very much interested in and still debated. The vast majority of those were positive, but that could be a bit biased because maybe people that have more positive views on something are more likely to reach out to you rather than to tell you how terrible a person you are. But most of it's been positive. Yeah, there was, and even when it's been, has a slightly sort of skeptical tone, which is perfectly fine, I'll mind that. Even when it does have a skeptical tone, I think people still appreciate maybe the scope of the review and most of what it's saying. See, one of the problems is that some people have only read the abstract, so they don't quite see all the nuances. So the paper is very nuanced and it's also quite broad and sort of philosophical as well. You've got to look at the totality of the picture in the paper to sort of see what I'm getting at. I think I had one person email me saying something like they had some sort of injury and they found that stretching was very beneficial for them and blah, blah, blah, and then a couple lines later, they say, oh, but I didn't actually read the paper, I only read the abstract. I'm like, mate, come on, you're coming at me without even reading the whole paper. And then they've then proceeded to provide me links to I think maybe their personal business or something like that. But overall, look, I think a lot of people sort of in your shoes as well, people who personally maybe weren't good at the fit and reach are finally like saying, oh yeah, I'm okay, someone they can't do this. But it actually, it is very interesting that, so for example, if you think of the US based fitness test in schools, there are people who do very well on all the tests except the fit and reach. And to me, that said something, like I think I take those tweets pretty seriously, I think that's important. They're clearly a very high functioning as far as physical performance goes individual, yet they score poorly on this one test of maybe the problem isn't their low flexibility, maybe the problem is that we've made more out of flexibility than it really is. And this, by the way, is done, I point this out in the paper, this is done on a large scale when we teach students about looking at norm charts related to flexibility and it's some sort of below this level, then for sure they got to do stretching. It's done in research papers. I cited a couple examples where in some older papers, it's just a bit silly, I think people are losing perspective. There was one paper that was studying maybe like elite field hockey players versus control on different fitness measures. And the hockey players have lower flexibility levels and the authors got a bit concerned about that and we're saying all this is sort of evidence that they need to improve their flexibility or something to improve their fitness. And I'm like, what are you talking about? These are elite level players. Like there are some of the most physically fit individuals in the world. So I just think, yeah, there's a bit of loss of perspective and I hope, yeah, people that are a bit unsure of, you know, if you sort of look at the title and just the abstract of my paper, you might not realize how sort of nuanced everything is. So I'd encourage people to read it all. The other thing I need to just clarify is that I'm very sort of explicit in saying, in using the term major component of physical fitness. And that's a really important thing to recognize because what I'm referring to there is the ACSM components of physical fitness. So there's five of them. I don't think we've said this yet. So it's really important. One of them is flexibility. One is muscle strength. One is muscle endurance. Then there's cardiovascular endurance and body composition. So those I've turned the five major components of fitness because ACSM is a very influential organization. And the fact that they have sort of marked those as being the five go-to ones, I think that's important. And what I'm demonstrating in the paper is actually when you look at all the other components, the other four, flexibility does not even come close to being as important for health and function than those other ones. So yeah, it's important to recognize in the paper, I'm saying major component. It doesn't mean that flexibility isn't important. It could be sort of like a secondary component. And maybe we need to have bigger picture discussions on physical fitness testing, which ones are the most important and then which ones are maybe the more secondary ones. Because I can think of tons of tests that would be better than the fit and reach. Anything that involves actually moving your body first of all would be a good start. And we said probably specific to the task because those hockey players probably have a surplus of range of motion in certain areas and deficits in others to accommodate their sport, like Jared was saying with a major league pitcher. And to your point about the totality of the evidence, you do.  and you present evidence that also, if you read it as a standalone, would be evidence in favor of static stretching. You are presenting, one thing I appreciate about the paper is you're presenting the evidence. There is evidence on a sliding scale. That's how I kind of conceptualize the totality of the evidence. Where am I nudging? What am I nudging towards? And then it's a cost-benefit, it's opportunity cost. Based on the current evidence, am I getting bang for buck for this thing or is this thing worth testing? Is it giving me information to then guide my treatment? I think that's the, to me, was the message of the paper. Well, this has been a fantastic conversation. I hope that you are able to voice and express what you wanted people to get out of reading this. I hope it's a compliment to reading the paper and they can actually listen to you, explaining the thought process behind it. And I think it's gonna be really, really helpful and get people thinking about stuff, coach, clinician, athlete, general public alike. Where can people see more of your work, potentially connect with you? That type of thing. Well, probably the best avenue right now is through Twitter. So I think my Twitter handle is James El Nuzzo, so N-U-Z-Z-O. That's probably the best one. If they're interested in reading more of my research, I've got a Google Scholar page and can also put my name into PubMed as well. Research gate as well? Oh, yeah, sorry, research gate. James El Nuzzo, yep. We'll link all that stuff in the show notes. And actually, I wanted to ask, cause I was looking at your research gate and I actually had pulled a paper on Cortical Spinal Excitability with Strength Training. I don't wanna read that, but in the very beginning of the show, you mentioned that you were doing some stuff with the Journal of Applied Physiology, like a multi-part kind of thing. Is any of that published yet? For TETF? Yeah, so that was published early last year. So, the name of the paper, I'm gonna see if I can, so it starts with the initials, C-O-R-P, Cort, because that stands for, I believe, something along the lines of core issues of reproducibility and physiology. And then the subtitle is something along the lines of measurements of muscle strength and voluntary activation. Cool, okay. That's published in the Journal of Applied Physiology. And that's a very large, broad review on muscle strength and voluntary activation, how we measure it. What are some of the caveats of measuring those things to make the measurements more reliable? Awesome. Thanks so much, Jim. We really appreciate you coming on the show. We'll link all that stuff in the show notes. This has been great. Thank you. Thanks for having me. Thank you. Appreciate you coming on, man, that was great very much. Thanks. ["Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy"] ["Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy"] We'd like to thank Jim for being on the show. You can check out the show notes for links to all of Jim's work and the paper that we discussed on this show. And of course, thank you to my homies, Jared Maynard and John Flag for steering this ship alongside me. And thank you, the clinical athlete community, all six of you, for joining us on this journey of knowledge and improved practice in both the gym and clinic. If you want to dive even deeper into the clinical athlete community, you can check out all that the clinical athlete forum has to offer, which includes our clinical athlete, academy courses, amazing discussions, and networking with professional clinicians, coaches, as well as students, and just our overall hub of knowledge in regards to athlete health and performance. Thanks, everyone, and talk to you soon.