 gregul. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. RETA. R reasonable effectiveness with our clients using things that are variable, but maybe not super fancy or super sexy. We probably need to set that expectation from the start, which, Jared, you mentioned that with your point about titrating exercise and communicating that to our clients, saying we might overdo the dosage. Here's how we're going to manage this. We got a lot of things that we can adjust, but also I think that if we communicate to our clients that we don't have to get overly fancy, and by the same token, as clinicians and clients, we'll be putting our heads together to figure out are there any sort of bases that we're not covering? Are there any skills or task demands that we haven't exposed you to yet? If we can make sure that we're doing all of that, that's what we need to do. We don't need to necessarily go above and beyond just because the return on investment in terms of time and effort may not be there, but I think it's part of the challenge that we're dealing with as clinicians because many people are coming in to see us with that expectation, either explicitly or implicitly, sort of in the back of their minds, just because they've seen it on the ground. Yeah, you know, I love everything you just said. It really resonates with me, and a lot of it is, you know, I think people really gravitate towards complexity, both on the clinician practitioner end, but then also on the consumer end as well. I think from a clinician perspective, it's more of like a pride or this, we're trying to kind of harness our, to a certain degree, egocentric state. And so we feel like, okay, well, if I'm more complex, it means that I'm likely smarter. I'm like the savior, so to speak. And then, you know, with that, though, it kind of detracts, as you said, from our ability to have this very specific stimulus or stress that we're placing on a tissue and understanding the outcome. And so we have less intent if we have a lot of complexity. And it's kind of superfluous with no specific meaning or no purposeful meaning to it. So, yeah, I think it's all about expectations and having that conversation with the patient and saying, hey, this is the plan of care that we're going to go with. We understand our principles. And I tell this to my athletes all the time. We understand our principles. If you get a little bit of discomfort, a little bit of sensitivity, then I don't want you to be alarmed. I'm not alarmed by it. We're just going to adjust the dosage appropriately, as you said, Quinn. And then, you know, we'll continue to progress down the continuum in regard to, you know, manipulating other variables such as velocity or such as making things unpredictable or making things, again, looking at like that control to chaos continuum, whatever it is that they need. Totally. Yeah, I'd argue that it takes a more skilled clinician to sell people on the simplistic but effective approach as opposed to the clinician who's using a whole bunch of newfangled things that are flashy and shiny that people just, you know, might perceive more value from but may not actually be there in practice. Yeah, they're devoid of any particular outcomes that I just don't think are, or maybe not outcomes is the best word, but they're devoid of the very strategic influences to the tissue or to the organism that are going to be conducive for durability, longevity, adaptability, whatever you want to call it. When you've both talked about, if we go back to the example of pogo exercise, and you've got, you've posted about this exercise, you've got videos on your Instagram about this thing. So that can be modified and varied. So there, that's a, it's a simple exercise, but there's a myriad of different ways to vary that stimulus. You can change the vectors, like you already mentioned, going single leg, double leg, you can put a sprint at the end, or like a, you know, some type of crossover sprint or whatever you want. So starting, starting simplistic and constraining the task and then layering on complexity within that is still something that we can do. So it doesn't all have to be snooze and snooze and exercises and just like super boring, mundane things. But it's like what we've mentioned, if you're setting the groundwork education wise, right up front, then at least the expectations are met that like, you know, we got to put the work in, you know, it's kind of that blue collar mentality going into some of these, some of these phases. I really wanted to talk to you about this is the phases of rehab as a contextual framework to help you dampen some of the noise and focus on the relevant variables for the individual athlete for their particular goal activities. Can you talk a little bit about what these phases are or how you conceptualize them over the course of a rehab process? And then within that, can you talk about how key performance indicators or KPIs guide your progression as you go through these different phases? Yeah, absolutely. So phases of rehab, and like you said, I try to make sure that I'm thinking, but also relate this to the athlete that they understand this isn't a black and white, there's going to be some gray area in there. And there's going to be a little bit of a degree of uncertainty just because of the fact that the human organism is going to, at every, every day, any moment, any time is going to be variable. I mean, that's, that's the norm. Variability is the norm. And so these are just, again, a little bit more of a guardrail. And they, and they allow us to make sure we're checking off boxes appropriately before we start to manipulate any of the, the intensity, velocity, frequency of movement or exercises. So the first phase is what we, what we would call homeostasis restoration. Basically that means how do we restore quote unquote normalcy to the system? How do we allow people to regulate stress a little bit better? Well, if I'm already in this state of high sympathetic because of a potential injury or pain, I'm likely going to have less movement options, which again, is one of the principles that we discussed earlier. So what I want to do is say, how do I get them back to this parasympathetic state so that when I start to stress them, I can actually go up. I think Michelle Bolin kind of uses the analogy of like an elevator. If I have one through 10, if I'm already at nine, then I can do one or two things. I can only go, I can only go to 10 and it's not going to be a lot of room, but, or I can go through the roof and that's going to have negative consequences as well. So homeostasis restoration is trying to say, how do I make sure that I get someone all the way back down to the bottom floor? So now I can escalate up nine more levels and be able to tolerate and accept stress. So clinically that looks like restoring range of motion. Being able to emulate and have locomotive capabilities without any considerable deviations, being able to have, for lack of better words, activation to the specific tissue. I'm thinking if we're thinking of a ACL reconstruction, then I want to have observable quadriceps contraction that's volitional. So that's the homeostasis restoration. And then, you know, from there we look at athletic foundation. Athletic foundation is going to be where we're trying to restore and provide people back the options for movement patterns, such as push, pull, hinge, squat, rotate, and a little bit more of the locomotive patterns, such as marching. We might start to get into some skipping as well, because we're looking at this from an athletic standpoint. We know that eventually we want to get to sprinting. So we're already starting to bridge the gap with some technical proficiency when we're looking at the hierarchy of sprinting considerations. We can start to implement that early on. So those are going to be really where we're just getting body weight, capacity, and competency through more of their metabolic conditioning circuits, where you could do, you know, sled push, goblet squat, and some kind of upper extremity pulling exercise as well. Just general conditioning for the entire body globally, but still making sure we're not losing sight of the localized tissue that they're in the clinic for. And then after the athletic foundation, we kind of transition over into the biomotor integration. This is kind of where we're really, really getting after it. So we're thinking more of the output. We're thinking of how do we start to use a little bit more of, I would say, conjugate training, where we have complementary qualities that we're going to be focusing on. So we might focus a little bit more on truly building strength, but we can also implement some power with that as well, because we know what the upcoming phase that we need to make sure that that person can not only exude power, but also tolerate the power output that they're going to be displaying. Because if I have a lot of power that I'm dispersing, can I also tolerate the input, thinking of absorption versus production. So biomotor integration is going to be a lot of the strength, power, speed. We're going to get into some sprinting. With sprinting, there's certain considerations that I think about in regard to what are the prerequisites to be able to get into sprinting. I'm looking at localized tissue capacity of gastroxoleus complex, because it's going to be a huge muscle to allow you to have force production or be able to propel forward, but also it's going to help out with dampening forces with ground contact time, especially the soleus. I'm looking at their overall unilateral competency. I'm looking at their ability to have gone through the continuum of plyometrics. So can they go from a jump to a bounce, a little hop to a pogo, to a single leg pogo? And then have they gone through some of the locomotive escalating demands of stressors? So we're looking at can they go from marching to skipping to a little bit more of the sprint-specific skips that are still, yes, looking at the technical proficiency from a posture locomotive standpoint, but also we're still stressing the tissues, but just in a reduced velocity or tissue excursion standpoint. And so that's the biomotor integration. And lastly, we look at going through the phase of performance actualization. So that is where we have this cognitive perceptual ability to be able to handle fluctuations and making decisions on the fly. So it's less react. It's less anticipatory, more reactive. It's more unpredictable. It's more change of direction oriented. It's going to be something that really emulates the tasks that they're going to be exposed to when they return to their specific or chosen sport. So for them, what variables can we manipulate that really make sure that the biomotor part replicates what they're going to be immersed in, but also the bioenergetic part. So it might be a little bit more speed strength. It might be a little bit more a-lactic or lactic for a lot of sports, especially field sport. Or, you know, for me, a lot of the track athletes that I work with as well are going to be a little bit more of like the a-lactic and lactic. Obviously, it can be higher or excuse me, it can be a little bit lower as well if they are more of the middle distance runner or someone that has like this sport that doesn't require a lot of speed. But I would argue that most sports will need that. And so those are the phases, homeostasis, restoration, athletic foundation, biomotor integration and performance actualization. And when you look at it, even with that health performance continuum, they really are kind of in line with that. We start with health. Let's just make sure we get the aerobic capacity. We restore competency. We increase their confidence. They have variability and they have this general physical preparation. They're doing things that are sustainable. And then we kind of slowly shift the spectrum to now it's performance. So we're looking more at some things such as, it might be a little bit more rigidity there because again, it's very specific to what it is that they're going to be performing. Not rigidity in regards to the expression or the execution of the task, but more so rigid in the approach that we're doing in order to, the approach that we're doing in order to be able to emulate the task. And we're looking at things that might be a little bit more unsustainable because we know sprinting isn't unsustainable, but we've laid down the foundation with the prior phases or really focusing on health.