 thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby thereby and the assumption is you haven't adapted to that. Back it off, find the right dosage, treat with the poison and then adapt to it. It's movement homeopathy. That's what it is. That's my new joke. That's my new one. I'm running with that. I need a t-shirt. That's what we do all the time. What are you having trouble doing? Okay, do that, but do less. Yeah, yeah, for sure. It's true. I had a patient today. The inside of her ankle hurts when she runs. It flared up, but she did a 20K run at speed the other day, so it's not too bad. I'm not going to change her running technique. I've known her for years. She's not changing it. She's not tolerating those movements. All right, well, these are some of the exercises you're going to do, the thing that kind of hurts. That's what we did. Well, in two weeks, she's doing other stuff initially, and then she'll do that. Right. Yeah. In those cases, do you find you get the question that, hey, what should I do? I'm having this issue. What should I do? Do you ever find yourself rebutting that to say, do you need to do anything? Would you be okay with not doing anything to address this issue and just letting it be? You ran 20K. That happened. Your body's now telling you this, but it will likely not be telling you that if you just give it a little bit of time. Do you have those conversations with people? Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. And they often will email me, and they'll have that conversation with themselves, and they'll like, so I know you're going to tell me to back off a little bit of running, but still do some. And they always write that. So I know I'm doing my job because they just don't fully have as much confidence in themselves as they need to. And so, yeah, that's a really neat concept of therapy. It's like a tendinopathy. We always think you've got to load up that tendon hard progressively, and it'll heal, or it'll build new collagen, and it'll be able to tolerate the tendinosis. And what we've never really had research studies on is like, well, what if we just back off of what they're doing and they love to do, and then use, like say it's sprinting or running, and then use the sprinting and running as the intervention to catalyze healing, you know, back it off a little bit and then slowly start sprinting and running again and change up those variables to stimulate the person to adapt. We never have studies on that, except in the hamstring, sorry, hamstring strains. It's the, what do they say? It's like, it's sprinting is the vaccine, right? You tear your hamstring, hamstring sprinting. So we're going to rehab you with sprinting. Right. That's a dose response, right? Yeah. So that's where mechanics matters, but it's not always the quality or how someone moves. It's like how much they're moving. Do you, do you tear that at all? So we take the sprinting comment. We're getting way far afield from lumbar spine, but that's kind of like, yeah, flex a little bit. You can't, you not flex. It's going to happen, but whatever makes you feel strongest and most comfortable done. Yeah. There you go. With sprinting's way cooler. With, with something like sprinting, do you, do you tier your approach in what you recommend in that? So dosage is kind of, kind of king. It doesn't really matter how you're moving. If you do a hundred sprints at RPE 10 constantly, then, you know, it doesn't matter how, how you're moving. And that's going to supersede biomechanics, just, just dosage, just workload alone. There can be that argument. But within that, if we modify dosage, there are technical aspects of sprinting that, that can, that can change strain on a tissue. Like a sprint coach would say, if you're, you're reaching your, your base, your contact point is in front of your body. We get that contact point underneath your body a little bit more. So now you're kind of pulling in more of a mid range hamstring, as opposed to that, you know, extension of the knee and hip at, at terminal stance, something like that. But that doesn't supersede the dosage. So we've got to get that right. Do you, do you have that type of mindset in regards to symptom modification or conversations? Are you kind of just blending both? So it's, I shouldn't have brought up sprinting. It's, it's actually the one where like, like sprinting and ACLs and stuff like that, where I think when tissue gets so like, when the loads get so close to its failure rate, that's where I actually think the mechanics probably matter more or they matter a little bit for the, because it's such a fluke occurrence. Anyway, if they're right at 99, 99.5% of their maximum threshold, and they move a little bit funny on one stride, right? Then they're in trouble. But if you, if you probably worked on their sprinting technique and they had more of a buffer, then when they make that little error, maybe, maybe they're safe. So that's where I wonder mechanics might, might matter more. And sprinting is a good one. I think ACL tears probably have the same idea. Like you definitely want to get strong in the quads and the hips and all that stuff. And that's probably enough to avoid the dynamic knee valgus. But maybe there's a few like, especially young girls where you can train their movement patterns too, to not to go into that dynamic knee valgus with no knee flexion. It's, it's the knee flexion. That's the issue. Like it's, you can, you can go into valgus all the time. If your knees flexed, then you won't tear your ACL. But so, sure. I just went from the spine to hamstring to ACLs to, but it's, it's, it's all those, it's those, I wanted to do to avoid the depends things and give you some examples of where the mechanics probably matter there. But again, going after you said, yeah, the dosage probably the more important thing. Do you find, do you feel that the, that same conversation would include lumbar discs in regards to spinal flexion and lifting, or does the literature maybe not necessarily say that because there's so much spinal flexion that occurs naturally with some of these tasks? So my bias with the spine is the same as every joint. Like to me, it feels like we're end range of every joint is probably a little bit harder on everybody. Right. And like when I do back hand springs, getting, catching the ground with your hands fully, fully like your arms fully overhead, that's pretty hard. And it limits the number I can do. If I can get my chest over my, my hips over my body more and not catch in that position, I can do more. So I think the spine is the same, like teaching to avoid 100% under heavy load is probably reasonable, but like with dead lifters, even really good ones, we know that they flex their spine 70 to 80%. Right. And squatting is 50 to 60. So, I mean, I, I, I, I think that's fine, but it's just an end range that I would argue. I don't think repeated spine flexion like that is so bad when you're doing 60, 80%. It's just, it just doesn't seem like it's so horrible. And with dead lifting, how many times, how many reps would you guys do in a week? If you're training hard? I know you'd never think of that. It was the time under tension. How many reps? Gosh, something like 20 to 50 probably. Yeah. Like who cares? Do you know what I mean? Like there's nothing. Yeah. It's like, like, and how many, like with sprinting, how many steps do you take in a week? So much more like 20 to 50. And then you have all that time to recover. Right. I just, why are we worrying about this?