 You've spoken many times regarding, regarding, what seems to be, but is most likely, a false dichotomy, as most things are, between, the movement, quote, movement, quality model, and the, quote, movement, optimist model, You're more an advocate for the movement, optimist model, but can you speak a little bit about what that is, and why you tend to advocate, to that, over alternatives? Yeah, so, first, I would, like, challenge the term, movement, quality, and, yeah, so, first, I would, like, challenge, the term, movement, quality, I want to even take that definition away from the classic definition. So, I mean, the classic way it's defined is the kinesiopathological model, which means like we have pain or injuries or future injuries when you move the kinesio, when you move in such a way that's different from a proposed ideal. And that ideal in general is like more being neutral, like alignment, no scoliosis, don't deviate, not a lot of spine flexion, that sort of idea. Like that's the kinesiopath model. If you're running, your knees shouldn't cave in. If you squat, your knees shouldn't cave in. You should minimize hip internal rotation. Your scapula shouldn't wing. It shouldn't shrug. You know, that's the kinesiopath model. And some people would say, well, that's movement quality because that's how you should move. And I would contrast that with the movement optimism model, which is like all of those positions are okay to some extent. And it kind of depends on what your goals are and how well you can prepare yourself to get into those positions. So it's more like, and so me being pithy, like I say, movement preparation trumps movement quality. You know, that like how we move, that you've prepared to do something. So I think we've like freaked out over these biomechanical boogeymen. And like we're ignoring the variables that are more important would be like if you're going to deadlift. Well, it doesn't matter what your technique is like. If you just jump in and start doing 12 sets five days per week with poor sleep and poor recovery. You know, that's just that's the no one would do that. But let's say you have some idiot that does. Someone's done it. Sure. Sure. Yeah. It's my rock climbing. Would you say on the other side, there are patterns that emerge when you're exposed to a repeated stressor? Let's just say lifting. There's a there's an economy of movement that emerges over time for an individual. And and we can maybe coach somebody into that economy of movement or. Yeah, totally. I mean, we we still have a huge role for performance specialists and strength coaches and technique advocates. But, you know, you like nailed it. You said it's about economy and about efficiency and performance. And so maybe like biomechanics and how we move is probably more important for performance than for pain and injury would be the argument. Right. And so but I'm still I'm still again on the fence. I'm sure I do have instances where I would say like how we move is important even for injuries as well. Like I boulder or rock climb. And when I jump off of stuff, it's certainly better to land on my feet than to land on my hands, you know, or. And there's probably a better way to land like a lot of motion through my knees and my hips and my spine rather than landing stiff, you know, and not and not absorbing that. So, you know what I mean? Like there's still there's there's still better ways to move. And it's not totally irrelevant. But the things that we've been harping on for years, those are the things where I'm like, ah, they might be important, important at the extremes. Like it's if it looks pornographic, like, you know, the Supreme Court definition of pornography. It's hard to define, but, you know, when you see it. And so, like, maybe if you have like pornographic movement patterns, you're more likely to get injured. So I don't know if that they've come up with an FMS sub score on a pornography scale. Great coast listening. And no doubt. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. That's the new version. We are coming out. It's a it's a pornographic capacity and a pornographic quality. And we thought of it first. It cost 400 bucks. We just we just lost half our listeners. But it's not the first time we've talked about the FMS on this show. So and then the other follow up question is, if you if you see that type of egregious movement, can you even do anything about it? You know, again, it comes down to the context of the situation or do you need to? Do you feel that there are adaptable ceilings? Because I know with with the movement optimist model, it's about let's let's embrace adaptability. Let's embrace uncertainty, but embrace adaptability. And I don't think we give we don't give our bodies enough credit for what they can absorb and adapt to. With that said, and I think you kind of touched on it a little bit. Do you feel that there are still kind of adaptability ceilings for certain structures or within certain patterns? Absolutely. You know, and that's that's what we need to know more about. It's like how different tissues and people respond to load and and when we need to back off and when we need to go go ahead. Like I used to run a lot and I would get around, you know, 80, 90 kilometers a week, you know, 50, 60 miles. And that was that was trouble. I'd start to to break down there or like with gymnasts. You know, so actually, if we let's have another way of looking at movement quality here, I call movement quality having a lot of options to do the same task. That's what I like when I see a good mover. I was in Florida teaching with Brian Bouchette and he's a kid across the box and gym and he could just move however he likes. It's like beautiful, classic technique. But then he could do he could move any other way. And so to me, I'm like, if if if we do have an adaptability ceiling and you want to keep training, then ideally you can start moving a different way and unloading those tissues as they recover and keep doing other stuff that that kind of makes sense to me. That's the new movement quality to me is like keep training number of different ways and then keep adapting and spare some tissues, give them a break and load other ones and and build up. Right. That's my bias is like I definitely think there's a limit to adaptability. So train differently sometimes. Pretty groundbreaking. Yeah. Sorry. Well, the have options for the same task is, I think, defined. Movement variability is that's like by definition. I think I've seen that in literature several times. I have have several options to perform the same task. But you're and it's that finite window of your variability is constrained when you first learn a task. But there's it's like a bell curve. It's like too much noise, too much variability. You can't quite hone in on the skill too little and the system is too rigid. But there's that kind of Goldilocks zone that comes with just deliberate practice and learning and time. Enough time to adapt. Yeah.