 frank, so I guess what opened was what I, we were actually just talking about a few minutes ago, and we talked about this off air a little bit. And first would like to welcome everybody to the first ever, the Adaptable Business Series that clinical athlete is hosting, and this is based on the feedback that we got from the community. We launched a first initiative a couple days ago with putting Jared Maynard's pain science course out to the public for free, and we've already had over a thousand people enroll in that course, which is pretty awesome. And so hopefully that's helpful. It's still up for free to just go to the clinical athlete Instagram or check your email, and you can take the course and use the code community. But a lot of the other feedback that we've gotten from the community is from professionals who their lives have been flipped upside down based on the current circumstances, and it's happened very, very fast. And so they're looking for ways to transition their previous model, literally the model that people were using two weeks ago to run their businesses, and transitioning into something that's innovative, creative, agile, and help to keep them afloat in the short term, but maybe even better, give them some longer term strategies that are allowed them to be more flexible in the future, even when some of this stuff starts to normalize. So we came to Frank first with this idea, and he jumped on it and we're extremely, extremely grateful to have him on. And he came to us with the theme of how to be creative to save your business. And as we were talking a little bit offline, planning this thing, Frank mentioned how this has happened so quickly. And so clinicians are saying, okay, online stuff or innovative solutions, what platform do I use? Do I use this platform or this platform? And they're looking at features, and we're thinking about this in a mechanical way, whereas we want to maybe shift that to what creative or innovative strategies can I actually use? The platform just takes care of itself. They're all somewhat the same. So I want to stop there and just get Frank's initial thoughts on that and just how you've been seeing things play out over the last couple of weeks. Yeah, absolutely. I'd like to start with just a little bit of the background so that people know where I'm speaking from, because I'm not somebody who got into business and had a straight road to success. I'm not sure how many people that exist, but mine was far from it. And I could relate to your situation right now, because here in New Jersey, 2017, the governor made a change to the way certain insurance plans work. And within a matter of eight weeks, my business went from being extraordinarily profitable to severely at risk. So I have been through this granted on a different scale on a different timeline, but I'm not speaking from somebody who just hasn't been through something similar. I feel like that's really important to know that I understand the pressure and the feeling of, am I going to be able to provide for my family? I've lived through that. I've gone sleepless nights where I wasn't sure if I was going to be able to pivot in time. And ultimately, it was those experiences that led me out of the brick and mortar space, sold that company to pivot to something I always had full control over. And that's what I have with Counterstrike. Counterstrike is a fully online platform that caters very specifically to the needs of combat athletes, because that's the niche I care very deeply about. And my main concern for our population, our PTs right now, is just as you said, we're so obsessed with the mechanics that you have to, if you don't know how to do it, we do need to spend some time on that. But my concern is that what's going to happen is there's going to be a short-term bridge that gets built by just simply going online, where your existing clients are going to give you the chance. They're going to say, okay, I'll stick with you. I feel, I know your world just got turned upside down too. I'll ride this out with you. But in about two weeks, four weeks time, they're going to ask themselves, is this worth it? Is it helping me? Is this making a difference in my life? And from the bits and pieces I see on social media and also some conversations I've had, I'm not confident that that's the way most people are going. So the, what we have to do is really put ourselves into this new reality of where our clients are and think about what problems they're experiencing and adapt and evolve the product. So we cannot simply just go and do the treatments they were doing online and try to do them in person. That would be serving you, not the client. And if your product is you just watching somebody do bridges and saying, okay, do 10 of those and 10 of these, that's something that you built for yourself to maintain your business afloat instead of putting yourself in the position of the client and saying, what should I do? What should I do to serve them? And I'll give you just one last example. I'll break and see if you guys have any questions or if anybody in the audience has questions. Counter strike itself, I pivoted hard last week. So I'm already a fully online business. There's no in person at all. But the needs of my clients changed drastically within a 24 hour period of time. So think about my main product went from preparing fighters for fights. That's what we do. And then it moved towards I need to help people through a quarantine. And we pivoted every single resource around that. So instead of periodized programs that are designed to have somebody peak on a fight night, we moved to towards two a day full body workouts, either with just body weight, body weight and band body weight and band plus one dumbbell. We adapted our mindset and psychological aspects of the training to be more about coping than aspirational. So a fully online digital business, I had to change everything in 48 hours. And we did. And I'm lucky to have a team behind me that helped do that. And our clients appreciated it. It's the point where we haven't lost a single client. In fact, we've actually gained one since because we pivoted and serving so deeply the needs of our population right now. What do you think the first action item is Frank? Is it is it simply having a conversation with your clients who maybe just don't even know that another option exists? Because I know, personally, I've also lost my clinic is shut down here in California as is, you know, all non essential businesses. And a lot of my clients just didn't know that anything online was an option. That's just not how they, you know, kind of wrap their minds around the service. And for a couple of them, it was that surprise. It was like, Oh, yeah, you know, I'll do something like, like that, if I can still, you know, have your services. So what's for people who are just overwhelmed with the entire process? What's that next first step? Okay, I'm going to give you three steps. So the first step is to literally list every problem you think that they have right now in the realm that you can influence. So you think of your people, the people you're treating right now, we're just talking about the population you already have. What are their current problems? Step two, think of solutions to those problems. Step three, how can you offer them a product that's salt that provides those solutions, solutions, sorry, problems, solutions, products. And if you go through that exercise and actually help involve them, get them involved in that process, they'll tell you what they want. And, you know, so for example, with me with counter strike, I realized that they needed structure and routine. And this is not something we normally provide. So it's we, we pivoted the app and built in habit tracking with things like, you know, what time they're going to go to bed and what time they're going to wake up. And with any of the platforms that are being discussed, true coach, all of them, there's a way to build in a simple feature like habit tracking that requires no new credential. It requires no new education, well, not claiming I'm a sports psychologist. But that simple little tweak of saying, Hey, listen, these are really uncertain times. I could imagine that in addition to your rehab related stuff, there's these problems I'd really like to, to help you with that. And I believe that I have a solution if you'd like to just learn more about how I can help you digitally, not only with continuing your knee pain, but perhaps getting you exercising during this crazy time, making sure you're eating healthy, sleeping, regimen, whatever it is that you think you are is in your skill set to intervene upon, but we need to expand outside of just resolving pain in this short period of time. That was actually going to be a follow up question. I don't want to jump ahead, but a lot of the rebuttals that I'm seeing online, in the PT space in the lots of healthcare professionals, chiropractic, massage therapists, for example, any professional that has their business is kind of relied on services that require contact, literal contact in this case, but, you know, different manual therapy techniques or modalities, things like that. And those people feel stuck. I don't want this to become a conversation of that versus something else, because that's the reality is if you can't see somebody in person, you can't do that stuff, period. So for those people who seem stuck, now is it about kind of shifting a mindset now to kind of what you say, okay, what other problems? Now I can't try to solve problems with my manual skills, per se, as a clinician, but I can try to solve problems in other ways. Right. So I think there's a twofold answer. The first part is, how can we get creative and replicate the same stimulus? So is it simply buying a foam roller pack? You know, I'm going to buy you, if that's the ideology that the person treats in, and that's what the client is used to, can I buy them a lacrosse ball and a foam roller? And what I'm going to teach you is how to do these things at length to replicate some of the stimulus that we actually had together. They're going to give you the chance. They're going to realize this is a patch to get you through that next in-person session. The second is evolving to the next layer of skill set and does open up the philosophical debate of believing that your education is your most powerful tool. And it's not to say not to do manual therapy or not, because that's not where we're going with this. But a lot of the clinicians that are struggling, in my opinion, are the ones that their belief system is anchored in that the only value they have is their hands. So then they have to face the reality that they are the value, the relationship with them is the value, and that the client likely just cares most about this first pillar, maintaining the relationship. And then if you could bring yourself to evolve your belief pattern to know that the words you use is an intervention, that movement is an intervention, that you could teach people mobility and teach people to do things in new and innovative ways, that those are interventions that are absolutely in your scope of practice, even if you were identifying as a manual therapist prior. I just want to jump in here real quick. Sorry. I just want to reiterate what Frank's talking about here with my business. One of the first things I had to do with strength athletes, we had all of our meets canceled. Everything everybody was planning for and training for has been pushed aside to this point. Open nationals for me is now in August instead of May. Everybody's had to pivot. And we've gone from some people having a home gym and some people only have in body weight stuff. And I immediately had to switch from, okay, we're going to squat Monday to how are you doing with this whole process? And changing from coach coach to support and coach. And it's been a big thing and a change that's been very important for my athletes to know that somebody is still there watching out for them. And that's, it's kind of this vein that's been kind of stated a couple of times. And I just want to make sure that that gets through. We have to pivot to a point where our communication skills and the relationship building skills becomes a highlight and part of our service and part of that product. And we need to be there for people. And that's going to be part of your evolution. If you can evolve that, then I think you're going to be able to provide quite a value to people, but also quite a product. I just wanted to reiterate that real quick. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I think that what we've, what we've done in Counter Strike was become the rock that people can lean on during this time. And that has nothing to do with preparing them for fights. You know, I pivoted just as much as somebody else will have to, will have to pivot. Granted, there, there's a leverage point there that my mechanics of being already online made that easier. Frank, is there a, I'm not sure if you know this, this piece of the kind of the online thing, but as far as I think some people are a little scared of the legality of telehealth and especially here in the United States, every practice act across state lines is different. Most of them say nothing about telehealth. I mean, hell, this, this scenario has been here, been around for two weeks. And the practice acts are way older than that. We've been complaining about that model being updated for years now and let alone the last couple of weeks. So do you have any thoughts on, on the legality piece and what to, even if you're going to consult a, a administrative attorney or something like that, what questions to ask them or what questions to ask yourself, any logistical considerations with that? Yeah. So the, what I would say is my opinion is that having conversations around certain topics does not violate your practice act unless you cross a certain line and you start proclaiming that it is an intervention on an ICD-10 code. So if you start saying that we're going to build you meal plans to help with something that's going on in their, in their body, you are now crossing the line. If you simply start saying, hey, no, it's really difficult nowadays to, to, to, to be more consistent with your food. Are you eating healthy? Do you want to, do you want to start having conversations about like, what's, what's healthy food or not? That's a normal conversation that would have happened if you were standing next to them on a plant stretching them or between rest state, rest breaks on from working out. So my advice from a practice act standpoint of the ancillary services is make an effort to move into those conversations, but just be mindful of not trying to replicate, you know, you're not a psychologist, you're not a nutritionist that doesn't prohibit you though from having deep conversation around the habits of those topics from a straight physical therapy perspective, which may be more of what your question was asking. There's lots of unknowns and the answer I'm going to give just because it's, it's the reality because when I first started this process, I spent many thousands of dollars on, on lawyers trying to help me decipher and the reality is is they couldn't decipher. We are in the unknown and there's a risk profile and you have to take the risk profile that matches with, with what you have internally. It's no different than the stock market or some other investment. You're going to assess your, your risk profile and then take an action in line with that. So if you're very concerned about that, you need to then absolutely make sure you're staying inside your state boundaries and checking off the boxes that we know are known. And that is, and I know people are thrown in different wrinkles like, well, can I bill insurance? And then that's a whole nother conversation. And then we're probably getting into the, you need to, now you need to talk to your board, you need to talk to the third party payers. That's a, that's a different, that's a different conversation potentially. Yes, that's very different. Yeah. But if you're looking, if you're doing these services out of network, it's, you know, I've invested in lawyers and they've all looked into it. It's been the same thing. It's like, there's, what makes it difficult is there's not a whole lot of things that are very clear about what we can do, but there's also not anything that's very clear about what we shouldn't do. There's not really a boundary there to be crossed. And so I think it's what, for me, it's what Frank has described as it's a risk appraisal and being, you know, just honest with yourself about what you're able to provide and being honest with, with the person about what you can provide at this medium and what you can't. In this, what I had done in the past was had them list an in-person provider, like who do you see in person? I need a physical therapist's name that you can see in person. Because if you, you know, start coming to me with the, we have to manage pain or injury, I'm going to refer you to that person. May or may not be an option now because most PT offices are closed, but you know, potentially a primary care doc, like having, making sure that they have a, a network that's local to them, you know, if those bridges need to be crossed. Yeah, we're in a gray area for sure. And I think that people are going to have to decide where they fit. If they're completely risk averse, the answer is to shut down and wait until you could go back to the absolute clarity. If you have a moderate, you know, risk profile, you can absolutely continue to treat in a state that you're licensed in through, through our virtual platforms. And then if you're more progressive and I sit there is I'm not going to deliver just physical therapy right now. The other things that I'm delivering, I'm also not calling, let's say, nutritionists and psychologists. I am simply providing lifestyle coaching and other things that are just normal behavior change that we, that's completely appropriate for physical therapists talk about. The other resource I would say people need to tap into more is their local state boards. You know, so Nancy Kersh, who is the, the director of, I can't remember her exact title, but she heads up all the ethics related things for New Jersey. She is the most responsive human being around. If you just email her and say, Hey, I'm thinking about doing this. She's going to either give you an absolute no or a vague pass. She's not going to like give you the check mark that you're looking for, but she'll help you understand. Now I'm sure there's somebody in each state that's like that and our networks are so small. If you, if you have access to somebody in one of the educational platforms or on the APTA, you should be messaging and calling them because I'm sure they're more than willing to help. And I had one of my colleagues reach out to Nancy and said, Hey, I'm thinking about doing this. And she gave advice. So you don't need to be making that decision alone. And then in the chat here, Will Butler chimed in and said, he remembers talking about a clinician who to avoid the patient provider area, called them all quote unquote clients. Now this, he says this provider had non-clinician credentials like coaching certifications, those types of things that can maybe kind of double, but it's worth a consideration. Now I would say my thought to that is my understanding is you're held to your highest license. If, if something were to go down, you know, none of this, it's like, when you think about it, you could say none of this matters unless somebody puts a lawsuit on me. But then when they do that, it's like, what do I have to fall back on? And my understanding was your health to your highest license. So I don't know if just because you have a personal trainer or coaching certification of that would then separate you somehow from being a clinician, but I definitely know most will have the client sign some type of waiver saying this is health and wellness service. This is not a diagnosis. This is not medical care. This is not physical therapy. I practice physical therapy in the state that I'm licensed. This is, this is a kind of an adjunct, you know, thing. And that's an, yeah, that's kind of informed consent with that as well. Yeah. So I mean, I do those things too. I have two layers of when somebody signs on for performance coaching, they, there's a single checkbox right at checkout where they press purchase and it says, I acknowledge I'm not purchasing a healthcare service and all this other stuff. And then on our longer, more legal form, they do that again. The reality is, is you will always be held to the highest level of your license. The argument becomes, you know, if you are operating in a state in which you're licensed, I would argue that having generic conversations around these topics is not violating your practice act. So you would only be not covered by your HPSO and my interpretation of it, which I'm not a lawyer, but if you are actually violating your state practice act, which is technically no different than, you know, the rules and regulations you're held to in person, because right now you can make the argument that there's no other way to deliver care. Yeah. So, and then with that, Jake says, are, are you only cash-based or do you have any guidance regarding insurance companies that might reimburse for services trying to keep my job right now? That's what he says. And Jake, you know, just, just touching on what we talked about earlier with the insurance, things are changing almost on a daily basis with what they're allowing. That has to be a conversation with the third party payer. So with each state, that's going to be different as well. So, you know, we're all four in different states, all five of us in different states, you're in a different state, you have to check with those third party payers to see what they're going to reimburse and what they're not going to reimburse. Now, I will say also, if you're looking to bill insurance, then you're going to want to make sure that the platforms that you're using are HIPAA compliant because you're a covered, quote unquote, covered entity when it comes to HIPAA compliance. And so then using softwares like Zoom or Skype, maybe not the best idea versus something like FizzyTrack, which Frank might talk about as far as platforms or something like DoxyMe or PT Everywhere, these platforms that have built in telehealth. But yeah, and so you say we've been in constant contact with them every day. That's the best you can do. It's, yeah, that's my thought. So I'm an extremist and the reason I'm going to just acknowledge that before I answer this, when the health insurance cut came in New Jersey, we had payroll literally in the millions. And I'm not formally business trains. My business partner then was also a PT. So you have two PTs with like a million dollar payroll and an eight week notice. And then from that point forward, I said, I will never not be in control of my life again, because I had thought I was in control. I already owned a business and I thought I had escaped the medical system because I was 100% right to access. But the reality was is that I didn't sleep for weeks. I wondered if I was going to be able to provide my kids with the lifestyle that they got used to. I wonder if I was going to have to sell my house. And I swore that I would never be under anyone else's control ever again. And to a large extent, I think a lot of you are going to come out of this feeling the same way. And my opinion is that you need to take this opportunity to pivot hard to cash. And the reason why so many people don't succeed in cash is because your product is not worth paying for. And I'm sorry if that offends anybody. But if you have something that's actually life changing and something that people like really depend on and need and feel of value to their life, they're not going to cut it out regardless of their personal financial situation, unless it's very, very severe situation. So by pivoting to cash, it puts the pressure on you to create something that's meaningful enough and impactful enough to actually get somebody to pay something. Because it doesn't matter if the guy down the block sells it for $20. If you're still in his category, you're only like you're not exponentiating your product, your service, what you're doing. You're just getting marginally better than somebody else who's shitty. So you can't just be better than a mill because mills are garbage. You can't go from that to being better. You have to be in a completely different class. Counter strike doesn't get asked any comparisons because the way it presents and what I've built is not in comparison to any of the shitty insurance based services anymore. So my personal bias here is take this as an opportunity to get out of insurance based care. Jeff asks an interesting question related. Do you friend, do you provide super bills to people if they want to try to reimburse those services to insurance? I personally do not because I want no correlation between my worth and insurance companies assessments of my worth. It's an interesting question now because I people, I would say maybe 10% when I was when my clinic was still open, I would say maybe 10% of my patients request a super bill because I'm completely out of network as well. And out of network doesn't mean cash based out of network. Technically you're still contracted with insurance companies with their out of network benefits. So I'm gonna step beyond that all cash that I'm completely separated from that. But people would still ask, can I get an invoice with the codes and then I can submit to my insurance company? But that was for in person services. Now I've closed my doors about a week ago and haven't actually thought about providing a super bill for that. I wouldn't have a problem with it. I would put the same codes that I would that are appropriate. But I would just tell the person if that insurance company hasn't caught up with the scenario and they're not going to they're not going to see a telehealth visit in state as something that they're going to reimburse for then they may not reimburse for. So I always tell my people that I won't give you the super bill but I can't guarantee reimbursement that's completely out of my hands. I would just double down on that statement in this scenario. So I take that statement even once that further and say I do not work with insurances even in the out of network realm because I always want to be able providing you with the service that I feel is what you need with no influence from the insurance company whatsoever because they're rarely in line with what's best for you. Lauren's got a question here about insurance for the provider clinician coach and maybe this is a question to the entire group. Should we have separate plans? So some type of HPSO or some type of liability insurance as a clinician and then some type of liability insurance as a coach almost kind of like as a separate entity. You guys have any thoughts on that? God, John. No, I was just I was just clearing it out. Oh, I thought it was like your cue to me to not enter. No, no, good. So I carry two. So I have one as a physical therapist and I have another one from a different company that's a straight trainer policy specifically an online trainer policy. So I have HPSO, which when I talk to them, they say as long as you're acting within your practice act, we cover telehealth for the states that you're licensed in. Then I have my trainer my trainer my trainer license. I'm sorry, my trainer coverage.  if I am training anybody outside of the states I'm licensed in, I absolutely can be sued as an unlicensed physical therapist, even if you have them say I'm not doing physical therapy. So there's essentially three levels of protection you could go to. You can exclusively treat in the states that you're licensed in. You could get a compact license, which I highly recommend everybody does because then it just tax on the new states as it gets rolled out. Or three, you could forfeit your license and practice unrestricted nationally as an actual trainer, but that has to be the product. I am trending Counter-Strike towards that. So I have every intention later this year of forfeiting my PT license. And the reason why is because I've evolved the product to the point where it is not by definition physical therapy. Yet I truly believe it's the fullest expression of my DPT knowledge and the good part of fitness encroaching into our space and there being movement correction, corrective exercises, and all of these other things that fitness professionals really took ownership of is that I truly feel I could do the absolute same job that I'm doing now, but with slight tweaks and workarounds so that I could do my product entirely nationally and grow a massive product base. Many of you it's not needed. Just make sure you get a PT compact license and you'll be licensed in 13 or 14 states. And then as that grows it will eventually be national in a couple years. I want to come back to that because I think that's a big point, but Doug Kikijin has got a good point here. I think it's based on something that I said earlier. He said that I work with an Out of Network billing service and the guidance they've received from insurance companies is that each individual policy needs to be checked to verify if remote services are covered. Most out of network plans aren't covering it so be careful advertising that you can use normal codes like their X-Manual. Well I wouldn't use a manual code if it was online because that would obviously be a farce, but my thought was that I can just put what I think is the appropriate code, but if they don't cover it they don't cover it. So that was kind of my statement of doubling down on I can't guarantee reimbursement with this, but you're in my state. I'm acting under the scope of my license so I've not actually given an invoice to super bill somebody who I've done an online consult with because it's only been a week, but it's a good conversation that he had. And Jeremy says it depends on who's underwriting the plan because in his search for liability insurance for the person, clinician, and the coach I heard it both ways covers for telehealth and multiple licenses. So I guess it just comes down to talking to the insurance company and saying what am I covered for? Here's the services that I want to potentially provide within the scope of my license. What do you cover? Now Taylor's got a good question here Frank that I think comes back to the theme here which is ultimately how to create creative and innovative services to to flip your model and be more agile in the future. And so Taylor asks it's good and well if your ideal clients can afford to pay cash. What if a significant portion of the people I want to provide services to couldn't afford to pay cash? And Taylor maybe as Frank is answering this and we're getting some thoughts on it, elaborate on who that client base would be so maybe we can have a better idea of how to answer the question because it does it kind of depends on what what are their wants but I'll let Frank take it. So I would say that what's great about my business is that I speak and provide directly to probably the population with the least amount of money in all sports. So fighters get paid at the professional level 10-15 thousand dollars a fight at the UFC level. They're so broke. It's so true. At the beginner level of the UFC like they made it their professional athlete they're getting paid 10 or 15 thousand dollars for three or four months worth of work. At the recreational and amateur and early pro level that I'm at they get paid 1500 dollars to show. They often have to train full time. They often only have a job that they teach classes two or three days a week. I've had people when I first created Counter Strike I was with somebody in person who literally opened their paycheck and said coach I'm not sure if I could afford it. And then he ultimately signed up two weeks later because the value that I was providing was so exponentially worth it. So there's there was nowhere else for them to get the combination of services that I put together and keep by it was all me. It was just me and habits and strength training and corrective exercises and mobility. This is I didn't do anything that any of you can't do. All of you to tomorrow could help people eat a little healthier. You could prescribe some cardiovascular exercise. You could prescribe some basic lifting and you could develop habits that you think will change their life. That's essentially what I did reverse engineered for the needs of my population and we have people paying and it's the value that's the issue. If they're not willing to pay the value needs to change. Taylor expounds on that and she says it's high school kids. High school kids are the demographic that she's talking about post-op high school kids. Go after the parents. Yeah I mean that's they're the decision maker so the the kid isn't deciding not to pay or not or to continue. It's the parent so the parent needs to see the value and that's how we build value is by speaking to problems and aspirations and I could go into that a little bit if you guys think you would like me to because I think this is how you create a creative product is by looking at the landscape from the problems through aspirations. I'll just go through that. So there's deep. No I think you should because we have another question here. How best do you define value then from a performance background? What defines a truly elite coach? I think we're going to answer a couple questions here if you define how to to do this sort of thing and how to really show value to people so go ahead. So when you could identify what people really care about and there's deep internal psychological problems like depression, body image, anxiety, self-worth. Those are things that only we can know and we feel right so that's at the bottom. Then there's these obvious external problems and that might be an injury that might be pain that might be movement limitations that might be stiffness those those type things. Then there's peripheral problems. Peripheral problems are really outcomes of the the external problems. The peripheral problems are like can't train or can't in my world can't get their next belt, can't fight. It's not really the problem. It's an outcome of the problem. The injury is the problem but the outcome is also viewed as an issue as a problem. Then we have on a positive side everybody has a goal in mind. Goals are short term highly attainable things like something you could do in the next 10 months. Run a mile, run a 5k, run a marathon, lose 10 pounds, you'll lift a certain amount of weight, compete in sport. These are goals. Aspirations are things that are attainable but take tremendous consistency and a duration of time. So for a beginner runner an aspiration might be running a marathon or it might be competing in a certain tournament as a weightlifter. Then we have moonshots. Moonshots are that thing that like you would never even tell anybody you're dreaming about but maybe I could win. Maybe I could compete in an amateur tournament and win. Maybe I can make it to the UFC. That's a moonshot. Counter-strike speaks to all of the problems and the goals, the aspirations and the moonshots. So when you could take a step back and you have the psychographic profile to understand all six of those layers and then you very calculatedly reverse engineer the solutions to what they need which is individual to your specific niche in your people. Then figure out a way to package that and that becomes your product. Again with the mainstay being your DPT knowledge and whatever it is that you feel like your specialty is, that's when you create value. Nick I think that answers your questions about essentially how to put yourself on the forefront, how to rise to the top. Taylor is mentioning that the families, we'll go back to this and actually I'll take a step back. If you guys go through the chat because Danielle Crute gave a really nice pointer here and she just said that if you're going to do telehealth, if you're going to give somebody a super bill for a telehealth visit, you're going to change the location and add a modifier. So scroll up in the chat and just read that because that's really, really helpful information. So Taylor says tons of families just don't have the cash to shell out a couple hundo a month and the mill down the street might be better than nothing for the kid because it's not fair for their other five kids to go hungry etc. So the one kid can get high value care, so the one kid can get high value care. Also what if I like working with workers comp, low income folks with chronic pain etc. It still comes down to perceived value but maybe you have to change your model a little bit. Let me get your all thoughts on this. So if they can't, because I get you just can't literally can't afford it, it's pay a couple hundred bucks a month or don't pay the electric bill or don't buy food for your kids. Like some people are in that scenario. Now if you're talking about post-op, you know they're paying, now they're going to be paying a lot of medical bills and hopefully insurance covers some of that but maybe you've got to change the model to shorter consults that are less expensive. I mean I'm even saying it to the extreme of 15 minute phone calls for 25 bucks a pop that they do once a week or something like that or twice a week. Where it saves the, maybe they see you for half an hour or for an hour just to like formulate the initial plan, make sure that everything looks good like this, if it's post-op you know all that establish a baseline. But then it's short consults that are a little that are a lot cheaper but it steers the ship, it continues to steer the ship in a positive direction so that then when they can come back and see you for more expensive longer session there's still progress that have been made. So you might just have to kind of flip the manipulate like the time variables and to help with cost. I want to jump in on that real quick too if you don't mind Frank, I don't want to cut you off there. But when I was working in the clinic we looked at the average copay being between anywhere in our area doing 25 and 50 dollars and if you're going to ask a kid kind of in the same situation to come into the clinic two to three times a week you're still talking about shelling out a few hundred dollars every month. Now if they can only come in once a week I personally feel as though I can provide better care online than that mill down the street for the same price seeing a kid once a week online. I just I'm confident that I'm able to do that and I because I'm doing it from the comfort of my own home and don't have overhead of a clinic rent and all the other things that I could probably be very very competitive price point wise there and that's kind of the thing that's difficult for a lot of people to conceptualize when it comes to being competitive in this kind of market. I can provide better care sitting at home at the desk that I'm at right now for a price that is going to compete and probably be cheaper than paying your copay once a week to come in to a clinic and be put on a bike and led through exercises and you know thrown on heat in a half an hour. It does put the onus a little bit more on the patient. It does and you know we're talking about high school kids they'll run the gamut of being incredibly compliant and not compliant at all but that that just comes down to each individual but I think you can provide that value and still make it affordable and not trade as much time as well to still be able to serve that population of individuals effectively in this manner. So that's just my two cents on it especially when it comes to competing with the mill down the street. I think I can do better and and still make it affordable for those kids and those families. Yeah absolutely and to to continue on that when we talk about what does it mean to have a creative product. The what I walked you through is the framework of how to actually evolve your product. You can also keep your product the same and get creative about your delivery mechanism and monetization strategy. So those are two totally different things. So when you look at what you've created if you go through problems solutions and products and create a product you can then decide I'm going to deliver that product one on one in person. I'm going to deliver that product one to a group. We're going to I could deliver that product fully automated. So we have to challenge our belief system that the only way we could heal somebody is in a one-on-one nature and figure out ways to leverage technology to hold people accountable. So you could say in TrueCoach or any of these other more advanced platforms you can very easily look back and see who is compliant and not. And that's the majority of my check-ins from right here. This is where I spend most of my time. And I'd say hey man what happened looks like we missed Wednesday and Thursday. Sorry coach XYZ. All right well listen you're you told me you have this goal. Is that still important to you? Yeah okay then what are we going to do next week when the same situation happens. That's your coaching intervention is now just compliance with the maybe more automated program that you've created or digital program that you've created that helps you either give a completely different delivery mechanism or a monetization strategy such as you know a readily available template that you truly believe in. Yes it's not going to be as good as customized. I get that but if they can't afford anything else then that's the best you can do with what you're working with and maybe that's $50 a month or $100 a month or less than that. And like John said that's still going to be better than going to the mill down the block. You can also use payment plans. So a lot of times that lump sum is just a hard hit and this is to tailor into it to anybody too. Like let's say it's a hundred bucks a month or 200 bucks a month whatever it is you can set up payment plans. You can do that automated in an automated way via different platforms like PayPal or whatever but you know where it automatically takes out 25 bucks a week and it's just a it's a less drastic hit than that lump sum. So a lot of people will go for that and you know no interest payment plan just you can break it up. And hell you could break it up over the course of if you have trust with this person you just play by the honor code you could break it up for a longer period of time then you even see them for your plan of care but that's kind of on you if you want you know trust the person to to do that but there are ways to make it a little bit more easier to swallow and along that same line in Zavid or I'm sorry David Woboda if you could elaborate on your thought because it may have something to do with what we're talking about. He says some other professionals use a sliding scale of payment so that people with less means can still be helped. Can you maybe expand on what you mean by a sliding scale? It could be something like I'm talking about even if you don't do a payment plan in equal increments you could have them pay 60% up front and then break up the last 40% over the course of three or four weeks or however long you want that you want to do that and that can be a really really helpful way even if it's just for them kind of a psychological thing so it's not as big of a hit up front. And it can create buy-in if you you know if the payments are coming incrementally all the time they kind of have that mental notion of oh I just made another payment like I need to stay on this thing like I'm invested in this now whereas if they pay a lump sum in the very very beginning three weeks later mentally they're kind of removed from that payment and it can almost be like you know kind of a disconnect with your care but they you know sometimes with that psychological gain uh complain to your favor that way. Hannah asks this is a good one I think for the theme Frank what would you say is the biggest challenge you face in regards to telehealth online online scene and what is the mindset that that's helped most when faced with such an issue? I think the biggest one is the belief that what you are doing can help so a lot times when you're in the stage one of this process of of learning yourself there's a limited belief that what you're doing digitally can actually make a difference and then somebody's going to message you and be like oh my god I can't believe my knee's so much better and you're like oh shit this works this works and we all go through that I'm sure John relates to that moment a lot of my clients like I've helped uh Chris and Conn create the ACL Academy. ACL Academy is fully online coaching for people post-op ACL because so few people so few clients have access to a physical therapist who actually knows how to progress through that middle stage and return to sport and when we were first going through this you could tell there was this like lack of belief but just trust okay I'm going to try it. Then what ended up happening was when the first client messaged back and said this made a huge difference it then reinforces the belief that not having your hands or direct supervision is enough to change lives like literally change lives and as that starts to get reinforced the confidence that you have in the clinic right now will come back and then you'll start carrying yourself differently and the way you start carrying yourself differently people will start trusting the process more they'll become more compliant and just the trickle down of belief in yourself is really what I would say is the mindset there. The biggest challenge is getting creative about how to replicate things that you're used to doing in person so I remember a straight telehealth email that I did very early on I wanted to test their MCL and I just had them like go into a lunch and you know just push down on the outside of their knee and then like you know trying to get creative how to do let's say selective tissue testing and what gave me the confidence to be able to do that was that the research on selective tissue testing sucks to start off with so that if I'm looking for pain patterns the pain pattern I could elicit through some creative strategies online is likely not going to be that different from what the research would say is the sensitivity sensitivity and specificity of manual muscle testing now so if you could gain 80% of the information needed for a diagnosis through subjective analysis and we believe that then the other 20% you're going to get from movement testing that you could just simply watch them do. Ben's got a good one here. He said that they're cash based and had done a good job of retention so far however the rate of general population actively looking for PT has dropped off significantly so kind of that non-active demographic. What's the best way to find new patients now that's not the primary concern of the general public so yeah so now they can't build their insurance and go to the brick and mortar physical therapy clinic they say well I guess I just can't go to physical therapy now and they're you know not really seeking that. Maybe in my just two cents and I'll throw it to Frank and Jared and John is the patients that you do have have family members that are likely that likely fit the demographic that you're talking about. Now not to make it sound like hey your family members your mom have a hurt knee have her come in but if his mom has a hurt knee she can come in so it's kind of like or come in I guess you know cash base or now go online so again it kind of goes back to what we talked about in the very very beginning that a lot of people don't know that it's even an option so now how do you get in front of the people who don't know it's an option. Well those are probably the family members or could be the family members of the people that you do have still on you know in your case load so just make it a point to your patients now to say and just so you know like this is you know this is our model now but it's still available for people so the best marketing and the best advertisement for us is word of mouth if you know anyone who just doesn't know that this is an option but could use our services let them know so that's kind of my two cents on that. Well the other thing I'd like to throw out there we kind of have an opportunity here if you're a brick and mortar business to really start to look outside of geographic norms because we're jumping online it allows you to tear down the wall of hey I only work in this county or this town or whatever if you have patients that have children who are in college you've got an in to another geographic area and that sort of thing and to kind of piggyback off a quote John Goodman uses quite a bit you need to be good at what you do but you also need to tell everybody just how good you are everybody needs to know that so if you stop you know word of mouth is phenomenal it's super powerful but you also need to kind of especially at this point in time shout from the rooftops that you kick ass at what you do and and really start to try to find inroads and knock those geographical limitations down so you can get people interested in it they just need to know about it and hear about it as often as possible. Yeah I would second word of mouth is always going to be the most powerful way and I'm always amazed by how many pts don't do it so as soon as I start taught when a pt reaches out to me and says what's the best marketing strategy so I start Facebook ads say do you have a standardized process that actively get recruits as many word of mouth referrals as possible and the answer is almost always no they're like oh I feel weird about that you feel weird about helping people in so the the conversation you have to practice is you know so it'd be like hey Quinn man can we can I fill you in on what's going on behind the scenes here like obviously everybody's business has been affected and with me going online you know trying to look at the the best way possible other people who may not have taken the action to physically go to a clinic could actually access my expertise now and you know how passionate I am about what I do and I could really use some help do you know of anybody who you think that like could benefit from my services pause wait for them to answer and they're most likely going to think like you know my neighbor actually was telling me that his back was killing him I would love that introduction you know you could give him my cell you could give my email whatever it is your strategy like your logistics but the when you come from a place of truly mission-oriented business it gives you the the privilege of being unapologetic about your sales process because the work that I put into Counter-Strike to make sure it changes their life I have no qualms about selling it because as soon as they buy I'm going to over deliver on whatever they thought they were getting and because of that I could be aggressive about the way I sell because I know internally it's a great product a lot of times when we're rooted in the insurance world we don't have that so kind of a long wouldn't answer there I'm going to give you one more part just because it relates to the creative product side of things a creative product is best built when it's with one very specific niche in mind it is hard to be creative for the world it's hard to be creative for the general pop it is possible there are people who've done it but the most creative products are like golf forever golf forever is a very specific brand that if you're a golfer and you've had chronic back pain you interact with their marketing material like holy shit this was made for me this was this was this was for me john's clients when they meet john they know it was built for them when an amateur or an early pro fighter interacts with counter strikes marketing materials or just instagram page they know it was built for them and it's like a hack it's like a shortcut to effective marketing because instead of trying to say you know I help active people stay active no one no one identifies as active that's not in their identity walking down the street if they see a science as active people 25 percent off they're going to walk past it if it says a crossfit athlete's 25 percent off at you know whatever store they're going to walk in because they identify as a crossfitter so the way to get new people now is to commit to a niche that you're wildly passionate about that you could see yourself serving for the next one to three three to five years do a deep dive exploration of their problems solutions packaged that in a product create a monetization strategy and and go out there and get practice at it just deliver it start start like next week now Andrew has a has a good question of kind of bringing it back home to the basics how he was wondering how you structure a telehealth treatment or an online console and some of the logistics we probably can't answer it's up to you to make that decision but how long is one is it purely educational says he's working with a student run pro bono clinic that has shifted to providing care via telehealth and they're trying to learn what some of the best practices are well how i would say if it's already pro bono that just a that's a huge weight off your shoulders because you can just do your you can just be the best provider that you can possibly be and education now i know andrew you're not saying this but i think this is being lost on people education is consulting is a skilled service that is your expertise you pay attorneys god awful amounts of money for their expertise you pay the plumber to come in and fix your sink for five hundred dollars because that's his expertise pay the locksmith you go down the line so education is not just kind of that throw away term that is our that is a professional consultation and that is skilled and i got this question a couple days ago from somebody who was saying well i mostly see post-ops and it's tough because i can't use my hands and i i thought to myself that's an even a situation now where your hands matter even less post-op like that's mother nature's going to take care of things but consulting through the do's and don'ts of a post-op scenario or an injury scenario or just somebody's training knowing how to progress regress exercises bus pass put plateaus like from performance to injury down the line that's skilled care because that is your expertise so a lot of it yes is educational because it's online and you're having a conversation but the education has practical relevance you're you're consulting them through what to do so that's no different than you having them in the clinic doing an exercise and you're coaching them through the exercise it's just going to so happen that they're going to have to do that without you around but it's you know it's the same model if you guys want to have any thoughts on that yeah so i think it's worth giving a little background of where i came from as a clinician and uh six seven years ago i still believed heavily in things i no longer believe now and this is not meant to start the like any sort of treatment debates but it's worth going saying that i didn't believe that i that anything outside of my hands and modalities you know i when i first graduated pt school we did ultrasound on everyone and they got two sessions  eustem, one at the beginning, one at the end, and ice and heat, and very low-grade exercises that are most likely ineffective. And people got better, and I was like, man. And then as time got on, I started stripping away one intervention at a time, either from research, honestly, clinical athlete had a huge deal with that. I met Quinn five years ago when he first started this and exposed me to a whole lot of research that I'd never been exposed to. And I started to pull out the modalities. People still get better. People still get better. I started to pull out the manual therapy, other than, let's say, what I deemed as essential is the joint mobilizations, just like things I felt are more meaningful or tangible. People still got better. Then I eventually pulled out all of the manual therapy, and people still got better. And it's not to say that there's not a place for manual therapy. I think that there's always going to be a place, and there's really great benefits to having short-term neurological changes, which is what I believe the research is pointing at us is what happens. And then potentially following that with exercise might have a nice effect. But the reality is that this, the real challenge here is believing that your full skill set can be actualized from purely education and programming. So literally telling them exactly what to do, and then having them assist them to make sure they're actually doing it. So making sure if you believe range of motion or mobility is the issue, showing them videos of exactly what to do, and then having a check-in system that shows that they're consistently doing it. And you will be able to solve most of the cases that you're working with, if not all. I love it. And Lauren's got a really good one. So maybe like switching gears or pivoting a little bit, but still definitely to the creative theme here. So, that asks, aside from growing telehealth services, what advice do you have for creating or delivering for purchase or subscription-based products? And she says, you know, keeping it simple with private YouTube links that you give the code to upon payment or anything like that or any other platforms that would be helpful with that. Yeah. I think that's actually, so the next evolution, the counter strike is that we have a high-end product right now that's $250 or more a month for our current coaching service. It's a membership model exclusively. There's no other option to purchase a counter strike product as a monthly membership ongoing. And what we're going to do is create an automated versions of that, where if USA want to buy an eight-week program, there are plenty of platforms that are available for $100 or less that you can preload certain programs in and then either in an automated way or just you as an individual, keep it as simple as possible. Somebody pays you through PayPal, you give them access through the app to their program and it's literally like click, click, as long as you built the program out already. So we've used train Heroic for that, true coach-ized options with that, PT distinction, trainerize, where people get lost as the mechanics, the delivery. You need to think of the niche, create the product, build it out, test it with some people before you automate it. Once you can be certain that the product is going to exceed people's expectations, then you can start to create more of either for purchase or monthly ongoing subscription in a demonetized way. Yeah. I guess telehealth or that that health scene can be thought of as like, oh, those are like one-time things, but you could make that a subscription. You could say you get a console and you get this along with it and then you sign up for a recurring payment and it's just kind of the same idea. So you're still kind of hands in a little bit, but you can have other products like what Frank is saying that are just for purchase, kind of one and done. The coaching world has been doing this for a long time. So now it's like us, we're kind of like, uh-oh, because we have to start rolling into that space, but yeah, I think that's a lot of information. Well, you know, my opinion is that we need, this needs to be the diving board and the platform to evolve. So if we look at nearly every other industry outside, they have already been evolving. And the reality is that we can use this to create, let's say, a 12-month ACL rehab package that people could buy for $299 total. And now you take the whole demonetization strategy of that and it could be something amazing and life-changing and give access to people who had never had the opportunity to have access to a true ACL rehab experts progression. And it could even help the PT that they're seeing. They could still go to a PT. A lot of times people come to Counter-Strike, get programming and mentorship and all this other stuff that we offer, and they'll go to a PT, sometimes even a strength coach. The first time that happened, I was mind blown. We have several clients right now who pay for Counter-Strike, who also have an in-person PT and an in-person strength coach. And the reason why is that we are viewed as an expert in the management of a combat athlete, which then gives us the privilege of being able to play that role. So I challenge all of you to not just try to build this little patch. Use this as an opportunity to say, screw the insurance, screw all these preconceived notions and this box that society has defined our skill set in, and build something more creative. You need to evolve. Like what Palaton did in retrospect could be explained so simply. They filmed a spin class and then put some metrics up in a leaderboard and they're a billion dollar company. They didn't do anything that's like, wasn't in reach of any other studio in the beginning especially. Now, yes, obviously they're very advanced. But what can you do that's not just how do I keep my clients? How do I cash grab? How do I still build insurance? That's the question you're asking yourself and it's not going to work. You have to be thinking how can I evolve? How can I create something brand new out of this? Because I guarantee you, somebody is. You will either be shown what was possible by somebody else or you will become one of those. And the way herd mentality, the way humans work is that there has to be like proof first. Then we go, oh, shit, we can do that. We don't like, I want our community. I want the clinical athlete community, the level up community, all the other communities I'm involved in. I want the leaders and the evolution to come from us. Don't be the person needed to see somebody else do it and then just create another version of that. Be the leader here and create something more creative. We're going to end with two questions. Real quick, actually a logistical one that we don't have to answer but I'm seeing it come through. True coach is not HIPAA compliant. That's what people are asking that. True coach, I've been on them for the past three years. Are you going to do that? And they say no, no, no, because they have enough coaches. But now that this is happening, they might, I don't know, change their chin a little bit. But if you're already out of network and all cash, you can look into HIPAA compliance. It's not as strict as you think it is. Being considered a covered entity kind of changes when you don't build insurance at all. But if you want a HIPAA compliant software that has an exercise program, fizzy tracks, one, PT everywhere is another. So just HIPAA compliant exercise online platform and you can see a few. But I've got, Frank, I want to end with two questions. The last one is going to be, I'll give you the last one to kind of think about and then I'll shoot Jeff has a good one. But the last question is going to be, if you could take a single practice to add to your daily routine for most people, what would it be? So like one of those kind of key habits, you know, that, that lifestyle kind of question. But before that, Jeff's got a good one and he asks, do you advertise or explain how your treatment philosophy has evolved and how you don't need those passive treatments or hands on anymore and get greater, better results? In other words, what's your main value proposition? It's a great question. In the beginning, I had to, I felt that I was over explaining the difference because I had my own limitations of what I thought they were comparing me to. So I would say in the beginning, I kept almost in like an overcompensating, like I was over compensating by explaining the difference. In my opinion now, what you need to do is just speak to who they will become by interacting with your product. So if I were to, to future pace them, which is like a sales strategy, but it's for their benefit, it's helping them see where they've been accurately, a snapshot of where they are, where they want to go. And then having them come to their own conclusion that you are actually going to be the one that delivers them to this. So in a roundabout way, if I get asked very specifically, like, they, I don't understand how this is going to work without the stem or like massage and stuff, I will absolutely share my interpretation of research studies that can point out that the outcomes are not necessarily different in the longterm based off of that. And that we believe that I believe that, you know, load management, strength training, corrective exercise, mobility and education are really the foundational pillars. But I'll only go really deep in that if they ask for the difference where I spend most of my time in the value proposition is figuring out what they actually care about. Because nobody comes to you just for knee pain. They come to you to get back to running, go lift to compete in a tournament, to finish a marathon. So there's always some sort of goal that somebody wants that's correlated to getting out of pain and all the other stuff. So I want to latch onto that and know that I am going to obsessively work on them getting there on a reference at all the time, you know, all the time, we're one step closer to the marathon. And they just got full knee extension. One step closer. I think that's a good point is you don't have to vomit everything right off the jump. And just like anticipate, you know, all the questions that they might ask in the future and just like spew your entire sales pitch, like all of it that you've ever thought of. You can just kind of take it like listen to them, listen to what they really care about and then you can respond to that. But it happens to be a little bit of a, of that kind of elevator pitch and then, you know, really giving them your mission and so be it. But it doesn't have to be if they're not like seeking that a lot of times they're bought in, they just need a little bit of a nudge. So I think that's a really, really good point. So we'll end on that last question and it's from our buddy, Will Butler. Frank, if you could pick a single practice to add to a daily routine for most people, what would it be? Now, is this question, do you think from the PTs, like what should PTs be doing? Let's make it more general. Okay. I think reading is the single most important habit because it does a couple of different things. It expands what your belief pattern can be. So specifically we'll say like, you know, in this business, reimagining your business, I believe you need to read things that are outside of your locus of expertise. So you need to read things like Seth Godin's Purple Cow. These are books that are designed to just try to, you need to read books like Monster Loyalty. This dude sent me a Lady Gaga book and I was so confused. I opened it up in the mail and I'm like, Monster Loyalty, who would send me a Lady Gaga book? And it was a game changer. Like it really was. I didn't mean to cut you all Frank, but what he's saying is so true. Reading stuff that's outside of where you would typically be and being able to kind of change your perspective of what your expectations are when it comes to this realm is it's mind blowing. You know, you can read things like Extreme Ownership and those sorts of books, but like things like Monster Loyalty completely flip my brain upside down and really opened up my ability to think outside of the box when it came to a lot of this business stuff. So go ahead and finish Frank. Sorry. This is a great example and I do recommend that book because it's a fascinating take on business and customer loyalty. So reading from our expertise, being able to imagine the shift and then from your client's perspective, let's say what everybody, one book everybody should read right now is Obscoles the Way. So Obscoles the Way is this tremendous aggregation of struggles of like kind of recorded human time. He goes into examples of like prehistoric, wow, we did not plan this by the way. All right Quinn, I'm going to name a book and I'm hopefully it's going to be on your desk. Don't drop the ball Quinn. Quinn Haddock's Guide to Strength Training. What was your book? I figured it might be on your desk. Well now. So but in all seriousness, reading when we feel like this is so the experience that we're all going through as a society feels uniquely us, it's not. And when you read specifically historic books or books that relate history to what we're going through, it gives you the consciousness to be able to see the perspective a little bit differently. And the book Obscoles the Way is absolutely the book that every person who sees it should go to Amazon and just buy it right now if you don't have it. Kind of books and resources and like, you know, it's like a injury console when we can't we're not actually consulting the person and it's like a quick conversation with somebody and they're like, oh, can you tell me what to do for this very specific injury that I'm experiencing? And I was like, well, maybe it's like, you know, if this was a proper assessment or consultation and it's always hard to quote unquote diagnose without all the information. So I hope this was tremendous and a tremendous amount of info and I hope people got some some tips out of it to go and then kind of further dig because you're not going to get the solution in something like this. You're going to get ideas to take and run with further. So speaking of that, Frank, are there any other resources that people can dig into or do you have any resources that are on your website or or anything like that to share? Actually, with about an hour prior to the call, I realized that there's so many people just asking both the logistical question like which platforms are available that I wanted to give that but also the resources that I'd recommend to be more creative. So for example, Purple Cow is a quick read. You don't have to read all these books. You could like Google them and then see book summaries or discussions about it. You could listen to them. But these books shaped what I viewed my own skill set as and if there's only one impact I want to have during this crazy time, it's just to take this as an opportunity to reimagine what you could do. And I'm going to be working tonight and early tomorrow morning to assemble those resources and I'll drop a link in my Instagram to basically if anybody wants to sign up for the Honey Badger mailing list, that'll be the first email you get is both the logistical resources of these are the platforms that I've experimented with are available to you to be able to go online today. Literally all of them you could just sign up, load a client, test, go, do it. If your boss isn't doing it, tell them that you're going to do it. Just go and take action. And then two, the creative resources to help evolve your product so that people actually stick to it because if you don't evolve, it's not going to work. I would highly recommend that guys. It's just more free resources. There's no reason not to do that. And the Honey Badger project, Frank, so my last question to you is where can people connect with you and then also learn more about that? Yeah, right now it's just Instagram, frank underscore Benedetto. And that's pretty much the central hub for the Honey Badger project. My main business is Counter-Strike and helping other PTs create more creative products is a passion of mine. So I do that both just by sharing the free content that's going to continue to grow and also in working with a small handful of clients to help them build their own business, not modeling after Counter-Strike, but to build their own expression of Counter-Strike. And if you follow me over there, frank underscore Benedetto. Frank, thanks so much for doing this. We really, really appreciate it. Thank you to everyone who joined in in the chat and the Q&A to drive the discussion. This is exactly what we wanted out of this thing. The plan was to have an initial framework to jump off of and then to let the chat kind of guide the rest of the conversation. That's exactly what happened. And we're going to do more of these and we're going to, we'll send you this recording and please connect with Frank, reach out to him, get on his resource list. It's all just information that you can be soaking up right now. John, Jared, thanks so much for joining. Thank you. I really carried that conversation. No, I'm not serious. Thank you, Frank. This has been hugely helpful. Excellent. Yeah, Frank. Appreciate it, buddy. Appreciate it. Oh, thank you for having me on. I appreciate it. Everybody feel free to reach out anytime. Thanks everyone. We'll talk soon.