 so with that said, welcome to episode two of the Adaptable Business. We started this thing, we asked the clinic-profit community what we can do to help everybody in this difficult time, and a lot of you guys said that you were small business owners or you were just, have been affected by this thing in your business or just in general financially or anything of the like, and so we know that we have a lot of really knowledgeable people in this community and we thought that getting something like this together would really help people hopefully come up with some strategies to help them stay afloat in the short term, but even more importantly, create some more agile models going forward for the long term. So we had Frank Benedetto on episode one a few days ago and it was a huge success and extremely valuable for people and we've got Rory Alter here for episode two and we're really, really excited and Rory's gonna talk to us about teletherapy, telehealth, whatever you wanna call it, this movement that's been going on for a while, but now it's almost become forced entry almost for everybody where all of a sudden, they're having to shift their model towards this to stay afloat and Rory's gonna help us dissect some of the ins, outs, manage some of the uncertainty, be honest about the questions that still exist in that space, so Rory, thanks so much for doing this. Thanks for having me, I'm excited to talk about this stuff. It's gonna be really great, I mean, so before we dig in, could you give us and the listeners a little bit of your background, even maybe before the current crisis, what you were doing in the coaching and rehab and teletherapy space and then kind of where you've transitioned to this point? Sure, so in 2014, I think that that's when I kind of transitioned from working for someone else to working for myself and I've been competing in powerlifting since about 2012 and as I got more involved in powerlifting, I was just attracting more powerlifters to me by virtue of being a physical therapist who understands powerlifting and I was being reached out to by people all over the country and the world, so that kind of led me to start doing remote consultations. I didn't know what the hell I was doing, I didn't know any of the legalities behind it, but I figured I'd really literally just dove right in knowing nothing about what was going on, just figured I might as well jump on Skype, like I think back then I was using Skype, which is not HIPAA compliance, so don't use Skype. And that kind of, it really actually started with Brandon and I, and I was like, really actually started with Brandon Lilly, do you guys know who Brandon Lilly is? So he had this very large injury at the LA FedExpo, I was following him, didn't sound like he knew, his doctors were not guiding him on the process of how he would ever be able to squat 900 pounds again, so I reached out to him and we started to work together and really what I was doing was working alongside him and his physical therapist, so I wasn't providing him physical therapy, but I was providing him more of guidance on how to take what he was doing in physical therapy, but also still get back into lifting simultaneously. So when I left outpatient, I started my own little practice in a gym somewhere that I was just paying space for, and I also started my online coaching business, which also included these like remote rehab consultations, but I never work with someone without having them work with a physical therapist in their state because of the legalities behind everything, so. And is that still where you would stand now? Yeah, so I think this is one of the things that I really wanted to talk about today because the legalities behind teletherapy, so this isn't, so when we hear the word, we have to be really careful with the language that we use because when we hear telemedicine, that's really talking about physicians, nurses, nurse practitioners, PAs and all that kind of stuff. Then when we hear telehealth, that will also cover other medical professionals like physical therapy, speech and language, OT, and all those types of rehab professions, so telemedicine, it's not telemedicine, it's telehealth, and under that, it's teletherapy. And there's basically with telemedicine or telehealth as a whole, there's a distant site. So the clinician is located in their office or wherever they're located, and the patient is located at a distant site. And the tele therapy means that there's some type of secure video communication through some type of patient portal that you're using. So it's not FaceTime, it's not Skype, it's not Instant Messenger, it has to be through some type of HIPAA compliant patient portal. So basically, you can only provide physical therapy or teletherapy to someone who is in the state that the physical therapist is licensed in. So if someone comes to me and they're in California, I would either say you have to work with a physical therapist in California and I can help you integrate what you're doing with that person and simultaneously get back to lifting, so it's considered rehab coaching, or I would refer them to another clinician like Quinn and say, Quinn is in your state, I would suggest working with him, so typically I'll find someone that's in their state who I know can provide them quality care in the manner in which they need it. So you as a clinician have to be licensed in the state that the patient or Quinn is located in. So if you have multiple licenses, that's good. If you don't, then you can only treat in the state that you're in. A few follow-ups to that. If would you still work potentially, let's say before this crisis, so assuming this person lived in a different state, but perhaps you could still help them, would you say then you need to be, I need to contact your actual in-person physical therapist or you need to be seeing an in-person physical therapist concurrently while I am providing you some type of guidance online, and then what would you, would you still be calling it teletherapy? So it's when I'm working with someone out of state who's not related to this crisis, it is who's out of state that I'm not licensed in, it's rehab coaching, and it's very specific, and it's very clear when they sign up that it's not physical therapy. There's like a clear disclaimer that this is not medical advice, and I work with them to find a clinician in their area. So, and that's where the clinical athlete really comes in handy, because usually I defaults first to the clinical athlete, and I look at like the map and I say, okay, what's your zip code, and I'll go and find someone, and I usually contact that physical therapist and say, this is what we're doing together. For instance, we have someone right now, so I have another physical therapist who works within Progressive Rehab and Strength, and she's licensed in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. So we can cover New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and New York. But she's working with someone who had a pecter in Florida. Now that person's still going to physical therapy in Florida, so the physical therapy aspects of his rehab are being covered by the physical therapist in Florida, and we're just doing his lower body training and like integrating his, as he phases through his rehab, we're integrating it back into bench pressing. So we do all of his programming, including his upper body. Would it still then be required to be going through HIPAA compliant platforms then? So technically not, but as a clinician, and this is where it's kind of really gray waters, and this is why I recommend, if you are within a compact state, so I don't know if people know what the PT compact is. There was actually a question about this very thing, so I'm glad you touched on it. Yeah, so the PT compact essentially is an agreement amongst certain states that they all, that you can kind of, it makes it easier to get a license in another state. So basically licensure for physical therapy is on a state by state basis, it's not federal. And the compact, so like in some states, you get like an FBI background check and you have to get fingerprinted, and in other states it's just like you submit like your social security number and get a license. Like in New York I didn't have to get fingerprinted, but in New Jersey, Alyssa, she had to get fingerprinted, who worked for me. So basically they're making it a standard way to, any state that kind of falls into this standard background, FBI background check is being kind of, as legislation passes in those states is being accepted into the compact. And what that means is you don't have to pay as much to get a license, you get a license very, very quickly, like within 48 hours, and all you have to do is take the chair prudence exam within like a certain timeframe. So it makes it much easier, it was really developed for like military spouses because they move very often and it would take like six months to get a license once they move, so they can't work for six months just because their husband got stationed somewhere else. So the compact, it's just because you're in a compact state does not mean you can practice in all of the compact states, you have to apply for specific licenses. So like, if you're in Arizona, which is a compact state and you want to work with someone in New York, New York's not compact, sorry, I'm trying to think of another one, Colorado, maybe they're in the compact, I don't know. Or again, Washington, I think. Yeah, one of those like states on that side, not on this side, we're not there yet. Western. So yeah, so you have to apply. So just, so like, you might be licensed in four states even though there's like 20 states in the compact. So it's a good thing though, because for telemedicine it's going to help us move forward with tele therapy. Oh, hopefully that answered your question because that's what he followed up with was a question about the compact. Now, so now I was prefacing a couple of my previous questions well, put the crisis aside for a second. Well, let's stop doing that since we're in the midst of this thing. So whereas before it was, if the person was out of state, I want to make sure that they have an actual PT. I may even contact that PT, but it's very, very clear that their physical therapy is being implemented by somebody who is within their state. Yeah, so with the crisis, so I don't necessarily think that when we're, I think we have to talk about these two things separately because with the crisis, it's not about working with people in other states. It's about you were just in a situation where you work in a practice and you see 10 clients a day and now you can't see your client. So they're technically, or like unless you, like unless you work in New York and live in New Jersey, that's like where these things kind of, if you work in New York and live in New Jersey, though you probably have a license in New York, so never mind, ignore that. So it comes into play here where we want to start implementing tele-therapy because we can't have our clients come into our practice now. So what's happening is now people who work in outpatient or basically who work in outpatient need to somehow continue to work with their clients, right? So I don't think the immediate need right now is not to go out of state and work with someone out of state. The immediate need right now is how can you continue to serve your clients because they can't come in to see you in the clinic. So it's how do we start doing or integrating tele-therapy into our current practice, treating clients who are in the state that we're practicing in, does that make sense? Yes, it does. And we've got some questions here. Okay, so I think a lot of these HIPAA compliant platforms, okay, I guess we can just kind of dig into those and I'll throw out a couple that I know of. So I use a platform called PT Everywhere and it is my EMR, my medical record, my charting software. It also has a tele-therapy platform. So the actual video and it's got an exercise, a home exercise program built in. And somebody else, I think Mike asked about, he's his true coach and I use true coach as well for my training clients. True coach is not HIPAA compliant, but it's very robust training platform because that's what it's for. Whereas PT Everywhere's home exercise program is good. Like compared to just other quick cutter physical therapy, home exercise programs, it's pretty good, but nothing compared to true coach, but it is HIPAA compliant. So that's what I use. Rory, any thoughts on HIPAA compliant platforms? Yeah, so the one that I use is Zoom. And basically you need to have an account with them and then set up a business-associated agreement with them. So it's not readily available on their site to set up HIPAA compliant, but you have to contact them and say, like, listen, I am conducting medical services through Zoom and I need it to be HIPAA compliant. And they have this whole process where they encrypted and everything like that. And you're really looking for something that doesn't, in the business agreement, they basically say, we are not storing your data. And we don't identify who is on the call with you. So there's no patient identifier given to Zoom to the third party. So, and I think the two others, I'm familiar with PT everywhere. And then I was, before we came on this call, I was like really looking for ones that I don't know about, but I couldn't really find any good information on the ones that I was looking at. So the two that I wanna give you information on aside from Zoom are docc.me. So doxy.me. And there is a free version, which I think would be good for anyone who's kind of in this crisis right now, who does plan on going back to their outpatient clinic when this is all done. Docc.me has a free version, and it's specifically for telemedicine delivery, telehealth delivery. And then you can also, if you have a business G Suite, so a business Google Suite, you can also set up HIPAA compliance through Google in order for your entire Google Suite to be HIPAA compliant. So that's your email communications, your data storage, or your Google Drive. And then there is some video chatting services through G Suite, which I don't use because I use the Zoom communications. So those would be the three that I would say explore now, or for PT everywhere. I just don't know how much that costs, especially if you're planning to go back to your clinic, you know, then you don't wanna spend too much money on this right now. You just want to be able to do this and continue to serve your clients. There's a couple other ones that I thought of that I've not used. Fizzy Track is one that I've been hearing about. It's relatively inexpensive, and I hear it's got similar functionality as PT everywhere. Jane App is another one that I had actually looked into several years ago, and it was a lot more basic than it is now. They've really beefed that up. I was actually looking at it a couple days ago. So it was just popped into my head. Jane and Fizzy Track are usually integrated these days. We use that at my clinic. Let's shut down right now, but yeah. Oh, so Christy says, yeah, you're right about that. Kevin Macamara says, Polycom perhaps. These are all in the chat. If people wanna look at the chat and start exploring some of these options. But Rory, I had a question about the HIPAA compliance. So I had been in talks with an administrative law attorney about a year and a half ago, and we were discussing all of this, and it was like, you know, it's all very gray, and you and I have had these discussions as well. And he looked into the HIPAA compliance piece of it as being a covered versus a non-covered entity. And I won't go into too much of the ins and outs, but essentially what he seemed to suggest was that if you're completely cash, and we'll talk about it if you're trying to bill insurance, we're not, but for my situation, I was 100% cash completely out of network, not contracted out of network, no contracts, all cash. He said, if that is the case, you are considered a non-covered entity, and HIPAA compliance still applies to you in regards to protecting health information, but all of your platforms don't have to be HIPAA compliant if you are a non-covered entity. What was interesting is he said that if you do decide to go HIPAA compliant with one platform, then all of your platforms have to be HIPAA compliant. It was just kind of all or nothing like light switch. Anything, any thoughts on that? Yeah, so it's very interesting, and so I am completely out of network self-pay, no contracts with anything. So it is a gray area, and again, the four of us here are not lawyers. So anything that we're telling you today, if you have a practice and you are trying to implement this into your practice, please do your due diligence and check out the APTA website, and also speak to your business lawyer, your medical practice lawyer, your insurance, your medical malpractice insurance, see what they need, and all those things, because it is so gray and every state is so different. But to my understanding, the HIPAA act, so HIPAA in general, is specifically when you are connecting with a third party payer. So that, I think that what you're saying is correct. I can't like, I can't 100% say yes or no to that, but that's pretty much my understanding. However, when we are physical therapists, we have licenses, and I think that it's our duty to, regardless of if we're self-cash out of network, completely out of network, or contracted with insurance companies, or just doing personal training or coaching, because we have this license and we've gone through this whole education process, we have, I think, I personally believe that we have this, we should operate up here at the top level and apply those things to everything that we're doing, just for the sake of, okay, so just for the sake of gray areas, and we don't want anyone to ever feel compromised. Even like, I implement HIPAA, all the like privacy rules with even just my training clients. So I won't tell anyone that I'm working with that, like I never share anyone's information on social media, I never put pictures up, testimonials, nothing, unless I have written consent from my clients, regardless of if it's physical therapy or coaching through insurance or not through insurance, regardless of that, and I think that that's our duty as clinicians to apply that on every level. So that's just my personal belief. Autumn has a comment, question about that as well. She says, do non-telehealth services, IE movement coaching remote programming need to be HIPAA compliant when rendered by a physical therapist? She's thinking about being held to our highest license. So if something is to go down, and just because you have a little piece of paper and a waiver that says, oh, this isn't physical therapy, the action can still, are you a physical therapist? Well, yes. I know, so my biller has, and this is, I'm been like having this conversation with myself and like my husband sometimes, and even my like business manager, because I get really torn about this because I am out of network, I am self-pay, self-pay, all that kind of stuff. And then we see these like personal trainers who take like PRI course, and then they're like, I do this, and I'm a rehab specialist, and they can do so much more because they don't have a license attached to them. So yes, I think that we do need to keep ourselves at the highest level, and we really do need to abide by that because, and I have a biller because we do submit on behalf of our clients who have out of network benefits, we do submit on their behalf. So my biller basically said, you just have to be careful with your personal training or online, or any coaching services that you provide because once a physical therapist, always a physical therapist. If it looks like physical therapy, it is physical therapy. So we just, it's like, we almost being out of, like we're all, I assume we're all out of a number here. We're in this like weird position, do we keep our license? I've been questioning, do I keep my license? Like I'm always gonna be a doctor of physical therapy because the DPT and the PT are two separate things. We have the education, we have the experience, but our license almost kind of dampens our ability to help as many people as we wanna help in the ways that we wanna help them. You know what I'm saying? So I totally know what you're saying because I have these same questions and I've been trying to answer them for many years now. And it's been a long, long time. I don't wanna have an answer. I honestly, I think it's you assume risk. If you're, Rory, you said it, if you have a physical therapy license, you're gonna be held to that license. They're not gonna just say, ignore that fact. So if- It's not like the good Samaritan law. If you're like certified in CPR and you like break someone's rib, they're like, oh, well, you were trying to help them. So- So if something were to go down and somebody said, oh, something bad happened to me because of something that I did that was recommended by this person, this person has a professional license, that's gonna be looked at first. And then that person with the professional license is just gonna say, no, I had all these safeguards in place. And those might at the end of the day, by the time it's all said and done, that might be enough. Right. But it's still a risk when you step into those boundaries. Yeah, and even like liability waivers and personal training agreements, these non-compete agreements that you have with, all these things, all these, they don't, oftentimes they don't hold up in court. You can write them, you can have a lawyer write them, but they're like, listen, in your state, this won't hold up, but we can still put it in, we can still write it, have them sign it. Cause oftentimes people are like, well, I signed a waiver, I can't really do anything about it. And they don't know, you know? So it's always good to have these waivers and these legal documents that people are signing. But at the end of the day, if you're doing something that's not consistent with your license or good practice, then that's a risk that you're taking. And so that, just to follow up real quick with Ashish mentions that, you know, if you go on social media, you're gonna see physios giving advice to all people in all countries and all over the world and says, is it that important to have these legalities? It's important if you feel it's important, like nothing matters. If nobody is gonna take action on anyone, then okay. But it's a risk, it doesn't matter until all of a sudden it matters. And somebody says, oh, I was injured because of this thing that I did from what he said or she said. Which is why I really try, I have a very, very strict social media policy in that I rarely post like, this is how you fix this. Like I don't post like any of those types of things because you don't want someone to take that piece of information that you put out there, follow it blindly and then hurt themselves. And it's also why, as you know, you wanna give it as much help as you can to, so that people want to come to you for help. But at the end of the day, everyone is like so unique and you can't say like, oh, you have biceps tendonitis, oh yeah, do this. And then it's cancer in their bone, you know. And then they were doing all these exercises and didn't go get help and then they metastasized it. So personally, I have a very strict policy in terms of what kinds of information I am putting out there because you don't want someone to blindly do something and then blame you for it. Ryan asks, if you funnel the training services through a different company, or AKA set up a separate training entity, would that protect you? I don't know if it's necessarily that it needs to go through a separate entity. Again, not legal advice here, but what I do is we have very specific services that they're buying, right? So when someone goes to the website, they do the purchase themselves, they click what they're buying and it says rehab coaching or it says online coaching or it says weekly coaching, monthly coaching, or it says physical therapy, initial evaluation. So when, if it's very clear what they're buying and then the waivers that they're signing are different associated with that, I don't know if it necessarily has to be two businesses. But at the same time, the company that I used to work for, they do have two, I believe that they have two businesses. One is like Excel workout and the other is Excel physical therapy that I think things are funneled through, but I'm not 100% sure. So again, that would be something that you would want to ask either your accountant or your lawyer. I wanna go back real quick, cause you mentioned you have a biller. We had a question in the last episode about super billing. Do you ever super bill your patients that you work with or do you do most of that submission yourself cause you have a biller? So it's interesting. So, and this really comes down to if we'll get paid in like two or three visits and how long the person is coming and if it's gonna be like 16 visits before we start even see a penny from the insurance company. So we will take their insurance information and we'll verify what their benefits are for out of network. And if it's like January, if it's like December 1st and they have a $6,000 deductible that hasn't been met and there's no way that in like four weeks they're gonna meet their deductible. So what we'll do is we'll say it's gonna be self-pay and we'll give you an invoice that you can submit to your insurance. So at least it goes towards your deductible which won't even help them at that point anyway. But so it's basically, and also because of our, my business model, so I do one-on-one in person I do one-on-one sessions and they're an hour and I don't see people for physical therapy unless it's post-op. I don't see people for more than like five or six sessions because I'm not in the practice of just like come three times a week for the next 12 weeks until you have no visits left. You know, you come, you see me, you get better, you go back to your, and then you can communicate with me if there's things, you know. So it's not gonna be like 12 sessions. It's gonna be like maybe three or four sessions that you're coming to see me. So if the deductible is met or we'll see payment from the insurance company within like one or two sessions we will submit on their behalf. If not, we give them a bill so that they can submit on their own. But for tele-therapy purposes, we do not submit for them. So we will give them an invoice for that or Superbill. A couple quick comments. Sam says Medbridge is developing a platform, a tele-therapy platform if you have a membership with them. So there's that. John says that their clinic received a fax from a few insurance companies that say Google Hangouts and Skype for Business work for their insurance claims, I guess, maybe you might have to just check with the insurance company too. Yeah, so that's what I was saying. So if you have Google for Business and you have the business, so Google, they have like if you just Google HIPAA, it will show you how to.  HIPAA-compliance throughout your entire system. So Google is HIPAA-compliant. If you set it up to be HIPAA-compliant, it's not automatically HIPAA-compliant, though. And then just quickly in terms of insurance. So let's say you are going into delivering tele-therapy services for your clients, given the situation that we're in right now. You need to call your larger, especially if you're in network and you are billing on behalf of your clients, you need to contact, I would say, start with your five top insurance companies that you see on a regular basis. Call them and you've got to ask them, do you reimburse tele-therapy services for physical therapy? If you don't say physical therapy, you're not going to get the right answer. So make sure you're being very specific that it is for physical therapy and ask them what codes to bill, what codes that they're accepting and they'll reimburse. So it might, you know, like you obviously can't bill manual therapy for that. And they might need like modifiers. So you want to call your top five and get the most information that you can, but you've got to be very specific that you're saying you're calling because your billing wants to know they will cover physical therapy for delivered through tele-therapy services. Well, and what surprised me most about John's comment was that they use Skype and the insurance company said that Skype works. So right now, because of the whole COVID-19 thing, they are saying that like FaceTime and Skype are acceptable. So the HIPAA guidelines are starting to become a little bit more lax to accommodate the crisis. For right now. For right now, right, exactly. Okay, so there's a couple, there's a few other really good questions here, but let's say this, because people are probably super overwhelmed if they're not familiar with tele-therapy and they weren't doing it before and all of a sudden they have to do it. So what would be the first step? Like next, okay, next action item to start to transition into that space. So I mean, we have to think of it as a short term or is it long term? So if it's long term, you want in addition to all of your standard intake forms that you're using, you want a document, so a waiver that says that they understand that this is tele-therapy. This is what we can do. It does not, like it doesn't substitute, like you can't do manual therapy, you know. And also you need to make sure that you have emergency contact information. You want to make sure that you have their nearest hospital phone number and you know their address, that you have their current address, where you're seeing them. And you want an emergency contact number, so like their dad or their mom, like whoever in case, like let's say you're working with someone and they start having a heart attack while they're in the middle of a call with you. As the clinician are responsible for doing everything that you would do if it was in person. So you want to make sure that it's not just like you call 911, it's like you have to tell 911 where to go. So you need to make sure that you know what their address is and you want the emergency contact information. Again, like if you're doing like balance exercises and someone falls, you know you need to know, you got to get them help ASAP. So that I think is like really important, and that can just be on like our teletherapy form, like create a teletherapy form. And then what else? So you want your platform, you want to make sure that the camera that you're using is like high def. So you don't want, and that your internet connection is good, internet connection is good. So you don't want it to be like fuzzy and like you can't hear the person. So that would be important. Usually like if you have an iPhone or like some type of smartphone, like new smartphone, the cameras on there are really good, just make sure that your phone is set up to be HIPAA compliant, which would be having two step verification to get in. So you need a password to get into your phone or like face ID or fingerprint or whatever. If you don't have your phone password protected, then you can't use it for teletherapy services. What else? You need to be in a private space. So you can't be sitting in the Starbucks even though we can't sit in a Starbucks right now, but like my husband wouldn't be in the same room with me while I'm delivering the teletherapy because that would not be HIPAA compliant. But it's like you as a clinician, the client can be wherever they want to be. You just have to know where they are. Let's see. So I think those would be like the most like important things. And then I think the biggest challenge for a lot of people is gonna be like, how do I do an e-bell? Or like, how do I like, I do manual therapy. I do STEM and heat and all those kinds of things, which I actually think that this crisis that we're in right now is really good for our field, to advance our field forward, to realize you don't have to put your hands on people to help them feel better, you know? Which is something I think that we all practice here. We're not like hands-on manual therapists anymore. So you have to kind of be creative. Let's say you're evaluating someone for sciatica or low back pain. You wanna make sure that you see them from head to toe in the camera and you can have them do seated slump. You can have them do forward flexion. You can have them do all these different tests that you don't even have to put your hands on for them. You just gotta get a little bit creative. So usually what I do is I make sure that I can be seen from head to toe and that they can be seen from head to toe and I demonstrate everything and then verbally talk them through all the tests that I want them to do. And I go very slow when I say, don't do anything until I tell you to do something. So that's kind of how you would do the evaluation. How did you switch? So when this happened, you were still seeing some in-person clients. Right. What was then your next step to transitioning them to remote? So luckily none of them are physical therapy clients right now. I just discharged a couple physical therapy clients and everyone that I was still working with right now, I think there were like nine clients who were just barbell training clients. So what I did was I offer online coaching. I offer different levels. So I have monthly coaching, which is the cheapest one. Then weekly, which we do check-ins and video reviews every week. And then I have the rehab coaching, which is the highest level. So unfortunately, I really felt that I couldn't get, I wanted to make sure that they wouldn't not sign up for online coaching. So I offered everyone for this month, the monthly coaching, which is $99 for to provide them weekly coaching. And thankfully everyone has gym access in their home. And the one client that didn't have gym access, I gave her a squat rack that I have a bar. I just like, I couldn't not, I just like my heart hurt. I couldn't not. Like over a squat rack or squat stand, a bar and then a set of plates so that she could train while she's at home. And then one client who has like a bunch of, she doesn't have barbells at home, but she has like a cable machine. She has like tons of cattle. I just gave her all my kettlebells. I said, just take my kettlebells and we'll put together a plan with kettlebells for now. So thankfully, I would say 70% of them signed up for the online coaching. So I'm just giving them online coaching right now, letting them text me if they need to, if they have any questions. And then hopefully when all this is over, I get my squat stand back and they come back. I'm sure they will. They've all been with me for a really long time. So thankfully no one was like physical therapy right now when this happened, but. We'll take some of the questions here. And they're good ones, but they're, you know, different topics we'll try to stream on them. But Jamie asks about flexible spending or HSA funds for tele therapy. Is that something that you would add an addendum on an invoice if you were billing? Or would you just say you can submit to your towards your HSA and, you know, hopefully. Well, I think if they're paying cash, so they usually HSAs have like a debit card, right? So they can usually pay out of their account for the services. They just definitely need an invoice to demonstrate like what that was going to. It can't just be like, it can't just be the receipt. They need an invoice usually. I don't know if this is still the case. So this is, I guess this would be another thing that you need to be able to take online payments because you're not, you know, seeing the person in person. So some of these platforms, like I think I'm sure PT everywhere has an online payment processing system. But if you're using like for me, I use Zoom, IntakeQ, which I think that you can put due payments through IntakeQ, but like all the purchasing is done directly on my website. And you PayPal. So I used to use PayPal, but you couldn't use your HSA on PayPal. Like it was always declined. And I'm not 100% sure why it was that way. But when you use a normal credit card processing system, so we use Stripe, we don't have problems with HSAs now. So they can usually pay with their card if you're using a regular credit card processing system. Square works as well. I think the problem with PayPal is that like a lot of what would be considered healthcare companies don't really use like a PayPal account. So I don't think like that in Venmo and like Cash App and stuff are probably amounts of the money. I wouldn't recommend using Venmo at all for this because Venmo is really for like friend to friend kind of payments. So if you're in a bind and you're just doing this for like the COVID-19 thing, I would actually say that PayPal probably is the easiest way to go because if you have a tax ID number, you can set it up to your business. I really do think it's probably the easiest way to go. And there's no monthly fees associated with it or anything like that. The one problem I think would be that HSA accounts can't do it, but if that's the case, what I would do then when I was using PayPal back in the day, if someone wanted to submit it to their HSA and get reimbursed from that account, you gotta give them an invoice. Okay, that makes sense. Now, as far as intake and Mike's got a couple questions about like teletherapy waivers and intake forms, did you just take those? Are there templates online? No, I had, I'm trying to think. So my biller gave me a couple. My biller gave me like, however you would set up your forms, like the language for your forms in person, that would be the same language because you still need like, like your privacy policy, whatever your intake process is named, age, date of birth, address, like insurance, all those kinds of things, you just need to secure way to get it. So, again, you can do all of this through Google, but I'm not sure how they, the only thing is I don't know how they would like sign on Google, cause I think that they would just use like Google forms or something, I don't know if you can like sign. You might be able to, Google is always updating that feature, so there might be like a sign feature now, but we use intake queue, which I really, really like, it's like 50 bucks a month, and you can input any of your own forms into there, and it's all, they get a unique, it goes straight to their email, they get a unique password every time that they get a new form. So like it's not like anyone else can get into their form. Again, like intake queue is HIPAA compliant, and they can manage their appoint, it's like the whole appointment scheduling thing, they can manage their appointments, you can take notes in there, you can keep your notes in there, you can, anything. So, and you can put all of your outcome measures on there as well. So, like our dash, HIPAA, S-Y-R arthritis, whatever, and the coos, and like we've got all of those on there, and it scores them for us as well. So, it just takes a little time to put all of them in, and you can also intake queue, like I have like the pelvic floor impact questionnaire, which is like a very complicated scoring one. So you can pay like nine bucks, and intake queue will do it for you. So, that's what I recommend, is like find a system that will generate these forms for you. Question about that, because intake queue, so that's all electronic, and you can input the outcome questionnaire, and they can take it electronically, as opposed to, oh, like you just upload a PDF, and then they have to, okay. Yeah, you wanna make it as easy, especially if this is like a not, like they didn't voluntarily choose to go into tele-therapy your clients, they were coming to see you, you wanna make this as easy as possible for them. So if they had to like print out a form, fill it out, scan it, send it back, like it's too complicated for them, you wanna make it as easy as possible. So, definitely finding a way that you can deliver your intake forms electronically, so that it's smooth sailing for your, on the client end. Quinn, you mind if I jump in real quick and combine two questions here? No, please. So, the two I wanna put together, there's one is what is the conversation you're having with patients who want hands-on treatment, and do not see the benefit or difference between tele-therapy and online programming, and then the second one is, is there a need to reduce the fee of virtual sessions compared to a face-to-face session? And I think those two are related because we're really talking about value here and their assessment of the value of what you're bringing. So, Roy, what are you doing in these circumstances, and do you think you have to actually change the price because it's online? So, I actually just gave a lecture on this, yes, Tuesday, Tuesday night, what is, I don't even know what day it is, guys. It's Thursday. Okay, Tuesday, two days ago. And basically, what we have to, and I alluded to this a little bit earlier when we said, I think that this is really an important, like stepping stone for our profession, is that we can, my belief is that we need to, as physical therapists, instill autonomy in our clients, right? They shouldn't rely on us to feel good all the time. And I think anyone, especially Jared, like you're the pain science guy here with like your fantastic chorus that my husband just signed up for, community. Don't forget the code, community, is it still free right now? Yes, plug, we've had so far. Community, use the word community, you can get Jared's pain science course, is that we, and my philosophy is treat the issue, not the tissue. And why do manual therapies and soft tissue therapies, why are people so reliant on them? And why do people gravitate towards them to feel better? It's not really addressing the underlying cause as to why your tissue might be injured or why you're experiencing pain. So I think that it's really important for us to have this conversation with our clients now and the profession as a whole so that we're not constantly relying on, I mean, we're not, but like manual manipulation or Grafton or ART, like I used to be, I mean, no, I'm no longer. I used to be full body certified in ART and I stopped because I don't want someone coming to me just for ART. That's not what's gonna make you better. What's gonna make you better is figuring out the underlying cause and addressing it and then understanding why you are experiencing pain, how, what happens leading up to it and how we can move forward so that you're no longer experiencing pain when you're doing that thing, right? So it's not, my hands on you is not going to fix why you're experiencing pain. So I think we have to have that conversation with our clients to say, listen, this is actually gonna be better for you because you're gonna be able to take what we're doing virtually when we're not touching each other and apply it going forward so that you don't need me to feel better, which isn't always the best business model, but. So the way that I see this and I agree, and I think it, Kushbue had the same question, like if they have a certain split in their clinic for in-person clients, what's now the split for like their clinic to how much they get paid and that was the split for virtual. If the time commitment is the same, you should value your time the same. Your expertise is the same. You value your expertise. You don't pay your financial advisor a certain amount of money or more money for him to actually go in and make the transfers for you manually through your bank accounts. Like we are providing our hard earned expertise that is of a value and it shouldn't be devalued just because we're giving that. So the only thing, and again, I think this is where we have to look at it separately, like what's happening right now versus are you making this like your long-term business plan? Because yes, 100% what is our value, right? But at the same time, a brick and mortar business has a lot of overhead and part of the dollar amount that goes into paying for each hour that we're working with someone is to keep the lights on and to pay the electric and the air conditioning and to pay the front desk staff and all that kind of stuff, right? So I think that we have to look at it just slightly differently. And also, if you're doing online, what does the online delivery process look like? Are you still doing three sessions per week with someone? If that's what it was, or are you doing one evaluation or once a week and then communicating via email? Are you providing them a program and they're sending check-ins? So like how are you delivering it, right? And what are your overhead costs? So I think that long-term, so I'll just give you, I'm gonna be like very transparent about my in-person versus my remote rehab coaching prices. So I don't do it on a week-to-week basis for online rehab coaching. I do it in four-week installment. So the first month is $5.99 and then every month thereafter is $4.50. And what they get with that is they get a one-hour initial evaluation and then they get check-ins via email every session after that. Again, this is not tele-therapy. This is remote rehab consultations, right? So it's not like I'm getting on a call with them. I'm not going through exercises every single session three times per week. What it is is I lay out the plan and I adjust the plan based on the, essentially they're like considered e-visits. And an e-visit is a non-telecommunication visit. So that's like email text message, whatnot. So through a portal, right? So if this is your long-term plan, you have to look at it that way. And I would actually think that it's more cost-effective for the client, especially if you're out of network for them to do it that way, versus if they came twice a week for $150 a session. So that's $1,200 a month, right? So $1,200 because you're not spending that one hour with them twice a week. So I think that that's just my personal opinion. However, in this, if we look at it in a bubble for COVID-19, the practice still exists. You still have your rent. You still have all of your expenses. You might still be paying some of your administrative staff to put all this together to communicate with clients. So it's a little bit different. And if you're doing the one-on-one sessions and you still have your brick and mortar, then I think that that would change the pricing structure for the online in the bubble of COVID-19 versus long-term business plan. It's almost like two different conversations because on the one hand, what you're suggesting is that tele-therapy allows you to become much more flexible and creative with models. And then you can manipulate the pricing structure for more of a win-win for you and the client. I think some of these questions get at is our SERP be valued now that it has to be through a video medium? And I think that's the point that I wanna hit on is the answer should be no. If you go ahead. Yeah, I just think, I think that we have to kind of think of it as, and this is what I said. You know, I said this, I did this for my clients where I would normally charge to, so normally for a four-weekly program, I would charge 239. But because this is an inconvenience for my clients who come to see me regularly in person. And I still want, and again, this is like within the bubble of COVID-19, right? I offered them for this particular period in time, for this four-week period. I don't know what I'm gonna do after that. I offered them the $99 program because I, you know, they didn't ask for this. None of us asked for this. And I think that we have to be just a little bit flexible with what we're, to make sure that everyone is happy and stays consistent. Like the last thing we want is for a client to be like, you know what, you're not putting your, I mean, again, like this is a conversation we have to have. But the last thing we want is for a client to be like, well, you're not putting your hands on me. I'm not getting my stim. I'm not getting my ultrasound. So I'm not gonna do this. Like forget it. So I think maybe we have to bring it down. So I recommend everyone join the tele therapy, physical therapy, what is it called? Hold on, I have it up. There's a lot of conversations going on about like how they're pricing their, what the, how they're structuring their prices. So it's the Facebook group is called telehealth physical therapy providers. And then in parentheses, it says PT physio. And the guy who runs it, his name is Rob Binding. There's so much information in there, but there's a lot of conversations on how people are pricing it. And people, I think that people are like lowering co-pays or like waving co-pays or just taking like 20% off the price of the visit. Again, because the clients didn't ask for this. And I understand as business owners, we didn't ask for this either, but we wanna make sure that no one is turned away because they're like, well, I'm not coming to your office and you're not putting your hands on me. Yeah, we should have that conversation. You don't need hands on work all the time. But I think that then goes to the conversation of what do we do going forward with our profession? And I think all of us here have that conversation. I might do manual therapy today in the first two sessions, but this is not something that we consistently do going forward kind of thing. So I don't know if I would take the prices the same. I think I'm coming at it more from an existential conversation versus the actual monetary number that we're talking about. Cause I've done the same thing. I've offered people different deals and stuff like that. But it's like the conversation is, we're all on this together. They still, there's still a value to our expertise. So our, the value of, and I don't just mean the monetary value. I mean just the existential value of what we provide. And we all know that, you know, we're in this together, but I don't, we shouldn't think longterm because now if I can't do some type of manual therapy interventions or practice the way that I used to, then I'm somehow less of a therapist. And I think that that's the point that I want to make. Definitely not less of, definitely not less of a therapist. And again, like, yeah, I mean, I wouldn't lower prices just because you can't provide a service that you used to provide, you know? But again, like I think, yes, you're not, you are not like, you're not providing less of a service in any capacity, you know? But I think given the situation, we have to say like, okay, let's just make sure we see our clients somehow. But I, anyone who is a manual therapist in who's watching this right now or in the, in the recording or whatever, if you went, if this is something that we're stuck with for the next three months, you're not less of a physical therapist or chiropractor or acu, whatever, I don't know. I don't know, I guess an acupuncture can't do tele therapy, but I forget acupuncture. Just know that this is good because you, you as a clinician will realize that you can still provide premier care to your clients without touching them. Well, I think, I think it's kind of important you mentioned earlier going through an evaluation and walking someone through a slump test. When's the last time you actually like had to communicate so effectively that you walked someone who had no idea what they were doing through a special test? That there's a depth of understanding and expertise that is necessary to be able to do what a lot of us are gonna try to do over the next few weeks to transition to this platform. Now, the people on your screen right now, we've all been doing this for a while in some way, shape or form, whether it's through coaching or rehab or something like that. But it challenged my skill set exponentially when I first decided to, oh, hey, let me just start trying to coach people online out of necessity, because I had people move away. And now all of a sudden I'm trying to like verbally talk someone through pulling off a clean and jerk. And you're like, whoa, this is way different. So I think it is, it's gonna force a lot of us to evolve and really dig into our expertise. And I think that's where, you know, we do need to help people right now. We need to make sure that they're still staying active and being healthy and making the right choices. And there's a lot of opportunity in regards to that. But I also wanna kinda echo what Quinn is saying, like walking somebody through a slump test, there's value there. And like when the dust settles and everything clears, we need to understand that the value that you provide online is the same as you can do with your hands. And in some instances, I would say probably more, just because of the challenge that's involved. So. You're Mike's got a good question here. He says he's got three clinics and 10 practitioners and to just kind of get the ball rolling with his current patients and to kind of keep them in the community. He asks, would a one time, like a first time complimentary teletherapy session be a good idea just to like get them accustomed to what this is gonna be like, maybe create some value and just to kind of get the ball rolling. Yeah, I think that's a great idea. We in general on our website, we offer free consultations. So the, and I think that that's a really great transition because you have the opportunity to have so much of an impact in that first visit and show them like, wow them in their first session, maybe have your 10 practitioners practice, like do some case studies before they start doing the evaluate the free consultations or whatever. So that they feel confident going into them. But I think that's a really great way to just show them that like, listen, you can still do this. It's easy. It's, we'll walk you through the whole process. We're with you, even though we're not with you, we're with you there holding your hand every step of the way kind of thing. So I think that's a really good idea. Is your free complimentary that first one? Is that the same length of time? No, so we do, we schedule them for 30 minutes, but we don't really put a cap on them. But we do have like a buffer on our schedule so that if it's 30, like we don't get like four books back to pack.  but usually I would say we'll probably be on there for like 45 minutes, and then that gives us a lot of information, and also use your client's language. So don't use your own language, especially when you're doing these free ones, like really listen to what they're saying and repeat what they're saying, repeat their fears, repeat their hesitations and their objections, and say, okay, I understand that you feel this way, but I wanna let you know that this is how we can overcome that kind of thing. So really listen to what they're saying in that free consultation and overcome their objections, use their language and not your language in order to make that transition easier for them. Do you, so I know that most of your clients were coaching and now, currently all of them that you said earlier, if you start getting some physical therapy in-state, physical therapy clients. Yeah, so I actually, after this, I have a tele-therapy consultation for someone with sciatica, so. Okay, so then I want my next, I was to talk a little bit about the insurance piece. So are you gonna be doing the billing then? No, so for my tele, and this is just the way that my practice is set up, because I've been doing these two things for so long, I am not doing the billing for them. So this is where I will be providing the person with an invoice that they can submit on their own. And I will do that after we've completed our, so he purchased, and this is something, like again, like I'm bending for the current situation. So normally, we don't let people sign up for two weeks when they first sign up. We do the four weeks and like, this is what you gotta do. But because of who knows how long this is gonna be happening, he might be able to come see me in two weeks, like I don't know. So I gave him like a two week option. So I don't give them the super bill until we've completed the rehab coaching or the, well, this is actually tele therapy, because he's in New York. So I won't give them the bill until we've completed it, because basically the amount that they're paying covers a period of time. So I give it to them at the end. Now, if you are using tele therapy to supplement your inpatient, in your outpatient clinic, then before you get on these calls, you have to call the insurance companies and ask, like call Blue Cross Blue Shield and say, this is, what are you reimbursing for physical therapy in terms of delivering it tele therapy? If you're with tele therapy, what are the codes that I can build? Are there modifiers that need to be used? Can you direct me to the resource online so I can read it myself? And then know those before you go in. Now, if you're finding that, and every, again, this you also have to know what your practice act says about it. So make sure that you're going to read your practice act first so that you know, is tele therapy, can you provide tele therapy in your state? If the rule of thumb is if there's no language on it, then it's probably okay. Now, if there, then there might be specific language, which gives you a little bit more specific, like guidelines for it. But if, to my understanding, again, not legal advice, speak to your lawyers, but to my understanding, if there's nothing in your practice act, then your state is silent on tele therapy, and that's better because you can probably do it. So always call the insurance company first. Now, if you're finding that, like I said before, your top five insurance companies call them, and if you're finding that they're not reimbursing for tele therapy, then you need to have a conversation with your clients and say, it's gonna be self-pay, and I will give you an invoice when we're done, and you can still try to submit this to your insurance company, but you have to make sure that it has the right code. I think outpatient office is, an office visit is 11, and a tele therapy service at a distance site is two. So make sure that you're not, like you're not, please guys, don't like do insurance fraud here and put like a code that was in office so that it gets reimbursed. Okay, so that's good. I wanna summarize what you said there, because there's layers to this, and this is where people get messed up. Because right now what you're saying is, right, you're all your tele therapy clients, at least for the time being, you're not gonna be pre kind of looking into their benefits. It's gonna be, here's an invoice, will provide you with the information that you would need, it's your responsibility to submit. You're not going through your billing company right now for those. No, because I don't do that for my tele therapy services anyway. Okay, so but let's say that you decided to, this crisis was gonna be more long term, we've learned in the coming weeks, and you've decided that you are gonna shift that way, or if some of the people who are listening do wanna do that, what you're saying is the first thing you gotta do is call the insurance company. Well, even before that. Practice Act. Practice Act, yeah, so it doesn't matter what the company says, if the state board says no tele therapy, then it's no tele therapy. Then if state board either says, yeah, this is cool, where most of them don't say a thing, because the board practice acts are old, they say, okay, I'm just gonna move forward now, step is call insurance company. If insurance company says, yeah, great, you can do all the stuff, if they say no, then you say, okay, I'll give you an invoice that you can still submit, but this is what the insurance company says. Right, and you just, you have to be, and this is where that tele therapy waiver comes in handy. So, and I don't know if people who are, who bill out, maybe, I mean, I don't work in network, with a network at all, so I don't give information on what their insurance will cover, but typically I deliver that information via a phone call or via email, and I say, we verified your insurance, you get, your deductible is this much, this much has been met, this is how many visits you get, this is how many visits it will be, until your insurance kicks in, so for the first three visits, you're responsible for $150, well, whatever the E-Val is, then $150 per session, and then you're responsible for your coinsurance after these number of visits, and it'll be X, Y, and Z, and we'll submit on your behalf, right? So that's for in-person. Now, this is like, you've got to make sure that you're very, very clear with your clients that, okay, we verified your insurance, and this is where you might want to have like a written document that you send to them, and that maybe they sign it and send it back to you. Okay, we verified your insurance, your insurance will not cover tele-therapy services, but we will, and so they understand, so we understand, I understand that my insurance does not cover tele-therapy services, and I'm responsible for paying for the entirety of this, blah, blah, blah, at this rate for blah, blah, blah, and then you give them an invoice that they can try to submit on their own. So you just want to make it sure that you have it in writing, that they understand it's not covered, or this is what's covered, and this is what we're doing. If somebody's looking to find an attorney to consult with in regards to these types of things, what type of attorney should they be seeking? A medical practice attorney, so attorney, an attorney who works with medical professionals. You can go into more generically, like administrative law, and see then if you can subset, is that accurate or not quite? Not 100% sure. Now, I do think that billers, so my biller usually has dealt with all of these things at other practices, so billers usually kind of know this stuff because they've dealt with it in many capacities, so you can first maybe speak to your biller, and then I use a medical practice, I think that's what they're called. I don't know my dad, he's got all these connections. He's like, they deal with doctors, and they have a telemedicine kind of component, but yeah, so I would just say business law, and then maybe subset would be medical, I don't know. Yeah, no, I think that's accurate. Administrative law is kind of like attorneys that deal with professionals who have overseeing boards, and there's a lot of those professions that have nothing to do with healthcare, but within that healthcare is one of them, and then you can kind of try to dig down deeper to what Rory is saying too. At the end of the day, I just think that even if you have a lawyer, it's still so gray. Like, I have a couple of lawyers that I work with. One is, I don't even know, he did all of my personal training agreements, and then in his practice, he had someone who worked with telemedicine, so I spoke with her, and then I got another lawyer who was a business lawyer, but dealt with medical practices, and then like, no one ever has like a con... I'm telling you, when it comes to the law, there is no yes or no. I mean, there's usually a yes or no, but it's so unclear regardless of what the law says. It's always unclear, so. We got a question about Medicare above. John, you mentioned, or I think you clicked it, you would touch on that too, but Rory, do you have... Do you work with... I clicked the answer a little bit earlier because it would have segwayed in well, but now's a good time too. Yeah. Well, either one of you guys, if you work with clients who have Medicare, how do you manage that? So, I don't, and actually, this is something that I wanted to talk about, like even before we started. So, to work with Medicare clients, you have to be a Medicare approved provider. So, there's a whole application that you have to go through in order to actually accept Medicare and submit to Medicare. So, and I believe that you can be in network and out of network, so you can be a Medicare approved provider out of network. So, I would recommend if you, just in general, if you're thinking of opening your own practice and you, I would recommend being out of network because you're gonna make more money if you're out of network. And then second, for Medicare, staying out of network with Medicare, but being a Medicare approved provider. It's not gonna make you as much money as all the private insurances, but at least you can make a little bit more money that way than if you were in network. In terms of, let me just go back to the question. Where'd it go? I love it. It's in the answered questions. Oh, oh, oh, got it. I was like, where'd it go? Where did it go? It's Tyson. So they actually just, I believe, I actually have, I think I have a link for this. Hold on one second, guys. Now, can the Medicare patient opt out if they want to pay just cash services? So, I believe that the legalities behind that are no. If someone has Medicare, you can't take, my biller always says they're Medicare, you can't treat them unless you're accepting Medicare. So you have to accept whatever their insurance pays, you can only take their copay. And I do that on like, I've done that on a case-by-case basis because I had one, like a client who was doing personal training with me and then came back and he wanted to do physical therapy and he had a Medicare plan. And I wasn't gonna be like, sorry, I can't treat you. So I made an exception for his plan. And I think maybe I got like somewhere between like $100 and $110 per visit for him, which isn't what we charge, but it is what it is. But here I do have this thing. So Medicare telemedicine healthcare provider fact sheet. So this came out on March 17th. I'm actually just gonna put this in the comments so people can... So they basically like expanded telemedicine so that now Medicare is, you are able to do telemedicine and telehealth through Medicare, but read that link that I just put in there because there's a very distinct difference between, what are the words that they used, between tele therapy, e-visits and virtual check-ins. And so tele therapy and telemedicine was not covered by Medicare until now. And the client has to be an existing client in order for you to do these e-visits. So they're not evaluations, it's not tele therapy and it's billed differently. So make sure you check out that link for more of the specifics on how to work with a Medicare patient right now through virtual means. John, did you have anything to add to that on the Medicare side? No, I know it just got approved for telemedicine. It's always been kind of sticky with Medicare. When I was in clinic, we were in a, I wouldn't say primarily, but a good amount of Medicare. And there are quite a few restrictions, but I think when it comes to tele therapy, everything is brand new with that whole realm. So the resource you put up, I reposted it to the entire attendees group. It's a good read, I've been through that already. I suggest reading through that thoroughly, probably a couple of times before you take on a Medicare patient. Yeah, the only like workaround that I've seen in the past is calling it fitness and wellness service instead of physical therapy. But again, now we're just in conversation. If you're doing an evaluation and they're coming to you, like they have back pain, you know, you have to be careful. And that is just in general, when you're talking about like your general practice, if you are doing like personal training or wellness with someone, and then as a physical therapist, they also say, you know what, today my back really hurts. And what I do is I literally book it as a physical therapy session and charge them for physical therapy. Like I make it very clear in like what they're signing in for, what their appointment says, what their receipt says, and what like so that it's not, you're not doing, you're not assessing their back pain in a personal training session, you're assessing their back pain in a physical therapy evaluation. Again, because if we're doing these two things, we have to be really careful. We are always a physical therapist. So we want to treat anything that's related to the scope of physical therapy as physical therapy. So you pretend you didn't hear them say that? You just back first. You broke up, I didn't hear what you said. I said, so you can't just pretend that you didn't hear them when they say that? I mean, sometimes I try, I don't know, you know. And listen, if it's like, you know, like my knee hurts a little bit, I'm like, well, like. Yeah, exactly. I'm like, well, let's just try and train and see what happens and then they forget about it. Then I'm like, I don't worry about it. But then if it's something that they've complained about three or four sessions in a row, I say, okay, like maybe we should take a look at it, you know, through a physical therapy evaluation. And maybe to wrap up, you know, for some of the people thinking about all these nuances and it's like, do you, all the people that I see on social media really take all of these steps? And it doesn't matter. Like there, it's whether you want to take these steps and for you and your business and your clients, and just because you, just because other people may not, doesn't mean that's the right thing to do or that doesn't mean that they're, if shit were to ever hit the fan, had they wished that they had taken steps to be more responsible with this stuff. So I think this has been really, really insightful, Rory. Guff, do you have anything else to add? Yeah, I just wanted to say, so I read a really great article. Actually, I'm forgetting his last name right now, so let me just tell you what his last name is. He might actually be a clinical athlete. I'm not 100% sure. Nick Licamelli, have you heard of him? Yeah, yeah, yeah. He works with 3DMJ. He put a really great article out about this specific topic last night, which I was like, oh, this is brilliant. I read it, it was so good. I messaged him, I was like, oh, thank you. And he, basically what he's saying is like, listen, this is something that takes time to implement. We didn't, I didn't just wake up one day and open my virtual practice, you know? So when, like we're, for people who are in the, only they practice in an outpatient clinic and they've never done teletherapy before, and now you can't see your patients and you're trying to connect with them, you're trying to scramble to put it all together right now. My recommendation is to just take a deep breath and just try and get things kind of in place before you start seeing your clients virtually, so that the experience that your clients have is good, the experience that you have is good, and then nothing negative comes of this. So really just take your time, try and, you know, go into this teletherapy Facebook group that's run by Rob Vining. There's incredible resources in there, and they're in their, what is it called? In their file section, they've put in so many things over the last couple of days that can help people start their practices, take their practices online, but just don't rush. Make sure you're dotting your eyes, crossing your T's, and like checking, like make a checklist and make sure you're going through all of these things so that you are covering your S, you're keeping your clients happy, no one gets hurt, and you're smooth sailing. So this is something that takes, like even in that Rob Vining has this like teletherapy kind of kickoff program that's like a six week process to set up your online, which is fast, to set up your online teletherapy services, and people are trying to do this like overnight now. So just slow down, take a couple deep breaths, like no one's gonna, hopefully no one dies, no one's gonna die, just take a couple deep breaths, get your system in place, and then do it slowly, don't try and do like 15 in a day, do like one or two, and then the next day, like just make sure that you're going through this process slowly and carefully so that everything is kosher, as kosher as possible. I think that's a great cap on it. If people ask, well, what are the next steps? Well, watch the recording because I've, Rory touched on a lot of the next action items and a lot of the things that you're gonna want to put on that checklist. So when you get this thing, watch it again, and then head over to that Facebook group. Thanks so much for that reference too. We're actually gonna have Nick on here doing one of these too, we've already talked to him. So. Oh yeah, he actually, he mentioned, he said you guys had reached out, of course you know him, I was like falling asleep when I messaged you, because I read it right before I went to bed and I sent him a message, and then I fell asleep. So. Any parting thoughts? I think you touched on all the questions that I had, and then looks like we're covered everything. We're all gonna be okay and we're in this together. Yeah. If we pull, listen, if we pull resources and, we shouldn't be now like, like you said, I think this is, can be a positive for our profession when we start really working together and some of those competitive lines start to get blurred because we know like, oh shit, if I don't get help, I'm gonna be in trouble. And like the help is gonna come from your colleagues as much as it's gonna come from the patients that are actually, you know, supporting your business and you. So thanks so much for doing this, Rory. This has been awesome. Of course. Yeah, I appreciate it. Thanks for having me. Where can people connect with you more? You can connect with me on Instagram, Rory, R-O-R-I-M-E-G-A-N underscore PRS, or on my business, which is at pro rehab strength, where you can visit my website, progressiverehabandstrength.com. Awesome. Thanks so much everyone for tuning in. John Jarrett, thanks so much for helping to manage the questions and joining in as well. And Rory. We will send the recording out ASAP and we'll talk to you all soon. John, Jarrett, give a thumbs up. Rory, give a first. Oh, okay, cool. Hey, hey. It was obscured. Okay, bye, yay.