 and with that said, welcome to episode three of the Adaptable Business, and I've got a couple questions for everyone here. I got a little poll that I'm going to launch. It kind of gives us an idea of everybody's background. So those questions should have popped up in front of you, and if you can take a few seconds to answer those. Number one is, have you had to switch from a brick and mortar to an online practice or business, you know, in the last couple weeks? And did you have any form of online services before the crisis? And let's say the crisis were to end tomorrow, would you want to continue offering some type of online service or set another way? Do you wish for your short-term online services to be just that? Okay, so it looks like the majority of people switch from a brick and mortar, almost 80%, 75 to 80%. And about one-third of everyone had some type of online service, a little bit more than one-third. And then most, almost all of you, 96% of you say, when this thing ends, you still want to offer some type of online service. So that's, you know, three times the amount of people who actually had online services or more than double. So it looks like people are, if they didn't have an online service, they're saying, oh, that's something that could be valuable and then something that could, you know, survive some other type of emergency in the future. So I think that's pretty valuable info for us and goes right along with what we talk, hopefully we're going to talk about. So Eve, can you just jump in with a little bit about your back because you've been working with physical therapy in their own business long, long before this has happened. So this has kind of been your thing. You have your own practice. Can you go into a little bit about your background and what things are looking like for you now with your own business and how you've been transitioning things? Yeah, sure, man. I appreciate it. I'll try to make somewhat of a long story short. I graduated PT school like in 06. Believe it or not, I wanted to be a pediatric physical therapist when I first started and then made transition to outpatient. Just did like a basic work of the school system in the summers. I did some outpatient stuff and then I transitioned to just insurance based practice orthopedic and then four years into that decided that, you know, I kind of went backwards like kind of Quinn, your story, strength conditioning, then PT. I kind of did PT and then got in the strength conditioning world. So I started getting strength conditioning world and started looking around. I was like, I got to do something better than this transition to cash based kind of started completely over. Did that for four years, dabble a little bit in startup world during that time and then had some success here locally. You know, just in this performance based kind of cash world and then just was able to to kind of expand with multiple clinics and kind of multiple practitioners in about a four year period. And then I partnered with Danny Matay and now we're doing some business coaching, just trying to help as many physical therapists who are kind of interested in this kind of gym performance based cash world. Just kind of be successful, growth scale start. Yeah, so that's kind of summation. And you still have a brick and mortar. Yes. Yeah. Yep. So right now I'm in my clinic. Now we've got two PTs, one PTA in one location. We have our standalone space. We were in a CrossFit gym. Now we were own space with little mini CrossFit gym version of the CrossFit gym just because that's what people understand. Basically some rogue equipment, weights, kettlebells. And then we also had a second office and she's mobile. She goes to different. She's kind of partner of ours. She goes to different CrossFit gyms and different personal training gyms and does treatment out of there. So now with that, how have things changed in the last couple of weeks or? Yeah, dramatically, right? So we saw it coming and we actually closed somewhat preemptively because we were having two or three visits kind of here and there. And it just, I knew it was going to happen and we had to make this transition. I found out just very, very fast. So we shut down not last week, but the week before and started doing telehealth and maybe some emergent visits. People who really need to come in, maybe they're post-op. We have one guy who's in a significant amount of back pain. So as we did that, we kind of realized and we have some sort of digital presence, but we didn't have as necessarily any kind of big online product or online business that we could rely on. So we have started A, building that out. B, we already do some, we have one of our coaches or PTs. He already does some online trainings. We have some clients that has about 10 to 15. So we are basically A, getting to all of our patients, trying to convert them to telehealth or some version of online programming. B, trying to build out more digital funnels to push people to our online programming. And then C, really trying to figure out what kind of online product and there's multiple versions of that, but something online that can help us sustain something like this in the future. We've had to deal with hurricanes before, but that's like a week. And then we're back. Like this is obviously going to be a month, if not more. You know, and so trying to figure that out and growing skill that has been a challenge as well as helping our other clients who are working in our business to help them see the light and so to speak. And that's a big issue with this or there's many, but it's the uncertainty. We don't know how long this is going to last. People are afraid to completely change their model because they say, well, what if this thing ends in six weeks? You know, then I just spent energy that I could have spent in and just like reinforcing the model that I already had and just weathering the storm. But the other side of it is, well, what if you were to create just a whole nother avenue for yourself that you could take forward? And it sounds like maybe that's kind of what you're steering towards. You still want to do what you were doing before, but then have just other options. What was so for the many people that are probably here right now and also that you work with with Danny and with physical therapy biz who are in the very same boat having to all of a sudden close their doors wanting to keep their community together. What was your your first step? What was kind of the next action item in that direction? It's like, okay, we need to we need to get our patients kind of another option to continue care with us. What does that look like? Logistically, so first step, I mean, you've got patients already scheduled. So the first thing you're going to do is try to transition them. And this is what you mean. Current patients. How are we going to transition them to something online or something digital? Right. That's kind of a chast. Right. So first thing to do is going to reach out to them, call them and with help first. Right. And so if you try to sell somebody right off the bat, it's not usually a good kind of game place, especially with something like this. So we're reaching out to those patients and saying, hey, you've got an appointment scheduled. We're transitioning all of our scheduled patients to tell health visits. You know, would you like to keep the same time? You know, the transition is really easy. We will send them a video that kind of explains about how to do that. And we transition as many people as we can. Also just being very, very supportive. So they say they cancel kind of preemptively. They're like, I'm not sure. We're just like, well, there's anything that we can do to help. Please let us know. And we're checking in with all these people, like every PT is checking in with their patients pretty much on a weekly basis at this point. Again, kind of help first model. And then if there's a way we can help them, hey, I need you to build me a workout that I can do because I'm stuck at home. Or, hey, you know, I've got these issues that I want to lose sight of the progress I've made. Can you build me something out? Sure, we can help and figure something out for you. Now, does that become its own product? As in, does the model change a bit or have you guys changed your model from more traditional physical therapy? You come in, you pay for the visit and then you leave. You come back, you pay for the visit. You leave to some type of like package or coaching package where we do a telehealth visit. We write you a program, we kind of touch base, but there's a price point that's monthly or something like that. Have you guys looked into that type of model? Yeah, I mean, so maybe it would be better to preemptively say what our model is currently. So right now we charge $2.15 for an evaluation. Those are about 75 minutes. And then we offer people, this is in person, six or 10 visit packages. And those obviously vary on price. That's kind of the model we do. And then we do online monthly programming. That's about 195 a month. That's really the services that we typically offer. We also have like a, we call it continuity program where we touch base with people on a monthly basis at a discounted cost and same thing. It's kind of like online programming, but in person. I'll see them monthly. I talk to them and then give them a program kind of in person and talk about training load and all that kind of stuff. That's what we do right now. How's the coaching so that monthly package that programming. Are those healthy athletes or those now people who are, who would have been in person, physical therapy clients now maybe transition to that? Or are you keeping that kind of separate? Okay. It's kind of like a continuum is what I thought of it. Right. So like we wanted to continue to help people, even though they weren't necessarily in pain and help them reach whatever like athletic or physical goals, or maybe their goal is literally just to maybe hopefully reduce the risk of injury, right? Or just continue to, you know, hit PRs and squats. We kind of want to help them do that either sometimes it's with a coach or sometimes we kind of happen to be that coach in that kind of PT role as well. Like if I can have an athlete their entire life and I can provide value and they see value in me, I kind of keep that way. So we're kind of already in that model looking at that way. One of the big things that we had with episode two with with Rory, a lot of the questions were based around helping or their clients being out of state and what telehealth means in that regard in this whole gray area of well coaching and wellness versus is this physical therapy. Do you guys have anybody that you work with that's that's out of state or do you do you just chop all that away and say we work with people online in person. You guys are within our state borders and we don't have to worry about that. So, right. We basically keep everything. We may have one or two clients online who are out of state, but most people are in state. Right. And so when you talk about kind of what's happening now, we're trying to figure out how we can expand that exactly what you're saying. So we have a product that works really, really well in person. Right. Like they come in, they're in pain, they see us and then we can help them continue to reach whatever performance goals they had and now we're trying to take the same exact thing. But how can we now do this on online digital format. So if I can't see people in person, I can put them in the same. I like to think of things as funnels. How can I put them in that same funnel and continue to provide value and trade money for value basically. With that. So, so that and I think that's where a lot of people are where their minds are going to. You and I have talked, I mean, you've been in the clinic profit forum and you've been helping a lot of our members for years now and there's a ton of threads in there about this very thing. And the last episode, there were a lot of questions and I don't think there are that many answers, but I also know that you have consulted with attorneys on this matter and you've done a lot of digging. When it comes to the legal area of working with somebody out of state. And let's say they're injured, you know, is calling it coaching and wellness enough or or we ultimately held to our highest license. How does that dynamic work and is that something that you guys are thinking about managing as you try to push into that space. Yeah, I mean, managing risk is obviously a big piece of that right and so from everything that I've been told. If it's a very, the thing that matters most for everybody is that you do right by that person and that you give them a good service and that they like you and that like they're not going to sue you if they if they dislike it's why physical therapists don't get to a good Do no harm right. Yeah, exactly right like have a good relationship with them and do the right freaking thing that's the that's the bottom line but the second layer is to be very, very transparent and document like crazy so the big thing that a lawyer told me was that they needed to kind of verbally, you know, in person say like hey this is I'm not treating physical therapy this is more of a wellness coaching thing. You know, are you okay with that yes mitigate risk level to document it document it like crazy. Minigarous number three, make sure that when they book things online that it's not going to be, you know, doesn't say physical therapy it says coaching the last kind of layer that it's the best way they can explain to me because again it is great. And every time you talk about things legally there has to be a precedent for it and there's really no there's not a lot of precedence for this we can't go back to case law and say, hey, this is the case, and this is how this judge guided this decision so this is how to base your decision so it's the bottom line. So what you need to look at is if a group of your peers so if a group of physical therapists were looking at what you're doing and if they considered it physical therapy skilled physical therapy, then it probably is if they didn't, then you're more in the wellness coaching realm, right because that's going to be making that decision so I try to base as many decisions I can off of those layers. And one thing that I'm getting from you is you've got these so layers in place but that doesn't it's still risk appraisal. There can still be something that seeps through the layers ultimately so you have to just kind of make those decisions but you're, you're securing things as best you can I think that the people agree to the situation you said in person, but if we're talking about people online. Do you mean literally in person or maybe like on. Yeah, like in person right now right now okay okay verbal confirmation yes sorry I guess record and say, yeah, gotcha you said. Yeah, and it's more just documented say like hey I talked to this person I documented it. I'm gonna guess they can lie, you know if they went, you know, to a judge but that that's the bottom line it's just being very clear. So that's that's really, really helpful. So, is that where you're when you got you and Danny are working with a lot of physical therapy entrepreneurs and business owners. And is this kind of the, the route that you're pushing with them as well helping them to kind of build some other options that can complement their brick and Yeah, I mean absolutely I mean to be, it's all be transparent it's very difficult for us because we have so many things kind of going on like our specific practice and maybe we will also with multiple practitioners, most of the people we work with are usually single practitioner. Right, and so what I'm telling a lot of these single practitioners to work to work on is just like I said first to kind of reach out to the old patients they have personal relationships with all of them right we have like admin staff that handle some of that so personal relations so you need to reach out to all those old patients. Just like I said check in, try to provide some value and try to get them in the telehealth visit or in some sort of online coaching, but now we're talking about and kind of the purpose of what we're going to talk about is how do I create something that's going to actually like last forever some sort of online program online product online coaching whatever that not only will help my patients right now and help me recoup some of the revenue that's going to be lost that all of us are feeling, but will continue to provide revenue for me for years and years and years and years to come right and so stuff they should have been working on but never did right like we've been telling them but now it's like oh man I know this time. Now I can start doing this stuff. I got all this time and no people and no money I better I better do something right yeah what do what do those strategies look like do they look a lot like what you talked about earlier in regards to making monthly coaching so that these people are not leaving you when they're quote unquote better or discharge this is this is kind of a. You know a lifelong endeavor that now that you have with this person where you can take them through the continuum of rehab to training in that that side of the continuum just doesn't you know doesn't end. Yeah, it's it's it's always hard for me get in the framework because everybody we work with and like you guys to you guys understand that framework it's that framework of like coaching and PT or are kind of the same thing right so they're already kind of there. So what we're focusing on more is the I would say the marketing side of things and for them to really understand what this funnel looks like so in my brick and mortar practice we do a lot of workshops. We do a lot of meetings we go to gyms we meet people they come in for evals they do the packages we hopefully keep them forever from from a coaching standpoint and it doesn't really change it just changes in the fact that it's now online so we're trying to get them through the same thing. We're trying to get them to think about the same principles we've been telling them, but put it into more of an online from format so for an example, push out content on Instagram. Let's just use something really really that everybody understand just mobility based stuff right so like more about prep work right put a lot of that stuff out pre have whatever you want to say put that content out. Right and then with that content, try to capture their email address tried to capture their email address, create an email list. After you get that email list try to email them frequently and nurture them tell them, you know, that they should be doing these programs often and then after that launch some sort of digital product, and that's something you can kind of do forever a kind of the base level. And there's, there's a lot of different ways to do that what I really emphasize with a lot of our students will just call them right is is a lot of them are very niche specific so like a gymnast, lifting niche, CrossFit niche soccer niche. That makes things almost even easier to because they can really hone in just on their niche right and so you know having a lot of them going on tangent here a little bit having a lot of them just push people into like their own Facebook group. Right and then in that Facebook group provide value value value and then at some point. Yes, you can sell one off product, one of products like similar to what kind of Zach long days you know you can do that. You can do more online coaching stuff that you'll focus on a lot more or it could be more of like a group programming like something like softly does or barbell wide right like it doesn't really matter what it is I try to get them to keep it very similar to what they're already doing with the already good at, but just think of it as the same thing is just in a digital format. Well, and if so what I'm taking is the funnel like you just said the steps don't necessarily change but now it's how do I adapt to the terrain because as physical therapists we're getting our patients from someone somewhere. So let's say we're getting them from a gym or for a lot of people here we're getting them from physicians you know maybe maybe most of their patients are coming from medical doctors. Well, right now that right now the difficulty is all outpatient non essential things are kind of being pushed by the wayside so that's hard. And so now you may need to push into different spaces but you know the gyms are not closed. They didn't shut the doors for forever they want to stay open to and they want to provide value to their members and so some gyms are loaning out equipment, but you could. But the point is they're still open. So if you're saying I you guys used to go to gyms and do workshops and these then maybe in services for the coaching staff. Could you not still do something online so like for example on zoom you have their coaching staff in front of you and you're in you're giving them some type of like rehab, whatever or movement, you know, something, because there are a lot of the gyms are still to keep in touch with their clients and their members online themselves so it's the it still works the same way, but you maybe just have to be a little bit more creative and innovative with how you get the message across. Is that. Yeah, no totally right so like let's use that example right so we're having a lot of people reach out to these gyms and can you provide content right now they're probably struggling provide online workouts like how many do they provide all day right so can you provide very similar to a workshop you do but do it online, send it to that coach, right, and then that coach can kind of send it out and be like hey if you're interested in working with, you know, made to move more. Here's a link, and you create a, you know, I'm getting kind of in the weeds but a specific landing page, right, and then the landing page they can opt in and click a button say I got your email address and I'll send you some for free. Like, now you have something that you could do online, anywhere, anytime right you could send that workshop to a gym in California to anywhere right online workshop and that they could send it and people could put in their email address, you collect email addresses and I think that's the exact same thing that you were doing before you just providing it on a different terrain by the way I really like that, doing it on just the same thing just different terrain. What are your thoughts on having multiple digital options. Do you guys are you guys thinking about as you move into the space, having kind of a quote unquote buffet of maybe two or three things where you've got maybe a low ticket. Like, you know, you can purchase type of item like a program or something like that. A higher end coaching plus a lot of attention, and a lot of consult and then something in the middle. Yeah, I mean I like to think of it as a, this is kind of like a value ladder right so the first thing that they could get is is free the middle tier product and stuff and the value is something they could get for, let's call it $30 to $50 right and then there's a little mini course and then eventually what I want I mean, what we want to do made to move is we want to do, we love one on one stuff we want to see people, we want to be able to help them directly. And that's our bread and butter so I'm going to try to push people up that value ladder as quickly as I can. You know and still provide value and again something that would be automated eventually not necessarily automated but that funnel will kind of always be there. And that's scary right now to people. How do you reconcile that like with a situation like this in which people are scrambling for revenue. And then, and then sometimes it's like well, you might to get in the door and to get an audience free something might have to be a thing. And then you frame that into it being know this is like an investment that that hopefully we can see some return. Is that something that you're seeing like a barrier that you're having to get through with some of the clinicians that you're working with right now in this time. Yeah, I mean, that's kind of, we're taking a two pronged approach like first prong, and this is how you can really recoup a lot of revenue is just like I said your current patient your current list. And then you can actually do something specifically to them, because they're going to kind of ascend the value ladder so to speak very quickly. But right now, lead generation is this is the time to build trust in people the people that you reach out to now, and you bring them in and you give them something for free or a very low ticket, like you've just built a lot of trust with that person so it is I am framing it just as you said something very very long term like, you know, the online stuff. You know, this it takes a long time to build a community takes a long time to have a online presence that lasts, and it needs continue with nurturing continued work. Right. And that's, I think that's where a lot of people sometimes you're getting a little mislead like I can launch this course I'm going to make a bunch of money and then silver it's like, no, like you need to build something that you can repeat for years to come you have to continuously nurture that audience. Like, if a gym or a doctor never hears from me again and they're my referral source, at some point they're probably going to stop referring to me so I need to nurture that relationship the same thing kind of goes online this is now going to be something, you're going to have to continuously put effort in. So I wanted to be something that's actually sustainable to right not like, you know, this absolute mind craziness of just 100 different things, 100 pieces of content, sell this thing and then it's done it's like, well what can I create this actually sustainable long term. And then I think that's really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really And then you see them and you're like oh cool, you know these people are kind of you know part of us now and they're interested in what we have to say and what we're doing but they don't know about each other necessarily. And so to them they're all they're very individual and that's why I think it's easy a lot of times for people to just kind of jump ship because they it's hard to know who they're so much out there. But if you build a community within that and it could be something as simple as a Facebook group potentially with what it sounds like you're saying I think that really really builds a lot of brand loyalty and community that keeps the motivation and keeps the train going. And they can then build momentum for you and for the community. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, people will get stuck in the weeds of trying to make a product like amazing and evidence-based. And like, I mean, all of stuff's very, very important, but what's gonna matter more is the kind of marketing and the kind of community side, all those kind of intangibles, right? Like people are typically buying from you because they like you and they want to be part of your community. So we can start thinking about, you know, I think of migrant motor practice more as a community than as a business, right? We have a community of people, you know, people, we have cold brew coffee on tag, we have people just come in and do that. So, you know, it's just, it's fully community. And can you do the same thing kind of online as well? And in a Facebook group, you know, or like you guys kind of do a forum, a place where people can kind of interact and get to know each other is a place that they probably won't leave for a very long time. And that's somebody who knows, likes and trusts you and is willing to buy from you. That's the value, right? It's like the value isn't necessarily how awesome the product is, the product has to be good, but the value needs to be focused kind of more on these other things that people typically aren't looking at. And just for everybody, feel free to start throwing in some questions to the Q and A with this stuff. Jeremy, I see your question. We'll get to that kind of more of a logistical thing. Let's maybe pivot temporarily to kind of where the rubber meets the road. Was there, were all of your clinicians doing some type of teletherapy even before this? Or has that had to be kind of a skill to learn on the fly? Like what does a teletherapy session look like? And how is it different logistically than a in an in-person session from a flow standpoint, from what can I do and what can I actually offer on an online platform? Yeah, it's been a challenge for some of the, you know, some of who I work with could be very manual heavy. And then making that transition from a manual heavy therapist to doing it otherwise. So what I've been telling, and it's something that you guys already talk about a bunch, is like what are the two, in my opinion, humble opinion, what are the two best tools in a therapist's tool belt? And like one is just the education piece. Two is the empowerment piece of just like, you know, we have people come in, they're in a lot of pain and just kind of like on a telehealth visit, we're just like, hey, like it's okay, you can do these things. Let's just modify it a little bit and let's keep going. Like that in and of itself has been so powerful. So we already do some of this stuff and so we're kind of double down on that, right? We double down on talking to them off the ledge, so to speak, a lot of people are stressed out.  and we're doing more of like, we've got this objective piece of things and just kind of listening to them talk and really taking it all in and then giving them some actionable steps and some things to do, create some locus of controls. Like, here's what you can go do today, go start doing it. And they already kind of feel better. And then, yeah, there's some exercise prescription. It's challenging. We're lucky we have a very big library of YouTube videos. We're already using some platforms like TrueCoach, which makes those things easier. But emailing them with some YouTube links is a great time to back some content. Make some YouTube videos of those exercises. Put them up on your YouTube channel. Email them to your patients. At the end of their telehealth visit, make sure that they do them. It's something we're pushing people towards. Answer a question? Yeah, definitely. And then we're getting some really good questions rolling in here. David asked a good one. And maybe this is something that you had to dealt with before this all happened to is, how do you approach gyms and gym owners about providing resources without stepping on toes and acknowledging that providing online coaching could be perceived as trying to steal clients? So, well, I guess we'll have to go back to maybe first just the brick and mortar piece, right? How we develop those relationships initially, and it comes back down to that community piece. I'll go there and kind of try to be part of their community as kind of a drop in, right? And so, even now with my online community, I'll jump in and some of these online workouts that some of the coaches are doing. And I'll like, I'll comment, I'll engage, and I'll kind of build a little bit of bridge first before I start hard selling, hey, send me your patients. Hey, send me, I'm going to do all the online programming for you. And you position it as a partnership or an alliance as opposed to we're competing with each other, right? And so it's like, hey, you're working on these things. I can compliment you by doing these things. And this is how we fit together. And it's just more relationship based marketing as opposed to like referral based marketing. I'm creating relationships with people. Again, that community thing. I'm creating relationships with people. I'm genuinely interested in what they're doing. They're generally interested in what we're doing and we're creating these partnerships to, you know, combat, you know, musculoskeletal disease, whatever you want to put it, injuries, whatever, together. Well, with you having like a coaching service as well. Is there ever an issue underlying with that because I know what David is asking basically like you're, you just have to be, you have to kind of appraise the situation and say this athlete already has a coach. Like I personally, when an athlete comes to me, that's one of the first things to ask them like, who's your coach? Do you have a coach? Are you looking for a coach in a program and like that whole shebang? Or what are you looking for me to be an adjunct to you guys? And I pivot based on what they're looking for. Like I'm not trying to coach people. And I don't want to ruin those relationships because that coach is sending me somebody because they trust me. So in that situation where you also have coaching services, but you have rehab services to do you try to throw that line and just take it as a case by case basis like what is this athlete actually from me and I want to foster. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, that's a, we'll call that social agility, right? It's like going there reading the situation and creating a service and offering that is right for that person as well as white right for that gym, right? So just kind of having the ability to do that if you're just being kind of socially agile and be able to figure out what how to create an alliance with them but not step on their toes. I think it's just, it's somewhat of a skill. It's not something that I initially, it's something that I got better at as I did it more and more. One thing I've found some success in this realm is trying to position myself as a bridge. Being a coach myself and being in healthcare, I think if you create that healthy relationship with the coaches, and you get them to understand that okay, like, I have my clients, I have my CrossFit clients, I have my power lifters or whatever it may be. But you're like that a specialist for this particular thing. Then I can create kind of a value leverage there with the coaches where all of a sudden if they run into something that's just not what they're used to or not something they want to deal with. Like if you, you get individual with chronic injuries, a lot of coaches are like, this is just outside like what my comfort zone is. Then I get that phone call. And you position yourself through that, through the lectures and the relationship building process. But I'm also that bridge where I'll get some coaching clients or get some rehab clients just based off that relationship because now all of a sudden I've taken that hat that coach doesn't want to wear off and I'm wearing it. And they're like, it looks better on you. So they send the client my way and then the big thing here is I send that client back. I send them back better. I send them back in a better position and I continue that relationship with the coach and continue to build it. And then there are times where they're like, Hey, this I've got one of my top end weight lifters where they were like, I think I've taken them as far as I can. I don't know what to do anymore. I want to see what you can do. And that's what, you know, then now I have a lifelong, lifelong athlete because of a relationship that I built. So if you can, if you can be that bridge for people and provide that value for the coaches, I think it's not necessarily stepping on toes. I think it's just a really professional relationship that you can develop. Yeah, providing value first, right, and then making them look good, right. There's a thing y'all talked about it. I think it's really the hierarchy of needs like, you know, just increasing their status, you know, and making them look good like that. That's huge. Just like, you know, with some crossfitters there, they already have a coach sort of going to gym and we're just supplementing some of that and they're just like, Oh man, they finally hit an overhead squad or they finally were able to do, you know, whatever hand handstand push ups like I was like, you know, thank you. And I was like, well, that's what we're here for here to help, you know, make your athletes look good and make your gym look good. Well, and there's proximity bias to right so they have athletes that they say something to all the time like, Hey, maybe you should pay attention to your sleep. And then we come in and we do a lecture and we're like, Okay, recoverability sleep is a number one priority and they all start laughing and they turn around and look at that coach. That makes their coach feel so good. And if you can provide that for them, then that I mean that bridge is right there already they're like you come in and you just nail the same things that I'm saying and the athletes finally pick up on it and it makes everybody better. So it's that that positive kind of reinforcement. I agree. I used to get that all the time. When I was inside the gym be like, I've been saying that the coach be like I've been saying that for years and I was just like, Yeah, I mean it's just another perspective I'm here to you know again make you look good I'm going to say that the same thing that you said I'm just going to say it again, and we're going to get through these people together. You know, and yeah, those bridges are very difficult to destroy by the way once you build them. So that's a really good questions here from people. Dalton asks, Hey guys currently in the process of opening a cash based clinic in Canada. Shout out Jared, Canadians. He was actually at my last meet. Oh, cool. Yeah. Yeah, our Dalton and we'll have their own podcast and they're awesome dudes. So guys, and he says been doing the PT blueprint so Eve thanks for the content. So the question is how do we take the in person marketing we were doing slash planning to do in the community to the online space. We have started to offer Facebook live Q&A with some local gyms Facebook groups any other thoughts. So we kind of touch on this earlier but Facebook live would be a good idea potentially right. Can you go Facebook live with them together. And I hate keep going back to this but it's like reaching out to those gyms and those those people directly and trying to get them on a conversation and find out what they're looking for what do they need. How can you help them. How can you make them look good just like we've talked about and providing that value so yes I mean, let's talk about action items, Facebook live, Instagram live recording content and sending it to them, maybe creating pdfs. of specific content they need and sending to the coaches. Again, you know, whatever you were planning to do, do it on online format, send it to them. I think that's going to be the best bet. Have you Jamie asks, have you adjusted price points these last few weeks, or are you planning to address price points for the next few weeks. Created free visits. So we mentioned free a little bit but how, how extensive are you getting with free and for tele therapy sessions that were previously in the brick and mortar. So I guess like, has price point shifted. Yeah, that's AI mean it's a good question so in any other time, I would. An hour of my time is worth an hour of my time, however, we decided kind of as a team, just because of all the things going on a lot of people and financial uncertainty, we decreased our prices so we're at 150 for an hour at 75 for a half hour right where we're typically would be like I said 205 to kind of 165 depending on the package rate so we decided to decrease it. More just because we wanted to help our local community, and to decrease the barrier of entry we decided to do just free kind of telehealth check ins right because a lot of people, they call it inertia. They're like, I don't want to use this new platform like I don't know what zoom is. How do I log in what happened so I just want you to use it once, and if I can get you to come in to use it once. Then I can get you to see the value and now maybe we can do again online coaching or a telehealth visit kind of afterwards I think free we talked about the value ladder freeze the best way to get someone just use something once. And it's just like a discovery visit, you know, or consultation, and then I can show you the value and now we can start working together long term because time is probably what a lot of us have right now so I'd rather be using that time kind of effectively and I think it's effective way to do that. A lot of these things seem counterintuitive then don't today it's like free reduced prices in a time where we're like our bottom line is shrinking, but it's if you can weather the storm and it's like you can regroup and, you know, galvanize the troops almost and the troops are your community like who's in your funnel. It's a way to solidify things like nobody's, unless you, you know, invested in zoom stock the last month nobody's going to get rich during this time. You're going to hopefully solidify your, your avenues and then go forward and I think that's that's what you're getting at so. No that makes a lot of sense and reducing prices can only you know that doesn't have to be a permanent thing, I wouldn't assume right it that's, you know, you're adapting to the current landscape. We've done a lot of things right so like during this pandemic, basically our prices are reduced the other thing that we're doing and we haven't done this yet. McCain actually from another one of our mastermind members is he's selling these kind of bigger packages we sell like 10 visit packages and giving people free telemedicine during as long as as long as we're that stayed home shelter and play stuff you get free telemedicine. And if you buy this kind of 10 visit package right so that's a great way to recoup some revenue and provide again this big bridge and this big trust with a lot of people so I don't want to like talk about too much because we haven't actually done that yet where we got something this week we're kind of doing next week but I just you know getting a little more creative is not a bad idea either. And real quick, going back to Dalton's question about different ways to get in front of people I didn't want to make it seem like we dismissed it but I think Dalton if you go back I don't know if you were here at the beginning but if you go back probably the first 15 minutes of what we talked about is is how to get people to get in front of people and create that kind of community so it was a good question. Just go back and listen to the recording to because there were other things that we mentioned, we've got some questions about platforms. And Greg said he asked this may be a bit of a new question I don't think it is but why are people pushing the use of coaching apps such as true coach. I've ever had just shared a Google Excel sheet and communicated via email and follow up to kind of compliment that Brandon asks what do you feel is the best easiest format to create an online program and get the word out if you have nothing at the moment. I'm pretty sure everybody on this panel uses true coach, but Eve I'm going to let you touch on that like why do you pick something like true coach as opposed to Google Sheets Excel sheet email. Yeah, I mean, I always tell people do the thing that you're going to actually commit to and be able to do on a regular basis consistently so if that's email and Google Sheets, not a problem right, but using true coach, having access to the video library messaging with the app, being able to interact with them on a regular basis, then again having to go in and put their, you know, seeing if they actually could be the complete of their workouts or not have been huge for me as far as keeping people long term right so like I don't want to see somebody just for a month from my coaching and I'm not going to be like most of that work is that first month right like so I want to keep them for two three four five six maybe even a year right as long as again we can provide value to each other so true coaches really helped us increase the lifetime value of each one of our clients and that goes a long way because getting new people all the time is hard man, but keeping people is a lot easier, and so we like providing value to keep them long term. And I've also found, sorry I've also found just an efficiency standpoint I started off with Google Sheets and email and messenger and Instagram Messenger basically any way you communicate with me was was an option. And once you get to a certain point man it gets overwhelming you're doing video feedback it takes you 20 30 minutes a person and trying to do updates and with something like true coach everything's in one place, which makes things a lot more efficient so it's more for me in an efficiency thing I'm not necessarily pushing it if you have, you know, 1015 people Google Sheets and emails probably going to work pretty well. But once you start getting in the higher numbers are trying to do larger, you know, chunks of service for people, then the apps are definitely very helpful from just a time standpoint. I think to sorry, you know, just me. No, I just had agreed as a good point like you know saving that copy and paste feature has definitely saved my life quite a few times. I think we've been talking about value here and that's obviously a central tenant to any of these discussions from a consumer perspective I think that if someone encounters some of the we put together for the minutes and kind of a nice neat and snazzy package like you might get with true coach or another app. I think it probably taps into some psychological aspect where someone might say well that's, that's kind of cool and be a little more invested in doing what they, they want to do or need to do, I'm holding their part of the bargain. I'm not saying you couldn't do that with Google Sheets or spreadsheets it for me I'm not skilled in that. And I do like the fact that using true coach allows me to present a nicer looking package still give them the same information that I would otherwise but hopefully, you know, hits them with that that wow factor initially, which then gets them to follow through a little bit more upfront, and then that hopefully leads to some of those results that they want to see which ultimately probably keeps them on board longer term. I agree with everyone I don't have much to add there I with the strengthening background I lived my life and Excel spreadsheet for a long time, and I'm comfortable with that. And every now and then I have athletes who only want that like they, they don't like things like coach they are so used to next so I say fine then that's what we do but it's like what Jerry everybody says it's all in one place. Nice. I mean the feature of like the video feature, you can just boom webcam and shoot a quick little like coaching done video and paste it right there on the workout. So the athlete gets to see your written feedback, a video of you talking about your queuing and coaching and recommendations on a particular. There's just a lot of functions in true I use true coach and we do in true coach specifically that are just really really nice for both sides, and not just from an aesthetics but just a functionality piece. Now, like with Excel, obviously you can be more flexible if you have Excel skills, you can pretty much do whatever you want whereas in something like true coach or limited to the functionality of the platform so there is that. But a lot of us aren't Excel whizzes anyway. And then you got to go into your email and if you wanted to do something in video you've got to record it through whatever and then it's just a whole big thing. So that's probably why people are going towards that if you have no budget, and you're like I want I need zero overhead sheets and email it is. And then, you know, like john said is, as you scale up you're going to want something that can scale with you. And that's kind of my thoughts on that. No, for sure. I mean true coaches the best thing for one on one. There are other platforms if you want to check them out like train heroic and team builder, but they're more typically for team based group based stuff but those are just other platforms if you want to check them out to Abby has an interesting and do you. So, I don't know if I as an extrovert or an introvert are closer to one end of the scale than the other curious. Yeah, definitely an introvert definitely okay. Yeah, for sure. So we've got four introverts on the panel is that correct. That is going to be our fit and she asks hi. I'm an introvert. I'm interested in how personality impacts on one's ability to maximize success with online coaching the world of omitting one's life social media is anathema to me is it necessary to share the personal side or can it be strictly professional. Awesome. What do you think, like, as an introvert or you kind of have to get, I got somebody coming in I'm going to have a face to face encounter, like I got to get up for this and I got to like be in my mode. And because I'm saying this from like a personal experience this is how I feel, every single appointment. Do you feel any. Is the interaction different. Are you losing anything from a from a personal standpoint. I, yeah, so I think everybody's gonna have strategies in order to combat some of that so for me personally like even with me to move I just pretended that I was doing one on one reactions. I'm like, I'm going to do all these stories and I'm going to go live and I'm the list content and blah blah blah blah and like what I tell most people to do is like, Hey, can you go put out two to three pieces of content. And then you can do this for your patients and then post that on social media there's your step one and then you can kind of slowly build up to something that's a little more skilled a little bit harder to do and make it more long term rather than something that you know, all at once. Is that kind of answer the question that I go off. No, I think, I think it does. I think it's a good starting point. The one thing I want to also kind of mentioned here when we start talking about online. And I mentioned it in the previous episode here you, you remove geographic limitations when you have a one on one or brick and mortar business. If you get referrals from physicians you're going to get a plethora of people that are drawn to your business. And you know you can talk about CrossFit athletes or particular type of athlete that may be drawn to you but online. You have a little bit more control of who is drawn towards you so if you're an introvert. I mean I'll be honest with you, a lot of my athletes online or introverts to their struggling with the whole pandemic thing right now. I'm drawing them just because of the way that I present myself online so if you know if you're not a Instagram powerlifter who's you know thrown cloud everywhere with your lifts and stuff you're like those those coaches draw those kinds of athletes. Those kind of clinicians draw those kinds of patients, you will draw people with your online presence with how you put yourself out there. And people that are similar to that. So I think if that's complete and a theme to you. That's probably a good thing because you're probably going to work with people that have a more similar personality because they're drawn to you in that way. My only suggestion when it comes to that is when you decide to do this really drill down on the niche that you want because those are the people that you'll get. If you don't want super flamboyant people, then don't create super flamboyant content. Be you put out what you want to put out and the people that are going to respect your introvertedness and professionalism will pay for your services. Yeah, I guess just be yourself Abbey junk on the podcast. John Kylie said you know he can only be himself and if he tries to be somebody else and he's going to be inconsistent because there's going to be days where he can't be that fake person so be yourself and as John said you'll you'll attract whoever appreciates you for you. But I think we almost got to iterate that again because it's definitely something that people struggle with like just be authentic. You know, and the people who you who speak to you just like john said I mean it's just at such a point will come to you right like I'm not going after I made to move people who think So try something to be nice like energy healing those kind of people are not coming into my clinic right and that's okay that's what I'm speaking to I'm speaking to very specific people so just kind of being authentic and going forward with that that's more professional stuff and then you don't you don't feel like doing the personal side I think that's that's fine like yeah go for it. She's got to do it man. Alex has a kind of a brass tax question how how often and how long are your follow up check ins for the programming clients who are on a subscription service. Are they scheduled calls is a follow up an actual in person or you know live interaction or is that more of a video recording that end to your clients or stop there. Yeah we do weekly email check ins and then a monthly zoom call right so I'm trying. I already was trying to separate the brick and mortar because we have somebody basically he's in person he does online stuff so I didn't want those to cross pollinate. So yeah weekly check ins monthly zoom call or phone call is what our cadence typically is and if somebody needs to touch base more than that like hey I've got an injury we got to modify things we would jump on the phone call then more often if needed. Follow ups on that is a weekly check in. What is that exactly is that a live like short live thing. Or is that more good. Yeah just an email that goes out right like hey how's your training going. Here's maybe a tip of the week or something article I want you to go read and if they kind of email back there might be more interaction there. And if it is somebody who's injured that requires a little bit more TLC is that an upcharge. It is not unless they have to come in for an appointment right then we would obviously charge them we charge them a discount of rate because they're already kind of in our community but no it's not an upcharge. Okay. That's those are things that I that I've been thinking about to is there just there are inherently people who need a little bit more attention at least in the beginning. Yeah but that balances right you got those people who no matter what right they take so much of your time there's some people a little more hands off so I think there should there be a balance there long term. David asks. I'm going to David and then Jeremy. Other than so David asks other than direct directly contacting of gym owners, clinics and gym communities etc which we talked about. Have you thought of any strategies to separate yourselves from the quote. Here's today is home workout suddenly being plastered all over social media from thousands of accounts per day seems hard to compete with thousands of free workouts being shared by with massive following so how do you how do you sift through that and try to get to your audience. I would say if this is going to assume that you already have an audience and you've already like establish a group of people. Those people want to hear from you, they already trust you they know you they like you so if you don't put out content like that. And so if you don't put out that content to them you're almost letting them down at least that's what I'm you know that's how I feel right they want to hear from us. They want to know like what we're doing and so we're kind of putting out that content. It just goes. There's probably two sides of that story to like yeah maybe you can create some sort of additional value or need to twist things but initially it's like I'm going to give the content that's needed to my audience right now and if it just happens to be the same thing I was doing. I'm not going to let them down. One thing that I found kind of shocking when I got into this. It's a it's a bit of a mindset shift to do you really think you're competing with those people. Because just like he said you need to focus on your 1% your your diehards the people that you know look to you and follow you and those are the ones you want to really service and they might be following the people that you think you're competing with. So you put your stuff out you take care of your 1% or your diehards and they're going to take care of you and granted you know if somebody's got 3.2 million followers that base that 1% a lot more than your 1% but you've got to grow it somehow and by kind of servicing those 1% or that's. You're not necessarily competing with those people for the same thought space. If that makes any sense. You've got to service your 1% or so you got to put it out anyway. I got that from monster loyalty by the way it's a Lady Gaga book it's incredible. Yeah, that's so important because David. Who assume like we're all kind of assuming that you've had a patient athlete in your recent past as a paying client. Yeah and if you play just like a status. I'm just going to be bearded a finger and literally starting from a clean slate and on human Earth knows my name. Then it's, it's tough you're going to kind of start from ground zero but I'm assuming that you've had people who trust you in the past. So it doesn't have to be an Instagram post to the the ether that just gets buried by the people with 3.2 million followers, it could be an email to your to your people. Facebook live that's only for the people that you've ever seen a zoom meeting for all of your past clients of the past year or whatever like what John it's just kind of reiterating what even john is saying is like cater to your people. They will help spread the word about you. You can still be posting, you know, on on Instagram to because if you make content for your people it's easy to just, you know, copy and paste it over to Instagram so you kind of take that box off to and maybe you get one or two new people but yeah the, I think these points are really really valid that you know focus focus on yours to piggyback off that a little bit like when sometimes people start their cash practice and I tell them to start posting content like hey, create some YouTube videos. Send them to your patients would also post some content, post some Instagram, they'll be like well there's already so many exercise videos out there, like why would I do that and agreed right but but at the same time that's just the people that you're following you have no idea who your patients are following and how many freaking people are there in the United States alone you think every single one of them is following one of your pt accounts with a bunch of exercise videos like no like put out the content like that you want to put out that means something to you and you'll be fine. My first athlete was my little brother. I've coached him for cheese over 10 years at this point continuously. I got clients from my mom and dad. You know like if you're if you're starting from a clean slate, you still have probably some built in one percenters you don't even know about that will that will talk you up. So just you got it but you got to start. Yeah, you got to start. Don't don't wait. Start now. Just those barriers right there. Everybody wants to create barriers to creating action. It's just like just started you'll figure it out. Trust me like I my first exercise videos I had like I hadn't shaved in like four months. They're either and it was a terrible camera and like I was nervous I like mess up all my words and you know people still watching it got better over time like the more I did it. People are thanking us in the chat hopping off here but even if you.  you still got a few minutes? Yeah. Okay, you got a couple of good questions still. Jeremy asks, potentially another noob question, does anyone find the limited trackability in TrueCoach of different nets, a downside, and end up going up via Excel and TrueCoach to track and crunch numbers? And this may be something that we can't talk about off air, Jeremy, because if people don't use TrueCoach, then they don't know what the hell we're talking about. But I'll just give my two cents. In the very, very beginning, I did, until I figured out the intricacies of how the metrics in TrueCoach worked, like just the functionality and the literal logistics of kind of organizing things. And over the past few years, I've also trimmed down the amount of metrics that I track, because a lot of them have become relatively meaningless. And that's another conversation. But if it's truly not causing you to create coaching decisions going forward, you might want to question tracking the metric. Short answer is, I found that as I've simplified the numbers that I care about, TrueCoach does the job. And I'm happy to talk off air about how exactly like I set that up. I just have many thoughts about tracking metrics on people in TrueCoach versus another. Nah, I pretty much said everything I was gonna say. Ditto. One idea that I got from John was that in the metrics tab of TrueCoach, you can set up those metrics that you care about. And then also crowdsource. I was for a while going through and adding in these data points from my clients to track estimated one RMs for particular lifts. And John brought up the idea that I could ask them to do that. It's pretty simple. And then we can still track those things, like you said, if they matter, if I really care about them. Fact of the matter is a lot of my clients haven't done it and it's been fine. It's not been that big of a deal, but that's just another way you could go about it. Yeah, if you're gonna do workload ratios, Jeremy, you have to have a certain compliance because I can put in TrueCoach, session RPE and all these things. And like Jared's, to where the person actually, it's like part of their workout. They have to input their metric themselves and it goes to the metric sections automatically. But let's say they forget and they miss the day. Well, now my workloads are all jacked up because they forgot three days out of the week. So it doesn't, the metric loop anyway. And you've got to really kind of figure out what matters in that regard. Adam asked a good question, even interested, as we talked about all this, like kind of like still maintaining existential view, but monetarily, maybe bringing the barrier down a little bit. Adam asks, if you're starting out and trying to build a base, you shouldn't be too concerned about giving too much content away for no costs. Question mark, being afraid of giving everything away for free. Oh man, I've been doing that for four years and it has paid in spades beyond, I give everything away for free. Like people, again, it's deciding, it's not the content that people want. People want the accountability, they want the, they want the community, they want to talk to you specifically, right? Anybody could go and put together a program of how to work out with progressions and all that stuff. You could go put that together, but they want an expert to kind of do that for them, right? And so give everything away for free. I mean, let's not take that too literal, right? But like, at the same time, right? Give it all away for free. And then those people will now know, like and trust you. And then they actually have a problem or they're like, crap, I don't want to put this together. I want to reach my goals. Now they're going to reach out to you and now you built that trust and now they're going to stick around for a period. Say that E word again, expert, expert. How is anybody supposed to know you're an expert if they've never seen you or hear anything that comes out of your face? Like that's part of it. You do have to give some stuff away here. And it's, I know it's tough, but when you're just making, you know, minute, minute and a half long videos with little factoids that you have found valuable, that you can spread out, that's just going to increase your value. So when you do come with that value proposition and you say, hey, look, this is how much it costs my services, there's no barrier there. They're like, I understand and value your expertise because you've given me so many things for free. And it's just, we're ready to go. If you haven't established your expertise there, then it's much more difficult to actually have them understand that value. So yeah, I think you should really give some stuff away for free. That's not, you're not trying to give away like, you know, an entire year's worth of coaching, but some content and knowledge is a great way to start. And people aren't going to piece that stuff because they don't know, like imagine that, I'm like, you might look at, let's say your Instagram page and you've got just all of your apps basically out for free. And you're like, this is it. Like people, why would they pay me? They can just go to my Instagram and watch all my videos. But that's not how that works. If you like, go think about a topic that you don't know anything about and all that for myself. I don't know what the hell, engineering of something. And I will go to my favorite engineering page and this person has all types of content. Like, and in his mind, he's like, well, I'm giving all my ideas out for free, but I'm looking at this and like, whoa, these are awesome ideas, but I don't put them together because that's not my realm. If I really wanted to really dig in and have his expertise, I would contact him so that he could help me wrap my brain around these ideas over time. So that's what you're doing for these people is you're showing them what you can do and how you can help. But don't worry about them thinking, oh, now I just, I have it because that's not the case at all. And like John said, you're gonna help them piece it together. That's a concept from the book, Being Wrong, where you're an expert in your field, you're very good at it, but outside of that, you know almost nothing. So anytime somebody asks you a question, like, well, I have back pain, how do I stop having back pain? And you just get a blanket question. Think of all the things that run through your head as soon as that question comes through. There's like a hundred little data points that just run through your brain. They don't know any of them. They don't know any of them. Same thing like Quinn's talking about. If I open the hood of my truck, I'm just gonna look at it like, well, look at this, this is cool. I know that's an engine. That's the battery. This uses gasoline to push me forward. That's great. It's just, it's not there. So they're not like Quinn's talking about, they're not gonna put all those data points together and they're not gonna be able to even understand how some of those data points that you put out as content relate to each other. That's kind of, it's those gaps. And honestly, because you're highly trained, that's the value is that you can put all those things together. And you can string all those data points together to something that's actually usable. And that's the beauty of the whole thing. Okay. Jennifer, I work at a massage clinic in the UK and I don't necessarily have regular clients. However, I do have a list of clients that I can message. Would it be a good idea to just see how they are and offer a home workout? And if they have further questions to maybe do a video consult, I understand this is a stressful time for people. So I'm aware that I don't want to pester people. If people don't want to come back to you, do you still try and get a narrative going or leave it? I hear this all the time, the word kind of pester, right? And like, am I bothering people? And again, it comes back to the people want to hear from you. They want to feel supported. You're going to pester them if you're like, hey, buy from me right now. I'm doing video consults. It costs $200. Let's go do that. That's not pestering. Checking in and asking how they're doing. Hey, this is a stressful time. How can I help you? That's not pestering people, right? I mean, I get it all the time. It's like, well, they didn't message me back instantly. They didn't text me right back. It's like, well, I will follow up somebody three to four times before I get a message back. And they're typically thankful that I did that because they're busy. They've got a lot going on or they forget. It's the people that are persistent. And again, it shows them that you care enough to be persistent. It's not the other way around. If a friend follows up with you multiple times, like, hey, let's meet up. Let's meet up. Sometimes, yes, if you don't like that friend, you ignore them. But if you like them, you're going to respond back. Thank you for following with me. Yeah, let's go grab a beer. You've got to follow up. You're not pestering them. You're just building trust. And you're showing them that you care. Love it. Inba, and I apologize if I'm butchering your name. But you asked a really good question. What do you think about cooperation between neurologists and PT in the field of inpatient and outpatient rehab? Is it useful to create short online courses of neurology for PT? And I ask this knowing that none of us work in inpatient or neurology. But it's me, it would still follow the same theme, perhaps. What do you think, Eve? Yeah, so it looks like you want to create an online course to help neurologists understand what PTs are doing or the value that PT can provide. Is that what he's thinking about? Is that how you interpret that? Maybe. Or maybe educational videos for physical and neurodegrees. But it's like a collaboration between a physical therapist and a neurologist. Gotcha. I mean, yeah, regardless, you've got something that you have unique expert skill set, and you will provide value to whether it's neurologists or patients in general. So I think it's a great idea. Again, there's so many ways for us as physical therapists, as practitioners, as coaches, to provide value. The challenge is not typically the content. The challenge is building the audience and effectively selling it. So yes, I think it's a good idea either way. Yeah, I asked it knowing that we don't have anything about the nuts and bolts of what that would look like. But if you've talked about this whole time, is creating something that's valuable for people and that for your audience that sounds valuable to me. If I was a PT in neurology, I would be looking for continuing ed. Right. Just like the else free pain science course. That was awesome, by the way. Thanks, Ben. 2,300 people so far have enrolled. That's a good number. That's a good metric. That's a metric. You're doing great. Jeremy, this is kind of a nuts and bolts question for you specifically, because you had a PTA on your staff. Is that correct? Yeah. OK, how has that changed, that transition been made to move largely providing online services now for the PTA? Is there any specific practice act considerations for PTAs or athletic trainers that should be considered? Yeah, I mean, they can't do the initial evaluation from a physical therapy standpoint. That's the only piece that we're kind of worried about. I mean, anytime you're managing a team of people, which you get into some of the weeds here, but understanding where their skill set is and how to best leverage that skill set. So Dane is very, very good with people on the phone. So he's the one reaching out to patients individually, texting them, and then trying to get them on a free consultation with Nate, who's our lead physical therapist over with Matt or with myself. So that's how we're leveraging him right now. Got it. So I actually saw a video yesterday on Facebook. It was a five minute video of Simon Sinek talking to his team. And he said, we've just got to figure out a way to create new jobs. And what he meant was not that his team was going to have to leave the company, but they were going to have to adapt their responsibilities within their current company. And if you were an in-person pizza maker, well, you're now a delivery. But you still work for the same company. So it's like what you just said, you shifted the responsibility. And you said, what is your strength? Because there are some constraints here with our current model. But how can we still leverage your skills? Yeah, no, absolutely. Like I'm kind of obsessed. I really like the analogy of getting the right people on the right seat on the bus. So now we're probably not driving a bus anymore. Maybe we're driving a Jeep Wrangler. And I'm just trying to get him on the right seat for this new terrain. We're going to keep going with that new terrain. I want to get him in the right seat on this new car. And so that's us kind of coming together and be like, what's your skill? So I'm a really good clinician. Cool. We're going to make sure you do the free console. It's great. I'm really good at being on the phone, reaching out to people. OK, you're going to do that. Hey, Eve, you're going to do more of the online digital funnel. You're going to build the landing pages. OK, cool. And then we kind of all get together. Bam, good after. So soft hop or hard top Wrangler that we're riding? Yeah, I mean, it's beautiful here. So I'm thinking it's convertible. Nice. Well, this has been really, really awesome. And I think we dug it through all the questions. But Eve, thanks so much for this. I'm really, really helpful for people. And if we just go through the chat, I think people really, really got a lot out of this. Where can people connect with you? Where can they learn more about what you're doing with Made to Move with physical therapy, Biz, all that stuff? Yeah, so my Instagram handle is pretty easy. It's at ptbiz. I post daily videos there, kind of like my kind of coaching style. And then at Made to Move pt is our Instagram handle as well. And then the website for kind of business coaching stuff is physicaltherapybiz.com. And you can kind of check out what kind of services we offer. But I'm very responsive. Anytime you have a question, please just sneak in the DMs, as the kids say nowadays. And I will respond to you as soon as possible. So thanks, man. I really appreciate it. I enjoyed it as well. Yeah, and we can, again, John, Jared, and I, Eve has been a part of the clinical athlete. I mean, you're an OG. You've been a part of this thing for years, almost since the very, very beginning. And the help, what you've done in the forum, reaching out to people who have asked these similar questions over the years, like long before this, we appreciate it so much. So it was a no-brainer to have you come on and share your expertise. And I learned a ton. Hopefully, it's exciting for people. Like, there are answers. And it's a pivot. You got to shoot a little bit. But you can use this as a positive. And I would really encourage you guys to recording again, because there's going to be a watch it again and again. There's going to be things that you pick up on that you didn't hear the first, second, third time. So thanks so much, Eve, John, Jared, so much for joining us. Thanks, everybody, for the awesome discussion. Thank you, guys. Thanks, Eve, again. Yeah, you guys have a good rest of your day. See you. Bye.