 NARimidex,jmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjmjm Pain is a threat perception. If you add that, then you have to, yeah, to violate the whole, well, you're not going to fall. You're not going to, maybe you're good on a skateboard. Who knows? Right. But it was a pretty cool concept to really think about that, like adding pain and adding that threat will actually change the way you perceive not just your own body but the environment around you and how you're going to predict navigating that. And that's, I don't know, it's a pretty cool concept. So then it's easy to step back into the whole inactivism thought, right? Yes. Yeah. Right on. I think that example brings in all those different kind of concepts that we talk about in the paper. So embeddedness, so how we're always coupled to the environment and how that shapes perception. And the concept of affordances, so different environments afford us different options in terms of action, and that shapes our perception. So action, the skateboard example you gave, the action can be falling down and hurting ourselves. And those affordances are based on the types of bodies we have, which brings in the other, the embodiment, right? So a common example that you see in the philosophy literature is a chair, for example, affords a human like me, like us, with knees that bend a certain way. It affords us sitting. Where it doesn't afford another creature that aren't shaped like us, a snake or some other creature, a chair doesn't afford them sitting in the way that it affords us. So I think clinical application is, yeah, how can we give people other types of affordances and constraints to shape perception in a positive way? And we bring in also the concept of culture just to really, if it doesn't get messy enough, how that actually shapes perception as well. And it goes into what Catherine talked about, predictive processing, how people go, oh, well, why do people get stuck in this rut? Why do they have this certain model of the world? And part of what we say in the paper is, it's using the example of back pain, is that there's this culture saying that the back is fragile, that it's easy to damage, it's easy to harm. You have to be careful lifting after you initially hurt your back. And that just reinforces that model, right? And the goal of a clinician would be empowerment through graded exposure or other techniques to update that person's model, a different model of the world. Well, and that ties right back into the emotive portion of it. Mm-hmm. Yep. There you are. There you are. What if you're comfortable on a skateboard? That's a different perception than the group who's never ridden a skateboard in their life, plus they're in pain. It's just like there's layers to this. So right. Catherine, your succinct explanation there of predictive processing is so incredibly powerful. And the two very simple examples that you gave changed something. Changed the range of motion. Changed the tempo. Changed the intensity of the thing. We talk about this all the time. Manipulate a variable. But it's so simple, I think, that we ignore it because of the simplicity. Or students, for example, we're looking for complexity before we're grabbing at the low-hanging fruit. And we'll give these suggestions. Well, did you just try just going lighter? And well, yeah, but what do I do? What else do I do? So I think it's our responsibility as educators to explain. How powerful something like that is. The reason behind why you would change a constraint that way. So that it affords them a different perception. So we allow them that opportunity for success, which is the definition of an affordance. If we look at James Gibson's earlier work. So, yeah, that really resonates with me. I think you point out the challenge also. I mean, I have a challenge of speaking to our students about some of the things I'm interested in. Because they are looking for their role in the world. They've got their eye on the prize, which is graduation practice, right? And the nuance that we're talking about here is not that it's missed on them. Because I see that you have some students that are really hungry for that. But it's our job to make it interesting to them so that they can grab it. And I think your point is so right that we have the appearance sometimes of doing things that are simple. And that's a bit of the magician of rehab, you know. But if we can arm them with a bit more sophisticated understanding. And they can then intentionally pick the thing that's going to make the difference. Then that will give them the feeling of self-efficacy, right? And confidence and pride in what they do. And interest in what they do. Well, in addition, or part and parcel with that sophistication is the ability to express that succinctly again to the people they're working with. Exactly. Because going back to the culture piece, these explanations, dichotomous explanations have been around for so long. And now when we have real people in the clinic, if we're attempting to try to explain their experience of pain in a way that doesn't match up with their expectations. They want to be told the thing that they need to do to not be in pain. We're trying to say, maybe it's not that simple. Patients might just get frustrated and think that we don't really know what we're doing or what we're talking about. So that's also part of the challenge in equipping students or clinicians in general with the understanding and the recognition as to why this is worthwhile. But then also being able to equip them to communicate that effectively to the people that they're actually in the trenches with. 100%. Yep. You just blew my mind with the self-efficacy for the clinician. It makes me think because it's like the individual, the task, and the environment, these are non-separable subsystems in a complex adaptive system. But then you also have the clinician-patient complex adaptive system, that coupling with the environment that are inseparable. You mentioned that in the paper, that social construct. So it's, gosh, we could talk about these things for a long, long time. But we've got to get you guys back on so we can dig into this stuff a little bit more. But for the one millionth time, read the damn paper, people, and read it again and again. Twice.