 measured表表表表, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured, measured measured, measured, measured measured, measured measured, measured measured, measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured measured inflict pain or flare up some chronic musculoskeletal issue. But sometimes if we are underdosing our older clients, we are actually probably doing more harm than good because now we are not helping them to increase their functional capacity in reserve to get them further away from that loss of independence line. We are actually just facilitating it. So if we aren't actually adequately challenging our older clients, then we're not improving their resiliency. We are actually just like allowing them to continue down towards that loss of independence. So I would argue that even in the presence of musculoskeletal issues, that progressive overload, specificity, and challenging of those musculoskeletal systems is going to be super important because now we're looking at loss of function, not just pain. The second thing is with my master's athletes, they don't necessarily, their goal isn't to be 100% pain-free, especially if they're the master's athlete that's been doing this for 25 years. They have injuries, they have surgeries, they have things that are creaky and cranky and require a little bit longer to warm up. They just want to continue to be able to participate in a relatively pain-minimized or optimized way. So I think when you guys have talked about this on the podcast a lot is like we tend to associate physio with getting people pain-free when sometimes that may not be their goal. They may be looking to be able to manage their pain or manage their issues in order to be able to continue to participate. Just like the open-level athlete who's three weeks out from nationals and doesn't think they're going to cure whatever ailment they have, they just want to compete at nationals. And so that kind of thing, that kind of thinking, we need to translate over to a master's athlete population so that we are facilitating their ability to continue to participate rather than say, you know, you are 66, you probably shouldn't be doing track anymore. Which is, which is the common, like you guys are kind of laughing, but that is like, that is the predominant prevailing message in healthcare saying, you know, that's high impact. You know, you're 60 and that's not what the master's athlete wants to hear that will instantly lose therapeutic alliance with that client, but that's the prevailing messaging, unfortunately. So we kind of have to do a little bit of a paradigm shift, I think, and start really trying to help facilitate and advocate for these clients rather than discourage movement. And that's something I think people see and I don't want to say complain, but complain about pretty frequently is they go to PT or they go somewhere for treatment. And the first thing they're told is, well, you just need to stop doing that. Which you're going to lose them pretty quickly. How do you define a master's athlete? Yeah. So my definition is slightly different than the official definition. So the official definition of a master's athlete is somebody over the age of 35 or 40, depending on the sport, who continues to actively train, participate and compete in sports. In my world and in my practice, that is anybody who is trying to remain active and push themselves through whatever exercise modality they love, whether on a recreational or competitive level to optimize their physical function through age. So for me, I have a wider definition. So some of my older clients who are at Save Off participating in the gym programming, but aren't competing, I would still consider them master's athletes because they're trying to get stronger. They're really trying to push themselves. Sometimes they'll do like a Spartan race or an obstacle course race or something, but they wouldn't necessarily call themselves competitors. I would still place them under the master's athlete umbrella. But that's just me. That's not the official definition. That sounds like, Quintin, what you've said a couple of times where if anybody's trying to do anything remotely active, you'll consider them an athlete, whether they're good or not at that thing is sort of besides the point. Or whether they compete, they're just, even if they don't compete in the organized form of whatever they're doing, they're still competing against training, you know, against adaptation and themselves. So it's, it's still that same kind of mindset. Christina, what's the, what would you say average age of, like, do you have a cutoff? Like if somebody's a certain, how do you, how do you work that? If somebody's a certain age, do you kind of say, oh, you know, I think you can, you're young, you're young enough to be over here. You're, you're, you've of that age where you can now work with us or how do you navigate that? First day back, you mean? Yes. Yeah. So we actually have, so part of my PhD, this is kind of a side part was that I did a scoping review of the evidence-based roles of physical therapists and health and wellness. And I mapped it across a lifespan. So around like athlete development, prehab injury prevention, pre-postpartum moms, chronic disease, self-management or prevention of chronic disease. And then kind of along the age and continuing on falls prevention. So we actually have a general exercise program as well. So I will kind of say, you know, this art, we have prime and conquer. So prime is our general exercise class and conquer is kind of geared more to 50 plus. So we have more people who have different orthopedic injuries have, are trying to prevent or on the list for, or have had, um, joint replacements, for example, um, have cardiovascular issues, that type of thing. They may want to be more in our conquer class. So they kind of have the option, but we have plenty of people in their sixties and seventies that are in our regular class programming as well. It's just kind of where they feel most comfortable. And with our 50 plus group in particular, it's the social construct of it where you're not beside someone who's 21, um, who's ripping their shirt off and whatever. We don't have that anyway at State Off, but, but we have people who have come from a CrossFit gym, for example, and it just felt, it just wasn't their fit. And so, um, having people who, you know, are in their sixties and have come along that journey of, of health and wellness and can talk to about their own stories that, that positive aging stereotype, um, is really powerful in our conquer class. So we just tend to see where people feel most, most comfortable and most willing to participate. That community aspect sounds huge. It sounds like a key. Yeah. One of the principles. You call that class conquer? Sorry. Yeah. Conquer. That is awesome. That's a great name. Yeah. So we did it as very like, um, we didn't want to call it like the golden girls class. Not that that's bad. Not that that's bad. But for us, we were looking for very like strong, empowering words for our programs. And so it came from like a workshop that I did called Conquering Arthritis. And so we just kind of named the class conquer so that it would be just, you know, you, you never think of something like you never think of a, an 80 year old who's frail and feeble, like some of those quote unquote negative aging stereotypes when you hear the word conquer. So we just never wanted it to be associated with anything like that. Well, no, that's true because we talk about perception and buy-in, uh, therapeutic alliance and all this other stuff when it comes to clinical practice, but we always kind of, nobody really talks about that when it comes to after clinical practice and using a word like conquer in this population can, can create that positive, uh, imagery and outlook of training right off jump street. I, I, sorry, I just love, I love that name. That's, that's really, really cool. Yeah. People like love slash hate when I'm the one coaching the class because they realize that it doesn't matter what orthopedic injury they have. They're not really getting out of anything because I'll be able to know what's going on and modify appropriately to still get the adequate stimulus. So they're like, there's nothing that gets like left behind, like you never miss anything. I can't slack off ever. That's the point. Yeah, exactly. It's cool because the name is no, it's not something that you change because of a certain age. It's just like what you said, like the principles of training don't change either. It's these suggestions of, well, you're of a certain age. So now let's think about doing other things or not doing this thing. That just kind of arbitrary line of demarcation. That's essentially made up without even taking into consideration the person in front of you. So though I think it's awesome. And I also love the point that you made about this population, maybe understanding that pain free is not necessarily the goal, but that's like not a negative thing. That's a, like they have a, you know, I think it probably comes down to just having life experience and having managed lots of things over the course of a lifetime and understanding that things come and go and things get better and not to kind of like freak out about certain things where I think maybe the younger population just doesn't quite have that pattern, you know, or things might be a little bit more new. So I, I love that. That's, that's amazing. I think that really, really helps the process. So we talk about stereotypes, you know, how this, this population is no different than any other human population.