 universitatiati, jutatiati, jutatiati, jutatiati, jutatiati, jutatiati, the Masters athlete? Maybe some considerations that you would take into account. Yeah. So the thing that I think about the most with the Masters athlete is their reserve. So when we talk about aging physiology, and it can be in the musculoskeletal system, but it can be across all organ systems, we're thinking about aging as a reserve issue. And so we have a reserve that is optimized or reaches a peak between 30 and 50, depending on what system we're talking about. And then we see a gradual decline across organ systems, the musculoskeletal system, strength, power, etc, that have differing rates. Over time, we also have wear and tear on the body from potentially beating ourselves up in our 20s, 30s, 40s, or having 20 years of sedentary behavior. So the only differences that I really see with the Masters athlete is trying to understand where they are in terms of their process along the aging continuum and adding that as an additional layer. So I always say like aging, age needs to be a factor in your programming and your rehab, but it doesn't need to be a limiting factor. It just has to be considered because our ability to recover and our ability to handle the volume that somebody who is in their 20s would be able to handle is obviously not realistic. So that would be the only thing, but there's huge variability in that. Like if we're looking at some of the aerobic capacity literature in the Masters athlete, oftentimes a young sedentary control is not statistically significantly different from a Masters endurance athlete. And if you really like let that sink in, that how much we are really able to maintain as we get older, obviously the elite youth athlete and the elite Masters athlete, there's going to be some discrepancies. But the fact that we have a fairly sedentary youth population in general, we could probably argue that, that our Masters athletes are along the same level in terms of VO2 max and some of their aerobic markers is pretty incredible. So that's kind of the way that I think about it more than anything else. So the consideration on recovery seems important to me and also the history. The older you are, the more time that you've had to accrue a history of things. So that may, you know, kind of affect your starting point. Do you, do you find that the recovery, so do you find that a Masters athlete is able to push, is able to push intensity relatively hard? It's, it's how fast they are able to bounce back. It's like the repercussions from that, from the, the recovery standpoint is, is the bigger difference? Yeah, absolutely. When we're looking at, so the Masters athlete literature is relatively in its infancy and we see a lot more on the Masters endurance athlete than the Masters strength athlete. So when I'm talking about some of these studies, it is unfortunately more geared to the endurance athlete, though I think we'll see more literature coming out in the strength athlete. But in terms of the amount of times they are training per week, it, between youth athletes and Masters athletes, there's not a huge amount of discrepancy. For endurance athletes, they still end up in that five to six times per week. In the strength athlete, we see that they're probably in the three times per week versus the younger strength athlete, which is probably in the four to five times per week. So we're probably seeing that that is where their ability to recover is coming into play so that they feel most comfortable and able to progress with slightly less training frequency. And that would be where the reserve, I think, part would come in and the recovery between sessions would come in. In regards to loss of function and muscle mass and these types of things, what are we seeing actually as we get older in regards to being able to maintain muscle, being able to grow new muscle, being able to, you know, our hypertrophy response? What are the differences as we age from a Masters athlete to a younger athlete through that spectrum? Yeah, that's a really good question. So we start to see declines in strength at age 50, and that accelerates at age 70. The rate of decline is mitigated by training. We see power lost almost exponentially faster than raw strength. So weightlifting performance is going to decline significantly faster, unfortunately, than powerlifting. And we do have like the research type of support that we've looked at kind of records and that type of thing. We think that the reason behind that is we tend to see an increased loss of type two muscle fibers over type one. So those fast twitch fibers tend to be lost at a quicker rate. So that's going to impact if we continue to train speed and reactionary power. Again, we can save some of that loss. But unfortunately, some of it is, like, it's just we can't fix that. It's just a necessary part of the aging process. So that's kind of what we're seeing in terms of loss. In terms of hypertrophy, as we get into our, especially our 50s and women transition through menopause, the loss of estrogen and progesterone is going to have implications for bone mineral density, and our sex hormone response, which we know is really important in muscular physiology. And we're going to see a decline in testosterone absolute levels in men. So their ability to create bigger muscle is more impaired than a younger person, not impossible. But if you're already at a fairly high level, you're probably looking to try and maintain that muscle bulk for as long as we can. When we're looking at adaptations for the masters athlete and strength and power, especially when athletes are getting into their 50s, 60s, 70s, we're starting to see that the adaptation response is probably more at the neuromuscular level than at the hypertrophy level. So we're seeing a mitigation of loss of motor units. So the ability, the contractile properties of the nerve to the muscle, and potentially re sprouting of some of the motor units, so that we're getting an increased recruitment with training. And so that's, so I do, I get clients in their 50s and 60s who are like, you want me to strength train? Like, I'm a runner, I want, I don't want to get bulky. But the reality is like that, the hormone profile, especially the sex hormone profile just wouldn't actually allow that to happen. And so that's kind of some of the changes that we're seeing with, within the physiological perspective of hypertrophy and driving that change. How much direct education do you actually do for your clientele for things like sarcopenia and osteopenia and osteoporosis? That's a really good question. So when we're talking about an older person, I always balance fear and hope with those clients. So if people aren't, aren't familiar with the term sarcopenia, it's a clinical geriatric syndrome, which is a multifactorial health condition, which links to a clinical level of muscular weakness. So a lack, a lack of muscle bulk, as well as muscular performance that's leading to risk for loss of ability for ADLs and IDLs. The issue with some of those terms is that they're very negatively stigmatizing. So nobody wants to be called frail. Nobody wants to say, oh, I'm sarcopenic. So most of my education is on optimizing function rather than highlighting decline. Though in terms of where I can make my justifications for rehab would probably be more in characterizing individuals across the spectrum of sarcopenia and the spectrum of frailty. It's kind of like one of those things where what you write in your medical records and what you're, you know, how you're kind of like framing it for the insurance companies and these types of things may be actually a little different than what you're telling the person in front of you. Yeah, unfortunately. So I talk a lot when I'm talking about frailty, I always think about like the impact of the label. So if you were to be diagnosed with diabetes, for example, you are placed into a clinical care pathway where you are probably getting your HbA1c levels checked every three months to see kind of what the trend in your blood sugar has been. It may trigger a referral to foot care. You would probably see your primary care physician a lot more frequently. So there is, there is a initiation of events that happens with that labeling. If you're introduced as having frailty, there's bias on the side of the clinician and there is no like care pathway. It's just something that's potentially negatively stigmatizing. And so the research in frailty is starting to look at how do we transition away from that and actually do use the label for something rather than knowing that it increases healthcare utilization, makes hospitalization longer, length of stay longer, all those type of things that we know as a consequence of frailty. That's just like a reality of the situation type of thing. But it's also like, yeah, you know, this is a thing that, this is a thing that can happen. And let's, let's go have some fun and get strong. You know, it's not, you don't have to make it a big, this big thing, you know, this big deal, because you're going to be doing the same thing with them anyway. It's like, why, why plant the seed? You'll get, make them aware of the reality of the situation, you know, as best you can. But I love that approach. And then you've got that community with them where it becomes fun, you know, and it's not just about, okay, we got to build muscle. Now go hit your three sets of 10. Like that's not fun either. And then you hit, and then you compliance is probably not that high. And also if it's somebody who's never done that stuff, maybe it was never fun to them to begin with. And that's why they're running into some of these issues down the line. So I think that's really great.