 so the capstone begins with sharing a super detailed breakdown of the history of the case. So what was the mechanism of injury, details about the person they're working with, training age, the program they've been running, everything that is relevant to understand through kind of a biopsychosocially informed framework, and, you know, so you can see Andrew laid down a super thorough job here, so we keep going down, we clarify what program phase we're in, so is this beginning stage, mid-stage, end-stage of rehab, from there some of the non-sexy but critical things, like clearly defining what your role is in this case, are you working with other coaches, providers, and what's your role going to be? Beyond that is just defining done. So what are the clear expectations set in terms of what you're expecting to get back to and what done is going to look like for working together with this athlete? From here, we get into the needs analysis, and this is something that we feel super proud of, because not all needs analysis are created equal, and to be honest with you, school doesn't really do a phenomenal job of helping us really understand the true kinetic side of things, so kinematics maybe, we can probably go into the weeds with that during school, but really understanding the forces that are being exerted by the athlete and withstood by the athlete during their tasks or their sports is something that is severely underprepared, and so we spent a lot of time reviewing that and going over that, and Andrew knocked it out of the part with his needs analysis, super detailed, you can pause here at any point and kind of look at all the way he's breaking down to really understand what are the end goals demanding or asking of this athlete, and then from there, we're starting with, okay, we know where we need to go, but what are the current thresholds, what we call boundary conditions, and so Andrew does a great job here of listing down some of the different activities that will be current thresholds, but also does a good job of clearly defining some quantifiable thresholds with isometric testing with a TIN deck for this climber using very specific kind of holds, and from there, going down and that kind of informs our red, yellow, and green menu of how we're going to organize, what's really not worth having in the program at this point, what's sort of our yellow zone, the things we're going to be testing, and what are things we can kind of go full send with. From there, we talk about our leverage points and rate limiters, so what are all the different things that we can intervene on to move the system forward, and from there, which of these are going to be the most relevant, the most bang for our buck to really drive change for this athlete? That's what we call our rate limiters. These rate limiters then inform our buckets of need. So Andrew here has some great buckets of need to work on for this athlete. And then the program, the program is just chef's kiss. I mean, for this climber, there's a phenomenal job. So from the macro of how it's laid down from a Monday to Sunday split, and then just looking at the details of how he's structuring things with some of his different qualities that he's trying to work on for said buckets of need. So he's got his Monday, his, you know, his Tuesday day is going to be more strength based. You can see all these different things, but clear X's and O's of, you know, sets, reps, intensity, any queuing that's going to be relevant. This all goes into this portion of the MVP during the capstone that we get really, really clear on. And as we keep going on, you can just see super, super intentional, detailed program makes a ton of sense. And probably what I'm most impressed with too is beyond this, we kind of have our KPIs. So what are we using to track to make sure that we're, you know, making the progress that we want to make, having a process in place. And so these are some of the key things that Andrew will be looking at to monitor if things are going in the right direction. Towards where they need to be. And beyond that, what are some of the clear exit criteria to move into the next phase of rehab? And what is the next phase of rehab going to emphasize? And kind of so on and so forth. So this is what a super thorough capstone looks like. This is what clinical athlete grade care looks like. And during these final practicals, it's super fun because we're kind of just getting to work through it, have discussion around why they did what they did, clearly define core concepts that we talk about in the course. But this just gives you an idea of kind of what we're looking for as an outcome. And just, yeah, super proud of the work that Andrew put in here.