 with women, especially ones that tell me they're enhanced, I will kind of bring up if I think their voice is cracking even a little bit, because once it starts cracking, you gotta cut a cold turkey. What is up, everyone? It's Rus, I hope everyone is doing... Ooh, welcome back to the channel. I'm going to be doing, instead of a sip, an ASMR swig out of some pelagrenus. Let's see if I can nail the swig. It's in my conversion. Don't know if that's good enough. I'll definitely be reading the comments on swig technique. You know, I'm not very much to go out at a bar and take swigs, but we're replacing the sip with the swig as of right now. All right, ASMR spritz. We got some intelligent AG silver. Today, I'm going to be reacting to a female YouTuber. Her name is Hannah Hussein, and she is a competitive bodybuilder, and she decided to do what I've wanted to see out of the enhanced female category of bodybuilding for a long period of time and just spilled the beans on her competition history as well as the drugs. The drugs, what these coaches are having, these women be put on, and her just trajectory path in a very well-based manner. So I'm very excited to react to this. I definitely encourage more females to come out of the woodwork and discuss their career, discuss their path, discuss their coaching as far as what they were told versus what they got type scenario because, yeah, I'm obviously a little bit stanced on females and androgens. I feel like as long as this female that you're going to coach enhanced is fully aware of all the side effects, fully aware that a lot of them, in my opinion, are irreversible, and they are on the page that this is their life, and they've been in the gym their whole life, and they're willing to accept these inherent risks that can't really change your voice completely back in my mind. I'll just go into that one, and Hannah coming to the forefront is so much better than me bitching over here because she actually is a competitor, she actually went through the ranks, and she's a female, right? So some more people like Hannah, if they would rise into the social media sphere, they could probably redo enhanced bodybuilding coaching for females by females, and that would be based on all them coming together and collecting information just like the bio-hacking niche is a bunch of opinions, and you can take whoever's two cents you want, but again, it's a collection of opinions, and then it's the collective under us giving us all the data to where you can make informed decisions and understand the risk that you are taking for the results. This isn't really built out in the female section at all. Let's just see her first cycle. A quick break from a word from our sponsor that you probably want to hear about. This channel is proudly sponsored by Dauce Medical. They have all your needs as far as enhanced bodybuilding is concerned, and they are an international plug that has it all. I highly suggest you Google Ryan Russo link tree and read the FAQ tab and or help tab depending on if you're on mobile and desktop, and if you don't trust Russo, watch I would trust Russo, but if you don't trust Russo, I will be linking the eroids as well as the other testing reviews showcasing the quality. So I hope to see you check out Dauce Medical. They are the premier international plug. Hey everybody, welcome or welcome back. You're new here. My name is Hannah. I'm an IPV pro female bodybuilder, and I've created this channel to talk about my experiences with PEDs and all things bodybuilding. I have the interstitial background. We have a very big video today, my full history of PED use. In this video, I'm only going to be covering my PED cycles. I'm not going to go into details of my life. I will be making a separate video because a lot of you guys were curious as to why I wanted to be hyper muscular and I will be making a separate video for that. That one's going to be a little bit harder emotionally for me to do. I'm not blaming anybody in this video. I'm simply giving you information. You know it was dumb. Okay, that's the whole point. So you guys don't make the same mistakes. This is the video that I wish existed before I got into bodybuilding. I agree tenfold with her. You know, I wish these sorts of creators were creating back when I got into enhancement and I watched the female divisions blow up, right? And you have all these women that again want to be ranked in the competition and you have all this coaching going on of synthetic androgens entering a female's body, which is an XX chromosome body, right? You are going to have potentially if not permanent alterations, especially a voice change is one that I see a lot of females, you know, battle, you know, because they are unaware and or they were lied to about certain compounds not making their voice crack and end up deeper. This is one of those things where I'm watching and you know observing that and I've had females over the years message me. I have competitors talk to me in real life and it's always one of those things where I see their crazy high ambition to compete, to get ranked, all the you know, attention that comes from, you know, stepping on stage, prepping it being about this event that comes to a point, you know, that's very much something that females chase. And it's one of those things where these coaches want to have the most dial diced athletes around them to attract more women to them. And it comes a moral battleground of in my head, I think of very few drugs that I would be comfortable putting a female on. And then on top of that, I would think of like, okay, so you want to go on synthetic androgens, like, you're going to accept this risk, this risk, this risk, this risk, you're not going to blame me. You're going to say that I have completely laid out what you're dabbling around with and it's not the same in my mind as on XY chromosome guy, not, you know, it's not going to be the same as far as the side effects go. It's just not. And you can say all you want, it becomes a different balancing act, especially when these judges are telling these women that they need more size, they need more tissue, what does that mean? Well, if they're already enhanced, it normally means they're thinking they need to raise their drugs. And if the coaches are about having the most successful coaching, you know, program going, they need the best athletes that are ranking. So again, it's like this thing where I'm glad, you know, Hannah is talking about I also want to explain that I could not find pictures of me before I started steroids. I didn't start posting on social media until 2013, which is when I did my first show. My first cycle was before that. So my first cycle was not for a show. I didn't start officially bodybuilding and or competing until my second coach. So first coach, I was just obsessed with becoming hyper muscular. And that is where our story starts. My first cycle, I don't actually know what it was. My coach at the time put me on what he said was anivar looking back now and knowing what I know now. I know that was not anivar based off the symptoms, the fact that it was an injectable and some of the side effects that I got from it. What he really gave me was either testosterone or a trend. And the endblown, also known as trend, which is more what I think it really was, is five times more androgenic than testosterone. It's known as one of the most powerful anabolic in bodybuilding. But looking back at my social media accounts, I did not start posting pictures until like I said, 2013. This was before. So again, this strikes nerves with Russo, you know, rage is starting to build within the nerd, right? Because you're literally altering a girl's neurochem immediately by putting them on trend. It is undoubtedly so. It's not even like all the males that their neurochem gets altered by trend. It's way worse if you think about it in my mind. And that could obviously retune the woman to the amount of risk they're taking. And they have never experienced ever anywhere near a synthetic hormone level like that, let alone endogenous. Before then, so I actually might have been around 21 years old. I am going based off memory. I don't remember exactly the dose he had me on, but I think it was half a cc two or three times a week. He did tell me it was a new kind of anivar that you could not find anywhere else that it was super strong. This revolutionary no side effects kind of drug. And then it was just going to get me jacked. This is again, not deflecting blame. It's just what happened. Okay. This is relevant because yeah, again, she's really polite, you know, to me, that guy is literally trying to hook and sink her and make sure that, you know, there may or may not, at least with males, I've seen, you know, neurological dependencies on trend with other people around me. And I've seen people cruise on trend for long periods of time because the trend persona becomes the persona they want. Because this kind of stuff still happens today. Ultimately, it is the responsibility of the athletes to do their own research and to educate themselves. But when you're young, and in my case, dumb, you feel invincible. And that kind of combination can spell recipe for disaster. And the reason I know this is still happening today was because when it happened to me again, back in 20, 23, I had a coach, a high level coach approached me wanting to coach me and told me he was going to put me on trend. And he told me that the weight and the amounts and the dosages of trend that we were going to use would not cause me side effects. At this point, I know. That is just wild to state that it's not going to cause her side effect. Like if I'm going to pitch to her, hey, I'm going to put you on trend, like it's going to mess everything up, but you're going to have a good look on stage, but you're going to pay the piper for that, obviously, you know, there's nothing around that. You know, it's still the coach wants the best physics, the most dial, hardest physics, the most ranked physics around them in the high performance sport of bodybuilding. It's whatever it takes. People take extreme polypharmacy risk all the time. And it's still like that. The side effects happened very fast. The first thing I noticed was I felt like I had to clear my throat all the time. I still kind of do that today. Then people started asking me if I had a cold. I was very small. So again, like for me, with women, especially ones that tell me they're enhanced, I will kind of bring up if I think their voice is cracking even a little bit, because once it starts cracking, you got to cut a cold turkey otherwise. Again, if you accept that, you accept, you know, I just think that, you know, a lot of them don't realize they're taking that risk with their voice. And you know, for me, if your voice as a female starts cracking and you're on synthetic androgens, just immediately stop, immediately stop, and that will be the best bet. I know I don't have pictures for you guys, but I was super, super skinny when I started this. I was under 100 pounds. I went from 100 pounds to quickly 118 pounds. My voice dropped fast, like giving me crap for this enlargement of certain things. It was very intriguing to do guys the clicks. My click got bigger. It also drastically increased my sex drive. Like use your imagination, but it was very use your imagination. Right. That's another thing with women who go on PDs is they get to experience what it's like to be a male. Sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, essentially, right? You know, how pent up males can get. Now, my second coach put me on Orals only. He had me on Winsraw at 10 milligrams a day. He also introduced me to diuretics, which we just used for show days and T3. Winsraw is an oral steroid and it's popular in the cutting phase. So it's not a great mass builder, but it's good for like finishing. So what they say the diuretic that we use was called al dactyxide. And that is a potassium sparing diuretic T3 is a synthetic thyroid hormone. It's used. I already made a video on T3. I'll have a pop up, but in that video, I kind of just female shouldn't be playing around with T3. And you'll see how her path plays on that. Yeah. Yeah. Female should not in my mind be fucking around with these thyroid drugs. So I started looking for coaches that were coaching women where I wanted to be, which was the Olympia stage. I ended up getting with a very well known coach in the industry. He had tons of Olympians or people that had been to the Olympia. And he immediately gave me a huge discount when I signed with him. And I want to add a note here that most coaches have incentive to get their athletes as freaky as possible, especially the ones they see potential in the more impressive you look, the better they look as a coach, combine that with an athlete that's willing to do whatever it takes. And you can see why there's so many deaths in bodybuilding. And that's why sometimes not all the time, but sometimes coaches giving you special treatment can be a red flag. So I started with this coach in 2019. I did my first show with him in October of 2019. This was my first cycle with him. My first cycle that I actually have in writing because we communicated over email. This was also the first coach that I used that was not in person. So everything was online. I also switched from the figure division to the physique division at this point. 16 weeks out, we started on 10 milligrams of anivar per day, 15 milligrams of NPP twice a week. And then that went to anivar increased at eight weeks out 15 milligrams daily. That's also when we added in Novodex every 12 hours. And that was at 10 milligrams. The side effects from this cycle, I went from 130 pounds to 140. At this point, I had very noticeable hair loss. That's when I really started to notice it. The nolva was probably not a good play for her hair. And this is one of those things where, to me, I think when I look at her shots, everything looks good. I did end up seeing a urologist who did a bunch of tests. They ruled out anything bacterial or structural that could have been causing my pain. I was honest with him about my PE D use and he yelled at me, but helped me ultimately. He theorized that exposure to androgens over time caused thinning of the lining of my bladder. And that's why I was having pain and inflammation. Now, this of all things is what stopped my PE D use completely. And that includes testosterone. I did stop testosterone for a time until it actually got too low. And I started experiencing some depressive symptoms. Yes, testosterone can be too low in women. That's a thing. But this leads me to now where I am now. So right now I am currently on 16 milligrams of testosterone per week. And it is being monitored by a doctor. My side effects, I don't notice any worsening side effects at this point. I have gotten my period back and it's been consistent for months now. I've softened up quite a lot as you can see here. I'm definitely quite a bit softer and smaller than I was when I see. I don't like how she says like softer and smaller, like you're regaining, you know, then a naturalistic look, right? You know, like to me, I still see a great physique. Is it dialed hard on masteron and Primo and all this others? No, but I wouldn't be beating myself up that I got soft. Being a side effects that I have managed to correct partially or fully, I have had laser hair removal all over my body basically from like here down. It's been really nice. I'm super smooth effects that I probably will never be able to reverse. Obviously my voice, I can maybe get some improvement on it. Like I said in a past video, I do have the option to do vocal training, but I've not started yet. So there's no improvement as of this time. It would be interesting to see her document her local training. That'd be great for me to, you know, correct myself if she proves me wrong with that. So I'm excited to see her continue her channel on and showcase that. I'll have to be on HRT for the rest of my life. If I go off testosterone, my natural testosterone drops, it bottoms out and I start feeling like I'm depressed. And I'll also probably have to be on thyroid medication for the rest of my life. All right. So that's Hannah's take on her PED path and a lot of impressive picks and bids of a legitimate enhanced physique as a female. Overall, I kind of gave my little critiques, but like this is what I want to see going on in this industry is the forefront of enhanced women's bodybuilding being led, embedded by the female competitors and or maybe switched over to, hey, these coaches are good. These coaches are trying to have the most sauce of women around them. And they're on a ticking time bomb, essentially, which she completely derailed. So hopefully you guys learned something from Hannah. I'll link her channel down below and I hope to see you guys in my next video.