 The whole thing about this is it's gonna help your superconductivity of your central nervous system by ingesting edible gold. What is up everyone? It's Roos. I hope everyone is doing well. Today's ASMR spritz is some intelligent neon. I'm gonna bite to smell it. Gotta bite to smell it. And the ASMR sip. I'm gonna do the core power nipple attachment, Andrew. It's all about, it's about the nipple. Welcome to my new series called Max-tism. So in the world of electronics, central nervous systems, and people's pine cones being unlocked. Andrew, am I allowed to talk about pine cones on YouTube? I don't know. Your pine cone unlocks, your aura leaks out. You know, there's people who have calcified pine cones. If you unlock your pine cone, you may or may not be susceptible to electromagnetic currents of the electronics around you. And you'll see a lot of acoustic folks, tinfoil hats, you know, they're complaining about the electronics. There's various gemstones that help with EMF. And I truly believe EMF will be a big talked about topic in the next five years. However, I'm Peak Performance Russo over here and I'm talking about Max-tism. When you're acoustic, obviously wearing gold is going to vibrate the water in your body. Your pine cone is resonating all the electricity correctly when you're acoustic, believe it or not. And a lot of rappers wear gold. I got on a mob ring right here from my grandfather's brother. And I do notice a difference when I take it on and put it on. I do notice a difference when I take it off and put it on. That's why all the rappers wear gold. It changes your mood. It elevates you. Stay high all the time. Andrew, play it. Okay. Now I was browsing Instagram and I noticed edible gold that can pass through the blood brain barrier. And obviously, once I read that crazy ass Russo bought some. So I bought this with my own money. I'll have Andrew list out my email if this company wants to contact me. But this is man of gold. I've already done this for a while. I'm going to do this on camera. I'm going to ingest gold. That's right. I'm going to ingest gold and that is going to help my Kundalini. The spinal fluid. You want to stay high all the time, meaning you want your spine supercharged. You want to be vibing people up. You want to be spelling people up and you want to be staying high all the time. That's always been Russo's goal over here. And you've watched me vibe my Kundalini up with people helping me. Not just me alone, people helping me. But when I see all these, you know, people suffering with acoustics and you know, they're running out of vibe, they're crashing out. Russo don't like crashing out. Russo stays high all the time. This supplement has made a difference before I ingest it. I won't come on here with some ball. Andrew, Russo's eating gold now. What the fuck's wrong? Yeah, I know. I know how this looks. I know how this looks. And I dressed up like Nico Bell, like Andrew can throw it up for that. Okay. We're eating gold over here. Got the mob ring on. All right. So the whole thing about this is it's going to help your superconductivity of your central nervous system by ingesting edible gold. This is from Bangladesh. So hopefully Andrew's playing some authentic like Cantina music from Star Wars as I'm dancing. All right. So you're supposed to pinch it by like, I like sharp knives. So here we go. ASMR gold drink. ASMR gold drink. nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah Oh, it does not taste good, but it's gold, you know? All right. Name another YouTube channel where you see a dude eating gold. I'll wait. Like and subscribe. Oh, I gotta wash that down. So what I can tell you I can notice is my pine cone feels better. They call it mana. Harvest more minerals, get mana. So with your manifesting capabilities, with your acoustic vibration capabilities, this product does make a difference. I would not come on here with this sort of weird ass product. This is only for autistic people and even show it if I didn't use a bunch of it. As you can see, I've gone through a bunch of it. I've done like two packs a day. I normally do them at night. And I do notice a big difference to a point where if I was an autistic person struggling and I wasn't spoiled ass Russo with everyone spraying vibe on me like a fire hydrant, I will recommend them this product. I'm not going to lie. It works. Okay. It's way better than wearing gold. Obviously wear gold. There are tons of gemstones that can help you. There are tons of EMF shielding technologies that are rapidly advancing. However, gold is OG. Gold has been the wrapper, you know, vibration up pull of choice since the beginning of time. All right. Getting it to pass through the blood brain barrier. I do notice me go boop. Stay high all the time. I'll do one more on camera, Andrew. Should do it like more fancy, a slurp. All right. Here we go. Rappers are wearing gold. We're so eating gold. I'm eating gold. I'm eating gold. I'm eating gold. I'm eating gold. I'm eating gold. I'm eating gold. I'm eating gold. Yeah. I don't know what the. They said there's something to mass at. That's like you're drinking metal. Okay. I do feel great. After everyone. As an acoustic guy. gotta lick the tip after andrew all right yeah so that's superconductivity it's passing through a blood brain barrier overall if you're acoustic i can see this product benefiting you did i get this sponsored to show to my audience no i bought this myself okay i wanted to try that out i tried it out went through a bunch of packets tried different scenarios i tried exhausting my vibe i tried pushing it straight to crashing out i'd pop two of these notice the difference i also try when i was staying high all the time i still notice the difference wearing gold i notice the difference being around different gemstones i notice the difference certain people's pine cones are more on than others and some people's pine cones are wide open this product would help people build up a vibration it's a supplement i'll run through this vibe later i'll need andrew to give me vibe i'll need the dogs to give me vibe i'll need to create my own vibe with my own spelling within my own mind however if i'm in a crutch if i need to load up on mana before a certain conversation that's high pressure obviously russo don't hide secrets russo wants everyone to win and i think this could help everyone whether you love me or you hate me this product makes a difference in an acoustic person's life and i won't come on here and chill this if i didn't notice an extreme difference it tastes horrible it tastes like you're drinking fucking metal it tastes like why am i putting this in my mouth and realistically when i do it off camera i do hold it under my tongue forever because i want it in my brain i want it to pass through the blood brain barrier and super conduct that i notice a nootropic effect but more importantly this is more aimed towards maxism right i'm not aiming this towards everyone if you have a calcified pine cone you're probably not going to notice that much for the price tag if you are an acoustic person that walks by electronics and feels your aura being siphoned this product is for you if you are an acoustic person that goes into a social situation and you have assholes fucking raking your vibe for no reason you go in the bathroom you pop one of these and you get on the wand harder and you learn how to spell better this is a supplement this doesn't fix you running out of sauce and you gotta stay lost in the sauce too much sauce right this gives you a little bit of sauce you running low on mana you running low on sauce load up on the sauce i wouldn't do a shit ton of that but i've been doing two packs a day i have no idea how to dose liquid gold that passes through the blood brain barrier but i've been doing two packets a day and i i seem to notice a difference i seem to feel fine i like the product honestly i do believe in helping people raising people up spelling people up and this mana product which i bought myself this was not like hey rusa here's a bag nope bought it myself tried it out i went through a bunch of packets before i got on camera tried multiple different scenarios and yeah i can say as a dude with his pine cone wide open i agree it does make a difference is it easy to consume no no it's not it just tastes like metal you're looking at mr research rat russo so i really like i am making it look more bearable i'm not gonna like andre and i like market so you're like it's not that it's it's pretty much like drinking metal okay so yeah there's not really much claims i can make around that other like when you wear gold you feel different different clothing impacts my water vibration different stones impact my water vibration different people impact my vibration if someone's yanking your vibe for no fucking reason and you had a couple packets of this on you recovered you spell yourself back up you talk to yourself remind yourself who the fuck you are and stand on your shit that helps you it's not an end all be all close all fix but it's a supplement that i think if you're an acoustic watching you could check out i'll see you guys in my next video