 I think you should view your first show as, this is the mental type of fortitude I need to do this competing stuff. What is up everyone, it's Risa, I hope everyone is doing well. Today's ASMR sip is some... ...café? ...café? ...café? ...café? ...café? ...café? ...café? Alright, today I'm going to do a fun topic. If you're thinking about your first bodybuilding show, how to think about it. Now, obviously I have not competed, and between you guys, my gyno came back. So I may or may not have to get another gyno surgery. We'll see how it looks as I continue recalping. I weigh around 246-ish right now. So we'll see how I look as I slowly trim it up around 230.! Again, I have been a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit! I'm a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little! So I have been yo-yoing up and down, rebuilding my physique in this weight slot with a competition weight being anywhere between 195 to 205 for me personally. So I wanted to showcase in my mind how you should view your first show. And it's that, just do it! For me, I am messing up badly by not doing my first show. And you should think of your first show as kind of like your baseline blood work, your baseline show. I know in my head that if I do my first show, and I actually, doesn't matter what I look like on this stage, if I get to a lean enough weight, in my opinion you should have a coach, but other people do without coaches. But if I get to a lean enough weight, and I hit a big drug blast coming out of the show, and reverse back out, and don't be the bloat lord, that I will permanently be in a better spot forever, indefinitely. And that that first show doesn't really matter as much as you think, and you shouldn't be perfecting the first show. Now is this complete hypocrisy to how my path is played? Yes. But I'm saying it deadass how I think it is. I think you should view your first show as, this is the mental type of fortitude I need to do this competing stuff. Do I enjoy it? Do I enjoy hitting this date? At this date, I have to look a certain way, I have to achieve a certain look, and over time, especially with the coach, that's helping me with my mind during that, we form a bond, and over time, I nail a better and better and better and better and better look. And then in the offseason, I look tremendously better. You're not going to look immaculate. Most, I mean, there could be a genetic, you know, elite watching this, sure. But the average person, you're not going to be the most perfecto on the first show. And you should think of it as a learning experience. But more importantly, you should think of it as, I can't wait to get my first show over with. Because when I reverse out, I could hit a massive fucking steroid, SARM, whatever the fuck you want to do, blast. And if I ate correctly and reversed out, that's when your body is the most sponge-like starving to make rapid progress. And that's what I feel like people mess up with these shows, is like they'll do a show, and then they'll blow up, they'll get fat, they'll go off cycle, they'll take a break, and they'll go that path. In my opinion, no, no, no, no, no. You do the first show, you see how you look that lean, you see how you mentally react that lean, you see if this mental fortitude stuff of doing this prep is something that you want to do. You find entertaining, you find challenging. And I remember, I was Andrew Zach's right up, Kevin Lavroni, right? He liked hitting those show dates. That's what kept his life fun. That's what kept him on point. That's what kept him locked. That's what kept him lasered. And that's what he personally liked. Okay? I like going to the gym every day to create that fucking tenacity, that energy, that electricity. Other people don't like going to the gym every day. Find it fucking like it's invading their life. It depends on what you want to do with your life. What I'm saying is like, don't do your first show. Think you gotta be perfect. Spend a fuck ton of whatever. Come in dialed. And then, alright, I'ma get off cycle. I'ma take a break. I'ma get fat. You should be thinking of your first show as like, that's like the fucking springboard. For you to spring into the second, third show. I wouldn't even care about what I look like on stage until my third show. And then I would be like, okay, this is what it is. Right? You would want to give the coach a couple preps to see, hey, how does this guy respond to potatoes? How does this guy respond to rice? How does this guy respond to this type of cardio? How does this guy respond to these type of drug fat burners in this category? These types of steroids. These types of SARMs, most likely not. But maybe they use SARMs, right? But you would have this data pool for when your third show comes. He's like, okay, he uses these steroids. He works good with these. We add this in at this time. He already has all this new tissue because each time he did a show, we reversed him. We put him on a big blast. After the reverse, he kept lean. He stayed around the shape that he needed to stay at a weight that he could easily get back to the stage weight. And that's actually competing. That's what I think people get mixed up with is like, it's a long grind of like, when you look at these pros, when you look at these up and comers, right? I wouldn't judge an up and comer until they're like third, fourth, fifth show. If they're already looking good and getting a lot of attention in their first two shows, that's an anomaly. Okay. And I am not the most genetically blessed individual. I've defied genetics. I've modified genetics. I've showed that pretty much. You can't come at me and be like, oh, I wasn't big all my life. Like you were. Nah, I was a distance runner, man. Nah, I modified all this shit, dude. Like, that's what I'm getting at. With the show, it's like, you shouldn't give a shit about doing your first show except doing it. Getting on stage in front of your family. Showing off that you hit this date. You stuck to your diet. You stuck to your cardio. You stuck to your training. The drug cycle was there to help preserve your tissue. Keep you a grainy look. But more importantly, you knew your first show was just like this. Alright, I'm gonna see if I like competing. I'm gonna hit a blast right after the first show. And I'm actually rebound. And my body will never, in my opinion, hold fat the same after the first show. And you'll more settle in to how a competitor competes. That when your third show comes around, then you're actually, you know, having a judgment on how you want to do the competition stuff. If it's for you. If you're genetically blessed. If you think this is the route you want to go. And there are a lot of competitors that they'll say, hey, I didn't really hit my stride until I went through a couple coaches. And I was on my eighth, ninth show. But I learned I liked competing. I learned I liked the discipline. I liked the samurai discipline. That's something I like to do. It kept me locked. It kept me looking forward to something. And that's what kept my pace. Is that I like competing. Other people go, hey, I don't have the genes for this. My muscles aren't as pretty. I hit this stage weight. That's a pretty big fucking stage weight shows. I have significant tissue. My tissue ain't the prettiest. But third, fourth show, I determined that third, fourth show. I didn't fucking determine that on the first fucking show. That's ridiculous. So I would think of the first show. Think of it as this amazing rebound that you are going to look way better. If you hit a drug blast on the rebound of the show and you eat cleanly ish out into the rebound, that's going to be a tremendous look after your first. That's how I would view it. I would not judge yourself until your third or fourth show. And you've had at least one or two guru coaches have eyeballs, try different things with you before you really determine. Don't get caught up with seeing these guys on their whatever show. With however many coaches I'll tweak them, they remembered all the designs of each coach, and that you're comparing yourself on your first show. Your first show is the magical rebound of you're never going to hold fat the same way, and you're going to have a whole new mentality after doing that diet that first show. And that's how you should view it. You should not beat yourself up after your first show. You should not even think of, oh, you're good. Reverse correctly. Hit a blast after. Don't take a break. And I guarantee you will be thankful you did that one show, whether you want to compete again or not. It's about that reverberation effect of going down there, hitting that stage weight, being there with your family on stage, showing them what you accomplished, and then hitting a blast and reversing going back in the gym. That is my opinion how you should view it for a show. And unlike Russo, you should just get it over with. Because you don't know what you're going to look like after that first reverse if you actually get down below a legitimate 7% body fat. You will have a crazy reverse. Your body's like a fucking sponge ready to explode. And if you give it the gear nutrients on the way out, I don't see how you come out of a solid reverberation of the first show into a new look, how you're like disappointed you did that show. You just can't binge after. You can't hang it up after. You can't get off cycle after. You can't PCT. You gotta go for broke. Hit the blast after. I guarantee you'll be at a very good look where you can think of like, yeah, it takes more than one show. It takes more than one race in cross country for you to dial in how you do your pacing, how you do your splits, how you do your time overall, where's the like part where you fade in the race. You need data. So if you don't have a lot of fucking data under your belt, and you don't have a coach guru processing your data and multiple opinions, I wouldn't count yourself out. I would wait. Because a lot of bodybuilders, they blossom after their fifth, sixth show. Then you're like, wow. Sometimes it takes a little bit to put the pieces together. Okay? But don't get frustrated on the first show. Simply just look at it as I'm going to get this server with. It's going to change the perception of my mentality. It's going to samurai me in. And then when I hit this big drug blast on the reverse and eat correctly out of it, I will be stacked. I will be at a new look. I'll be happy. I did the show whether I look like shit on stage or not. After the reverse, I will be looking much better than I did before my first show. I will see you guys in my next video. I will see you guys in my next video.