 and<|ro|> fontanisartan. What's up everyone? It's Russe. I hope everyone is doing well. Welcome back to the channel. I finally have the successor. I'm gonna see if it'll focus in on this. There we go. MK-677 is all newce. I have half Nadi's MK777, seven right here. So I'm going to be transitioning from 677, which is, you can see my face, bloated insulin sensitivity issues. And yeah, I really never found a way to truly combat it unless I stacked Tess Morellen with it. That was something that I didn't notice was a big benefit. However, the biochemists went back to the drawing board and these are the actual people in the lab and they're stating that this is a improved half-life, improved bioavailability. But more importantly, if they iron out the insulin issues, then this makes this a great product to where you can have a trickle pulse of GH all day long and you can do time dosings or you could just add a dosing during night when you normally would secrete and not interrupt your circadian rhythm and have like a bigger pulse and have a better recovery sleep hair nails overall when you're seeing this as a recovery state in the Gavin Ergic state. So I will be trying to nuance pick this out. I do want to see all the different brands weigh in because when something like this hits the scene, you're going to have people testing MK77777 and you're going to see how many people are just relabeling MK7777 at a higher cost. I have not tested this half Natties, but half Natties is an excellent brand and they sent me this personally. So I do believe this 100% is real if it's being sent to Russo rate as it launches. I will be notating that as everyone switches from 677 to 7777, you're going to notice that, oh yeah, there'll probably be a testing battle and I'm excited to see half Natties showcase and I'll bring up their certificate of analysis that they are a well tested product and everybody knows that they're getting what they're paying for and that's what I'm always about on this channel. So basically what I'm going to be looking with is I have a lot of facial bloke going on right now. I'm going to make the switch to 7777 and then I'm going to be noticing if I'm getting less insulin issues, right? For example, when I mean insulin issues, you're ingesting carbs and it's not really going into the muscle per se because the insulin pendulum is not functioning correctly. So you're having this fluff weight on you all the time and this is what I'm constantly dealing with when I found Testimaryllin to be an aid to that. But if this is going to improve that and improve all blood glucose related issues because I've talked about in the past with 6777 that yeah, it could be diabetic symptoms, pre-diabetic symptoms. If you're not paying attention and testing your blood sugar and or you're just, it's a gherellin memetics. So if you're just binging carbs on it and you're not doing the cardio and offsetting all that glucose in your blood, what's it doing? It's sitting there all the time and that's putting a stress on your pancreas and your beta cells and you only have so many beta cells and it would be important that you would not want to do that for a long period of time. You know, this is why I take breaks from 6777. I ramp on and off and I can't stay on it as a constant RC where MK77777 has promised to be a constant RC because if I have no blood glucose related issues, not only can I stack other peptides with this as well, easier than this one, but I can also just run it constantly and not be like, okay, this is like my fifth or sixth day of high dose 6777. I want to take like two days off, let my circadian rhythm reset and then flush all the glucose out of my blood and then start fresh. If this irons out all that issues to where it's just a daily RC, then I guarantee this is a big W because name me another secretagogue that's oral format that will deliver this amount of results. I can't really think of one in the oral format. I know a lot of people don't like 6777 because you have, you know, why not just use GH? My argument against that would simply be to think of it as, okay, GH lasts how long? I can make 6777, I can make 6777 last trickling from my pituitary all day. So to me, your body's in that constant trickle state of 0.5 to potentially two IU and extreme dosages. So the thing with 6777 is you're destroying your blood glucose if you're not eating completely correctly, it's a gorelumimetic and you're gonna want to eat carbs. And again, you can eat perfect on this, you can probably offset it a little, but I do think everyone that messes around with this for a long period of time on a sustained dose over daily administration will, you'll see blood glucose related issues, it's notated with this. If MK7777 fixes that, then you're gonna look at something where you can take it daily and you can get all the yield benefits, better bioavailability, better GH pulse, but more importantly, you can eat normal meals. You know, I will think of like when I'm on 6777, like, okay, do I wanna eat like mostly protein and fat all the time and like tie my carbs only around, essentially work out, or do I want to like in quotation marks, binge into the bulk and then offset it with cardio and thermogenics and maybe add in tessemerellin? That's taking all that polypharmacy drug correction out of there when I do 7777, which is advertised, but I wanted to introduce this before because this is a product where I have been a fan of this drug for a very long time because I think for the price point, nothing really beats it. And for the oral administration, it's a great way for someone who's not really looking to get like crazy GH hyperplasia benefits to still have good quality recovery, hair, sleep, nails, and have an ability to have the CNS refresh at a faster rate constantly, with the blood glucose being like a pretty big drawback that apparently 7777 is going to correct. And that's where I'm like, okay, this may be like a gem that sticks around forever. I do plan to give this a thorough test, AKA I plan to creep up to a monster dose of 6777, drop it and then ramp up to a monster dose of 7777. And then I'm gonna see how much carbs I can influx on my body. And if we have this bloated look or not, you know, the coin of the bloat Lord was really about me using MK all the time because I personally do like the Tricklepull CNS refresh benefits. So if I correct that, then not only do I look better on camera, better all day, I feel less sluggish and I overall feel like I can like have energy because I'm not putting myself in this almost pre-diabetic state from the poly drug abuse dosages I'm doing to get this CNS to turn over faster and faster. This would be something that would play a much benefit in my personal daily regime. So I'm excited to see everyone give it a shot and let me know in the comments what you think below. Thank you.