 With that much hyperplasia, you are pushing your body into acromegaly territory. This is where the aging becomes permanent. What is up everyone, it's Roos, I hope everyone is doing well. Today is ASMR sip, get some core power. core hydration, not power. It's not a protein shake. It's not a protein shake. Anyways, today I'm going to be talking about how I prematurely visually aged myself, abusing SARMs, steroids, and other performance enhancers, and just Russo's two cents on this topic. So I see a lot of comments, not just like for me, but just in general of like, oh, like, you know, that guy's on gear, he looks like he's 40 when he's 25. What's going on there? Russo looks like he aged himself poorly, yada, yada, yada. It always goes down this rabbit hole of like, hyper aging. Louis Marco called it, um, dog years for the open IFBB pros. You're in dog years, right? That's how they age. And there is a lot of merit to truth to that, right? So I will break this down. But basically I wanted to say, at least with me, right? I'll point it out. Like I am utilizing MK-677. This blows up my face, makes me look more aged and just generally pushes the pores out of my skin. And it gives me a look that in my opinion adds eight years onto what I actually am. I'm 28 years old. So for example, if I would get off the MK-677, I would visually look much better. And when I fluctuate the MK-677 in and out of my system, people are like, oh, Russo looks good again. You know? So just right off the bat, if you are in these predicaments and or you're just a nerd like Russo and you're judging, a lot of this is reversible. So when you have androgens, specifically steroids, you are increasing nitrogen retention of Andrew throughout nitrogen retention in the body. It's visually going to make your body look good, but you're going to hold fluids and minerals differently. Now you could be like, oh, Russo's a bloat lord, his diet is shit. Even the top pros hold minerals differently and they are eating absolutely perfectly. And you could say that they look more aged. But for example, their backs, the muscularity that cannot be achieved with a natural bodybuilder. Natural bodybuilder, I think a good way to see, you know, if a person's natural or not is if they have that like widened back going on and or the trap development, obviously short about the androgen receptors. But I noticed when I go off cycle, like my back becomes more narrow, more natural looking. And that nitrogen retention is definitely playing a role and it's stacking up on my face as well. So that would be like the first thing is like if I were to get off completely, not going to. But if I were, my nitrogen retention would go back to a normal level based on the normal systemic load my testicles produce. Therefore, I would shrink back down. I would visually look much younger immediately. Let's pair this with the estrogen. So a lot of bodybuilders, including me, I personally like to sit estrogen higher. And the estrogen is in association with the serotonergic firing of the neurotransmitter, you know, skew. So I like higher serotonin. That's just me. And I like to sit my E2 higher for my libido. Other people like to sit their E2 lower. Your estrogen is associated your E2 level with water retention on the body as well. So even nitrogen and mineral retention. So that's like added fluff onto the body. You now have the estrogen pathway. The estrogen pathway is going to make you look puffy. It's going to make you look more bloated. And it's overall going to add a film over the body that you normally see with bodybuilders who do wet cycles. I feel like that's neglected a lot of the time in bodybuilding that, you know, a lot of these guys don't do wet cycles at all. They stay shredded all the time because they want to visually look perfect on Instagram and everything. And they don't want to be called look like premature aging or that they have water retention issues or anything. But the estrogen is actually very helpful for cholesterol management. It's also very helpful for lifting fucking heavy and becoming the bull in the gym enhanced. And I feel like most males, if you're going to damage your body, you want to be the fucking enhanced gym bull, right? And that estrogen is going to alter your age perceived vanity in my mind. So you have nitrogen retention and then you have estrogen retention. These are both water mineral fluctuation issues where visually you can get rid of both and you will regress back in quotation marks. Look younger. The growth hormone pathway. This is permanent premature aging yourself. So with the IGF pathway, insulin life growth factor one, you're causing cell replication to create new permanent muscle cells. Now, GH has been touted as this fountain of youth online forever. And in my opinion, around a unit a day. Sure. Two units a day, max. Almost bodybuilders are using between four to 12 units a day. Sometimes even more. There's been bodybuilders who documented even more. With that much hyperplasia, you are pushing your body into acromegaly territory. This is where the aging becomes permanent. You are permanently aging the body. You're 100% cutting years off your body. You're going to alter the structure of your face. I am very interested to see what my face looks like around 220 pounds. I am under 250 pounds between 245 and 250 pounds right now sitting here. I'm interested on my face bloat, how my face looks, my skull structure, all this bullshit around 220 pounds. Now, the things you can know for me is I avoided using tons of growth hormone like the plague because I did not want any of the extreme acromegaly side effects. Which would they be? The skull seems to grow like that. The jaw becomes pronounced in a sense. It's not attractive in my mind. And it's permanent. Meaning like when I'm talking about like, oh, yeah, I'm on MK-677. I'm on fucking sustenone. So I have tons of mineral retention from the nitrogen being out of whack up. It's great for the gym. Not great for how I look. Not great for my Tinder profile. But that's easy to undo. Oh, the estrogen makes me bloated, makes me puffy. I can get rid of that. I can regress back, restore vanity, right? I can restore vanity. With my MK-677 abuse, it is jacking up my growth hormone pathway. It's only going to produce, in my opinion, two IUs of an endogenous GH max if I'm abusing it, which keeps me in the quotation mark safe category. I did not use GH for the reasons of it grows the waist and intestines. And I will fuck up the structure of my face rapidly. And that is fucking permanent. So like, I'm like, oh, I can restore my vanity whenever I want. It's not happening. Hey, Russo doesn't cut. Russo doesn't do this. But at least I know I can restore some of my vanity. I'm saying if you're falling in the bodybuilding trap of if I want to be a big pro, um, four to six IUs of GH is pretty fucking common. So if I start that at 19 years old, what is my face going to look like when you're Russo's age at 28? Now, I only did MK-677. I sporadically did IGF LR3 for a couple weeks. I know individuals that do LR3 year round running the cancer risk. And obviously, if you want to be a big open pro, you got to do the big open pro cycles and you are going to be facing permanent aging of your face, permanent restructuring of your face. And I'll have Andrew throughout back room ugly patients, right? It's not like I'm talking out of my ass. I'm just saying there's levels to aging with steroids. And if you're coming at me saying I can't shape my waist and come in at 220 chiseled face and look vanity attractive for Russo stretch standards, I'm saying that a lot of that can be restored in my sense. The MK-677 abuse, I definitely did alter my face a little bit. But if I were to choose doing tons of GH and having probably better tissue, then I definitely would not be able to restore that vanity side of altering my face. Altering my elbow joint seems to always happen. And you will have to face that. That's permanent. Permanent aging. Is that worth it? Most people know. Most people feel the need to do six IUs of GH a day because you visually look a lot bubblier. You have a lot more IGF going on. And the reason why I picked in my career to save the GH for way later in the game is number one, I would get an extra power boost by adding in that GH. I would be more serious. I would be more serious. I would be dicking around experimenting with shit and just fucking like that's another problem with me is I don't stick to something. I'll try this. I try that. I try this. I try. I never stick to something. So if I'm going to stick to a fucking actual comp cycle, then I'll stick to the GH. Right. And I'll add in the GH later and I'll deal with the acromegaly stuff if it's worth me actually doing it versus most people think they need that right off the bat. That shit's permanent. That's permanent aging. So when you look at these pros, they actually are rapidly aging themselves when you're using that amount of GH paired with that amount of ROIDs. The ROIDs only. You're going to age your skin. You're going to have worse oily looking skin. But if you got off the ROIDs, your nitrogen retention would go back to normal. You get your estrogen under control and visually you probably look and feel better. That's like when like Andrew, like people think, oh, like ROIDs are super ridiculous. Most people feel good on TRT when they push a blast or like, you know, I'm doing this for fucking my muscles. But, you know, I'm walking around knowing what the fuck I'm doing with the kitchen sink going on. Right. Okay. That can be done. You can restore vanity. You can come back. You cannot come back from the fucking growth hormone abuse. Okay. It's not a fucking fountain of youth. It's actually chopping years off. Your cells only replicate so many fucking times. Let's let's cause crazy amounts of hyperplasia. Let's do it. Let's go. And when you're doing six I use a day and you're super young, I want you to think of what is my face going to look like at 30? And am I still going to look like, am I still going to be able to go in a mirror and be like, okay, like I love being this size, this uncomfortable size. Is that going to be worth it for you? Some people would as some people's not, but I'm saying that's permanent. That acromegaly jaw modification, it's not an attractive look, right? It doesn't happen to everyone, but it's not something that you really want to fuck around with. Where in my mind with steroid abuse or estrogen abuse, when I see someone puffy, when I see someone skin shit, when I see them blasting gear, they look older. I go like, yeah, if they clean up the cycle, if they got down to TRT, if they restored all their biomarkers, if they got the nitrogen retention and the mineral retention under control, they can restore a lot of that vanity. Now, when I see people going crazy with the GH route, that's where I'm like, okay, yeah, that's permanent. That's fucking acromegaly. Acromegaly, that's fucking going to change the look of your jaw structure. That's going to change the look of your skull structure. It's going to fucking, you're going to have that weird elbow shit. I still have a little bit of that, right? And that was MK-677. Imagine if I'm like, fuck it. You know, when I was 20, I'm going to be like, I'm going to do six IUs, hit grams and go that route. What I will look like right now versus my baby cycles versus I can hit a couple of big cycles. And at this point, I've already played around the gym. I've done all the experiments. I fucked around. I have a good baseline of tissue at 220. If I got it together, it would make more sense than me just going straight into hyper destructive GH abuse around 2021. And then not knowing what I'm going to look like at 30. So there's a lot of merit to yeah, steroids and PDs are going to fucking age you like crazy. The steroids only the SARMs only the nitrogen retention on your face looking older that that vanity can be restored. Can the vanity of your skull and jaw being modified be restored? No, no, that's fucking permanent. That's going to alter you. Your organs growing. That's permanent. That's going to alter you. The moral of this rant is that you got to be careful with that GH and you should really only be using it. If you're going to do something with your physique, otherwise keep it under two IUs a day. Okay, two IUs a day seems to be the pituitary can squirt out around two IUs a day. Maybe I think we're doing for I've seen fucking 16 I use a day. I mean, you'd be fucking sleeping all day. But when you're doing that amount, you're going to get better muscle results. Your muscles are going to look fuller, going to look bubblier. Your skull, your jaw, your face, it's going to alter these. These elbows are going to alter when you come off it. That skull, that jaw is going to be the fucking same because that's bone growth from the growth hormone acromegaly. When you're doing steroids only and you have crappy skin and you have the water retention from the estrogen or the nitrogen and people are saying you look older, you can restore that all back to normal in my mind. You can restore that all back to normal. You can set at a higher baseline of tissue. It's when you involve that growth hormone. Yeah. Yeah. You're going to look older. You're going to look way older. And you can see from my path. I've been very wary of that GH pathway, but you still have to understand that is a prominent pathway that will yield significant results. And if you want to have the best possible physique muscle wise, throwing in higher amounts of growth hormone will help you get there faster and help you maintain it. And it's the ultimate thing to have that bubbly look that you see on IG is that GH abuse that comes at a permanent premature aging cost. And it's not a found of youth. And that's where it's like, yes, there's merit to that. But if you have estrogen or nitrogen retention issues and you look prematurely aged with shitty skin with androgenic acne, that can all be fucking reversed. The fucking GH shit. You're done. You're done. You're going to deal with that. That fix. I think my face has changed. Obviously, you're judging it around 250, right? Let's judge it at 220, but I do believe my face has changed. And that is from MK-677. A little bit of IGF LR3 every once in a while. That is no constant GH ever that I have used ever because I didn't want to grow my organs up at this weight. I do believe I can taper my waist, not to like, you know, extreme standard, but because I didn't abuse GH up at this weight that I do think I can restore my taper a bit. And then maybe I'll reconsider it as I'm down there. But as of what I think, as far as premature aging, that growth hormone shit is legit. Louie Mark goes right with the dog years of the open pros, right? However, I think you have to focus on do I want to modify my skull and jaw abusing GH? If I'm on steroids only or SARMs only and have all this skin crap, water retention, that vanity can be restored if you actually pull blood work and fix all your biomarkers. But that GH stuff can't. That's premature aging. Have I aged myself? What age do I look? I will see you guys in my next video. I will see you guys in the next video.