 it's an amazing drug. The general public doesn't use it how it's supposed to be used, in my opinion. You're supposed to change your fucking diet with it, I know. Shocker, right? You're obese. You wanna change that? Ha ha. What's up everyone? That's Russe. I hope everyone is doing well. Today's ASMR sip is some green tea with honey. And I'm bringing back the ASMR spritz. We got intelligent silver. Gotta buy it to fucking smell it. But here's your spritz noises. Can't smell it, but I'm sure you wonder what it smells like after the spritz noises. All right, I don't know if this is gonna be a full education, maybe I'll just call this head to head. And I'll make a new sub series. So we'll do some new intro, head to head, where I'm gonna be talking about seema glue tide versus retro truth tide. Yeah, I just don't wanna do a full education on stuff that I haven't taken anymore, like personally. But I will do other views and head to heads. But for education, I think moving forward, I might change this, I might lie and change this, but like I really want to be stuff that I tried. I played around with myself. And then it's more like my personal two cents in the education. A lot of the pedications I don't like because I haven't tried the drug personally. And I'm going what people are stating online and or the literature is stating where I don't have personal experience with it. With these overviews and head to heads, I will be just going into what I see on the internet and reading the comments to educate myself. So this is gonna be a head to head of the new and improved weight loss drug. And now a word from our sponsors. This video is sponsored by Happy Hippo Botanicals. So as you can see the stoner Russo talking about his marijuana abuse, I wanted to point you towards one of the top cratum suppliers of the entire world. So I would say cratum is a opiate alternative as far as pain management, where you do not have to go through big pharma and it is a God given plant. And there are multiple different types of cratum. So I would definitely interact with the customer service on which cratum is best for you. But I would take into consideration the addiction, just like the addiction of marijuana. You want to be aware if you have an addictive personality that this is a product that is going to weigh on that. However, I do believe that if you are in chronic pain and or you are recovering in need of pain assistance, pain management, I would rather see strategic use of cratum. Cratum is one of those products where it 120,000% works and it's acting the same way an opiate would act. However, you have a lot more modulation benefits of having multiple different strains of cratum and you have a ability to wean yourself off in a much more strategic manner. If you need pain management, I definitely recommend you checking out Happy Hippo. If I was in a chronic pain situation and or my friend was, I would probably pick that, if not always pick that, over traditional painkiller routes based on, you know, the ethics of cratum being a God given plan. You know, when Ozympic and C. Mclutide hit the scene of Ozympic, meaning like Big Pharma actually put a lot into this, Big Pharma released a drug in my opinion that actually breaks the pattern of binging and could realign someone's life completely. Who's chronically obese? Normally it's like a band aid thing, you know, you're doing insulin to help them keep up with the binging and all this shit. C. Mclutide, which is Ozympic came in there and changed the game because it's breaking the pattern, the dopaminergic reward system and causing a synthetic, you're satiated. I'm full. That's the GLP one. I'm full. So it's a brain drug that triggers the brain. I'm full. You're interacting with your brain to gut access to achieve this. It's essentially like the opposite drug of 677. So you saw C. Mclutide, Ozympic hit the scene and it was essentially widespread usage immediately and you noticed weird body looks off of people that were using it a lot, right? Using a lot of it like chronically. You want to use this drug to break the pattern to actually fix your dietary habits and potentially get off the drug. That's literally like one of the things where I'm like, wow, Big Pharma made a disrupting drug that actually can realign someone's life to a point where they don't even need it anymore, right? That's not how people are. But that was one of those things where I'm like, wow, this is really a big step in the overall biohacking space getting out there to the general public. I did notice though, for the people who, again, you see Mclutide, they stay on it forever. They creep up the dosage because you do get more tolerant to it. You are interfering with this tuning system of the brain, and the stomach, and you don't want to have to slowly creep up the dosage, okay? You're still eating the same, but you're doing the drug and losing weight, right? You want to be changing your dietary habits as you're using the drug and actually use it the way it was intended to be used. You notice these weird, ozempic looks where it seems like visceral fat and adipose fat, really, it's still there, but they kind of look sucked in like a skeletor, and that is from it only being a GLP one. So, RetroTruTide is a triple agonist, and I will post vigorous Steve's video in the description below because I think if you want the full college lecture breakdown, Steve's video is amazing. I'm doing the two cents on this because I feel like people should already be able to get really good results from C-Mclutide, a kaozempic, and not even need RetroTruTide or the other ones in the pipeline because it should be a dietary correction disruptor. You're not doing the drug, mama do the drug, lose weight, continue binging and eating shit, I just can't eat as much. No, it's a disruptor, it's actually breaking the pattern so you can fix your habits, so you feel better eating better, eating less shit, and then you can get off the drug, and boom, you know, it's actually causing a literal cure to your dope, allergic brain system because if you would fix your actual fucking diet, you would not want to eat those disgusting foods, you would actually feel the level of poison they are. If you use the drug, it was the way it was intended to be used. Anyways, RetroTruTide is a tripwagnist, so I have Cheater GPT up here because there's no longer, you know, the anabolic's 11th edition isn't gonna be really used much in these newer drugs, I'm gonna be using Cheater GPT, and I wanted to say RetroTruTide is a GOP1, a GIP, which is essentially helps with insulin sensitivity, and it's a glucagon, so the energy expenditure burn, AKA the main differences of RetroTruTide is liver fat, adipose fat, and visceral fat. That is what you see not really working out with the C-miglutide abuse people, right? You see them developing, you know, like they're storing visceral fat, similar to when I'm on 677. When Rousseau's the bloat lord on 677, I get this visceral adipose fat because my insulin sensitivity is getting messed up by the 677, right? Same sort of thing if you're still eating like shit on C-miglutide and using C-miglutide as a crutch, not a pattern disruptor, you're gonna get this weird sucked-in effect, and you're going to be storing up adipose and visceral fat because macros are macros, calories in, calories out, still plays a pretty big role when you're eating like shit still on a fucking obesity drug, you're still not fixing your diet. RetroTruTide actually would help fix that. The main difference, in my opinion, with the RetroTruTide, is the glucagon receptor activation. So this is direct fat lipolysis and directly stimulating insulin sensitivity. If you combine this with Hiccardio, it should be easy to fix the bubble gut, the bloat of waistline, whatever, right? A lot of that's liver fat, a lot of that's visceral fat, the stubborn belly fat, the stubborn belly fat, right? That is what is going to be attacking that much better than C-miglutide. I don't really see SEMA other than it being not an investigative drug, a fully research-backed, you know, ozempic is clinically available to everyone in the public. RetroTruTide is the evolution of that and I feel like it's going to fix a lot of the issues that are around the people chronically on C-miglutide and it's going to allow them to use less C-miglutide, right? The big issue, in my opinion, my two cents on C-miglutide, it's an amazing drug. The general public doesn't use it how it's supposed to be used, in my opinion. It's supposed to change your fucking diet with it, I know. Shocker, right? You're obese, you want to change that, right? RetroTruTide comes in there and it's going to help you with this fucking stubborn fat because you can't stack it. It's basically activating multiple layers of the metabolic process that's going to help you try to actually change your body composition as you continue to eat like shit, right? If you would change your carbon take on C-miglutide and change your diet and eat in a caloric deficit, you could probably get away with very minimal C-miglutide. What do people do? They just see it as, I'm going to take this and lose weight and eat the same. Now you're scaling the C-miglutide to keep up over time as your brain is trying to like, overrided essentially. And you're going to notice that your adipose visceral fat is probably going to get worse and you're already literally blunting your appetite crazily. If you get off the drug, you're going to yo-yo all that. You're going to binge worse, could put you in a worse spot, right? Retrotrutide comes in there, activating the glucagon, the GIP receptor and the glucagon receptor, right? With the glucagon in my opinion being important because that's actually attacking that stubborn fat that everyone complains they can't lose. And the way you would release a lot of that and cause a lot of oxidation of that fat in my opinion is doing hit cardio on these drugs. I personally see retrotrutide as one of the main staples in all bodybuilding, dieting, moving forward because you're attacking all the issues related around dieting and slowing down your metabolism with retrotrutide. Where sema-glutide is just making you satiated. It's making you full. Retrotrutide is going the extra mile and it's activating the insulin pathway, the glucagon pathway, the fat lipolysis pathway by interfering by being a triple agonist of the GIP, the glucagon and the GLP one. So I just had some cheater GPT analysis. So weight loss on average, 24% with retra, 15% with sema. So visceral fat loss apparently is significant via the data that this cheater GPT is pulling versus moderate. But what I really wanna focus on is liver fat reduction which is this garbage stubborn fat which is up to 80% with only 30 to 50 with sema. So the thermogenesis is completely up especially when you're doing cardio with retrotrutide. It's not really impacted as much if not at all with sema-glutide. Meaning if you're not getting the results you want out of sema-glutide, you'll definitely get the results you want out of retrotrutide. You should probably use less of it. And if you change your diet with it and do hit cardio on it, head to head, sema-glutide has now been out evolved already. And sema-glutide when they hit the scene on the underground, that stuff sold like hotcakes. When it went public, that was one of the most crazy public reactions to Big Pharma's releases of all time in my opinion. And it showed that Big Pharma is gonna do a pattern disruptor, aka you could cure obesity with this fucking sema-glutide, right? You don't really need to scale this drug and eat the same, right? If you would use this drug as you're scaling it and change your dietary habits, you would eventually break the pattern completely and you would not be obese anymore. What do people do? They eat the same. You're eating like shit. Macros are macros, trans fats are trans fats. You're putting that shit in your body. That's fucking essentially poison. It's fucking up your liver. The liver fat is what's really causing this visceral adipose, stubborn fat. Retrotrutide comes in there with two extra pathways in the benabolic process to crank up thermogenesis and to help with fat lipolysis on top of the GLP one, making you feel satiated. So if you're looking for a weight loss drug, I would definitely try retrotrutide. I would 100% back it. I have had friends use sema-glutide with very good results off minimal dosing. I went nowhere near dosing them near what these doctors are doing scaling. Now I get it, you know, there's obese patients. The food addiction is different with everyone, but at the end of the day, my two cents is change your dietary habits, obviously, with sema-glutide, and you won't wind up with those wonky body issues that you see plastered all over the internet. They're using it as a crutch, not a pattern disruptor cure, and retrotrutide comes in there, and it's basically the end all be all, in my opinion. If you're gonna do cardio and diet with retrotrutide, it's gonna have results where you look in the mirror, you're like, this drug is 110% worth the fucking money. And a lot of people complain about the weird body morph that will not happen because the glucagon receptor is being fucked with with retrotrutide, meaning that you're gonna have an ability to keep that thermogenesis metabolism up while you're dieting, which is normally slowing down your metabolism unless you're dieting very specific way. So I hope you guys found this video entertaining. I will see you guys in my next video. I'll see you guys in the next video. Bye.