 and alfalfa. What's up everyone? It's Rus. I hope everyone is doing well. I have some ASMR cold brew. Alright. Just felt like doing this outside of the studio today. I wanted to be discussing, focusing peptides. And I'm not the biggest expert as far as this particular niche sector. However, I have been experimenting around. So I have been experimenting around. I have been getting back on track with all my business per business catch up. So that's what I've been doing in the background is business per business catch up. And I'm really planning on coming back full force. I can train completely normally. You know, I was inclined to 125 yesterday. I could do 30 minutes of stairs after. And I'm very excited with that as far as how that's going. I need to get back in the studio. So that's next on the list. But I didn't want to show what I was doing to focus to get back to all these business, you know, when you're an entrepreneur, you have to keep up with so many actions per minute a day. And as you become a more successful entrepreneur, like you can't really have a dip in performance if you want all the networking to take you seriously. And with this cutting edge world of technology where everything's instantaneous and really it's the speed you can maintain. You can look for biohacking avenues and vectors to increase your performance. Half Nadi sent me two products. This is the C Max and CELENC blend as well as the tri focus blend with the tri focus blend being the specific one that I've never played around with. That hexa. So that hexa seems to repair neural pathways. You know, there's a rat maze study that I will link below and I will link below all the NCBI data for you to read through. I just wanted to give my two cents on how I felt with these products. So the only one I really had experience with was CELENC. And I highly recommend CELENC because it is researched. It is proven over the course of years and years and years to be highly effective at someone with, I'll just say DHT, someone with someone who cannot focus and or needs laser lock. I think I'll probably just name this like focusing cognitive memory repair, something with the title. But I would think of these products, which these are nasal sprays. So you can do each nostril, which is directly facilitating into the brain. Therefore, you're getting more product where it needs to go. However, there is injectable formats that work just as good. And I believe there is oral administration of some of these as well. I would stay away from the oral administration just because the stomach acid and the liver is definitely going to impact the overall assimilation of the compound into the body. However, injectable peptide will give you more finite control over how much is going into the body. If you want to go that route, I like these nasal sprays because you can just sit them by your productivity desk and you can do an association pattern with, you know, when I sit down, I want a laser lock and I just do two sprays. This recalibrates my brain upon sitting down and I try to remember that I'm in the pattern of work and this helps me laser lock. Now with the DHT, this seems to be more cognitive spatial memory repair, which seems to be a big problem with the cell phones and AI and everything being implemented at a rapid rate right now. So if you never tried DHT, maybe experiment with the injectable form factor first and then implement the nasal spray. As far as what I notice, I do notice that I can I'll say it like this, like how on earth, like when you have a computer, you have multiple tabs open. You know, it feels like I can have more tabs open with the DHT in there than without the Salenc and Cmax is a clarity. So I get clarity upon sitting down and beginning to focus on work. And then the Salenc is in my opinion, I've the most well read into Salenc is an adaptation reset, meaning you associate the work with fun. And to me, that would be a main driving factor of recalibrating your mind to associate whatever you don't want to do with something you want to do for achievement of just getting it done. And that's where I think Salenc really shines and Cmax shines as well. And this blend is perfect. You know, I don't really have anything against this product whatsoever. I think it works exactly as intended. If I sit down and I have to do work, I once again, collectively with myself, I recalibrate my mind upon sitting down of like, I'm going to get this work done. I then do one to two sprays each nostril of the Cmax Salenc. This allows me to recalibrate my brain to associating this with a reward. And then this helps me push through the work. The tri blend is Salenc and Cmax. So it's the same thing. And if you want to dihexa, you'll notice that as you're working, maybe you could think about multiple other things in what's called spatial memory. While you're working. So this is the triple heavy hitter, the trifecta. This is the tried and true. I know Cmax has been around forever and Salenc was developed in Russia very long time ago to help recalibrate your ADHD. And I would think of it as like, you just need to recalibrate upon sitting. You know, and maybe take a little break, but recalibrate upon sitting. These compounds are amazing for doing that. That is like where it's like, you still have to control your mind. These peptides are going to help you control your mind, but you yourself have to control your mind and set yourself that you're in this pattern. You're in this pattern and you need to get this task done. And that is going to be associated with reward because the Salenc is hard coding against that per se by what it does via resetting upon sitting. It lasts about 30 minutes. So I would think of it as a reset button. If you you are dopenergically hooked on a device and you need to get something done and it's not nowhere near what you could scroll and have access to immediately. You could use this to break the pattern and then get your dopenergic reward of reality in the real world of getting something you actually need to get done. This would be a method of attack and the nasal spray is really convenient because you can just sit it on your desk and you can do an associative pattern of when you sit down. Okay. I'm ready to go. The Salenc is going to relock what I'm staring at. If I had to do emails, if I had to do something that's not dopenergically rewarding, it resets that it breaks the pattern of the extreme dopenergic stimulation of this for a quick 30 minutes. It allows you to recalibrate control your mind. If you want an even bigger heavy hitter, the tribe Lenn has the dihexa in there, which would allow more spatial memory awareness. So if you had multiple tabs open, you can remember what you're doing and get through the task very quickly. And or if you're sitting through your computer and you're doing messaging work at the same time, I feel like the dihexa would come in there and have a big role to play as far as being able to have multiple tabs open in your head. And not be able like not lose it essentially. Maintain it the entire time. These two sprays are great. Half-nadi sent me these over and I think my all my plugs have a different spray and or peptide setup for you to experiment around with focusing agents. But I would remember that it is still you controlling your mind. You know, these are very mild per se, very safe per se. As far as research compounds go, they're tried true improving. So I will 100% recommend these. But at the end of the day, you are in control of your mind and you have to continuously break away from the phone. You know, I see a lot of people like even in the gym, they just scroll the phone, scroll the phone, double tap. They don't even break to take focus on what's going on in front of them in the gym. And to me, that's where Salanek and C-Max and the tribe lend could play a pivotal role in allowing them to come back to reality, come back to the real world and you know, work with at their plate right in front of them. You know, that's something where these peptides really have helped me so far. Get back into the high output mind state that I need to be in to continue to make my comeback. And this is one of those things where I have done Salanek for years. Love the product. C-Max very similar to Salanek. They work great in tandem. The dihexa I've always known about and spatial memory is something that's important as you age. Spatial memory becomes very important as you age. When you're younger, you have so much spatial memory that you take it for granted. As you get older, you start to be like, oh, I used to be able to think that way. And now I can't. You can still. It's memory games. It's brain games. But more importantly, it's recalibration of a pattern that forces that to come back. Dihexa helps you repair that. Dihexa has been shown in the study below that I'll link to help with a rat complete a maze which needs spatial memory of where the maze is at. So that would be specific proof that it is repairing spatial memory. And you probably could get back to that spot if you maintain high output work every single day. I hope you guys learned something. I will see you guys in my next video.