 What is up everyone, it's Russo, I hope everyone is doing well. Welcome back to the three-peat red-nose Russo in the squat rack and I wanted to be going into just how I've been feeling and of course I wanted to touch on the previous video that is the energy being pulled at the squat rack. There's no ifs, there's no ifs, there's no ifs, there's no ifs, there's no ifs, or buts that rebuilding the central nervous strength that I was at is daunting as far as the length of time I was in the gym with the strength volume as well as the frequency. And for me, my life is like redlining sixth gear. So if you think about a sports bike, you achieve what in my opinion is bliss when you are redlining sixth. And I'm either on or on or on or on or on or on. You're off two-stroke motor and yeah, I'm back on. I really do feel good in the gym again. You can see the, um, just the movements look so much more natural. I don't feel like I'm going to collapse anymore squatting. And now I'm like, okay, it's time to get back to that crazy level of training. And it goes back to the basics of my strength base not being up to par with what I want to personally do in the gym, how I personally want to train. You know, I enjoy the seven day a week training frequency because I was a distance runner before this and I am replacing the distance running drive with this. So I don't, you know, deteriorate my body long distance running. I instead build my body in the gym, but I need to do something every day. And that could be because I am more of like a hunter type persona where, you know, I like the buildup of the energy before the gym. I like the buildup that I get to feel. And each day I can yo-yo and I can wave that. And then once I'm redlining, I can, I'll put that into other work and everything has been pretty much that way since I was born. You know, I really do enjoy the, in quotation marks, bipolar showcase to demonstrate that that's why you want to go in the gym. You're holding that heat. I'm holding that frequency of pain can't be touched. And I am exerting it into something that is going to be fulfilling day by day as far as overall energy expenditure being dramatically higher. So I wanted to go into the cycle. So this S-23 by far was the correct move. And I do believe the injectable LGD was the correct move before considering how easy it is for me to recover at this point while staying at seven days a week. And this squat session, I was really pushing a volume tree and I took it all the way to absolute failure. And I almost knocked myself out in the gym. And I basically, yeah, I had a huge goose egg on the back of my head because it's not funny when you have to dump a squat and I did not get my head out of the way quick enough. And that is, that is the red nose Russo, right? I got right back in the squat rack, got right back to work because I didn't pass out. But if you're looking at this clip right here, as far as like the overall androgen receptor activation on my body, this would be hard to beat other than conventional deadlifts, conventional. I really don't see you activating more right there. I was completely off the back of my head. It looks like a smooth exit. Absolutely not cracked the back of my head. Could not believe I did not pass out. Yeah. I just think, you know, you have to have the strength base and then you can do something as far as bodybuilding after that. And with enhancement and drugs, there's this perception where, oh, I can skip the strength base. Well, you can, you can probably get decent results, but you're never going to beat the person in the conventional pattern. That's been their entire life. And they've slowly built up to that. For me, the true wildcard factor is all my SARMs abuse, because I have, in my opinion, found what SARMs were about as far as the central nervous system tweaking, as long as your body can keep up with it. So I am going to continue with the injectable SARMs under the guise that it's like, you want to see this cycle as me rebuilding my strength volume base. I do not believe I have the greatest sum or prettiest, prettiest muscle insertions for competing. And I did have a monstrous central nervous system that was able to tolerate workloads outside the gym while maintaining seven days in the gym. And that was built up extremely slowly. And I use SARMs because it interacted with DHT as the base androgen. And if I used MK-677 to kind of counteract or help my central nervous system out. When we approached 23 on injectable LGD before the gyms closed, I had a physique that, in my opinion, was ultimate hybrid athlete. I had a tight waist. I could see my abs and I was still very cardio efficient. And I could actually, in my opinion, train for bodybuilding and get on a stage at that point at 23, right before the gyms closed. That was a strength base built, a power builder base built. And then I was going to switch into hypertrophy movements to try to help my insertions be a little bit more prettier. But I am back at square one. I am rebuilding my strength base. I am rebuilding the extreme hour 45, which in my opinion is a long session. I think an hour 45 is an extremely long session if you're actually doing things in the gym. And I had a legitimate hour 45, and I had a legitimate volume. And it will take quite a while for me to get there. I think the injectable LGD, the injectable S-23 paired with MK-677 and obviously testosterone under it. This is the setup that got me there, got me to the dance. So I'm just going to repeat that again and go from there. I'm also not too, you know, excited to cut as far as right now because of the gynecomastia. I will be getting in testing out if androgen creams shrink it. I will say it's at a more acceptable rate. I did get it to a point where my left nipple isn't really that bad. But for some reason with males with gynecomastia, it's normally one nipple and my right nipple is displaying not the same size, but pretty much the same level of you would want to have surgical intervention. But if this androgen cream helps me, for sure. I am getting a tighter waist. I can no longer gain weight easily on this injectable S-23. I'm around 242 and I am not changing my calories at all. It's just falling off because, yeah, I think SARMs have merit to impacting basal metabolic rate way more than steroids. I think that could actually make them, you know, less good for visual appearance and bodybuilding. And overall, maybe they are just in a league where you would want them on HRT as a TRT on top supplement or supplement drug. Or you would want them as a, OK, I'm creating a hybrid athlete type physique. And after the hybrid athlete physique is built, I can go back and I can bodybuild. And that's pretty much what I want to do is I want to have the energy all day. You know, I don't want to mess up what I've already done. It's a pretty similar path. You know, I painted the frequency of my dead dog of like when I come in the gym, like that is just the level of energy I actually need to exert in the gym. Like daily in the pattern. And I don't want my pattern interrupted. I don't need a pity party. I need to actually get back to the squat bar does not lie. It's not going to lie to me. The squat bar is not going to lie to me. The conventional deadlift volume is not going to lie to me. That's going to be concreted and how I electrically feel each day, the stronger I get on that volume. And for me to continue chasing up that path, I need to maintain a level of aggression that is going to be a red nose way to get out of this situation of I don't want to train like three, four days a week. That's just not me. You know, I'm redlining sixth. I'm a two stroke motor. I really do enjoy going to the gym daily. And I did use a performance enhancing drug setup that allowed me to do that. And basically, I think the CNS gains were permanent is what I was saying is like if you went off and did this setup and then went back to your traditional bodybuilding cycles, I think you would look better. Like after you went through one of these SARMs hybrid cycles and on the SARMs hybrid cycle, I would expect you to look in quotation marks worse. Like I'd expect you to slingshot or yo-yo your CNS and building rebuilding the CNS is one of the big things that older lifters find trouble in the gym. And I do think hyper stimulating the AR was something that bumps DHT off the receptor, which neurochemically could impact your CNS. It's something you should look into. Obviously, there's a lot of systemic inflammation and side effects, but I hope you learned something. I'll see you guys in my next video.