 he went back and got it done and that really changed the way I viewed my father, you know. What's up everyone it's Russo I hope everyone is doing well. Some ASMR sip of some generic styrofoam coffee. This is going to be a sentimental video. This is one of those videos where I will look back on this years to come. And I wanted to tell the story of my birth father, Mark Russo's impact on my dichotomy frequency, as well as Nathan Glazier, who is Mr. Pittsburgh and an IFBB pro MPC judge. And these guys have been in my personal life with love. My entire career and YouTube and everything. And I had the honor of having them both in the gym at the same time. And it was emotional doing this video, but I wanted to narrate just a little tism about each of them and how it impacted the current version you're looking at right now of Ryan Russo. So Mark Russo was a division one long distance runner. He went around to all the local races with Patrissa Russo, my grandmother, and Dominic Russo, my grandfather. You know, they would drive him to pretty much every race around here. And Big Dick Energy, they would show out on the races. And that's kind of like their claim to fame back in the day. And my father grew up around Baden, Pennsylvania. So a steel town, Ambridge, Pennsylvania, which was very much a steel town. And back when my grandfather, Dominic, was alive, he was a steel worker. You know, the Pittsburgh Steelers, he was a steel worker. And Ambridge was a booming steel town. It's now a ghetto. But, you know, I would drive there to a gym. And one time the bar got shot up the street while I was training at night in the gym. So, yeah, Pittsburgh has come a long way as far as the evolution of the blue collar-ness around here. But my father was a shining example of pushing his crown chakra to the limit. So the ability to withstand pain and long distance running is what you'll note the champions possess, the division one runners possess. And you could even chalk it up as a tenacious bipolar frequency that they can hit below a 530 mile constantly. Hit below a 530 mile and race. And with cross-country, the course is uneven. The course is muddy. The course is always riddled with obstacles, strategic points of which you can pass people. And this taught me a lot, very young. You know, I was a very fat kid. You know, Patricia Russo would feed me Twinkies, Zingers. And you can see today that Russo still likes to be the blow lord. And I kind of wanted to relive my childhood a bit before I dial in. And this is my journey so I can go at my pace and do what I want. But when I got to fifth grade, I could barely run a mile. And essentially, I was like, wait a second. My dad's a long-distance running coach. He's coached multiple state champions. And he holds Division I level times. With distance running, racing, I'll say racing. I hate when people are like, oh, I'm into running. It's like, do you race or not, right? The racing is what builds the crazy frequency that you see some people carry. David Goggins being like the shining, top-of-the-mountain example with his tenacious, almost bipolar, crazy-driven frequency. My father has ultramarathon runner friends. And I always detect spiritually how much more powerful they are than me. And from a very young age, I was placed next to guys that went on to become state champions. Very high-level high school runners. And I had the name Russo plastered on me in the western Pennsylvania distance running area. Everyone knew who my father was. It was very tough on me mentally to carry that level of weight. I knew I was genetically blessed with distance running. And I honestly think it like, I feel like when you're genetically blessed at something, you're just lazier. And I was not lazy at the beginning. But I'll go into the story. So essentially, fifth grade comes along. I can barely run a mile. I'm fat. I'm at Grandmother Russo's eating all day. And then Grandmother Shaughnessy is calling me a little shit. Ginger Grandmother Shaughnessy is calling me a little shit all the time. I get in shape. This is when I decide to get in shape. This is when I decide to use the frequency given to me. And I start running like crazy. So to be a D1, which I wanted to follow in my father's footsteps, make my father proud, be a champion for my father. I began really running around seventh grade. So it will be called building a base of miles. So I would begin building a base of miles. And then by the time I got to eighth grade, it was looking like I was D1. It was looking like it. Right. I didn't think so. Right. I always think down on myself. But I think the main things you could take away from is my father is a very calm runner. My father already groomed state champions. And my father was an assistant coach to an individual that almost made Olympic times. So his name was Coach H. He would call me rye bread, you know, tough bread. And me and him would bitch each other out running. And I remember this very clearly. I thought I was fast back then. And he just had kids. He was fully fat, like bigger, bigger belly than me. And he outpaced me. Right. So that tenacious frequency that I did in distance running cannot be taken from me. And I've used that in my entrepreneurial career to push through hardship and to overcome. Because what distance racing, not running. Right. If you go for a jog, if you're vlogging, you doing these long runs, it's not like racing. Right. Race a 5k. Get under. I'll just say get under 19. That's like when it starts to be a race, in my opinion. In my opinion, if you want like a time where I'm like, yeah, you're fucking fast. Get under 18. And then that's what I'm talking about. That builds that crazy crown chakra frequency. Basically, I began cracking under the pressure. Right. I began cracking under the pressure in ninth grade. Comes around. Every single cross country, you know, meet, race. They know who Russo is. They know my father's name. I am not at the high school. My father coaches. Believe it or not, in my quantum events, I was supposed to be coached by my father. And I was supposed to be coached by Coach H. I was supposed to be coached by them. I trusted them in guiding my running career. And I honestly like the runners that I ran with in middle school that were still at the other high school. Rather than running for a coach. Let's call him Coach B. That tried to get me kicked off the team because I started a cult. And would constantly dog me. One time he threw me on the ground because I wouldn't listen to him. And basically like created this ultimate beef against me. While like, you know, about my, when my father would come around, he knew who my father was. And yeah, you know, he would email the school to get rid of me. And politically, I thought this coach has never ran any time that I thought was at all impressive. And he would go on Google and teach people like he would go on Google and see what Google was saying to create distance running champions. So I was always angry. You know, that really pissed me off ninth grade that I am pedigreed with blessed genetics. And I'm being coached by someone that I don't trust. I don't trust the workouts. I remember with cross country, especially you can burn out halfway through the season. And it's very important. You have like a base of miles. Kind of like how I have a base physique. You would need a base of miles. So my two cents, Russo, two cents, Russo was that the base of miles that he did with the team was not enough. And my father, who actually is a D1 and the head coach of who my father was with, Coach H, was almost an Olympian. They did shit differently and I would get pissed. So I was number two on the team ninth grade year out of, I don't know, like 40-ish runners, right? So I was varsity spot two at my fastest. The person in front of me, I'll say his name, Chris, was an actual what I would consider cross country champion, essentially. I don't think he ever, he won a couple invitationals. But basically I was placed next to like, this is actually a running champion. And don't, don't get it twisted. He would try to get my time down there and we would do a lot of track workouts where, yeah, you get hot when you're cross country racing, right? It's not, it's not this nice thing, right? You're in a very crazy state of pain and you're pushing a really crazy frequency. And you're trying to use other people's energies as you're racing distance. So he would try to pull me constantly. He had below a 450 mile and he had below A-50, I think he had below A-50, 400. So he was a very versatile guy and I was like top five. So in my head, I sucked, right? I wanted to be a champion for my father. I wanted to be number one for my father. My father was very hard on me in the sense of I would have crazy anxiety attacks going to these races and it would be all internalized. So sometimes I would psych myself out before the race even started. And this happened multiple times and it happened to both my siblings as well. This is what happens when you come from a distance running family, right? This is like the family I came from. My father, exceptional runner. And he has a wall of champions that he gave authentic love to and put that power into other families, right? So I come from that. When I go to the invitational, all these other coaches know my name. They look at my time. They're not impressed, right? It pisses me off. It begins turning into these crazy anxiety attacks before I would do these races. And over time, I essentially, after an accident in another sport, decided to go into bodybuilding, right? Basically because I had to. I got very injured and that's what moved me along. But I think the key points you can take away from my father is he is the opposite of me. You know, my father is the opposite of me. You know, I feel like when you're looking at your father, the father is looking at the opposition, the yang of what he is. And you two are supposed to balance each other. So Coach H would always bully my father. And then that's how I got the nickname Rye Bread is that I would bully and rake his tism back. And over the years, like my father is so nice. He'll never say one bad thing. You know, he's very humble. And when you're a long distance running champion, coach champions, he would show up at races with my grandparents and just literally douse people. And like you have an ego built on running like that. You don't got to prove shit. But I think where me and my father beefed a lot is that, you know, I kind of thought my father was soft and wouldn't stand up for himself and like wasn't badass. I'll say it in that sense. Till one day he completely changed my mind. So my father almost passed away running a marathon. Okay. He wants to be a marathon runner. This is this is what you know, like how bodybuilding gets out of control. Oh, I'm just doing a cycle. Now I'm now I'm doing doing a gram. Now I'm on two grams. It's the same thing with long distance running. You know, you start with a 5k and then I got into doing 10ks and then I'm like after a 10k, I'm like, no, no, I want to be big. Right. I wanted to be big. So I backed off. My father went to do a marathon. I forget the time, but it was legit. Right. And then I said Coach H was almost at the Olympic trial time. Very close. Right. So all the people around him, his D1 runners that he ran with at Robert Morris University, they're all moving up to marathons, ultra marathons, all that stuff. So my father does a marathon, you know, he just blacks out, almost passes away. And that kind of scared him out of running. You know, that scared him out of running. He went more into coaching. He went on to learn other skills of like coaching jumps. He coached pole vault for a long time. I essentially had access to a track and field coach. I knew everything and an elite level long distance running coach to where I would mouth off to my coach. And then I get threatened to get kicked off the team because everyone would listen to me over him. You know, that that was my high school career in my younger years. But essentially, my father, I yeah, he's soft. I'm hard in the sense of like, I don't let people bully me and or I say my licks. I give my lips. I pay dues. I give chops. And I obviously say how it is. Right. If it hurts your feelings, whatever. It's dead ass. If it came out of my asshole, my asshole said it. We ripped the bandaid off real quick. That's how I like to talk. Mark Russo says, Ryan, you're beyond a type A type person. You know, you're very blunt to the point. And basically, yeah, I was always kind of like angry internally. Like my emotion of not being balanced was rivaling his emotion of not being balanced. And that was like our dichotomy mixer over the years. And that all changed one day. So my mother went on a like it's like a tandem marathon where you just jog it and she couldn't go. And she was the first leg of the marathon. And my father had like a quantum event. And he ran the entire marathon with no training at all. No carbs. No preparation. No, no. You normally want to run a lot of miles before attempting a marathon to be very well fed, be very well hydrated. He said he was just going to run the first leg. Absolutely, you know, ran the whole thing. And he couldn't walk right for a couple days after. And I would have to carry him to the bathroom. After he did that, I shut the fuck up. Right. I shut the fuck up because I was like, holy fuck, that's badass. That's standing on business. And that's avenging his younger horror story of like that being the end to him and dying on his sword of the thing he wanted to do. He went back and got it done. And that really changed the way I viewed my father. You know, up until then, I always viewed my father as like, why would you get bullied by this individual? And then, you know, Ginger Russo would go up and start bullying that individual. And I would always get pissy. And then he'd be like, well, why are you so aggressive towards everyone? Because like, I like to defend myself. He was passive. We mixed eventually. And that event of when we mixed was when he ran that marathon with no training. And I'm like, that is unequivocally badass as fuck. And yeah, that changed my mind, honestly. And I think with your birth father, it's always the mix match of balancing. When you compare the dichotomy frequencies of your birth father, normally it's the opposition, the yin yang. And you're supposed to mix and balance. So my father never believed in any of my entrepreneurial shit. And then over the years, he came around. And that came from a lot of convincing. But I always had a lot of love for my father after he did that marathon thing. And for whatever thing, I rewired. And I'm like, I wouldn't do that. That's way more badass than me. That changed me forever. The other individual I wanted to mention, and we're playing clips, is Nate Glazer. So Nate Glazer is kind of like a version of me, essentially. You know, an introverted nerd, finance guy. I have to be very careful of the clips I post. I want to respect that he even showed up for me and that he's been helping me my entire recovery. And so has my father. My father has helped me, you know, walk in the neighborhood. And it was a very crazy bonding experience with my father. And both Nathan and Mark gave me so much love to a point where, you know, I'm so emotional that Andrew has to edit this video because it's too tough for me to edit. So Nathan was a bodybuilder that you would say has no chance in bodybuilding and essentially shouldn't bodybuild and basically went on to become an open pro. And he invested into other athletes. He's helped with other athletes preps for free. He went on to become an MPC IFBB judge. And he's like an introverted, extroverted nerd that you guys would love. Very similar to me. And basically, he was known in the LA fitness around me as like the mean guy, you know. You know, he wouldn't like talk to you. He's just like very disciplined, like Dorian Yates style energy. And eventually I earned the nod. And that always gave me so much motivation because Nate always inspired me. You know, I watched his physique morph. I watched him have issues with his first coach. And he told me to definitely shop around with coaches. And he's weighed in on coaches that I've discussed with him. And he's always been dead on correct. And he went on to get an open pro card as in quotation marks, the little guy. And with sheer conditioning, sheer willpower. It's like one of those stories where it pisses me off that he got no spotlight because it's insane. Like his transformation is utterly insane. Every single conversation me and Nate have, it's hyper intellectual like nerd talk. And we're both great bodybuilders. And it's also the ladies are into the hyper intellectualness around us. And it's always funny discussing Tism about that because we're not the blockhead meatheads, right? We're the jack nerds. And it's always been entertaining over the years, you know. And sadly, my girlfriend met up with Nate. And Nate asked her about someone. And yeah, Carolyn came home. And she's like, I didn't say anything. So it's been one of those things where Nate has always been right there for me. And Nate actually went on to, you know, get into cars. So I think I have the car tism of I mod and devalue all my cars and break my cars. He's like the, I wouldn't say the exotic car hacks, but like the guy that like he'll get into this car and I'll like it. He'll trade into that car. And he's also a finance major. So he's went on to help my girlfriend in many different ways in finance and give her paths, opportunities. But I think the main thing with Nate is that, you know, he did that in silence. And for me, I would want Nate around me to showcase the type of individual that pushed me to actually believe in myself. You know, when so many people are telling me, you know, just to give up on building a physique in general, that these are people online that, you know, to me, I've contributed in the meta space. I don't understand why I'm like, I don't think I'm the best physique. But when I look at Nate, his story in real life in Pittsburgh, in my life and how he's given me the nod over the years so many times. And he's always come up, approach me, taking me seriously as a young kid trying to get a physique. He saw me training very hard all the time. I'm super ecstatic to have him around, do my posing coaching and everything. I think the other thing with Nate is he's also a combat sports athlete. So Nate fought a little bit. Obviously, I will be getting back on the wrestling mat with Colin. But Nate was an actual fighter, actually knocked people out. And he carries that that heat, right? And I just need to be around people that are carrying heat, people that are carrying vibe. Because I feel like if you can take one thing away from this channel is that you got to hold that heat. And I have held that heat through everything, you know, and that comes from my father's grace of giving me that burning crown that he earned through his distance running experience. And that is embedded into me as a true athlete. And that built that tenacious, bipolar, I'm actually an athlete type drive. And that normally happened... Sorry, my dog's going nuts. But yeah, I think these two men in my life actually really helped me learn to deal with my anxieties. Learned to help me... Well, he did it. And my father... My father is someone to really look up to, right? And me and my father didn't always get along, right? I told the story where, like, we were kind of butting heads. And I think... I think every son and father, it's natural for the son to kind of rebel against the father and then come back. For me, it didn't go like that. For me, I was always, like, angry. I would stick up for my father. And in my mind, my father was a D1 runner. My father created champions. Why are you disrespecting my father? Like, it was very weird, you know, when people would attack my father. I have a cousin. His name begins with T. And that guy pissed me off so bad. So, T, very rich. Old money-ish, right? More money than my family. I am the black sheep. So, I will elevate my father as much as I can. And I am very excited to do so. But when I was younger, he got into running. And then he started, like, hyper-comparing himself to my father to a point where my dad can see me ready to rip his head off. That, like, I would... We would go to this big family event, you know, the ginger side of my family. We have giant Thanksgivings and shit. And essentially, like, he got into running, not racing. This is, like, where it's, like, if you want the ability, you have to race. And I wouldn't race a long amount of time. You know, I would race a 5K. I would race something where you are actually breaking below a 530 mile constantly. So, multiple splits below 530. And you'll get the tenacious benefit of running, right? Racing. I won't say running. But, like, hit the time, right? The time don't lie. The algorithm don't lie. The time don't lie, right? I come from individualized sports. And that's what grew me, right? Is, like, I either hit the time or I didn't and I had an anxiety attack, beat myself up. I either wrestled and pinned and won my opponent or I got the shit beat out of me and pinned and embarrassed. And I've learned to come back, come back, come back, come back, bounce back. And I've never had, like, an issue of, yeah, crashing or anything. I'm just going to be honest because, you know, that was my younger years. Was all individualized sports. I remember I played soccer. And I was very confused. Like, one time this guy beat the entire team and then they blamed me as, like, one of the last defensemen. And I got, like, hazed for it. And then, like, the punishment in soccer was running, which I thought was a joke. I could outrun everyone. And then the coach eventually made me run with a ball over my head. And I still could outrun everyone, right? Like, my father blessed me with those genetics. With Nate, it was always, I'm looking at an exact trajectory path that I am on that he has already accomplished easily. With grace. With no spotlight. No spoilings that I have. And it was always crazy how my quantum life would fuck it up. But I think today is a new time. And I'm excited to have Nate back. But these two dichotomies definitely formed me into the man I am today. And I really do have to thank both Nate and Mark for coming on camera, my father. And there's one thing I wanted to say is that if you're in search of, you know, having a conversation with your father, I think it needs to start on a level where you vent a insecurity while highlighting their insecurity, right? So I think you come at it with the angle of, you need to open up your heart as the male to your father. And then after you bow, then you go what's bothering about them, right? And that's how you swish it around. Because my father, you know, he was, he's Mr. You know, good guy, right? Russo bad boy. Russo bad boy. He got a bad boy. It's like the complete opposite. And I always thought it was funny when I was younger. And, you know, like his friends would ask like what I do. And like he'd be like, oh, he's a hustler. You know, like it would be like one of those things I thought was funny. And then Nate would always, always push me to do more. You know, he would train with me one on one for free. He would give me all these tips. He would give me his massage therapist, what gym to go to. He would give me multiple coaching recommendations. He would do posing practice if I wanted. Obviously, I'm going to pay him for his time. But I was very spoiled with both of them. And I wanted to show them on camera. And me just trading conversation around with them. Because I'm super blessed to have these two guys in my life. You know, I wouldn't think I had the confidence I do right now without seeing Nate's path. You know, his path is undeniably so impressive. It reminds me a lot of Dorian Yates. And that's the training style. As my CNS repairs more and more that I will cut back the training. And I will follow in the footsteps of low volume. Which Nate is the master of training low volume. So I have the guy right there. And then my father, he wants to see a champion. You know, I want to be a champion for my father. It was very heartbreaking for me not to amount to the distance runner. And it had nothing to do with my energy around distance running. I got very, very injured in a wrestling accident. It was, I would say, pretty traumatic. I'll tell the story another day. But, yeah, a wrestling injury put me out of running. And, aka, I got my shoulder ripped out like a Mortal Kombat scene. Like, it was ripped out that bad. And then I got, I begged for the ref to stop. And I got pinned with my shoulder like that. And basically, I was scrawny. I was a skinny high schooler, right? I wasn't, I'm juiced up now. I was not, you know. I was a scrawny runner. I wanted to be a good runner. And when I went back to running, my shoulder, my shoulder never felt the same, you know. And it would be searing pain when I would enter racing pace. And then I would go into these devastation complexes of I'm not going to amount to the genetic gifts my father gave me. I'm a disgrace to my father. And I would play those through my mind. After I went from number two, number three, number four, I went up to number six, number seven. So, I always made varsity. And I leaned on those genetics my father gave me. But because my shoulder would hurt for, you know, like a day after constantly where it was chronic, I just backed off running and decided to put on tons of tissue. And it obviously had to do with how society was moving. It's like when I was this elite runner, and I think runners and racers have some of the most powerful minds, some of the most creative minds, and the frequency is obviously so apparent for me being so spiritually aware that I would get annoyed like when women would like pick the bigger male just naturally. And then I was like this little guy. So, like, I eventually, I'm like, fuck it. Like, by the time senior year came around, I was naturally big enough to where the football players are like, why are you running cross country, Ryan? Like, you're really not doing us a favor. Like, you could easily be on the football team and be acclimated with us. Like, why are you running? Because, like, I had some of the most highly intellectual friends in cross country. They're all hyper entertaining. They're all hyper individualized. And those are my friends. And I ran senior year, jacked as fuck. I don't know if I made varsity, but I was top 10. And that was that, right? I never, you know, thought of myself as this alpha guy, even though I got bigger. And I think that comes from me being so humbled on the racetrack that when you are racing someone and you have someone break your mind like that, you feel like devastated after. Like, I was known to have a kick. So, some racers have a kick. I'm sure some of you behind the camera have a kick. And, yeah, I would rely on the kick. So, I would probably not run the second mile as fast as I should. Oh, I'll make it up on the third mile when I kick at home. Sometimes I don't play like that. I get dusted. And I lose it for the team. It's an individualized sport where the top seven matter. And you're running for yourself. You're running for the crippling anxiety of hitting a faster time. But you're also running for your team. So, you have to have everyone show up. And everyone's holding heat. And cross country taught me so much. It's taught so many people so much. And then bodybuilding is about the pursuit of imagination of, you know, I don't know if my younger self thought I could get to this size before I take a big cycle. I haven't taken a big cycle yet. I haven't used four I use of growth at all a day. I haven't done over two grams. And I'm sitting like this. So, did I think I would get here? You know, I had an imagination that I could and Nate helped me so much. Nate literally showed the exact path I need to follow. That I need to play the conditioning game. And that I need to get big as shit first before I add in a ton of drugs. And that's what I did. And these two individuals definitely made this version you're seeing right now. And I'm excited to showcase to them that, you know, what they put into me will be paid back to them. With excitement, tism, and everything in between. I wanted to be a champion for my father my entire life. And I am the classic example of, I've seen so many coaches' sons have this same tenaciousness that I'm showing in my eyes. Right? And because I have so much emotional control from being in these competitive athlete situations, It feels like other individuals are jealous of that. When in reality, it was crippling anxiety of having the name Russo on my back. Being a good runner. But my father was an exceptionally excellent runner. With multiple champions. And his son couldn't amount. And I can't use the excuse of, oh, I got my shoulder ripped out by a rag doll. By this dude 30 times stronger than me. And then pinned with my shoulder out. And it was the worst rehab ever. And when I run at pace to hit a D1 time, My shoulder would shuck in its socket. And I'd be in ten times the amount of pain trying to race next to someone who can spiritually detect I'm in pain. And douse me on the course. To where my father just sees me getting slower and slower the whole season. That's where all that pain, you know, transmutated. Right? And I have another example of when I was wrestling in a scrimmage. Where a scrimmage in Western PA. Oh, man. You get to wrestle some of the best wrestlers in the country. In high school. Right? That's why, like, any person who gets a pedigree of wrestling high school in Western PA. Like, you get a pretty good central nervous system for the rest of your life. So, I remember I got to wrestle this guy named Bo Bonzo. Bo Bonzo. He somehow weighed 145. I think he was on pro hormones and shit. But that guy crumpled me like a tin can and actually pissed me off. And then, like, I was, like, so, like, fangirling. Because I remember Bo Bonzo. He was, like, one of the top dudes. And he had a name, Bo Bonzo. Like, I was like, fuck. This guy's legit. Anyways, I go to the next scrimmage match. And this kid is a Suns coach. And I'm fired up that Bo Bonzo just beat the fuck out of me. Like, I felt like I had, like, ten times the amount of heat going to the next opponent after Bo Bonzo gave me licks. Right? And it was a beating. So, I was like, alright, I'm going to put this shit on some other dude. So, I am beating the shit out of this coach's son. And I am, you know, intrinsically feeling the pain of me beating the shit out of this guy. Because the coach's son eventually gets on the mat and starts screaming at his son that he shouldn't be being manhandled by me. And, you know, in my head, I'm like, yep, this is every time I went on the cross-country course. Every time I went on the cross-country course, my father was very into cross-country. And would give me crippling anxiety when he would say, you know, he'd say, speed up. You know, you're not hitting your time. And, like, I'd flip out on my mom of, like, he literally gives me crippling anxiety when I'm trying to hit this time. And, like, that's what creates a crazy athlete. I'm sorry. That's what creates a crazy athlete is individualized sports and then actually beating yourself up over it every time. That's what creates a crazy athlete. And most of my life, I did individualized sports. I either won my wrestling. I won my track. I hit my time. My time don't lie. I'm either getting slower or I'm faster. I'm either getting sharper or I'm getting duller. And all this transferred into my entrepreneurial career to a point where I don't like relying on a team unless they get my energy. Right. If they get my energy and I see them attempting to match my energy. Yeah. Like, that's like a cross-country race. Like, sometimes I run in a pack and essentially I would be able to pull energy from my fellow runners. If you're not matching my energy, I just don't. It's not you. It's just like I don't want to be around that, you know. And when I would play soccer, I remember I thought about being a foot fair. You know, I wanted to play soccer. I actually did four sports eighth grade year. So I was a four-sport athlete. So I would do cross-country. I'd be bored. And then go over to the soccer field. And I love soccer. But, yeah, on the soccer field, I spent a lot of time developing. All the coordination, all the movement, right, for the CNS. So I didn't like the politics. You know, the politics were so annoying. You know, that taught me a lot about, oh, you got to suck this person off to start. Oh, this is a soccer family. I'm a runner family. So politically, in my high school, even for my sister and stuff, you know, you got all these people paying all these club soccer shit. I never did none of that. Not that I hate people that do club soccer. It's just like I viewed myself as a very well-rounded athlete. Wrestling, cross-country, crippling anxiety of having a coach of the level of Mark Russo. Then I ran track. And then I ran all summer to build up my base of miles to be good in cross-country. To try and, you know, follow my father's footsteps. To me, what more do you want out of a soccer player? You know, I can run unlimited. I'm strong. And I'm highly coordinated from all the wrestling. And, yeah, I just didn't like all the politics of that. And that's what, like, put me off of, like, being in a team. It's like I hated being blamed. I hated slide disses. And with individualized sports, it was like, okay, if I didn't hit my time, I can go crocodile, tear that out by myself. Right? All right. The camera's overheating. But, yeah, that's just a little bit about my father and then Mr. Pittsburgh. I hope you enjoyed all of us trading Convo around. You'll definitely see Mr. Pittsburgh training me Dorian style as I get more and more capable of, you know. I can't squat 405 for reps yet. Once I can squat 405 for reps yet, back it off. Do low volume Dorian style. That's actually something that Nate had to do in his career. And what worked for him, obviously, me and Nate are very similar. And me and Nate just, you know, love being around each other. Like, it's like I do feel very spoiled having Mr. Pittsburgh. And I am very spoiled that he's helped my girlfriend along with her career. And I'm very spoiled that he's in my life in general. Right? And then as far as my father goes, you know, I wanted to show, like, I come from the pedigree of a failed champion for a distance running coach that had multiple champions. And then ran a marathon with no training. And then his head coach and he was assistant coach was very close to the Olympic qualifying times. So that's where the tenacity comes from. Comes from racing. Not running. Racing. And as far as the perseverance to continue to build my physique despite tons of people making fun of my physique over the years and everything. And by all means, like, I don't think I have the best physique. But I just kept going. The reason I kept going is because Nate already showed me the way. Nate showed me the way. Nate gave me all the tips. And Nate is right there with real love. And then I have a really great posing coach that is going to show me how to hide my flaws and show my strengths as far as the physique goes. And, yeah, I feel like it's all coming together. And I wanted to show these two because I do feel like I'm a blend of Nate with, obviously, my father, you know. And I feel like my father deserves way more credit because I feel like every son and father, you know, they rebel against each other and then they come back. I definitely wanted to highlight when, in my mind, it clicked and I came back to my father. It's when he raced the marathon with no training, you know. And I had to pick him up to go to the bathroom because he was so weak and that's G status. I couldn't do that. No way. And I know why he did that because he almost died running the marathon. And that haunted him his whole life. And that quantum event build up of my mom, you know, wanting to walk, jog that relay. And she not showing up that day and my father just did the whole thing. We had no idea where he was at. And then he told us and then me and my mom were like, yeah, that's gangsta.