 I could literally stay sober and just be chiefin', I always thought it was funny, if someone wanted to, um, outsmoke me, I'd be like, Haha, I'd just like, go take some f***ing f***ing and come back out and I can outsmoke them. What's up everyone, it's Russe, I hope everyone is doing well. The ASMR sip today is some core power. Pop the top. The satisfying click. Alright, today I looked through my video catalog, remember to subscribe with the bell on, there are over 2,000 videos on this channel at this point, and I was going down the list of, um, a longevity setup with, um, SARMS. So, I only have a video discussing the weakest SARMS to pair with HRT and TRT, but I wanted to go into, essentially, what I think could be a game changer in the HRT world. Notice I'm not stating enhanced bodybuilding, enhanced physique, anything of that nature of, um, high performance at all. You know, there's a big convergence of audience at this point on this channel where you have more traditional biohackers, and then you have the more hardcore high performance people where, me personally, I definitely slot more hardcore, and I try out exotic things and have documented a lot of exotic things, but there are a lot of people that just follow for longevity reasons, normal biohacking reasons, and then they want to see, um, cutting edge stuff that they could implement into their HRT program. A quick break from a word from our sponsor that you probably want to hear about. This channel is proudly sponsored by DALS Medical. They have all your needs as far as enhanced bodybuilding is concerned, and they are an international plug that has it all. I highly suggest you Google Ryan Russo Linktree and read the FAQ tab and or help tab, depending on if you're on mobile and desktop, and if you don't trust Russo, watch, I would trust Russo, but if you don't trust Russo, I will be linking the E-Roids as well as the other testing reviews showcasing the quality. So I hope to see you check out DALS Medical. They are the premier international plug. So when I say HRT program, what am I getting at? Basically, there will come to a point in my career at least where I will be satisfied with the current set point base physique. So I am going to blast off continuously, at least to 30 and reevaluate, and I wanted to create, you know, a peak 30 look for me personally. That's something I want to do. That's something I will risk. But over the years, I will definitely modulate down and I will switch to probably a TRT or HRT setup, TRT being 250 milligrams of testosterone a week max. That's like bodybuilder TRT. I probably think TRT would be closer to 180 to 220 milligrams a week, where I would see HRT being an even more longevity based setup, being the, you know, epitome of what hormone replacement is supposed to be to certain individuals. Like I think when first, personally, I'll go against it. Yeah, if you're going to put a needle in your ass, oh my, she wants some high performance benefit. But if you're looking at the medical data, you would want to stick to around 165 milligrams of HRT a week. And then you're looking at add-ons. The thing I wanted to bring up, which I brought up in the past was SARMS. So selective androgen receptor modulators were basically invented, in my opinion, for the old age, you know, deterioration effects of the androgen receptors not being stimulated and or the dihydrotestosterone enlarging the prostate as the years go on, making that an issue that always will rear its head way later. That's why I always state all these high performance side effects. They don't rear their heads right away. You're keeping track of it. You're keeping track of your kidney markers. You're keeping track of your PSA or prostate and you're watching it as you're doing the high performance. This would never happen in the wild. And you are just going buck crazy injecting whatever the fuck you want into yourself. Those side effects rear their heads way later. That's why there's always these arguments of, oh, steroids didn't kill them. It's like, well, slowly, it was ticking like the health meter was going down. The health meter was going down. You can't say the health meter was not going down with them. You know, it's not really a way to extend your life by redlining your body. And this is someone who likes high performance stuff and I risk it for the biscuit. And there are plenty of people who risk way more than I do. But when we're talking about HRT, I think we should go into how RAD-140 could be extremely beneficial if it can be tolerated for absurdly long periods of time. That's the thing where I don't know making this video. If that is a nuance that people want to go into that RAD-140 for sure is going to skew cholesterol, which I always state, which you can combat that isn't that big of a deal, but if heart disease does run in your family, then to me, that is something worth noting and how I say on side effects rear their head later with this type of stuff. Like years later, you will be paying the piper, right? You would want to take into consideration of that. But when I'm talking about the, I'll throw up the neuroprotective study of RAD-140 and I'll throw up the high dosage data as well. So there's a high dosage study as well. There's a lot of good data around RAD-140. So you would make the consideration of, okay, if I'm not like Russo, you know, I don't, I don't want a big physique. I want biohacking. I want longevity based hormone replacement, their performance. I'm not looking to be, you know, the juice monkey in the gym. I just want to have a longevity based setup that has me at what I would consider longevity peak performance. You would wonder if lowering your HRT to around 140 milligrams and then supplementing 10 milligrams of RAD a day would yield a beneficial result via obviously the blood markers were modulating and or how the individual overall feels throughout a long period of time. If it's tolerable, a long period of time, meaning you would think the neuroprotectiveness, you would think the ability that the RAD-140 has to not stimulate the prostate, at least to my knowledge at that dosage. Obviously, I'm not speaking on bodybuilder dosages, which could be anywhere from, you know, 10 to 40 milligrams a day. I personally played around with, which is no way, shape or form, maintainable longevity aspect. 10 milligrams every day or 10 milligrams every other day would have a neuroprotective effect, in my opinion. You would have less estrogen conversion and you would have less DHT conversion and you would still have your baseline testosterone being exosciously injected with the hormone replacement therapy. So you would have this ability to modulate the overall angiotin receptor pinging to the brain while you're theoretically having neuroprotective effects of RAD-140 on the brain. I will go into the neuroprotective effects of my personal experimentation with RAD-140 around the usage of the psychedelic marijuana, right? So marijuana is a notorious psychedelic and obviously THC is the main component that's causing that. And you could say marijuana could make people slower, for sure, like very much slower. I mean, I can't do shit less, I smoke. I ain't even gonna wake up less, I smoke. And you could say that's trading your ability to think like that by abusing that substance. Point making is when I would dose RAD-140, I would need to smoke way more to achieve the same level of high. I would have to smoke way more, not like a little bit more, like way more to a point where I'm like, I don't want to waste my weed if I'm on RAD-140. So that's where I'm getting this neuroprotective effect that is pretty much the same sort of situation as your brain ages. As you age on, you would think that that sort of thing that marijuana is essentially accelerating for a lot of people would be rearing its head. I literally stopped smoking on RAD-140 because it just literally doesn't like I could literally stay sober and just be chiefing. I always thought it was funny if someone wanted to out smoke me, I'd be like, I just let go take some RAD-140 and come back out and I can out smoke them. And they're confused on how I can just maintain my cool. The problem you can make with advertising TRT or HRT, especially to younger individuals and with this weird argument of space on, you know, just using testosterone in general is the longevity aspect of having higher amounts of DHT in the body for enlarging the prostate, which again would rear its head, maybe three decades on HRT TRT. Right. This is like where I'm getting at this nuance factor of RAD-140, mitigating that while theoretically protecting the brain while densifying your bones. My bones always get denser. Every MMA fighter is picking RAD-140 as their primary androgen because in my opinion makes you denser and makes you mentally sharper and or more aggressive. And it's overall one of those things where that's what they're picking after trying all the orals they can get their hands on. They're going back to that one. Okay. So that's that's where I'm pulling that data pool. You would wonder on a HRT protocol if you did 140 to 165 milligrams of testosterone, if you did 8CG HMG to maintain your brain to penis connection, and then you did 10 milligrams every day or every other day of RAD-140 for a long period of time. I'm talking about multiple decades. You would wonder, is that tolerable? Would that be the perfect HRT performance setup? And would you see yielding lasting results of maintaining your body doing this versus traditional hormone replacement therapy? Where you can argue, well, RAD-140 isn't bio identical to testosterone, aka sex hormone binding globulin does not recognize it. It is not transported around correctly. Theoretically, there could be more systemic inflammation. Obviously, this is dosage depending when I'm saying 10 milligrams every other day. That's where I'm getting at like this would be a longevity based performance. But at 40 milligrams a day, I can feel the inflammation personally. You would wonder, okay, would this be better than just doing HRT where oh, I don't feel it enough. And then they normally people on HRT bump up to TRT is what I'm saying. TRT, in my opinion, being 180 milligrams plus HRT being 165, putting your blood pool around an 800 level mark pool. Where I think TRT people, they more want to see like 1300. And those numbers don't mean that much, but I'm just stating that HRT is actually close to what you would perfectly produce if you were endogiously spiking like a caveman daily. And you had none of these environmental factors going on. You would think, all right, what if I added an RAD-140 at a miniscule amount? I have no DHT conversion, no estrogen conversion. I'm using an amount of testosterone that is miniscule to the point of, okay, if I pull blood markers, I would be around a peak and perfect, you know, vitality, natural male status based on the data pool of where I would sit my androgens at. And then I would use HCG and HMG alongside the RAD-140 to maintain semen volume and to maintain the brain-to-penis connection. I would enjoy theoretically neuroprotective effects. I would theoretically enjoy denser bones. And I would have the androgen receptors pinging the brain for theoretically a easier to maintain central nervous system over a longer period of time. The only thing you could really argue about is if androgen receptor remapping would go on and you would need to like add more over time. But that's like any time you start adding in crazy amounts of androgens is you get the ability to where you could tolerate bigger cycles. Like a big criticism of me if I'm criticizing myself is that I've never done or stuck with a legitimate big boy cycle. And at this point in my path, I could tolerate it and I could probably yield massive benefit of it rather than doing all these flip-flop experiments and me playing around with certain things. And me really chasing CNS most of the time. I'm normally chasing CNS over tissue. But what I'm saying is is this longevity setup maintainable or would you have to creep the dosages up over time because your body is accommodating the AR firing and all the nuance benefits going on? Would you basically be creeping up into TRT anyways? That's always the thing when you're adding in compounds exogiously polypharmacy drug abuse is that you have a body that's very, very adaptable. And when we're looking at HRT TRT, you know, for long periods of time, there's a lot of concerns of a 20 year old who on paper could meet the criteria of needing HRT TRT. How they're going to look as far as their internals 40 years later with their prostate, with their overall well being mentally. This is where I think a Sarm like RAD-140 could change the game. And I picked a powerful one this time. I did not pick the lightweight ones like AC262 and Austrian. I picked RAD-140, particularly because I have used it with marijuana to a point where I, you know, I'm using marijuana to damage my brain. You could you could make that paradigm argument and I'm sitting there, you know, smoking on RAD and I'm like, I'm not getting high, you know, like there's obviously narrow protective effects of extreme degree. If I'm flooding my brain with THC and I'm still thinking completely clearly as if my weed is shit. And then I will go off the RAD-140 and I'm like, baked, right? So it's like one of those things where that's a little experiment. Long term, everyone's brain, you know, suffers over the years. Is this something we can look into for a mass scale with RAD-140? There's a lot of data around RAD-140 and RAD 150 seems to be a more tolerable, you know, compound than RAD-140, aka I think RAD-140 after taking them back to back. I prefer RAD-140 over RAD 150. But let me know what you guys think down below. I hope that you guys found this entertaining and I will see you guys in my next video.