 balmithi, balmithi-i- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi- balmithi of 677 versus MK777. It's definitely smoother. You know, I can feel the half-life come on in a less abrupt manner. So if you were moving in that direction as far as, you know, longevity every day, and you know, you just want something that could, you know, come in there as a secretive dog that is less side effects than 677, but if you're looking for, you know, the power, if you're looking for the abrupt feeling, I definitely felt 677 way more. And yeah, this steers me towards wanting to inject this compound in the future to see if I can get more out of 677 if not, if I'm not already like abusing it at the max dose, so you don't really know how much you can stimulate the pituitary, but I would definitely think that this would be the way for me to go over 777. And that's from me actually going through the bottle and then switching back onto 677. I can definitely feel the immediate mental difference, which I personally use for in the gym. And that is one of the main reasons I use 677 is to increase my appetite, number one. But number two, it's the, I don't know, I'll call it like the tunnel locked focus. It's basically like when an athlete is like very disciplined in the manner and like knows his training to a point develops acute focus upon activity. I would say 677 like gives you the ability to trigger that if you can tolerate it, because this is definitely not something that's riddled with side effects that you can figure out. But the 7777 is definitely better with the glucose department. So you're gonna have much more facilitated like blood sugar levels that look sustainable overall, or this one, I'm definitely, you can see my face switching back onto 6777. It's way different than it was on this. So that's what I found out. It's definitely something that you can have better blood glucose response if you're looking for that. And that's something that could be way smoother longterm and overall a better per se longevity setup. Yeah, I'm high performance over here. High performance and the reason why IU 6777 or over regular HCH would be the acute mental effects and the fact that you can like set the acute mental effect when you see stated. So when it upon cessation, your mind state does go back to normal because you are regulating your circadian rhythm in a weird way, especially when you're dosing it extremely aggressive, you would have a reset period. Or in my opinion, you would sit a little more, what's called resilience, you would sit a little higher in resilience each time you went through a cycle of 6777, which is dipping you down as if you were training extremely hard mentally constantly. I think people, you know, don't remember that sports are about, in my opinion, getting a ribbon, getting a medal. You know, I come from like individualized sports for like I have my medals, I have my ribbons, I have my trophies, I also see who has the number one medal, who has the number two, like that comes from acute mental focus upon like doing the activity to actually win. 6777 seems to be causing that way more than MK777. So I'm gonna be looking to inject this into the future. And then I'll probably inject it, again, I'm around the acute mental effect, which you have to push into and push against if somebody's gonna use this in a PED style setup, you might not like the pushing into the authority feeling, you might not like that, but when you do like stop it and come to the station, you do set a new higher tier level in my mind of mental sharpness. So I will be looking to inject this and then, yeah, this is a good longevity setup, it's smoother, but I think for me, I settled on 6777 pretty quick, and I will be looking to inject this and then, yeah, I'll probably add in like four I use a GH as I get like more serious with the physique. I'm around 230 ish pounds at 511 ish, and I feel pretty good, I feel very athletic. I feel cardio is right there to have the blood work to maintain 255, 250 with all you see Alice, all you some maybe a natural stand or something, but like not like, I can get up there and not be like, ugh, you know, I can actually talk up there, and that will be the goal. So I could continuously sustain combo and have the cardio threshold to be 250, 255, more like athletic, but obviously we're gonna see how the physique looks, but I did wanna update you guys that I did do this little experiment, the second MK777 came out, and yeah, I'm gonna go with 6777, and I'm actually probably going to inject this compound. I will see you guys in my next video. I'll see you guys in the next one. Bye.