 99% of the n******7 is fake. I've been hunting for that source for a long time. They can't make it work for the pricing you see on the Internet. Then I'm like, okay, what would it be for a bottle? He says $500 per bottle raw cost for us. What is up, everyone? It's Rusai. I hope everyone is doing well. Today's ASMR spritz is some intelligent silver. Here's your noises. Some squishy spritz noises. I'll bite the smell though. And then the ASMR sip is some good old G0. Big day today in the studio. We have the evolution of Rusai's favorite abuse research cam, MK-677, is now being outshined. I haven't really seen or heard anyone take this drug yet, but MK777 is about to hit the scene and I am very interested because as we all know here, I have abused MK-677 for quite a long time years. I've done a lot of content around it and it is one of, in my opinion, the best bang for your buck research chemicals out there as far as what it does. And there is a ton of associated side effects with it. It's really working a lot of systems and there is a lot of, back and forth with MK-677, especially in the blood glucose department. Rusai's called the bloat lord. Where did that really stem from? That stem from my abuse of 677, fucking on my insulin sensitivity, causing me to be blood all the time. I would drop 677. Well, it looks like a lift again. Well that was picked up on in the lab and the actual people who develop these drugs, you know, the compounding pharmacist, the actual biolab experts, right? They went back to the drawing board and it seems like they've come out with MK777, which should be hitting the underground hopefully within this next year. And I'll be going into, I did inquire, you know, one of my plugs that I trust that apparently scoped a source and I looked on eBay real quick for you guys. But this is a overview. Please give a thumbs up on this video. And as always, check out Ryan Russo link treat to support this type of content. And now a word from our sponsors. This video is sponsored by Happy Hippo Botanicals. So as you can see the stoner Russo talking about his marijuana abuse, I wanted to point you towards one of the top Kratom suppliers of the entire world. So I would say Kratom is a opiate alternative as far as pain management, where you do not have to go through big pharma and it is a God given plant. And there are multiple different types of Kratom. So I would definitely interact with the customer service on which Kratom is best for you. But I would take into consideration the addiction, just like the addiction of marijuana. You want to be aware if you have an addictive personality that this is a product that is going to weigh on that. However, I do believe that if you are in chronic pain and or you are recovering in need of pain assistance pain management, I would rather see strategic use of Kratom. Kratom is one of those products where it 120,000% works and it's acting the same way an opiate would act. However, you have a lot more modulation benefits of having multiple different strains of Kratom and you have a ability to wean yourself off in a much more strategic manner. If you need pain management, I definitely recommend you checking out Happy Hippo and check out their catalog. Check out their multiple products. If I was in a chronic pain situation and or my friend was, I would probably pick that, if not always pick that over traditional painkiller routes based on, you know, the ethics of Kratom being a God given plant. So there is no NTBI data that I could find quickly on MK777 and the MK-677 data we have already discussed in a lot of detail. I'll throw up one in a card for you guys to watch, but MK-677 in short is a GH secretagogue. So it is messing around with the hunger hormone system, which is causing the pituitary to secrete multiple types of growth hormone. I always like to say that, that there are different types of growth hormones and when you inject growth hormone, you're just getting one exorgously added in when you're taking 677 or any secretagogue and your pituitary is secreting all these different types, which you could argue is there some sort of benefit? Can you pick out the differences? With my research, no, if somebody knows more, you know, and there is finite differences linked towards some sort of, you know, data that can like back it. Sure, comment it down below. I love learning from my audience, but that's always there is like this magical like unicorn thing of like adding MK-677 on top of growth hormone, for example, could be more beneficial because you're getting the multiple types of growth hormone that you're missing out on and you're still running your pituitary system versus it completely shutting off by exorgously doing growth hormone all the time. You could make that argument with 677. However, the counter argument would be that it fucks up your insulin sensitivity so fucking bad that you're already fucking it up with regular growth hormone. Why would you do that? MK777 may be changing it up. So I did want to see what cheater GPT pulled. Apparently it is saying there is a 92% greater receptor affinity than MK-677. So it should be stronger and it has a half-life of eight to 10 hours where we see 677 around six hours more like if you look at the actual data, it's around, it's a six hour, don't worry, it's a six hour thing, but like the meat and potatoes is like three to four hours with the tails extending six hours. So for example, you could theoretically have your pituitary secreting all day easier with 777 versus 677. It's a newer analog engineer to be more potent selective with a shorter duration claims of fewer side effects. The fewer side effects is the MK777. Again, this is the advertising claim I haven't taken this drug is going to be apparently not causing the bloat lord issue. We'll see when Russo gets it and scales the dosage into oblivion. I'll probably still get the bloat lord issues. But in the efficacious doses that normal people would do, MK-677 theoretically will be more tolerable. It will do less of the, oh, I take 677 and I eat 10 boxes of cereal. The 777 should not be triggering the hunger system as much apparently according to what they're claiming as 677 and you should be running into less blood glucose issues, which is a problem because you could become type one diabetic with MK-677 alone if you were already fat with no insulin response at all. And then you took 677, you would be damaging your pancreas at an accelerated rate. 777 may just more shuttle it into more like how old school guys will come to me and they'll bitch me out that I don't use regular GH, which has like fat burning like polycysts effects. Instead, I'll gain fat on 677 because I like the, obviously the brain hunter activation activity, but I also like the different growth hormones that are secreted to, you know, that's like my little comeback is that if 777 doesn't present any metabolic issues, then I see it as a staple of putting on top of regular growth hormone, the same way as putting HCG under your TRT because you would want your pituitary system. In my mind, you would want to dose 777 at night if you're doing GH during the day to have your pituitary system still dumping its normal circadian rhythm. And you could really think of that as keeping the lights on on your pituitary, but more importantly, you're getting these different types of growth hormones that are shutting off when you're using GH all the time, your body detects that there's too much IGF-1 available. What does it do? It shuts down the pituitary. You could override that with 777 and theoretically not have the metabolic damaging side effects of 677 there is what I'm cheater GPT pulled up. And that's pretty much all the data I have. It's really looking like I'm, you know, a static that says this is coming out because MK-677 is, as you guys know, one of my favorite compounds and that is easily, in my opinion, I agree, like bashed on the blood glucose issues, right? You know, I've blown up 15 pounds of water on 677 and yeah, I can pull it off in the sauna and I can do all this stuff, but the average person might just hold that weight after and you could just say, oh, 677 garbage weight on that person, right? And they have no idea how to control their blood glucose on that. And that would make this drug, you know, not something that a higher level bodybuilder would pick. If MK777 comes along and there's no report of metabolic issues and it's not really impacting the gherellin system as much, AKA they're dieting for a show and they can't binge cereal, then this might be a drug that everyone adds on top of their growth hormone regime and maybe even they scale down their growth hormone. Because the thing about growth hormone is that it's not like the secretogogs where you're getting a trickle pulse effect all day if you dosolate that or for an extended period of time, for example, 677 is around 6 hours or claiming 8 to 10 was 777. Growth hormones much shorter than that, you would theoretically gain tremendous benefit of having a trickle pulse all day, AKA your body's like slowly recovering all day versus these crazy spiked IGF peaks and valleys, right? So I really am excited. I did reach out to one of my plugs because I do see it on eBay and some other places and this is what one of my long term plugs had to say. He says, this is not me talking. Don't come at me. Don't come at my social medias. I'm just 99% of the MK777 is fake. I've been hunting for that source for a long time. They can't make it work for the pricing you see on the internet. And I'm like, okay, what would it be for a bottle? He says $500 per bottle raw cost for us is what he got with his suppliers that claim legitimate real MK777. Now obviously you can rehash MK-677 the same way most other drugs are fake. Don't lie. Right? I don't know. Obviously as Reddit picks up on this, I'm throwing this out there because I'm Mr. 677 everywhere. I'm Mr. Bloodlord, right? Throw this out on the internet. I expect to see there be a stir and hopefully you guys will go out there and you get the pricing down to $120 a bottle. Because that's like, when 677 was at its height, it was around $120 a bottle. So obviously $500 is way too much for the drug it is. 677 is an absolute bargain. It's like sitting around what? Like $60 to $100 average $677 price. You could theoretically squeeze like one to two I use max out of your pituitary. If they're saying a greater affinity, which again Cheater GPT is say 92% greater, more selectivity towards the GHSR1A and modulates SSTR2-5 with an elimination life of 8 to 10 hours. So some biochem guy can elaborate on that in the comments. I really do want to see this be the successor of 677 and hit the scene hard because yeah, that would eliminate a lot of the hoopla around 677 is yeah, you just get this horrible look. You almost basically look nady from the water retention and it's hard to deal with and you actually have to do things to pull it off after. I think that's the thing that, you know, people watch me yo-yo my body and like one week I'll look like bloated as shit than like the next week after all this sauna and all this hit cardio. I look like a different person than I yo-yo the 677 again. I wouldn't have to be doing that as hard if it wasn't metabolically that much of a cluster fuck to deal with because I'm deciding to dose it in this way where I'm trickle pulsing my endogenous growth hormone system all day. Like that's what I want is like a slow trickle pulse all day of recovery. This would help tremendously if that metabolic bullshit wasn't there or at least lessen. That would be an improvement of MK-677 overall and MK777 would definitely have more interest towards higher level bodybuilders and more in general just like taking out the big diabetes risk around MK-677. I feel like people want to see a secretogog that's oral operate like a injectable peptide secretogog. This seems to be MK-677 the one to do it. I'm super ecstatic to see this hit the market but I am putting that caveat out there that I did ask one of my well-known plugs for years and they always test their shit. They obviously want MK777. The blow Lord Russo obviously wants coupon code Russo next to MK777 but it doesn't seem feasible price wise right now with the cost it is to make and that was the issue with LGD 3303 as well is that some of these ones are either extremely hard to stabilize to actually have real LGD 3303 and the cost of this one is way too high. Currently I think if there's a demand in Reddit I do think you know somebody will be able to drop the real deal and I will be obviously one of the first to be playing around. As long as I know I'm documenting legitimate MK777 I don't want to grab something that states it's MK777 and it'd be MK-677 and there are multiple different types if you know ordering raws of 6777. So just when I say like okay Russo saw that MK777 is about to hit the scene he's Mr. you know Mr. Blow Lord okay he obviously wants to be around this brand wise. When I go and talk to my supplier that is obviously wanting to get me like stuff the document on YouTube he's saying it's $500 per bottle that's way too much. I'm excited to see how this pans out though because the need for injectable growth hormone peptides might really go down if MK-677 solves a lot of these issues of MK-677. So if you are interested make sure to cause an uproar in the PED part of Reddit and just start arguing for no reason I will see you guys in my next one.