 moving on to the pectoralis, major, minor, minor, upper, middle, lower, outer chest. That's all of it, that's all of it. All pecs, all pecs, all pecs baby. Because Jeffrey took my absolute favorite, the weighted dip, I'm gonna move on one lower in the tier list. We've got the weighted push-up, heavily slept on exercise, because people in the push-up, and the push-up exercise. because people know the push-up, the push-up exercise. But once you can do more than 30 reps, it becomes an endurance exercise. It ceases to be challenging for strength or hypertrophy. So people tend to discard the exercise, which it's an absolute shame, because the benefits that it gives you as a beginner can give you benefits as your intermediate and advanced if it's loaded correctly. And you've got a few different options for doing this. You've got a weight vest, which is an option, but requires, you know, specialized equipment. You need to bring it with you to the gym. The best weight vests are not actually weight vests where you put slots in. They're the ones, some companies sell them where it's got a shaft that you can put on, just your Olympic weight plates on there, and you can screw it on just like it would be a bar. You put it on your back, I guess? It's got it both. Okay. So the horns on. Oh, interesting. The horns on both sides. So that's an option, but... Get it from both ends. You've got to load it symmetrically on both sides. Otherwise, you could be building asymmetry because, you know, forbid we build some imbalance. The body has to be perfectly balanced at all times. Weighted push-ups, you can do them with a partner, holding a weight plate over your mid to upper back, but you need a partner to do this. It can be a bit, you know, we don't have friends, so we're not training with anyone. Let's be honest. You could always just like drop set it yourself. Yeah, you could. It gets a bit awkward if you're using 40 kilos plus. Best option is a dip belt. You put it around your mid thoracic. The benefit here is that the scapula are free to move. So it's not impeding that. The belt also isn't on your lower back. So you're not just putting unnecessary strain through that area. So you've got that on. All you need is two elevations. You can either have box, box, or the quicker way to do it is box and dip bars in a squat rack. Okay, that makes sense. We want to make this as least cumbersome as possible because that's the other potential limitation of the way to push up. It's a bit of work required to set up these boxes, handles, the belt on, but once you've got it on, awesome exercise. Because now you can challenge yourself in five plus reps. You don't have to do push-ups for endurance. There's a lot of longevity in the exercise. The potential downside is the core fatigue because you've got to brace yourself with heavy weight. You can look at this as a flaw or a benefit depending on what you're going for. You're not doing the push-up as the most optimal isolated exercise for chest possible. But if you have a bodyweight exercise that overloads horizontal pushing, you get a deep stretch through the chest and it's actually challenging. So, way to push up, have it in your arsenal for sure. Cool. I'm going to flip things around and go power fly. So, lying on the bench and then you have the dumbbells. I say power because it's not totally straight arms. Personally, I find that if I keep totally straight arms, I feel a lot of biceps in the bottom position and it feels a little bit restrictive or restraining. And so, I like to keep a bit of an elbow bend and then also I like to try to keep a more neutral position. I find that if I pronate too much, I find a lot more front-delt. But when I keep in that neutral or even kind of underhand position, I do get more chest. Makes sense. And it is generally a more agreeable position on the shoulders to be neutral or externally rotated. Yes, yes, yeah. I will get a little bit of like an annoyance in the shoulder if I am too flared out. Whether it's an incline barbell bench press. And I think that's why barbells in general often, not often, but sometimes cause people issues because you're locked in. And this isn't fear mongering that if you go into internal rotation, your shoulders are going to blow off and you'll be ruined for life. It's just you need to choose exercise that suit your level of mobility. So, if you have full internal rotation where you can get your arms down like an Olympic clean, that's their goal is to have this without any dumping forward. You're probably fine to flare the elbows out because you've got the requisite mobility. But most of us don't have full internal rotation. So, dropping down to scat plane, neutral grip, external rotation is great. Yeah. And then it's quite failure friendly and you can almost change the elbow position based on how close you're going to failure. So, you can turn it into a little bit more of a press near the end, right? So, if your arms are locked out, you're kind of just done where you're done. But if you keep a little bit of an arm bend, oh, it's difficult. Oh, I can bend a little bit more and then finish it and then you can keep going. And so, again, it's one of those movements that going a little bit beyond failure, at least for me, or at least making it more grindable as you get closer to failure. Those kind of blurring together, like have you failed? Are you to failure, beyond failure, based on your technique? Depends on the technique because you've got a longer lever when your elbows are straight up and your chest is failing at that point of leverage. It's a mechanical drop set, essentially. Mechanical drop set in the set itself by just bending the elbows more. Yeah. And this is where you can't do it too early to make it too easy, but you can kind of feel with practice, oh, in the moment, I want my reps to be slow. I want them to be tough. Therefore, I'm going to choose the amount of arm bend that is required for that. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Want to see more of Jeff and Daniel? We've got a playlist of us embodying these principles as well. So check it out, fellas. Check it out, fellas.