 psst. You don't need a gym or weights to build big arms. Most people think that bodyweight training is just pull-ups and push-ups. That's why their arms never grow. Did you know that your biceps and triceps can actually be targeted too with some slight tweaks? Today, I'm breaking down the six best exercises to blow up your arms with nothing but calisthenics and a desire to improve. If you want big, beefy biceps that are all so strong, the ring curl should be your isolation of choice. What's cool about calisthenics is that your body is the resistance, especially my fellow big boys who are watching. You don't need weight. You are the weight. Effort is the equalizer when it comes to seeing results. Just attack your training with passion and intensity, and your biceps, they're not going to know the difference between this or curls at the gym. I love training on rings because they're scalable to the suit everyone. As you lower the rings closer towards the ground, your body becomes more horizontal. That increases the percentage of your bodyweight that your biceps are lifting, so the curl, it becomes much harder. Knowing when to progress is easy. Once I can do three sets of around 15 reps at a certain posture, I just make it harder by lowering the rings and stepping forward. You'll never outgrow these. I mean, they can even be done with the feet elevated and your body at a decline. If you reach this level, your biceps will be so big, you're going to need oversized t-shirts. Ring curls are basically the bodyweight version of preacher curls because your arms are positioned out in front of the torso. This exercise is hardest through that mid to end range of motion where the biceps are forced to work overtime. Guys, when it comes to arms growth, just train to failure on every set of isolations. Leaving reps in reserve in this context, it's simply not good enough. You need to give your biceps a reason to grow. Staying in that comfort zone, it just isn't going to cut it. Now curls are great, but your workout needs compounds to truly reach that next level of size. If I could only pick one exercise for biceps, it would be the ring chin up. That might surprise you because it's a compound movement that also trains the back. With the palms facing towards you, chin ups place the biceps in a mechanically strong position. The biceps primary role are elbow flexion and forearm supination. And the chin up does both of these actions. That's what makes chin ups different from overhand pull-ups. It's this supinated grip. It allows your biceps to contribute far more force, making them the major driver of movement rather than a secondary assist. Elbow pain on chin ups is the most common complaint. I'm sure most of you watching would love to do them more, but you simply can't because the straight bar, it just messes them up. Rings are the remedy. They allow you to do the chin up grip. But now, with that extra freedom of movement, this way your body can pull in a comfortable path without beating up your joints and tendons. For those of you who don't have rings, come on man, just don't eat out at a restaurant for one meal and invest in rings instead. You can always do the half supinated grip on a cable machine or a squat rack as a substitute. When I've forgotten my rings, which is the worst sin imaginable, I'm using this half supination instead. This gives you the bicep building benefits of the chin up, but it's much more forgiving compared to a straight bar. Try it out and you'll really enjoy the feeling. Now, progressive overload is the name of the game. I'd recommend increasing either reps or weight added while keeping the sets constant because I notice a direct correlation between the size of my biceps and how strong my chin ups are. There's no reason why you too can't be doing weighted chin ups with multiple plates, repping these out and getting jacked out of your damn mind. If you take one thing from today's video, it is commitment. I believe most people give up on their chin up journey way too soon. Don't be another dropout chin ups. They're going to take your biceps a long way, but they don't hit everything. There's a portion of the arm that even the great supinated curl doesn't target and that's where neutral grip rose come in neutral grip rose for the bros because when you hit these hard, everyone is going to be admiring your gains. Just not women. The harsh truth about calisthenics is exercise options are limited for muscle growth. We don't have the luxury of endless variety with machines, dumbbells or barbells. We've got to do the basics well and rose. They're one of the most effective arm builders that we have. Think about it this way. We're basically doing hammer curls using our body weight as resistance. We're getting elbow flexion and using that neutral grip. Just with a row. It's a closed chain exercise where the hands are fixed and the body moves. Keep in mind, you're probably lifting around 60 to 70% of your body weight with inverted rows. There's plenty of load to challenge your arms, especially when done to failure. For most people, the arms are going to fatigue well before the back, which is exactly why rows work so well for arms growth. Now the row doesn't just train your upper back. It's a serious arm build up with the right grip. That neutral pull up recruits a ton of the forearms heavily loading that break your radials. If you want thick, Popeye style forearms that are looking yoked when you roll up a shirt, neutral grip rows are hard to beat. For aesthetics, having a pair of big forearms signals that you not only look strong, you are strong. There's nothing worse than seeing a bloke with these teeny tiny forearms who can't even take the groceries up the stairs in one go because he uses straps on everything. Come on, mate. Neutral grip rows also stimulate the break. This is the muscle that sits between the biceps and the triceps. If you only ever do supernated or pronated grip back exercises or isolations, you'll never develop this dormant part of the arm. Neutral grip training for break yallus gains makes your arms look thicker from the side and it helps everything pop more on a biceps flex. Every time I hit a few sets of 10 to 20 on ring rows, I get a sickening arm pump. The arms getting gorged with blood, you get that skin tightening feeling. And yeah, there's nothing wrong with taking a second to check out your gains in the mirror. Don't be shy, boys. I know, we all have a cheeky glance in the reflection for that positive feedback. Don't forget, you can always do single arm rows. I like to rotate these in every few training blocks to keep my horizontal rowing fresh. Instead of only doing bilateral movements all the time to arm rows, mixing in their unilateral equivalent adds variety, it exposes asymmetries, and it keeps progress moving forward. Keep grinding away on these three body weight bicep exercises and I have no doubt that you'll see muscle growth. Now, if building muscle with calisthenics sounds like your thing, head over to the Fitness FAQs website. I've got the exact programs there that I use myself and with my clients. Go on ALT tab to fitnessfaqs.com. I'll keep talking. Moving on to the triceps that horseshoe on the back of your arms, this muscle is underrated, given that the triads make up around two thirds of the upper arm when someone says, Hey, flex your muscles. I wish it was acceptable to flash a side triceps. It just looks so cool seeing all the fibers and the details when you lean. But no, it's always flex a bicep. The biceps are like the lead actor in a film, while the triceps are the supporting actor that actually carries the show. Anyway, I digress. Body weight skull crushes won't actually hurt your skull, but your triceps are going to benefit. I remember doing this exercise as a teenager at home, the desk in my bedroom, the coffee table. Yes, I was that annoying child. I'm sorry, mom and dad with some creativity. This can be done on almost anything sturdy. All you need is some equipment that allows your head to travel between your hands so that you can load the triceps properly. A nice gym option is actually the Smith machine, given that you can easily adjust the height of it. What makes this so effective is that we've got the arms overhead. When you train trice with this variation, you're targeting all three heads of the muscle, particularly that long head. This is because you're getting a deep stretch on all parts of the muscle belly. If you're someone who neglects direct triceps work or only ever does push downs, you're leaving muscle mass on the table. Despite this being an isolation exercise, it's important to take your techniques seriously for pain free gains. Simply slow down that negative and pause in the deep stretch, followed by an aggressive concentric to lock out. I'm a big fanboy of rings, if that's not obvious so far in this video. The reason is it just feels so damn good once you become skillful at all the exercises after a few workouts. You'd be surprised how many people complain about joint and tendon problems with tricep extensions. They can easily be avoided. Simply choose a level of difficulty or intensity that's within your means. You wouldn't jump into doing skull crushes with 30 kilo dumbbells in each hand. You've got to respect body weight training and start at a level of incline that's possible for you to use sound form for eight to 15 reps as a guideline. You've got to drop the ego initially so that your body can tolerate the load. Callus thangs, it's no joke and the resistance level is very demanding. Training can get stale when you've done the same thing for years and years. For those of you who've been doing bodybuilding and have worked with overhead tricep extensions such as on a cable machine, this body weight variation is a nice substitute. Why not experiment with the same movement pattern with callus thangs to smash your triceps? Instead of lifting heavier weights, you gamify this exercise by working close to the floor and even feet elevated someday. All you got to do is tuck those elbows, dominate the tempo and take your sets to failure. Simple in theory, hard in practice. Pushups are considered a chest exercise. This is wrong. I'm just kidding. Checking to see if you're actually paying attention. Now yes, pushups are a compound exercise that are going to primarily work the pecs, but a small tweak to your technique can make it more heavy on the triceps. Introducing the ring pushup with tucked elbows. Expect to be humbled by this variation for three reasons. Firstly, pinning the elbows in means that the chest can't be recruited as much, making this a more arms dominant tricep press. Secondly, the rings adds a deficit. Now you're working through a larger range of motion compared to doing floor pushups. Third, the instability. When you're doing this on rings, it amplifies the difficulty. Expect your rep numbers to be much lower compared to when you're using parallel bars for pushups. This also works extremely well as a triceps finish up. After you've done your head heavy pressing with dips or bench, this is where your chest is already fatigue. When you follow up with tucked elbow ring pushups, it lets you get more out of the triceps in every rep that you do. Now if you've built a jacked torso, but your arms are lagging behind, please modify your technique if muscle mass is something that you value. Pushups, they're an exercise you should always return to. Don't think that you're beyond the basics, even if you've been training for years. Whenever I stop doing pushups for a few months, I notice that my shoulder stability starts to decline. I lose scapular control, which calls me to plateau in strength and even get pain if neglected for too long. There's more to training than just building muscle. And I know that sounds strange given today's topic, but size doesn't mean much if you're constantly dealing with a broken body. Training like a bodybuilder and relying heavily on machines, sure it is good for building muscle. But when movement quality decays and the stability is always provided for you, plateaus, aches and injury risk starts to creep in. That's why I like the pushup as a holistic exercise. It shows whether you can still move well, control your body in space. And that's something that tends to disappear if you neglect bodyweight exercise entirely. This is why calisthenics is the goat. You'll build size, gain strength and move well as a result. A well performed dip is surprisingly effective for triceps. To make this hit your arms more than the chest, just keep an upright torso. When dipping with this vertical posture, you're going to be getting more range of motion out of the shoulders into extension with the arms going further back behind your body. This puts a greater stretch on that long head of the triceps and leads to overall greater triceps development. When an upright torso is combined with a narrower grip on dips, the difference in muscle emphasis is going to be night and day. This setup reduces chest involvement and shifts more load onto your triceps, which is the goal of today. If you're trying to bring up those arms, so modify your technique. If you've got the mobility for it, I'd also aim for a deeper dip beyond 90 degrees because the more shoulder extension and more elbow bend means more stimulus for the triceratops. Just because we're talking about bodyweight training doesn't mean we can't add load either. Weighted dips with a belt and plates are a staple in my training year out because they're one of the most reliable ways to keep on progressing. You get a huge return by progressively overloading compound movements like dips because the chest and shoulders they assist your triceps. So this means you can handle heavier loads and create more of that juicy overall tension. How heavy your dipping for reps is going to have a carryover to what your physique looks like. It's rare to come across someone who's doing 60 plus kilo dips that has a small upper body. Success leaves clues. There's so much growth to be gained from weighted dips that I hope my peer pressure that I'm doing on you here actually makes you take it seriously. Come on mate, join the club. We need to stop majoring in the minor details, obsessing over optimization instead of doing the work. You need both isolations and compounds to build a complete physique. Get the sweet spot of both in your workout and you'll pack on serious mass in your arms. Effort, progression, consistency matter more than anything else. Apply those principles to calisthenics and the gains will follow. Even more gains are going to come by watching this fitness FAQs video sponsored by fitness FAQs. Click it. It's free.