 In this video, you're going to learn how to grow your side delts, your rear delts, and your front delts, using the most effective calisthenics exercises. The rear delts are a muscle that's often under-trained, mainly because people don't isolate it enough. So if you're not doing a variety of the correct pulling exercises, weak rear delts can lead to an asymmetrical physique, you know, those big front delts and pancake shoulders. By training your rear delts, your overall strength is going to improve, and you'll probably get less shoulder pain overall. Let's talk about it. I never used to isolate rear delts directly, and was dealing with this annoying shoulder impingement that never went away. After doing rear delt flys consistently over the last year, I'm loving how my shoulders are feeling, pain-free, performing strong on overhead exercises. And now, I've got some voluptuous delts that are starting to pop out. Rear delt flys on rings are a unique exercise. They give you benefits that pull-ups and rows just can't. By flying the arms apart into a T-shape, this is called horizontal abduction of the shoulders. This movement is incredible for hitting the rear delts in a range of motion that most people neglect when training calisthenics. The goal here is to retract the shoulder blades together, and then spread the arms wide apart. Like you're giving someone that you haven't seen for a really long time the biggest hug of your life. It's important on isolations to train with real intensity. Don't just go through the motions and expect your body to change. It actually takes effort and actually going into discomfort. A rookie mistake is stopping rear delt flys the moment that you can't hit full range of motion. That's when the set actually starts happening. What are you doing? I expect you to do a few partial reps at the end to fully fatigue those rear delts. You want to play with your posture to find the right difficulty. But beware, just a small step forward can exponentially increase the difficulty. After all, this is an isolation exercise focused on those smaller shoulder muscles. So be patient and progressive with your overloading. Rear delt flys are the antidote to overcoming all of that dreaded internal rotation that we live in all day during exercise. It can help you with both static and dynamic posture. Keeping the humeral head more centered in the shoulder, both at rest and during movement. Because stronger rear delts equal better posture and less weak links in terms of overhead exercise at large. With rear delt flys, you'll be balancing out the front delt dominance that many of us have from spamming all of those pressing exercises. You know what I'm talking about? Bench press. Mitigating all that potential injury. I like ring flys instead of lifting weights or machines because I'm a bodyweight bro. Loving calisthenics first and foremost. Rings, they feel great because of the resistance curve. It's the hardest at the peak contraction when your arms are wired apart in that T. All of that instability and movement of the rings forces the stabilizers and your cuff to get some extra activation. With rear delts, they respond well to constant tension and continuous reps. Pausing at that peak contraction and then controlling the eccentric using your muscles as brakes. Guys, listen to me. You can't get big and strong if you've got weak links. This one right here not only hits the rear delts, but also the mid traps and posterior rotator cuff. Expect your shoulder function to improve thanks to this enhanced scapular movement quality. Basically, having a better ability to retract and externally rotate the scaps helps you across the board. The rear delt fly is a perfect finisher at the end of a pull workout after your heavy pull-ups and rows. Just do two sets to failure and you'll love the results of horizontal abduction. It's the little stuff like this that makes a difference, making you a complete beast. You've seen face pulls before on the cable machine, but have you trained them on rings? This calisthenics exercise is one of the GOATs for rear delts because it trains all three functions at once. Shoulder external rotation, horizontal abduction, and also extension. I love face pulls because it acts as both a muscle builder and also a board proofer. Fixing those weak links that need some extra attention in our training. Anytime I can do an exercise for bodybuilding that also keeps me healthy and strong, that's a massive win. Is this the most optimal rear delt exercise in existence? No. There's countless machine exercises that will make you way more jacked. But the ring face pull is what I'd call a holistic movement. It's one that's good for guys who just want to be a jack of all trades. Look strong. Be strong. Be well-rounded. You'll unlock your potential through the enhanced stability, cuff activation of the shoulders when you're doing your face pulls on the regular. Best of all, it's being done with gymnastic rings. The most inexpensive home gym setup that you can invest in with access to so many exercises as you're uncovering from today's video. With face pulls, you're just combining a rear delt fly and an external rotation. Getting those arms up into that 90-90 at the top. I think you're going to be humbled by how hard these are in practice. You see me doing them on video. I look like I'm just chilling through these, but I'm actually dying inside. You need to stay stiff like a plank and focus on your posterior delts doing all the heavy lifting. The mind-muscle connection is what you should be doing at all times. Trying to stay mindful of the sensations of the delts working and your overall technique. I'm trying to control the face pull and dominate that tempo. I want to be present to avoid that constant temptation to use momentum or swing around unnecessarily. The rear delts are going to be the limiting factor on face pulls. When you can no longer rotate up all the way with a full ROM, the back of your shoulders are going to be cooked, exhausted, KO'd. Then they're going to grow back bigger and stronger in the future. The rings make it possible to train this awkward and weak position without problems. Because the rings can move and rotate freely to suit your body's natural mobility. Getting the stabilizers working, all that good stuff. This exercise isn't the most fun thing to do while you're doing it. Because it's working on those weaknesses and you're forced to actually use the rear delts. Which may be an under-trained area if you're not isolating them like this. I guarantee though that your shoulders will feel better long term as a byproduct. And your rear delts will be popping for sure. I can promise you that. A few bonus notable mentions for rear delts are pull-ups and rows. Your time-tested vertical and horizontal pulls. Of course, these should be the main focus at the start of any good workout. Because you've got the most progression potential with added load. But you're probably already doing that. I'm just here to highlight what you're doing is working. Keep on going with that. But a pro tip for your pulling exercises. If you want to bias the delts more and the lats less. Just use a wider grip and flared elbow technique. Enjoy the gains. Okay, we've trained the back of the shoulders. Now, let's train the part that everyone actually notices. These bad boys right here. The side delts are such an important part of your physique for giving you that yoked 3D shoulder look. Them cap delts. The sign of someone who looks strong and probably is. The drawback with calisthenics is there's only a few bodyweight exercises that effectively target your side delts. I'll outline my favorites and how you can supplement weights into your routine to put the finishing touches on your physique. Back to wall handstand pushups are epic for shoulders. Especially with a wide grip. This is my go-to year-round bodyweight overhead press for bodybuilding purposes. With the wall, there's no need to balance. So you're not going to be limited by the skill of holding a handstand. Like you would when trying this without a wall. This exercise embodies how you just have to grit your teeth and keep pushing. Building muscle, it's simple but not easy. You want to keep pumping these out, these handstand pushups, until the rep speed starts slowing and you're barely able to lock out overhead. If you fail, it's no big deal. With back to wall, you just have to naturally fall back down to your feet. So don't be afraid to go really hard on these. In my mind, I'm just thinking about developing those big boy delts while I'm training. Knowing that this effort is going to pay off with those cap delts and a stronger overhead press as well. I also like the wall because it gives me a reference of what my body's doing in space. It's a constant reminder to keep my core locked in place and prevent myself from excessively arching. Wide grip handstand pushups are harder on the shoulders because... The triceps and front delts can't help as much. The side delts have to do more work because they're responsible for that abduction motion. Lifting the arms out to the sides. So when your elbows flare, the shoulders become a much bigger driver of your handstand pushups. There's endless, I mean endless progression with this exercise. Even the floor variation will keep you busy for so many months. Case in point, I've been grinding away at these for a long time. And I'm still not able to bang out 3 sets of 15 plus reps on the floor. What a noob, right? That's a clear sign that the difficulty is high. There's a ton of mechanical tension in there for the taking with this basic bodyweight exercise. Now, once you start working at a deficit, that's when those cannonball delts will really be yours. Increasing the range of motion puts the delts on a greater stretch, builds more overhead strength, and you'll just be a jack gorilla if you get to this point someday. Remember, this isn't going to happen overnight. You've got a lifetime to get stronger at this exercise. And that's what makes it so rewarding. Because it's not easy, it's not simple, and it's not quick. To achieve something like this that was once impossible, if you get to that deficit handstand pushup, gives you a level of gratification that's just really rewarding. Now, let's not skip steps if you can't do handstand pushups just yet. Pike pushups are a regression that pretty much do the same thing. My only tweak would be to take a wider grip and use a more flared elbow technique to bias the delts more. Especially if you're trying to build up to those wide grip handstand pushups. After all, specificity is important when it comes to strength, and your technique that we're using also matters for muscle bias. The problem with calisthenics is it can be tricky to isolate muscles. The side delts being one of them. If you want to get proper hench, head over to the dumbbell rack and grab some light weights. Keyword light, because the loo raise will humble you. This, my friend, is a lateral raise using a full range of motion. You're going to be abducting the arms all the way overhead. Getting that complete scapular movement rotating up and back. It feels glorious. None of that stopping at 90 degrees business. None of that rocking back and forth in order to hoist heavy weights up. This, it's just a pure lateral raise and all its glory. This is why I like doing it with a bench. Not because I'm lazy or I want to sit down. It's so that I can keep my torso fixed. With that back braced, I'm just lifting and lowering my arms. Focusing on that full shoulder movement. Expect your lateral delts to be absolutely sizzled by the end of a set. The burn, it is very intense when you go to failure. But I'm always surprised how when it starts hurting, I can just keep pushing out another few reps by just digging deep, grinding through that sticking point, and lifting my arms up like my life depends on it. With these, I'm doing a Y motion with the arms. Using a slight bend in the elbows for strength and comfort. This is called scaption. Scapular plane elevation. Where your arms are raised to a 30 to 45 degree angle forward from the sides. For technique, think about leading with the elbows. And then finishing with a big shrug. Yes, you're going to feel this in the traps. And that's a good thing. It means that you're going all the way up. And actually using your scapula and surrounding muscles the way that you should. I also like this arm path for laterals. Because it lines up nicely with the lateral delt fibers. So they can be recruited heavily. And you can also get a nice contraction. Because think of it like this. If you were to lift with your arms directly in front of the body, this would be front delts. If you start going directly to the side and also back, it turns more into rear delts. The bonus benefit of loo raises is it strengthens the rotator cuff, the serratus anterior, and it also improves overhead stability. I give thanks to the loo raise for fixing my shoulder pain and blessing me with these delts that perform well and make me look like I actually lift. Guys, when you combine calisthenics with weights, that's when your physique is really going to start to change. But hybrid training can be confusing. Choosing the right exercises, structuring your week, and still making progress isn't easy. Don't worry. I've spent 17 years figuring out what actually works so that you don't have to. Click the link down below to get my hybrid program. I'll show you exactly what to do and coach you through the whole thing. All right, front delts. It's extremely rare to see someone that has these massive side delts and rear delts, but somehow underdeveloped front delts. You usually don't need to isolate them with front raises because things like dips, push-ups, and overhead press do a good job at building them up already. That said, these are some of the best bodyweight exercises for front delts and overall shoulder size. The pseudo planche push-up is an effective variation for building up cannonball delts. What makes these different is the forward lean. You're shifting more of your bodyweight forward so that your delts get stressed more. The tricky part about these is keeping yourself strict. Your body's going to want to cheat by returning back into that regular push-up form if you're not careful. You've just got to keep leaning forward, plain and simple, which is easier said than done, especially when you're pushing back up from the floor. With calisthenics for muscle building, it's our responsibility to make it difficult if we want to reap the rewards. The pseudo planche push-up is the perfect example of you get out what you put in. Lean forward, challenge yourself, and your shoulders will grow. Lean back, stay in the comfort zone, and your shoulders won't improve. I'd also recommend letting the scapula move naturally from retraction to protraction so that you can build up robust shoulders while adding thickness, slabs of meat to those front delts. Please remember, a few centimeters further feels like you're lifting much heavier weights. So you've got to be realistic with how you're leaning. Otherwise, your reps will fall off a cliff or you'll start losing all scapula control and your body position will turn into a really ugly banana. So how do you know if your form's on point? If you feel that your shoulders are getting absolutely cooked after a handful of reps, it's a good sign that you're biasing the front delts instead of the pecs with pseudo planche push-ups. I'd also recommend film yourself. Doing these in front of a mirror is also helpful to see if you're doing it right. Honest effort is a must during the entire set, and there's just no hiding from the discomfort if you want to evolve with these. The cast wall walk is the most brutal shoulder exercise you've probably never tried. This one hits the anterior delts hard because of the relative movement of the shoulders. By going from a push-up into a handstand and then back to a push-up, we're doing shoulder flexion like a front raise. This is a mid to N range exercise, a closed chain front raise with your body weight as the resistance. You're bringing your hands from chest height to overhead again and again. I really like these for both strength endurance and building muscle, especially when done for high reps. They're going to smoke your front delts like no other calisthenics movement. The other benefit of calisthenics training is that we're going to get that straight arm scapular strength. Your shoulders are going to better handle exercises like handstands, planches, and pike push-ups as a byproduct. Have you ever wondered why gymnasts have such a high pain tolerance? It's because they do conditioning for high reps with body weight exercises just like this. I've had my students perform 30 to 50 total reps of cast wall walks in a workout and their mental resilience goes through the roof. They're better able to handle discomfort after training like this. Getting aesthetics, body weight strength, and being able to move your body with complete control makes calisthenics a fun form of fitness. Okay, if you're serious about building muscle with calisthenics, watch this next video and I'll help you some more. Let's get it boys.