 gutti frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frankinc frank I don't feel as much tension in my lower back. And I do it in a pulsing action because when you're doing a Jefferson curl, normally you come from a standing position and then you curl all the way down into the forward fold. But if you just want to isolate just the hamstrings, I just stick within that range of motion at the bottom, just doing those pulses. You can even bend your knee and extend your knee while actively trying to reach the elbows towards the ground, which I think is quite nice. I like to combine that particular exercise with standing fold block compressions. So I'll let go of the weight and then I'll put a block or something in between my belly and thigh and try to actively compress as I reach my hands towards the ground. Because when you're in the Zertia position, the weight is helping you to get deeper. So you're getting this stretch in your hamstrings. At the same time, you're strengthening it. But then you always want to work the other side of the joint. So that's where the hip flexors come into play. That's why I like to combine it with the forward fold compression drill, where I'm actually trying to get as deep as I can. That helps to solidify that range of motion that I just opened. I love those type of supersets. It's almost like a antagonist agonist superset. How you do a pull and a push in your general training. Same thing with your mobility stuff. And if you dive deep into this, you'll notice pretty much all the world's best coaches recommend the same thing because it's not that fatiguing to do the opposite type of side. And it makes good use of your rest period. Otherwise, what are you going to do? Go on Instagram for you feed. That's not good use of your time. Save that for other parts of your training. For me, the hamstring movement that is most reliable, my go-to one that I really like is just a banded hamstring extension. It is from the absolute most beginner, someone that has never done exercise, never stretched in their life. You could give this to them and they could scale it to their level of range of motion, contraction, intensity, because it's assisted. The band allows you to play with where you're starting that extension from. And you got two variations. The one that I saw you doing was you just send it. You bring that hip into as much flexion as possible and you're extending your leg. The quads, the hip flexors, don't have to do as much work because the band is helping you. So you can really access that deep hamstring stretch. Alternatively, the one that I like, which is a bit more active, is you hold the band with just a little bit of assistance to keep it from dropping your leg towards the ground and you extend your leg. Get ready for cramp city in the hip flexors, the quads. Get ready for some shaking because it's active. And that's the perfect sign that you're doing it correctly. Yeah, I love that exercise too, actually, because it takes away any stress on the lower back because you're lying on the ground, your back is flat on the floor. So that's why I felt like I could actually get into a deep position because I didn't have to worry about that. And yeah, totally. It's like when you pull that band in, you get that stretch. And then when you extend, you squeeze the quads, it just feels like a massive, massive stretch in the hamstrings. But I find that if you try to let go of the bend a little bit, then you can actively try to compress in that enrage position. So that's the reason why I was doing it that way. I was trying to get as deep as I could, extend, and then try to let go a little bit, actively hold it, and then rinse and repeat that kind of movement. You're also getting some bonus dorsiflexion ankle range here because you're getting that calf component as well because that can also limit your ability to bend forward. I assume people want more hamstring range just to be able to forward fold. That is a key component. So, you know, I like big bang for buck movements. If I can do something that gets a few things at once, if I'm on the fence about doing mobility, I don't want to do three or four different hamstring exercises because I know it's optimal. I'll go with what is going to tick boxes and do a pretty good job at a few things. Buy one, get one free. That's it. Welcome to Will's Mobility House. Specificity is king in training and in learning. Stop the mindless doom scrolling and click this video here to level up.