 kolizizk, kolizizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk, kolizk try to aim to get the forearms on the ground and then I'll just do these kind of pulses where I'm trying to drive the elbows in and then when I finish that I'll do like these contractions where I'm trying to drive my elbows into the ground and then I'll try to drive my elbows back the opposite direction. That would be my go-to. I do that basically every single day and I find that it helps to get my shoulder flexion up really nice. I prepare myself for handstands. Not only does it help with the shoulder but it also helps with the thoracic too which is a good combination. Do you ever add load to that movement? I think if I was to load it I would have to put a somehow a weight on my belly to try to push that part of my body down while I anchor my hands and arm on the ground. For me shoulder flexion overhead is really stubborn. It's one of my things that I need a lot of direct focus because I come from a calisthenics background. Lots of pull-ups, countless rows, the lats, the long head of the tricep gets quite tight and probably insufficient work on my actual posterior chain muscles like your traps and that stuff to be able to get your arms overhead. So I found that the dumbbell pull-over, classic. I love movements that can be scaled and progressed over time. There's not just you do it for two weeks and you've outgrown it. With the dumbbell pull-over it's that eccentric load so you're getting the stretch but you're also building strength at that end range and you're able to access a deeper range than you would just by lifting your arms up overhead. And there's two different ways you can do it. You can lie lengthways along the bench and this really isolates it to the shoulders because you don't have to really worry about what your pelvis is doing. You have a bit of support on your scapula. With this, gradually increasing the weight over time and also the range of motion. And it's difficult because you've got to get that sweet spot where if it's too light you won't get your deepest range. If it's too heavy your body sees it as a little bit of a foreign threat. So it's something that's going to take time to get comfortable with but the results are just night and day for stretching the front particularly the lats as well. And when you do it, because I know with a traditional pullover, when you drop the weight overhead do you also drop the hips or do you try to keep the hips in the same position, keep the body hollow? With the variation that I like, the lengthways on the bench, you're supported so your hips are extended, your back is flat. If I'm going to do it across the bench for specifically shoulders, I would do the top of a hip thrust with the glute squeeze. So that way you're just worrying about the shoulders. You're not doing this drill for the thoracic or rib cage expansion. If that was the case, you would drop the hips as much as possible, arch back as much as you can as well. This one's just isolated to shoulders, which was the shoulder flexion goal we're trying to achieve here. Reaching the arms back behind the body, shoulder extension, something that's very underrated for dips, push-ups, even muscle-ups in that transition phase. And it's overlooked by many people. What do you do to increase flexibility reaching back? For me, I love the German hang. So going for the skin, the cat and then hanging in that position, that gives me a massive stretch on my pecs, like massive, massive. And that one's also, you can actually load that too, which I was doing at some stage. I put a weight belt on with some weights. I was doing these kind of rolling the shoulder forward to get a little bit more torque in the chest. But that would be my go-to drill for getting more extension. But if I wanted to work on the other side of the joint, like actively trying to get more shoulder extension, have you tried holding a pipe behind you with your palms facing forward with probably a weight in the center and then doing a forward fold? So then when you do the forward fold, the arms kind of come all the way back behind you and that weight drags you into a deeper shoulder extension. And then you try to stand back up while trying to keep the arms as high as you can. So then it's like active. That one is also really nice. That one's like, it's killer because you're trying to hold it with as much intensity as you can for like, let's say 10 seconds. And it's like cramp city. Like when I try, it's just cramping, cramping, cramping. But yeah, those two, I think, would be my go-to for either opening more in shoulder extension or working on the other side of the joint. You just took my second exercise that I was going to recommend. I was either skin the cat or that exercise. So you know that you're in good hands because both of us have come to the same thing without even talking about it. That shoulder extension is just gold, the isolated one with the weights. I really like that combo of lifting it up, trying to resist it. And then you're also lifting it up too. So you're getting the best of both worlds of like stretching and strength stuff as well. And seeing you do the skin the cat, you said before a little bit of weight. From memory, I think there was like three 25 kilo plates of you holding the bottom of the skin the cat, not with a pronated grip, with a supinated grip because you're fearless. I wish it was 75, but it was actually 50. Okay, shoot. I only 50 kilos. That's right. So it's a big difference. Come on. But yeah, with a supinated grip, it was super sketchy on the bicep. But that was, yeah, like I said, like not only are you feeling a stretch in your pecs, but down into the bicep. It was actually really, like how would you think I got into that? Just out of curiosity. I think you would have, you could get into the skin the cat position, have the dip belt around you, then you could have someone help you put it on so you can load it from the actual bottom position. Or that's the first one that comes to mind because if you lower it into a negative, I don't even know how you'd get the plates on there in the first place. Yeah. So basically what I did was I set up rings high and then I had a box underneath and then I set up the weights and then I kind of just positioned myself to go into the German hang. Yeah. And I just went off the box. Okay. And before that, it was a picture that you saw, was it? Yeah. Yeah. And then I removed the box. Fake weights, bro. Yeah. I'm calling you out. I don't think it's real. Social media. When you're doing shoulder extension as well, the thing that I would experiment with is your grip width. You try and go really close grip. I can barely lift my arms behind my back. If I go wider, there's a little bit more range of motion that you can access. It's a bit easier to get into that shoulder extension position. And what I'm actively trying to cue in any shoulder extension movement is trying to get my chest upright, retract my scaps as much as I physically can, and let the arms follow. If you lose that, you're not getting the real benefits and the cueing of the movement that you're trying to do. Yeah. So basically you need to try to find a hand placement, which is going to be suitable for you where you can actually lift it up. Because like you said, the closer you have your hands, the more tension and stretch you're going to feel in the pec. And if you have really tight pecs, you just can't lift it up. And watch out for compensation, dropping the torso, hunching forward, because you think you get in that range, but you're just moving different areas of the body to try and fake that shoulder extension. Totally. Do you find the carryover to other exercises when your shoulder extension improved? I felt like it was easy to do back lever for some reason, maybe because I was doing it actively, that I felt it was easier to get into that position and to actively get into that protracted shoulder position. But besides that, I don't know, I feel like I've always had pretty good extension. Like getting to the dips as well, getting to deep dips. I think that also helped. Yeah. That's another thing I want to close it with is that shoulder extension improves. If you do the exercises in your program through a full range of motion, do your pushups as deep as possible. Try and get a pause at that bottom. Same thing with dips. You'll earn that range over time and expand it. Yeah, totally. Knowledge is power. Never rest on your laurels. Always be curious. Always try and learn. You can do so by clicking this video right here.