 I've heard that lifting weights makes you stiff and tight. I think that it's a common misconception, but mostly because people lift weights in a way that doesn't move them for a full range of motion. It's essentially like, ultimately, what you get out of your training matters around the intention that you put into it. So, you could say that, okay, if you're going to load up your one-rep-back squat, ultimately, there's going to be some sacrifice in terms of the range of motion that you're able to perform. And, yeah, if you continue to do that, your body's going to adapt to the stimulus you give it, so it might shorten, it might get stiffer, it might get stronger. That's a way to lift more weight, ultimately. You don't see a whole lot of powerlifters lifting fully as to grass. But then you look at Olympic lifters, where actually having a full range of motion, whilst also combining it with trying to lift the maximum amount of weight we can, you know, they kind of work more synergistically together. Both are weightlifting. Both have a very different outcome. So, it's that intention that matters. If you're trying to load a tissue and your focus is to move through the widest range of motion you can, you're probably going to get some flexibility benefits. Is it enough to just use the main compound lifts if you wanted to increase range of motion? I think so. I think it depends on the individual, though. I mean, yeah, if you're someone that would take a squat again, for example, if you've got super tight ankles, I don't know if just squatting is a good enough stimulus to see, like, improvements at the ankles. Rather, the body will just find a way to solve the problem. So, the problem is I want to squat deeper and further. It's not necessarily going to improve all different joints that are associated with that movement at the same level. It might, you know, the ankles might remain stiff and then we might get some better hip flexion, as an example. Or we might just like, our form might adjust to that. So, you know, flexibility is kind of like water. It will just move through the path of least resistance wherever it can find a way of increasing and then it will avoid the areas that provide more resistance to it. I think it's the ego attachment to lifting where we look at the average person. They want to lift the most amount of weight and just push it, often sloppy form. You just look around at the general population that's training, whereas it almost takes a little bit of humility to be like, okay, I have to drop my loads a little bit to actually get that full range of motion. And that's something that I've always enjoyed about flexibility because there's this point of, I guess, diminishing returns. You try and progress by going heavier, even if your goal is to increase range of motion. Your body almost holds back a little bit like it's a bit of a threat. It's uncharted territory for your nervous system and the tissues. So that's something that's been really good for me in that world of flexibility and mobility. Yeah, I think so. I think like pec flies is a really good example as well because I think they're probably the best chest stretch you can do is doing some pec flies. But obviously, like if you're going to grab 10, 15, 20 kilos and try and do them with bent arms and like, again, go for that ego side of things, you're not going to get any benefit. But if you grab like three to five kilos or something, I think Pollock and you should mention, like, if you can do more than 10% of your one arm bench and flies, you're like, you're just your ego lifting as opposed to like actually performing that chest adduction fully. But yeah, it's like sitting on a bench, maybe putting a slight incline and just really letting the dumbbells like pull your chest open and pull down to the floor. I think it's one of the best chest stretches you can do. Whether it's going to give you a solid strength stimulus is a different question. It's tough because you look in different aspects of social media, you'll see the stretching squad where it's super lightweight, it's really big range of motion. And the internet tends to show us extremes. But you can also do strength training, you can do hypertrophy, but just putting in some more of these extended range of motions, whether that's in the exercise itself, or you add some extra homework alongside that. I do really believe you can have the best of a lot of different worlds. Yeah, sure. And I think probably the mistake that people make is rather than thinking from like a training practice or a session, they think about like one exercise. I think the front foot elevated split squat is a good example. I don't think it's a particularly fantastic exercise from a strength or flexibility example. I think it's a good at doing both. But if we take it from strength perspective, it's like, okay, is there a better option for getting stronger like quads and that kind of pushing? Yeah, you could squat, you could do some other movements, even if you did like just a normal sort of lunging pattern, but you do it with much less range of motion, you're going to be able to put way more load through it. So it's not the best strength stimulus. If you're looking for increasing hip flexor, flexibility, you know, hip extension, is it the best stimulus for that as well? Probably not. If you want to really improve your hip extension, you could choose some different stretches, like some of the long lunge variations that you do. So that's going to ultimately, you know, there's very little time in that movement. You do 10 reps, maybe you spend one second, two seconds each rep in the bottom position in the actual stretch, something like 10, 20 seconds over an entire set. You do a minute hold of a long lunge, like what's going to be the best stimulus for flexibility? But it's an all right exercise combining together. I think if you take a wider look of things, you're like, okay, my strength work, I try to use a decent range of motion, but I focus on getting strong. And then in that same session, I can still do some accessory movements that I drop the load a little and focus on moving through the widest range of motion I can. You are going to get the best of both worlds in that instance, whilst not compromising the stimulus you get from each exercise. I'm so glad you mentioned that because a misbelief is I want to get front splits. I just do front splits. I want to get back bridge. I just do the posture itself where we isolate certain areas to get faster progress. So if it's the bridge, you do some isolated work on the shoulders, some isolated work on the thoracic, hip flexors. Same thing for the front split. Some for the hip flexors, some for the hamstrings. I think if you just try and just do the one full movement, you tend to get held back by one area that limits the whole kinetic chain. Yeah. I mean, if we take the like said principle has just as face value, you know, you get specific adaptation to impose demand. You get better at things. If you want bridge, do bridge. It kind of does make sense. But as you said, and kind of as I said earlier about the flexibilities like water in terms of it takes the path of least resistance, you might find that some areas will improve fast numbers. And actually you would make better progress if you just address the things that are really restricting you in said position. And obviously that varies on each person like myself and yourself. We have spines like a piece of wood. We do. All the fellas listening can relate to that. Yeah. Doing back bridge. Okay. Maybe it's not a strength thing in the shoulders. Probably got, I got pretty reasonable external rotation. That's not a limiting factor. But if I was to warm up doing some thoracic openers, like some lat pullovers and things like that, my subsequent bridge training is going to be way more effective than if I was to just do a few more sets of just a bridge. Yeah, exactly. There's a misbelief that if you're not flexible from birth, that you can't progress your range of motion. What's your experience being there? As someone who was not very flexible, then I would say that it's a bit of a myth. I do think that we're all genetically predisposed to be better at one another. Some people like strength and flexibility is not necessarily opposite ends of a spectrum, but it kind of is. People tend towards one or the other. And if you're a very special individual, you get both. I've definitely been more on the strength side of things or certainly strength has come more naturally to me. And I think that's informed the way that I train flexibility. When you see people who are kind of more on the naturally flexible side of things, they need very little stimulus or the intensity of the stimulus that they need to see improvements in flexibility is not very high. Whereas somebody who has a lot of that internal resistance to it might need a little bit more encouragement to see improvements in their flexibility. So using loaded methods that I'm sure you've talked about in detail. But yeah, rather than just sitting in a stretch, how can we load it? How can we... A stretch ultimately is a contraction. If we're just passively stretching, we're getting some contraction there. That's that stretch reflex. But how can we do it in a way that adds load to that position? Or how can we do it in a way that I'm using my own strength to try and create that stretch? Should I do it some active flexibility? Because people here are stretching. They think, oh, I'm just going to hold a hamstring stretch or something passive. But particularly men that are stiffer, that demographic tends to benefit from contract relax, using strength load through it as well to actually coax your nervous system into change. Because I find if I only do static stretching, it tends to be very transient at most. Yes, yeah. I think as well, also kind of training different things. I find a lot of the time with the static flexibility stuff, if you've got just a lot of neural tension and you particularly are sensitive to that stretch reflex, like stretching is not particularly pleasant. And when you first get into it, pretty sure a lot of the research kind of indicates that the first four, six, eight weeks or so, that initial phase of doing some flexibility work, you actually don't increase in terms of like that muscle length much, but you just literally get better at tolerating the stretch, that discomfort of doing it. That pain threshold goes up a bit and you get flexible because of that as opposed to anything else. So I think doing some passive flexibility can be really helpful just to kind of learn that this isn't a dangerous thing. You can relax into that position, breathe a little bit. But then, yeah, loading that position tends to be a way of like speed lighting that process rather than just, okay, I'm going to just relax and be very gentle. Again, it's like, what are you missing in your practice? Usually it's the thing that's missing that you need. We tend to go for the things that we like to do. Exactly. And it's those weak areas that require the most attention but also have the most room to grow too. So what are the different types of flexibility and mobility for people that have never heard of it before? So I learned and liked the term mobility and flexibility to describe stretching or flexibility. So I know there is that term that's like flexibility is your maximum passive range that you can express. So how far can you, whether that's somebody pulling you into a stretch or whether that's you doing yourself not really under load, how much can you express? Mobility is your ability to move through that range of motion. So whether that be dynamically in, say, a squat, a Cossack squat, etc. I think that definition is kind of true. Mobility is your ability to move through a range of motion, but it's not necessarily like the intent isn't to build flexibility. Flexibility is a one-encompassing word. I think it's a bit simpler. And then within that, you would have dynamic, which is a movement style of flexibility as we chatted about. You have, you know, whether it wants to be weighted, where the intent is you move through a full range of motion. That's a form of dynamic flexibility. You then have active, which is you're using your own strength. So usually that would be the opposing side of the joint. A really simple example for active flexibility of the hamstrings would be a standing leg lift. So you're standing on one foot. You're lifting the other leg in front of you. You're having to actively hold that position by contracting the hip flexors. You're holding your leg straight. And then through reciprocal inhibition, we have that relaxing of the hamstrings. And that's a way of expressing our active flexibility. That's always going to be less than our passive, which is the final form, which is essentially that standard definition of flexibility. Like how far can we express the range of motion? And I think even within that passive, I would also have like a static, which is, okay, our passive is maybe under minimal load. How far can we express it? And then we have a static position, which is maybe under some load, i.e. like a middle split position or something. Something we're holding. We're not moving, but we're just trying to hold a position. That's another way of demonstrating flexibility. So I guess three with like a subset of two. You can see how it's complicated and a bit overwhelming for people that think, I want to increase my range of motion. And you've just laid out pretty clearly the different types. But even within that, I'm just thinking, do I have to hold a stretch for 30 seconds, a minute, 10 minutes? If I'm trying to improve my dynamic flexibility, do I do 50 reps? What's the, if you had to give a general guideline consensus for the static first and then the dynamic? So I think the static, the minimum effective dose I'm aware of is like, I think it's five minutes per week per position. So five to seven minutes per week. So this is like static stretching. So I guess if you've really wanted to, you could do seven sets of one minute in one day. And that would kind of tick off that spectrum. But I think it also suggests that it benefits from a frequency as well. So this would be from a static, a stretching perspective. If you're able to accumulate, I like seven minutes per week, because it's like, it's a minute a day. It's nice and easy to think about. You're going to hold a position for 60 seconds. And that's not like total amount of stretching. That's per stretch that you want to improve. So whether that's a pigeon position, whether it's a hamstring stretch, a hip flexor stretch. In that 60 seconds, I think the intensity needs to be reasonably high, like seven, eight out of 10 on the discomfort scale. That wouldn't necessarily be from get-go, because you're probably going to have the opposite reaction. I think most people will tend to do better that they ease their way into it. Whether you do like a short stretch for 10, 20 seconds to kind of get rid of that sort of resistance to the stretch, or we just start off something easier, take a few breaths and work your way up into it. And then say we've got a minute. By the time we're about halfway, we're going to be looking to be at that like seven, eight out of 10 in terms of discomfort. And then we're going to try and hold and keep pushing deeper. I think a lot of people will just sit in a stretch and expect to get more flexible. Whereas, again, that intent really matters. You need to be, in the same way as you progressively overload your strength training, trying to reach further into a stretch position during your stretching. Whether that's on a day-to-day basis, it's going to vary. You know, some days you're going to be tighter if you've got DOMS, if you've got soreness. Other days you're going to be more flexible. But the general trend should be each time I do the stretch, I'm able to reach further into a position. Fantastic. I think you've touched on a lot of key points there in terms of progressing, intensity. Another thing that I add there is just expectations. People might go on this journey to increase range of motion, wherever it is, and expect within 30 days they're going to unlock whatever it is. And truth be told, it's measured in a matter of many months to even years, from my experience. And if you have that in your mind, it just makes it a little bit more sustainable for you personally. Because otherwise, you'll look around, see everyone else has got more range of motion than you, and your progress feels really slow. Yeah. But you often see the end product, you don't see the process. So you see people in the gym and like, oh, he's really flexible, but he's not maybe doing so much or maybe making it look easy, but you don't necessarily see the path that it took to get to that. Comes back to what you said about, oh, I'm not flexible. I wasn't born flexible. I'm an adult. I can't get flexible. You and I are both perfect case studies of this, where most of my teenage life, I was not playing sports or any activity. Ankles stiff, hip flexes tight, can't touch my toes, thoracic really jammed up, shoulder mobility poor. And then I go into calisthenics, where I just did the same movements over and over again, without the extended ranges of motion. And it takes effort to actually improve it, but you can improve it. I think we're both proof of that. Yeah. And I think it's probably maybe some light at the end of the tunnel is it takes much less effort to maintain something that it does to attain it in the first place. Like it does suck. And there is going to be a significant amount of work, especially if you are on that tighter end of the spectrum. And often it's kind of a bit, it's a bit catch way too, because the people who are like really restricted are the people who probably would feel the most benefit from getting more flexible, but it's just that much harder. But yeah, if you do put that work in, I think it's around one sixth of the time to attain something as to maintain it. So if you're doing like, well, an easy number, 12 sets a week of flexibility, if you're able to do two sets per week to maintain that level. I'm sure that you now, after you've done that time, that effort, by myself, it doesn't take me very much time to maintain a position or very little work to just keep a level of flexibility. If I still want to keep the high level of flexibility, it takes a little bit more work. Same way as if you want a high level of strength performance, you still need to continue expressing that in your day-to-day practice. That's what's uplifting about it is it does stay with you. Maybe not to the world-class level because you need to really sacrifice and dedicate yourself to that. But for most of our goals to just move better for everyday life and hit all the positions we want in our training, it's not actually that hard after you've, it's not hard, but after you've done a few years, after a few years, then you can enjoy it. Once you're on the other end, it's not like you need to dedicate that time forever. I think actually, and that's a problem in general training is like, there is some sacrifice. You can't do everything at once, but you don't necessarily need to. If you just put that time and energy and effort to achieving whatever that is, middle split, front split, whatever you want to do, once that thing is done and unlocked, it will stay within you and it takes much less work to then keep it there whilst you then focus on other things. That idea about periodizing your mobility goals as well, really important because when COVID happened in 2020, I had a bit of extra time and I'm like, okay, I'm going to start finally doing some more mobility work. And I was doing all this extra stuff for splits, for back bridge, but I was also concurrently trying to do the same amount for my upper body strength training and lower body strength training. And prime example here, I was really plateauing because you can't- You can make progress at all of it. In anything. And this comes back to what you said is you've got to come to the terms with, you'll get the best rate of progress and extent if you pull back on certain things. It's like you're not doing five different overhead pressing exercise variations or five different vertical pulls. You pick one, maybe two, progress with those. Same thing applies to the stretching. Yeah, just accept that some things aren't going to go anywhere for a little bit, but you will make exceptionally good progress on one thing. And then you can just put that to the side and then continue on your journey to kind of like Pokemon, acquire all the different skills that you're after. I think coming from the school of generalists, you can have it all. I think that's a little bit of a marketing ploy to try and differentiate maybe a coach's method that you can do everything at once, but it hasn't been my experience. Yeah, well, that's again why I'm not a massive fan of that front foot elevators. But it's quite a thing. It's just like this. It's been touted as this like one exercise that's going to solve all your problems and just does so many things not that well. If you want to be strong, do something in the strength space. If you want to get flexible, do a stretch. If you've got knee problems, probably go see a physio. Don't try to do maximum range of knee flexion on a loaded exercise. Yeah, it's so hard with rehab pain. It's such a complicated area because I've studied this as a physio and it's just you hear people saying that this one exercise or this one trick method, hack, whatever is going to fix your pain. We're so complicated, so many interconnecting variables that you should run the opposite way if someone speaks like that. Yes, absolutely. I mean, you can speak to this more than myself. But yeah, I think there's like the, okay, what's the exercise that you're doing thing? And then there's the psychological side of that as well, which is just it's not even remotely addressed. Yeah. And I think that's what not only people in pain that are injured, those that get to a higher level of performance can actually look at themselves from a third person perspective and be like, Daniel, you're doing too much mobility and strength training at the same time. You've got to pull back. If you can do that, then you can actually progress on or not get injured. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, no matter like if you pay for the best coach, they're only going to be as useful to you as, you know, you have that self-awareness within your own practice and, you know, not just blindly following and just paying attention to what you're doing. Well, sometimes blindly following is a blessing in disguise because you don't start program hopping and playing with all these things. So it can work. And that's why it does work for some experts that are like, this is the only way. Fitness FAQs has the best workout programs from beginner to advanced level. Use the code podcast20 at checkout to save 20% when shopping at fitnessfaqs.com. Don't miss this discount. Start training smarter and enjoy the gains. Stretching does nothing. I've heard this said before, and I've also heard that it makes you weaker. I think that was definitely used to be a belief. And then now more evidence has come out that like, yes, stretching, if you do it quite intently on the area that you're going to be training in the next 10 minutes will probably inhibit your muscle a little bit. But then outside of that, it's pretty insignificant. And I think that that small decrease in power, whatever it may be, isn't always for the muscles that you're about to use. So gymnastics, calisthenics, you might be stretching your posterior chain so you can reach down towards the floor and do a press handstand. If you're doing a long static stretch of your bicep before a 1RM on chin-ups, I think you'll be struggling there. Yeah, absolutely. That's probably one of my favorite ways actually to add in the flexibility stuff. Like through the handstand training that I did, being able to have a middle split, a pancake was super useful. So I was like, okay, we do the set of the handstands and we're resting, we rest in a stretch. And it's like, you have this really nice combination and it's not conflicting because as you said, that they're not competing muscle groups for the same exercise. In fact, if anything, one complements the other. So you get, again, like the best of both worlds within one session. And it's a better way to use your time than scrolling, doom scrolling through social media. Unless of course you're watching Fitness FAQs or The Bodyweight Warrior, in which case you're probably learning at that point. Yeah. Well, we hope so. There is a perfect or correct way to move that everyone should follow. You got to squat like this. You got to do pull-ups like this. Yeah. I mean, we're all built differently. I'm sure if we were to squat, we've got drastically different levers and positions. I actually think that that does a lot more harm than good for the most part. Certainly, if you're like coaching someone, where form is kind of important, maybe from an aesthetic point of view. So if you're training handstands, I know people want to go after like a super straight line and have super flexible shoulders. But actually, in the early days, that could be something that limits you because you're focusing too much on that aesthetic, that outcome, as opposed to like just doing the thing. Yeah. It's like a perfect technique on a strength exercise as well for five reps where you stop at five, but if you push yourself, you could have got seven or eight and just training. And it's like trying to fight with one hand tied behind your back. You know, what's the most important thing from doing this exercise? Is it doing it with absolutely pristine, perfect form? Or is it like trying really hard? Probably trying really hard is going to give you the most benefit. I think so. And it's tough because people watch tutorials and it's like, here's how you should do it. It's a recommendation. I always look for, can you do it pain-free? Yeah. If you're doing the perfect technique and it's hurting your joints, your tendons, then you should probably modify things that you can do it properly. But even still, if you have perfect technique, but your load management is off, you're doing too much frequency, too much volume, then even if you had quote-unquote perfect technique, you'll run into issues, which is the interesting part. Yeah, yeah. Well, we know, like perfect technique isn't something that automatically means that you're not going to get injured. Injuries are super complex. It could be you're tired on the day, as you said, load management, you're doing too much over too long a duration. There's so many things that go into it. And I actually think that if you have someone who has maybe not been doing an exercise correctly and then you're like, no, you need to do it this way, it's going to actually, potentially increase that chance of injury because all of a sudden you're going from, I'm a person, I want to do this movement and then my body has found a way to solve that problem. You know, whether it's they do a squat and there's a bit of a hip shift, however it is, there's probably a reason that they're moving like that. Maybe they're lacking a little bit of flexibility on position. Maybe they've got more strength in their right adductor versus the left adductor. It's super complicated. I'm not going to pretend to know, but if you try to make them do the perfect form, there's a reason that they're moving the way they are. So, rather than being like, the fix isn't, you're doing the exercise wrong, do it correctly. It's like, okay, why are you doing it in this way? And then, how can we give you some experiences that are maybe closer to a more, I don't want to say optimal movement pattern, but like something that we're actually trying to get the outcome of and how can we maybe introduce some exercises that give you that experience? And that's where using yourself as an experiment ongoing is something really important by writing down what you do. I think I sound like a broken record with measuring, tracking, and I think you should track everything, but you should have key numbers for certain exercises. So, if you're doing a wide grip pull-up that's flared out like this, have your numbers with that. if you're going to use a close grip chin-up, you should know what your level is at on that as well because you can very easily try and throw on the same amount of weight, but with two different, completely different movement patterns, that can really spark your load. You can get pain and injury that way. So, that's how I look at it. Even if I'm really proficient in a squat, hinge, a vertical pull, push, vertical, a horizontal push, pull, I have those numbers and especially when you get into your 30s as well, you don't want to just be just completely going ham on a new movement. I feel like it's almost like a bit of AI'm getting old but it's just like when you're 20 you don't really think about it and then you get to 30 and like, oh, it was so much better when I'm 20 and then you have the 40-year-olds in the comments who are like, 30 is nothing, wait till you're 40. It's like, it just keeps going up and up and up. I think there, I'll just add a little caveat is because you've got more training age, you're also stronger so you can really wreck yourself. So, it's the combination of being in your mid-30s that you've got the biological changes that you're not as you are when you're 18 to 20 but you're also so much stronger. So, having that in mind is really important. Yeah, it's like, you know, almost the most dangerous you can be is someone who's had 5-10 years of experience and then hasn't trained for a bit and then is older and then tries to go back because you've got that ability to, yeah, wreck yourself in training and still be pretty strong but kind of no right to do so. No, and I just like, it's so easy to say but when we're in the heat of battle we get excited, we want to train hard but just having those few sessions where you build up is so much better than, I'm going to throw on 315 on the bench press, there we go, pecs torn, then you're never going to lift again or train again and same goes for flexibility. If you haven't touched a position for a while, you'll go in, you'll be like, oh, this used to be where I'd be in a warm-up but I just can't get past it after 3 sets, the same thing applies to that too. I think the one I've noticed the most in personal and also just online kind of is sprinting, running sort of stuff. I think a lot of people, when you're a kid, you kind of take it for granted. You know, you do a lot, maybe you do a lot of sport, rugby, football, whatever it is you're running about and that spring that you have on your step, that tendon conditioning is just kind of a take-in for granted and then we do quite a static form of training. We don't necessarily, unless you're doing running or doing a sport continuously, we kind of shy away from that dynamic, that spring sort of motion. We do a lot of strength training in the gym, we get the muscles a lot stronger but we don't necessarily have that ability to rebound and then somebody's like, I'm going to start training sprints or I'm going to start doing this and then they get an injury because it's not something you've even remotely thought about touching for a long time. It's something that, probably the main thing that I noticed out of everything as I've got older, I'm 31 so it's not old but something I noticed versus 20 is like, I used to do some tumbling, some gymnastics bits and pieces and I never really thought about it and then I started adding in some plyometric stuff because I just kind of felt that I was lacking just a bit of bounce in my step which was just a really strange, you know, again, I haven't really been exposed to it for maybe four or five years, I've been doing other training, been doing slow stuff and I was like, do you know what, this feels like somewhat, if I was to do a sprint now, I think, you know, the likelihood of a problem happening. A hamstring or a calf would go, yeah. Yeah, exactly, despite the fact that, you know, I'm doing some Nordic healths in the gym, I've got some good, like all of those other aspects are ticked but it's just missing that. Even the isometrics you're doing in calisthenics, all that for your elbows, shoulders, when you add in the plyometric dynamic movement where you've got that stretch reflex and how it's a lot more stress on the tendons, it's a completely different form of training. Even if you're really strong, slow for low reps, once you add speed, it's humbling because you've got to start from scratch again essentially. Yeah, literally, I've been like jumping around like a little kid and I've seen massive improvements in just that little bit of training. It doesn't take very much but yeah, it's just something I didn't realise I was missing. You've been inspired by the kangaroos in Australia, they're the ultimate plyometric animals. The myth you have to stretch every day I feel puts people off stretching because that's a common general recommendation or you should like you said before with the guidelines of accumulating time stretching. From my experience I've preferred if I really want to focus on something like say the side splits just doing one to two just really strength stretching sessions as opposed to going in every single day and stretching the position. So I'd love for you just to share your experience with that because stretching every day works but then stretching less frequently can also work too. Yeah, I think saying both works is exactly right. It's literally what do you prefer doing? I personally don't like doing full body training. It doesn't mean that full body training isn't super effective. It's just I like doing an off-body session and a lower body session. It's just been how I've done my training. I'm a little bit biased because I started my flexibility journey or learning about flexibility. I couldn't touch my toes. I was like around my shins and I was like I probably should fix this. I'm like 19. I should be able to at least touch my toes. So I just stretched hamstrings for like five minutes every day and then gradually over time I was looking for YouTube or reading some yoga books and I'd add another stretch and another stretch and eventually it was like a 15 to 20 minute routine. I just did each night before I went to it. I really enjoyed that. Is it for everyone? Absolutely not. Do you need to do it to get flexible? Definitely not. What I do think kind of going back to talking about building capacity for what you want to do, I think spending a lot of time in a position is really valuable especially early on. So like when you do the heavy sets, okay yeah we're doing two 60 second sets per week. If you're brand new to flexibility training you probably will see some improvements and you're naturally going to be limited by the fact that it's a novel movement, you're not going to be able to push yourself really hard. Exactly all of those same beginner flexibility things or beginner training things apply. Would you benefit from having that tolerance to a lot of stretching? I think it's useful but I don't think it's necessary. So it really depends. I have people who I work with who just like to have I do this one thing for 5-10 minutes every day and I don't have to worry about it. I just do that thing. It's my habit. It's my routine. That works really well. If you just like going to the gym and you need to separate that training from day-to-day life to it's a nice organized routine that also works really well. All that matters is you try hard and the intention is that you try to push yourself in the next step. That is the theme of today's podcast just try hard. It doesn't make you a try hard if you have that intensity but it's like any form of like bodybuilding for example is always the discussion around volume and intensity sets relative to effort. I think it's the exact same thing with stretching. It's just easy to discuss it on a continuum like this where you've got stretching every single day versus stretching once per week. Once you play with those variables of how hard you're going how much you're doing and just zoom out and look at it in a week I find is really helpful because then you can actually look at how much it is and then you can play with your progressive overload a little bit more but yeah it comes down to enjoyment because if say on paper it is optimal for example to do it every single day but you don't like doing that you can't stick to it versus you want to go once or twice per week for those areas you want to improve you've got to go with what you're actually going to stick to like it's good to like faff about and talk about optimal this and that but it comes down to the person. Yeah I mean I think it's the conversation in general and it's kind of moving I do see a lot of people kind of shitting on static stretching and I don't think it's as bad I think it's not super glamorous I see a lot of people who are already flexible and then they're like I don't ever stretch again I just do these nice like fancy active dynamic drills and I'm like yeah kind of cool it works it depends on the person I think if you a lot of people if you feel you know very restricted can get a lot of benefit from just understanding how to relax and that's the main benefit of static stretching I think is that conversation with your body and being like this position isn't necessarily a problem if you just try to really brute force yourself you never kind of get rid of that psychological component I think middle splits is a fantastic example because there's no muscle that's connecting your two legs together you know there's nothing actually stopping you from that leg sliding out if you've seen any hip surgeries and you watch what surgeons do when they knock a knock a leg out of the hip socket like there's no reason why you can't there is just your nervous system that's like this is bad I shouldn't be here so if you can do something that calms that down I think you'll have drastically improved results in the hard stuff that you end up doing because ultimately you probably will see some pretty significant progress with intense stretching I find in practice people use a combination of a lot of different forms of flexibility it's rarely as simple as just I only ever do this yeah I'm sure the ones that shit on static stretching when the camera's off might be doing a few if they want to relax or if they're trying a new position or stretching a muscle group that's super tight I'm sure they would use it the reason I mentioned kind of earlier about static stretching being at a really good base in the same way as like okay if you want to build a handstand push-up I'm not going to start doing handstand push-ups straight away I might want to have some proficiency at you know push-ups I want to have 20-25 push-ups I want to have 10-15 bike push-ups and I think static stretching does fill that base myself personally I did static stretching kind of only that nightly routine that was probably the first couple years that I had and then I kind of came across Ido Portal and those loaded flex but this was earlier days now there's a lot better information about flexibility training 2012 yeah 2012 12 13 years ago yeah wow oh geez now and yeah I'd already had sort of a couple of years I wasn't that close to splits but I was certainly a lot closer than when I started and then that couple years of experience combined with then okay I'm going to chuck some heavy more intense strength training methods of flexibility the progress I saw was dramatic is that the strength method or is that the fact that I've built this really nice base to then you know build that tool pyramid off I think it could be a combination of both and for the people that see the side splits and actually are crazy enough to want to go for them and commit to them there's a misbelief that everyone can get a completely crotch to the floor side split from what I've seen and looked at with different forms of hip socket anatomy based on the retroversion or whatever of the hips it is not anatomically possible for every single person to do it even if they followed the optimal stretches for the different areas yeah I would completely agree it took me I don't know how long it took you for mid splits it took me one year basically ish pretty much to the day to go from being like this to being flat flat enough to count as similar to me about a year and a half I'd say and that was the twice daily sort of stretching of something that was more like three four five sets no sorry not to I say twice weekly twice daily would have been pretty brutal twice weekly yeah three to five sets kind of strength training methods just holding those but and mine did end up you know I pushed certainly towards the end and my hips just weren't feeling great if I really went for like trying to get I guess a truly flat middle split would be the torso flat and the legs completely towards the side and you know you're basically being squished in half without the pelvis being really posterior on the legs exactly yeah yeah so I think almost for most people a middle split would look like a really really wide pancake and that's probably a pretty good you know ultimately doesn't matter you know like what's the middle split useful for what's it useful to you I mean it looks pretty cool to do a Van Damme split on some chairs and flex at the same time yeah yeah like that's pretty cool doesn't need to be perfectly flat probably not no you choose your angles accordingly it's all about where the camera's placed for me middle splits was for planche to make that lever shorter the straddle say for front levers as well front levers and it's for one on handstands the wider the straddle the lower it's like I don't need a flat handstand flat split so for me like being maybe 10 centimeters off the floor that was where I had no discomfort in the hips I felt pretty good but I had loads of range to play with for anything that I was after and it's not even about the destination it's the journey let's put that quote in there should be up on the up on the gym it's the progress that you make there you'll yield benefit even if you don't get all the way to the bottom I know it helped just my comfort during squats because I tend to be quite a wider stance hips externally rotated type of squat it's more comfortable for my hips and I found that doing the side split getting closer towards the floor did help with that because I was doing some active work in that split too I wasn't just completely supported in the split with blocks or like cushions underneath my my bum doing it active had a good translation strength and the adductors which are a pretty big mover for the squat yeah yeah I'm I completely agree and it didn't require every single day stretching for me it was just literally one session a week but never missing that session because typical to me I'd do a lot of volume and I'd push it pretty hard and I'd be sore for like three four days afterwards there wasn't really much of a leg day back then because I was an upper body bro and I was just doing my splits it was a good combination I like it I like it I think as well that soreness I think it's probably a good thing to mention for people who do train flexibility in that more strength training way like the trend should be up but there's definitely going to be probably half your week that you're going to have worse flexibility than you're going to have better simply because of the the doms that you will get from it especially hamstrings if you train loaded flexibility hamstrings pretty hard because they're such a fast twitch muscle the doms just seem to be way worse on them and it's like okay I am getting more flexible but at least half my week I'm definitely not and it looks like I can't even touch my toes and this is where the myth of do I need a stretch every day comes in because you do stretching and it makes you sore and then you think for one that stretching is going to alleviate soreness that doesn't really do that and it's like you need time and just blood flow period is going to help but yeah going backwards is a reality that does happen with the stretching and you have to wait often like you would in strength work the four or five plus days before you've got access to a similar range again but it doesn't always go up that's the thing you need to remember flexibility improves faster if you stretch harder and more intensely so I guess there's got to be like a sweet spot right there's definitely there's the as we said there's the people who don't stretch they just you sit in a stretch you're like you know you're not really thinking about it too much you're just you're texting your mate you're you're sitting there you're gonna get five percent of the benefit and then there's the people who stretch absolutely insanely hard and are kind of given the wrong signal that if you can't breathe when you're in a stretch yeah you know your body is prioritizing not breathing which is kind of important for living over like holding that position so it's not again it's not sending the right signal if you can find that balance between I'm trying it's pretty intense it's pretty hard but I feel that it's manageable and I'm in control that's like the sweet spot for a stretch and auto regulating based on that sensation is a good one too because you can't always use your range of motion in the mirror or just reference point of your own body as the guide all the time because you can be more sore you can be more tired fatigued if you just try and force that then bad things happen bad things can happen if first in the morning you're going to be tighter if you're maybe getting a bit sick a bit under the weather if you're cold you're going to be tighter there's lots of things that go into it that you know if you have that expectation of like last week I was only one yoga block from the floor in my middle splits now this week I'm this much like I'm going to try like that expectation if you try to force that position and try to replicate maybe what you had beforehand you know there's a reason that your body's holding you back it might not be just the fact that you're not trying hard enough it might be some of those other signals maybe a little bit more recovery you know if you're getting that time in the position you're still getting some good stimulus there you know you're still reinforcing that pattern in terms of the said principle in your body like come back next week come back next session be a little bit of patience around it but yeah there will be those weeks where you have maybe two three four sessions where nothing appears to be happening but why lights is cool unseen progress is happening so there's some mechanisms in the background that you know maybe haven't been expressed yet whether that's actually like physiological changes or whether that's that sort of central nervous system change that approached the position and then all of a sudden you kind of see this big improvement and suddenly everybody's like oh no this actually this position's fine I can actually express way more and it does tend to look like flexibility moves in kind of a step as opposed to this like one trend that is fantastic because yeah if you've never done stretching consistently for extended periods of time you will be confused by the soreness the rate of progress and I've experienced very similar things and seen that with other people too where it's that when you want to like skip the session or just kind of half do it for those ones you just spoke about that's where those dormant gains are waiting to be had if you were just to completely rest versus actually doing the stretching routine you're going to get so much more out of doing the stretching routine but it requires that like patience in the moment yeah you can see it as a deload as well if you think about middle splits is again a good example like almost we're increasing the intensity as we're approaching our maximum range of motion so by you doing a session and you're still going through the range like the motions of doing it but you're not expressing as much it's kind of like doing the same session with lifting a little bit less weight you know you know your performance isn't quite there you've still done the work and come back and those those adaptations that were after are still happening just you know there's that discrepancy it's when you get frustrated you lose all mindfulness you get disconnected from your body that's a real recipe for not making flexibility like a good session whereas it's the breathing it sounds a bit woo woo here but I think this is what I do enjoy about flexibility is it does force you to be present it forces you to breathe you've got to scan your body whereas if you just were to chuck music on maybe some some metal music when you're doing stretching might not be the best get you out of the present moment I would say that on the opposite end of the spectrum if it's feeling really good also know when to call it a day it's always that like last set when someone gets injured or something catastrophic happens so you know yeah if you made some improvements be like cool that was good I don't need an extra five centimeters of range don't get grady it's the same thing as those beginner gains where everything you do when you first start stretching you improve every single session you make a large range of motion increases if you've been in the game for longer you gotta be really grateful for just a micro bit of progress because that's happened to me too I was doing pancakes and I'm like I actualized progress after that three four week period wow I'm feeling really good my chest is really close to the floor I'm just gonna push that little bit further and then I got a hamstring strain because I was trying to like go super like I was trying to do it with my feet closer together where I'm got more range in my adductors like this so I went closer in change the movement pattern got greedy and then I had like a annoying gray one strain oh man I mean I've again I've done the same thing I was warming up with some middle splits felt really really good and I was like you know what would look great for the gram a van dam split on some chairs okay it did look good until I had yeah like a great two tear in the adductor how long did it take you to rehab that I know what so this isn't well in all honesty I don't think I have to this day like that was that was the lot like my adductors fine but there's such now a psychological restriction with the like I can still feel my muscle tearing in like I know that I how to describe it like if you would pull apart a bit of meat that's you know he slow cooks the meat that's kind of how it felt and that feeling has not left me so at the moment it's not a position that I need but it has there's a lot to overcome there to get back to that range I don't think it would be a problem but yeah it's a real mental battle coming back because you've got this reference of how you were able to move recently before that and then it's like a few months before you even close to where you used to be and it's because we look at stretching like it's really safe like stretching something that you do to decrease pain and it prevents injury but then if you're putting your whole body weight and supporting it with your own adductors it's like any other exercise where if the muscles under too much load it can't tolerate especially at a stretch that can happen yeah for sure I mean that was just for me stupid but you know we live and we learn you know it's there's something that I would advise someone not to do but whether I take my own advice in that instance I was like you know I hadn't done any active split for ages I'd been doing mostly like handstands with some passive work for the session and I was it was feeling very good yeah there was a little too little resistance into that position yeah it's the type of thing you can hear two blokes talking about it with all their wisdom trying to prevent everyone else from not doing it but you gotta go through some minor tweaks yourself and I think that's it's a bit like if you tell a kid you know don't touch the the stove it's hot it's like you can tell them a hundred times but they do it they touch it once and they'll learn straight away don't stretch too hard okay they'll get injured don't stretch every day as hard as you can and through doms okay where's my progress you have to learn these lessons by it I'm sure you know like you're you're a physiotherapist by trade I think I've had enough injuries now to at least have enough experience to quantify some physio level but like I'm currently probably the strongest I've ever been you know despite I've had a labrum tear on my left shoulder I've had numerous rotator cuff issues like it's happened over the years it's a risk of training that is a much greater risk to be weak than it is to the risk of training I think so too and having these setbacks forces you to take stock you actually look at your program you look at your lifestyle variables all these really important like big rocks that you need to look at and then you have that honest like realization to yourself okay I was stressed I wasn't sleeping as much maybe my nutrition wasn't as good hadn't taken a deload in three months you start putting all these things together and then you realize wow and it's no surprise now that you've got that wisdom and maybe restraint to be able to hold back when you should and also push when you got it as well it's it's weirdly also given me more faith in my body like although I've had those injuries I'm like I actually can you know still bounce back from it and if I get injured it's maybe not the end of the world but also like the body's pretty resilient I think you can definitely go down the I'm afraid of hurting myself doing exercise and that's almost you know way worse than risking getting injury in the first place not so I'd rather everyone able to go through the process of training and not get injured but you know it's gonna be a possibility at some point if you never push yourself you're never gonna get the benefits from training even if there's that very very small risk of getting an injury I don't think I've ever spoke to someone that's trained for five years that hasn't had an ache a niggle or some type of injury period yeah and we're doing a training method where we're in control of pretty much everything it's we're not having to deal with any external elements like you coming and pushing me when I'm doing something and me spraining a joint it's pretty much down to load technique progress but sometimes stuff just happens to yeah not doing things for social media usually helps no which is which is why this bulletproofing exercises the panacea they prevent all injury you'll never have pain again I'm not a fan of it because I think it's just you're changing the training stimulus and it may be deloading you from your movement pattern take that lunge that we have spoken about multiple times if you've been doing heavy barbell lunges just to the ground and then you change it to that different knee angle shin angle all that stuff your load is reduced your range of motion is increased that in and of itself may make your body feel better it's not just the movement itself yeah definitely I think I've seen a lot of people rightly so mentioning that like people training for longevity is kind of just like an excuse not to train hard in the gym that's exactly what I was trying to say but you articulated it perfectly yeah and I've been guilty of that as well and it's like definitely periods of time in my training where I think now I've almost come full circle like when you start training like I just need to train hard bro and then you kind of get to that midpoint of training you've learned a little bit like I need to be doing the correct exercises of optimal form and you know the perfect volume perfect program then you get actually you just need to train hard bro you come you come back full circle all the time it's not too complicated the hard bit is being extremely honest with yourself in terms of like what you need now versus what you think you need and that's like the main thing what I look at with my own training is it's impossible to do everything at once and still progress like I'd love to be doing a lot of core work lower back work a lot of isolated rotator cuff exercises I get lazy I skip them and then I realize okay I'm getting these niggles in those areas I'm not training those movement patterns and those muscles in that way that's where I think bulletproofing exercises can help fill a gap sure whereas if I was just to do another bulletproof exercise that's in the same family of the exercise I'm already doing I don't think that's really going to help that much yeah if you're only doing bulletproofing bulletproofing exercises then yeah like you're not really training anything with a really significant amount of stimulus but like actually developing a large amount of strength like maybe you do squats but they're significantly lighter or yeah you're only doing these weird niche movement patterns because that's what's going to bulletproof my body it's like not ready and just on that longevity and training hard it's often changing to like easier variations that same same over relying on machines for longevity bro as opposed to doing free weights bodyweight exercise it can be a crutch if you go all in on certain areas why does longevity like why is the point of longevity training not to be high performing like why is it about doing things at a mediocre level and doing exercises at a lower risk because by doing that you can become maybe a jack-of-all-trades you can play with a lot of different things because the fatigue is a lot more lower relative to your normal style of training where you're strong and you're pushing heavy heavy loads or doing challenging positions that's a way of offloading you and sometimes it's just a way of transitioning out of the person's main thing they've always done yeah i get it if it's like okay maybe you've got an injury or maybe there's a reason in which you can't but like why would your training for longevity not include trying to maximize your performance at least a little bit maybe maybe the the problem isn't that we you you don't do all of your training at that maximum level of intent but if you're doing none of it at your maximum level of intent like are you really training for longevity or you're just like clinging to the physical ability that you have right now in the hopes that it doesn't get any worse like you're not trying to actually get better and it's like a fundamental shift in mindset because it's you're slowing the rate of decline and decay as opposed to fighting for progress yeah like you can still make improvements into your 40s 50s 60s like i'll definitely admit that once you still get 60 70 80 then you're definitely fighting a little bit of a decline but you've definitely got some decades on your side to still express like some really good level of athletic performance i like that a lot tom it's it should be the topic of that movement optimism um and also longevity being about a pro as opposed to yeah pass my prime just got to try and spare this body don't want to hurt myself it's like nah you like you can still be you know whatever it is that you want to do yeah let's choose some exercises that have a little bit less risk and some more reward but like you can still express your maximum level of performance the amount of people that you know i guess i i've known people before i got into this your average person and physical exercise maybe isn't a priority for them and you kind of accept that aging is just obviously aging does happen but you know that level of inactivity and the result of it is just kind of given but the more i've trained the more i've met people who have been doing this 20 30 40 years and you're like oh there's you know i can actually still perform at high level especially with handstands there's so many people who are doing circus level stuff in their 50s and 60s like that's that's amazing and i don't think you're going to get that from doing longevity exercises i think you'll be able to move probably well maybe but i don't see how having some high performing stuff is a antithesis to that it should support your main practice your bulletproofing longevity exercises should have progress built into them yeah but you should still be doing those generally agreed upon exercise that everyone thinks are great like deadlifts it's not an exercise that's thrown out there as a longevity movement whereas people would be doing people be doing every isolated component but not deadlifting hamstring curls back extensions on a machine you can still deadlift and you can find a way to do that that is pain-free do a trap bar deadlift once you do like a rack pull you can always find a range of motion that suits your pain-free level and then before you know it your body will get better and ultimately more longevity yeah i've never seen it discussed in that way but i i really like that yeah i don't know i think it's like our minds i think again i feel like i've been through those ebbs and flows of my own stuff with just injuring myself and there definitely is that like uh what was it in the hero's journey it's like the the pit of despair or something that like that part of the journey where you're like oh no i fucked up i shouldn't have gone on this journey i should have i should have stayed at home um and you have to go through that to realize oh no like i am capable of achieving these things you just wanted to bring a law of the rings reference into this podcast yeah i guess so you need a lot of different drills for each muscle group in order to get flexible i've seen this online where there's like a hamstring carousel and there's like 12 15 different stretches whereas from my experience less is more i pick a few things i really try and progress them and it allows your body the time to actually adapt get used to the stretch the position what do you think uh yeah definitely i think it's the same probably less so with hypertrophy sort of style of training and probably even some like cardio plyo stuff uh but certainly like if you want to get strong you need to understand how to form that exercise better and the only way you're going to do that is with repetition the same applies to flexibility if you're doing like 10 different stretches for your hamstrings like you're going to be stretching your hamstrings but the how much you can squeeze out of the one stretch if you really like master it and understand how to have that conversation with your body to go deeper into a position is vastly vastly better than doing like one set of five different exercises and you see progress in that one movement and it's motivating to look back at your own photos and videos see that happening over time whereas it comes into that like junk volume i am doing five or six different hamstring stretches two three sets each and you start to go through the motions as opposed to putting the intensity in the focus to a few movements yeah i think i mean it is kind of boring and it like ultimately and you have to be a little bit on the spectrum to be like i'm just going to do the same thing every single session and write in my little notebook that i i made one centimeter of improvement this and only you care about that specific adaptation yes exactly but it does work and it is the the fastest like it's the most direct route to the end goal um when would you introduce variation so we just said you know pick a few things for a certain muscle group or movement what's your general period where you'd be like okay i've stuck to this for this period change it up so i feel that it depends on the i think flexibility in general is quite uh i would classify it as like you have almost like more high more intellectual body parts and dumber body parts like the the squat and the deadlift are dumb exercises you could just do them for a very very extended duration and continue to make progress because it's like it covers so much whereas maybe there's certain exercises that you need to be a little bit more uh yeah intellectual with the exercises you do to them bring out the adaptations that you want um i would say with the flexibility side of things i kind of change exercises depending on basically what feels best so there's there's probably a few different variations you could do for like a pancake or a pike or hamstring stretch or front or hip flexor stretch and when you're beginning the the position you might need to get in to get the best feeling of you know getting a stretch might be very different like okay i've done this now for like two or three months i've maybe able to get into a better position i can then utilize one of these other exercises to feel that stretch in a different way so it's not necessarily that like i would change them because they need changing because the stimulus is different it's that maybe i'm not leveraged in the way that i was beforehand and and now i've got a flexibility that i can now get into and get a really good stretch from this new exercise so i'm just going to use this from now on it feels good so the example that be say a standing pancake where you're going against gravity versus using like a machine to pull you forward yeah exactly i mean there's no point doing a seated pancake if you know you're sat on your bum and your back's rounded over like you're not getting nothing out of that gravity is your best friend when it comes to stretching and gravity is always going this direction it's going down so if we're sat with our legs out in a straddle we're trying to fold forward gravity if we're sat upright is doing basically nothing to us it's it's neutral if we're stood and we're folding forward suddenly i've got the weight of my torso now pulling me into that stretch that's going to give me a way better stretch it's going to help me get further into that position so it's just like what are you best able to take advantage of do that stretch until it then becomes not as useful or you're able to do a different variation that gives you a better position moving on to posture we've seen a lot of those perfect posture type of videos and that stretching is something that you have to do to fix it or that you should fix it at all this is pretty contentious topic isn't it tom in terms of people think it's should be fixed or shouldn't be fixed i think again like i don't know if there is a right answer i think there's more and more evidence that's coming out that's like pain isn't necessarily associated to posture yeah and that's really like it's conflicting and kind of confusing for somebody who cares about it um and i don't know if i have a right answer like i started off following i did pull checks qualifications and he's you know his whole thing is like become a movement exercise coach and it's it is corrective in nature so posture was always a big part of that and early on i thought posture was important and then i don't know if i think it's important now i think from an aesthetic point of view i think it's i think it looks good i think you know we ultimately there's got to be some sort of aesthetic focus to our training you don't don't just train to get strong like you know it's nice to look a certain way uh it definitely helps anyway yeah um so i think posture from that perspective you might want to stand up straight with shoulders back um i don't know where flexibility fits in that i think as there's a lot of habit you know is stretching for 60 seconds going to undo being sat at desk like this all day i think you know one's got a stronger stimulus than the other how you go about fixing it is like okay well i need to do if i'm spending all of my time in this position how do i give my body the experience of the opposite yeah and there's and there's lots of different ways you could go about doing that yeah it's uh does it cause pain does it cause injury this is when people came into the clinic to see me it was one of the first things that mentioned like oh should i improve my posture this comes back to like let's get you strong first yeah yeah because it's like they want to do some gentle static stretches which have their place but they want to do that in isolation whereas i think the combination of stretching the say the agonists or the tight muscles on the front combined with strengthening the muscles on the back so doing stretching and strength training goes a long way to improve or at least uh increase your awareness of your posture in place but this is i love the like psychological side of things because i think you can talk about all the methods that get you to where you want to be but ultimately it's like can i convince you that your body is robust and that it's not like it's not a problem and that you're able to deal with the things that you go through on a day-to-day basis like that's ultimately kind of especially with physio you're guiding someone from having pain but even if you're not injured you're kind of on that journey to like having faith in your body that you're able to deal with day-to-day tasks and that education was the biggest thing to be like there's many people that have really poor posture no pain at all there's people that have poor posture and they also have pain but you're looking at it in a in a vacuum of just the posture itself not the bio psychosocial aspects all those different pieces which make you a human being um i don't think it's something that you you have to fix i just think the the basic daily habits go a really long way like use a stand-up desk um don't spend too much time in any one posture i'm sure you've had to stand at the airport in line waiting for like an hour yeah you get uncomfortable for that for that you wiggle around you do that i think the classic phrase your next posture is your best posture can't go wrong with that um and it runs a little bit deeper i think it's like you look at someone who's depressed they're not going to be like yeah i'm really happy they're going to be like contorted like like that you're you're hiding away so it can manifest in different ways but yeah saying posture bad cause pain injury i don't think there's yeah i think i think the evidence has shifted more towards the like yeah i think i think your your comment on just get strong it is probably like being strong is never a weakness is is what i like to tell people and i think that's like yeah is is it going to solve all your problems no but it's probably going to tick quite a few boxes was that you can't go wrong getting strong by adam makens yes have you heard that one before yeah i think that that summarizes a lot because you can pick any pain dysfunction that you've got you can improve your strength and it will go a long way towards offloading that area and if you get stronger too it can also improve flexibility if you're training through that extended range too yeah i mean yeah both strength training and flexibility training is kind of a pretty strong painkiller as well it's it's like you do something that hurts and then it makes the other aspects and of things in your life comparatively hurt less because you've done something that is you know painful and uncomfortable comes back full circle to what you said about uh stretching one of the main benefits is that stretch tolerance you improve your discomfort be able to push into that same thing goes with any type of strength work same for pain and injury um a lot of those passive modalities like stretching ice baths saunas they don't do as much as going for a walk strength training at a level that you can tolerate that stuff it's trying to convince people of the power of you can be your own doctor by using exercise if we could figure out how to do that the world would be such a better place now you're right how about muscle asymmetries differences left to right do you want to fix those two uh probably not no yeah i agree all right end show yeah in the short answer i mean if you were to throw a tennis ball like there's going to be one side they're going to be able to throw further on if you're going to write something on a piece of paper one's going to look like a two-year-old did it and the other one might look somewhat legible it's like okay we're asymmetrical beings for the most part um if the the what i tend to go with is like from a strength perspective anyway if you can do like two three four reps more on one side than the other i.e our bicep curls at the end of the training session the other day stay tuned to tom merrick the bodyweight warrior check out that collab yeah if you've got a really big discrepancy that's probably going to feed its way negatively into your compound lifts that are bilateral if it's you know marginal it's probably not going to be the biggest deal i play golf um probably the worst sport for having some asymmetrical your rotation in the trunk must be on point yeah in one way uh like it's like okay internal rotation next rotation on hips is very clearly in one direction uh from the spine i i'm i'm better at side bending in one way than the other is that optimal probably not um is it kind of i just accept that it's something that goes along with the sport and the thing that i enjoy doing yeah and do i do some stuff in the gym to try and correct that yeah i'll probably do some like cable rotations in the opposite way i do some conditioning in the opposite way is it going to solve it and be absolutely perfectly symmetrical no but we're not living in a laboratory i agree it's trying to minimize and mitigate the massive difference between sides not trying to make them exactly the same because no no elite sport athlete when they're doing a one dominant side are they trying to make it the exact same as the other side no yeah it's like also you don't want to just leave one side dragging behind like i want to get both stronger obviously one's probably going to be a little bit better than the other i think if you look at your training and all you do is bilateral movements two arm two leg putting in some unilateral even if it's not the exact same weight reps both sides i think that's going to help with making it not as extreme of a difference whereas if you only ever did bilateral you might uh have a bigger difference side to side not that it's the worst thing in the world no i mean from a flexibility perspective the the main way i would do this is i would just either half the good side or double the bad side depending on the sort of stimulus that you're doing so uh you know if you had a tighter left hip in like the pitching position sometimes people can be quite a big difference um you know your good sides you're going to still see progress of that like one minute per day per week if you're doing static stretching if you want to see a little bit more intent on the on the lagging side you just add a little bit more volume there obviously there's a little bit of a balance between like if you're going to do just double uh then you might see some significant differences but it's not something you do forever the idea is that it kind of like balances out a little bit and you return to normal training it's not that you have this permanent imbalance there's also worth mentioning that sometimes that asymmetry is just structural like do you have a scoliosis um i've got one leg that's longer than the other that definitely that definitely doesn't help with being perfectly symmetrical so all of these things are like i'm not gonna i'm not gonna have some bone extension in one leg to even my legs out i think you're tall enough exactly so uh yeah just you know some of these things you can't necessarily help as well tom merrick appreciate your time brother where can uh people find out more of your stuff uh you can find me on youtube if you enjoy flexibility stuff i have probably like a hundred classes now on youtube so you can follow along uh and yeah also on instagram at the bodyweight warrior as well good to connect man it was uh 2019 the last time that we collabed i went to your neck of the woods and uh it's crazy to see from your mid-20s to now 30s just both of us pursuing the online business teaching this for a living now it's been great in some ways i feel like not a lot has changed which is which is really strange like when i'm sitting here at the table i can remember being sat in my office and work like having lunch watching some body by rings videos you know it's like a it's a bizarre position um yeah it's it's great i really really love it's been a pleasure to hang out with you as well and chat about all these things that normal people don't even think about but i'm sure if you're watching an hour podcast you probably loved it so yeah drop a drop a comment to show your support around cheers man you