 How big can you get with only calcacabergoline, pretty damn big? Pretty damn big. As in reaching your natty potential, bodybuilder big, or just beach big? I feel like with that type of question, you have to answer it holistically. When it comes to just looking good, that's easily achievable within a year of training. Push-ups, pull-ups, inverted rows, sissy squats, that's going to get you pretty close to that. Now, in terms of maximizing everything, there are a few things that are going to be a that aren't worked necessarily on a calisthenics exercise that you would have to be calisthenics that you would have to be calisthenics, that you would have to be calisthenics, that you would have to get elsewhere, but we'll delve into that. So if someone just trained at home, say for three to five years doing bodyweight exercise only, and they went out in public, would they be turning heads with their physique? If they were lean, like 10, 11, 12% body fat, absolutely. That's a great point you've raised because that's the real illusion. People will see those doing calisthenics and think, oh, they're massive. They're ripped. They're huge. But it's that illusion of the leanness. If you get the right type of lighting, the right type of angle, if they're seen with their shirt off, say at a public pool, they're going to look huge. But they're not actually objectively as big as, say, a bodybuilder who's 230 pounds, but 15, 20% body fat. Especially from a raw measurement standpoint, unless they're standing next to one another. And with regards to the leanness, I definitely would say that's very punctuated, especially in the back. The back can look a lot more developed than it is when you're lean, as opposed to when you're bulked up as well. And especially calisthenics, we're spamming the pull-ups, all different variations, grip widths, a lot of inverted rows as well. So if there is one point in the physique that's going to be quite prominent, it tends to be the back. Absolutely. Especially when you supplement with things like, you really like Romanian deadlifts. Anything for your spinal erectors, when you get that Christmas tree going and the upper back's popping, it's a really cool look. How about to the front? So we've got the chest, the shoulders, and the triceps. With calisthenics, what would be the movements that would be used to make those areas pop? So for me specifically, it's an interesting story. I used to prefer weighted push-ups when compared to weighted dips. Just because whenever I did weighted dips, I could never really feel them in my chest. But as I continued training, I discovered that that was as a result of the form that I was using. So street lifters, for instance, they use a form in which they'll minimize the range of motion to lift the most weight. It's a lot like power lifting in a way. And I realized, it was like a comment somebody left. He was like, the plates didn't move at all. And I'm like, dude, what are you talking about? And I looked at it and I was like, you're right. And ever since then, I'm like focusing on more of a, I guess you could say bodybuilding specific form, but really just a form that allows me to hit my pecs. So these days I prefer weighted dips over weighted push-ups just because they're easier to load. And for the people watching and listening, you're throwing up 80 kilos, four plates on the dip, repping it out with a full range of motion. So this is really uplifting for the fellow naturals that are hearing this because it correlates nicely with your physique because you've been progressing that dip. Now you're using a technique that you can stretch the pecs, go, go nice and deep. But most importantly, you're overloading it. And that's something we're going to get to in this conversation because sure, you can get big with only calisthenics, but there's going to become a point where it becomes quite inefficient in a way to actually stimulate and fully fatigue yourself. Absolutely. And I think even with regards to that, just to give the fellows at home, just some perspective, you can scale just body weight training out for surprisingly long period of time with stuff like rings, your tempo, your pauses, manipulating where you're pressing from in terms of where your hands are at. And even when you're doing weighted calisthenics, those can still be an accessory like an adjunct and assistance exercise. Mm hmm. Yeah. So because the alternative would be doing a ton of sets and a ton of reps in order to actually get yourself at that point of stressing your body, because with bodybuilding particularly, we know that there's a weekly volume recommendation, 10 to 20 hard sets per week to get that sweet spot so where you can actually stress your body and then you can recover and adapt from that over time. But if you're only doing bodyweight exercises, there tends to be this inverse relationship between that volume and intensity. If someone is only doing a bodyweight approach, is there merit in doing more than 20 sets per week? That's an interesting question. And I'd like to answer it within the framework that I tend to just look at programs when I make them in general. So I'm someone where I don't necessarily say that you have to do high or low volume. You do the appropriate volume that you need to get stronger over time. And anything else is, is, uh, accessory to that. So if you're just training with bodyweight, like I said, when you're just starting off, you'd be surprised how little you need to add reps. Um, and to challenge yourself to take yourself to failure. You know, if you've only been going to the gym six months, you may only need sets of 20 on the pushups, just regular pushups to go to failure. Um, and then in terms of scaling it long term, a big reason why I prefer training with like calisthenics and weighted calisthenics is that, uh, exertion equated like effort equated to say a dip versus bench press. The weighted dip or the dip is going to be less fatiguing than the bench press, even when taken to the same proximity to failure. Um, so that does lend itself to just being able to get in more high quality work in the first place, which is why I really like it. But I do think that even when you're training with just body weight, there are things that you can do like with intensity techniques and leveraging yourself a certain way where you, you're not going to have to do more than like 12 to 15 reps. I can't even do if I'm doing everything I can on say like a ring pushup, for instance, I don't need to use any weight. And I just got back from the gym, not too long ago. I benched three 15 for volume. So some pretty easy sets of five just to put into perspective. Yeah. That's such a misconception about body weight exercises being too easy. It's really common in, in the gym culture, but it comes to trying to make the exercise as hard as possible, as opposed to as efficient as possible. Because both you and I and many people listening, if you were tasked with gun to your head, do as many pushups as you can. You're going to be doing that rep speed so quick. You'll be bouncing your chest out of the bottom, not spending any time in the lockout at the top or the bottom. Of course, you could do double your reps. You add in some rest, pause there, you can keep going. But with these intensity techniques, it really does lend itself to body weight exercise. That's what they're there for. Absolutely. And with regards to people that really prefer training with barbells and machines and things of that nature, calisthenics provided that you are going to a good form standard, like you were saying, you can use them for the rest of your life. I still use them. I still use the body weight curls, the body weight tricep extensions. I haven't done the ring pushups so much lately just because I have other movements that kind of fill a similar slot. But like I could still do them. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. So if you are someone that is just trying to maximize your performance, doing as many reps as possible, I'd say that you're going to need more sets to get to get that stressor in. Whereas if you're making it as hard as possible with slow negatives, pauses in that deep stretch, using poor leverage variations of an exercise, i.e. a wide grip pull up, behind the neck pull up, that will take care of how many sets that you actually need. Because it's a form of adding weight to a body weight exercise in a sense. Absolutely. And that just goes back to a truism that our bodies don't necessarily care what weight we're using. It cares about the stress that we accumulate over time, like the challenge over time. And with the leveraging, like you were saying, if I was to try to do as many pushups as I could in 60 seconds, those pushups are going to look ridiculous. No lockout, no eccentric control, bouncing off my elbows at the bottom. But if I was to pause at the top, maybe put my hands on some yoga blocks to increase the stretch at the bottom, like maybe a four or five inch deficit, suddenly I'm going to be able to do a quarter of the reps. And it's going to be a lot more substantive in a bodybuilding context or hypertrophy context. You nailed it there. It is so important to know what you're training for. It sounds really basic, but I think if we consume online content, we'll see some people training for strength. We'll see some people training for hypertrophy, other type of athletic endeavors. And it's really tempting to take a lot of every single domain. But if your main objective was to get big using predominantly a calisthenics-based approach, supplementing with some weights, which we'll get into, then you have to make it as hard as possible. Yeah. And the easiest way to do that is to, and I tell people this all the time, you create a standard of form and then you just, you can deviate a little bit from it, like make it a little stricter and get a little less strict to put reps on the board and add weight if you need to. And then you can clean it up later. But provided you stay within this margin and you go from there, that's going to set you up to be able to scale calisthenics long-term. Because personally, this year, other than just now when I decided I wanted to do barbell bench press, I haven't flat barbell bench press all year. And I've still gotten stronger. My body composition at the body weight that I'm at currently compared to the beginning of the year, I'm leaner than I was at this body weight. And I've only done weighted dips, weighted pull-ups, inverted rows. And, you know, I supplement with like barbell curls and things like that and camber bar bench press, but no real basic barbell bench press the entire year. My physique still progressed over time. That's excellent that you've had that carryover as well of strength. And I really, I don't have any evidence to substantiate this, but just from being in the trenches, seeing those that develop a really good base of body weight strength, they can apply it quite nicely with a little bit of practice to bench press, overhead pressing, if they've developed strength in those movement patterns with calisthenics. And I just want to highlight what you said there about having consistent technique because constant variety, changing your grip widths all the time. I'm talking every second workout, you're doing a different style of technique. It becomes difficult to measure your progress and also apply progressive overload. And with calisthenics, it can be easy just to think, oh, I'm just, I'm just repping it out. Just do a bunch of pull-ups and push-ups, but you apply the same underlying principles as you would in bodybuilding. And it's no surprise you can get big with calisthenics. Yeah. I mean, you just look at those, those, those French fellas. I forget what their names were. Baki and Ludo. They're really jacked. And they, you know, they do barbell squats and things to supplement. But of course, at the cornerstone of the program, they compete in street lifting. They're doing weighted dips, weighted pull-ups, and they're extremely jacked. Yeah. And you'll see these type of elite calisthenics people, elite bodybuilders as well. You think, wow, they must get there by doing something really different. But you peek behind the curtains and every time it's just the basics done super consistently progressing to a higher level. How heavy he can go, Baki, on a weighted pull-up is just bananas, man. Like he's not doing all these cross-body lap type of iliac pull-downs. It's just weighted pull-ups, probably some rows, rinse and repeat for years and years and years and years, getting stronger over time. Yeah. I've watched a couple of his training logs and, you know, other than specificity, like doing the weighted dip and the weighted pull-up, it's pretty similar to what you would see in a power lifting or a power building program. Staying healthy is really key for actually reaching your potential of size as well as strength. Do you have any practical tips if someone is using calisthenics to make it a little bit more injury, reducing the injury risk of that? That's a great question. So just first and foremost, I think calisthenics lend themselves well to a lot of the things that I like to incorporate in programs to like prehab and rehab injury or tweaks or tendonitis. One is blood flow and two is like a stimulus to fatigue ratio, meaning how well does it grow you for the amount of recovery that it takes to come in and do it again? And calisthenics are already pretty good for that. Now, if one was encountering some recovery issues with weighted calisthenics for whatever reason, I think it comes back to, like we were talking about, the rep quality or form standard and evaluating. Are we going and deviating too far from what we deem to be acceptable form? And a lot of times with injuries and tendonitis and such, it's really because we think our form is better than it is. And that's why typically I'd recommend people record themselves, even if it's just you got a soda can and you set your phone up somewhere. It doesn't need to be a crazy angle, but you need to be able to see what you're doing. That's fantastic. It always boils down to just those really simple fundamentals because I know for myself, when I've been grinding hard on a training phase for, say, six, eight weeks, you inevitably get to that point of plateauing. You're really trying to add that extra few kilos, but you just can't. What happens? You want to force that to happen by making the technique more sloppy. You're bouncing out of the bottom, you're coming down faster and you're eccentric. You're using all these little hacks to improve your performance at the expense of keeping your technique consistent. And I think another thing to be said on top of the technique like we've been talking about is I'm a big believer in what has worked for a lot of people in the past is more than likely going to work for you as well. And just because we're doing different exercises doesn't mean that those foundational aspects of programming don't still apply. So I'm really big in terms of my knowledge base. John Meadows and Dan Green, a power lifter, world-renowned bodybuilder. Rest in peace. John Meadows isn't with us anymore. But when you look at what they do, there is no reason why that power lifting type of programming or power building really because Dan Green is enormous. He does a lot of hypertrophy work, a lot of bodybuilding work. And when you take that type of programming and you just say, hey, instead of bench press, I'm literally just going to plug in weighted dips or weighted pull-ups, it works shockingly well. And I think in that regard, when it comes to people reaching a plateau, I think they'd be a lot better off in the first place if they were following more foundational programming. What I found is with calisthenics, people treat it like it's this amorphous thing that we have to treat differently. It's just an exercise. That's so true because it's in its infancy with evidence-based research in particular, you can't find many studies on it. Not that studies are the be-all, end-all, but they can help guide us in terms of some of the decisions that we make. And it just becomes with calisthenics, it's just do as much as you can as opposed to what is necessary to make ongoing progress. Absolutely. And I think in that regard, I can just use myself for an example. In terms of sets per week, like I said, I focus, putting into context, I've been training for a long time and I'm pretty strong, so I don't need as much volume to create a stimulus. How many years? See, that's an interesting question because the first time I've ever lifted a weight, 14 or 15, I got to like a 275 for two bench. And I didn't really work out at all until I was like 20-something. But I've been at it now, I would say, since lockdown pretty consistently. So whenever that was, we were just talking about the mythical time dilation that the lockdown created. But so about till then till now. So maybe seven years consistently. But of course, you get to a 275 bench when you're a teenager, you can't say you're totally untrained either. That's very impressive. It goes to show how you've made a really significant amount of progress in that five-ish years. And it's something that people that aren't consistent or are just starting out, if you can just string together three, four, five years of working out, not missing your sessions, you will look like a freak. Absolutely. Absolutely. Especially when you do your due diligence in terms of dieting, making sure that you're in a reasonable body composition. This year, we'll get back to what we were talking about in a sec because I don't want to sit here and talk about myself the whole time. But I'm really just saying that to give people at home perspective and maybe something to try. This year, I came off of like a two-year gaining phase, like in terms of calorie surplus. And I came down in body weight, got my body composition to somewhere I was happier with. And I just decided, hey, as an experiment, how well can I progress from here without necessarily being in a calorie surplus? And like we were just talking about earlier, the body weight hasn't changed at all, but I'm focusing on getting stronger across, not only the weighted calisthenics, but the curls, the leg exercises. And the body composition improved over time and the strength improved over time. Doing my weighted dips with the type of deep form that we talked about, three plates for like five or six was pretty tough. Now I'm up to four plates for five or six. That is awesome. Percentage-wise. And you can just know for a fact that if you're a similar body composition and you've increased your strength that much with comparable technique, I just can't see how you don't have a bigger chest. Absolutely. I'll make a post probably after this, but I didn't notice so much until I saw a picture of myself from around a year ago at the same body weight. And I'm like, I did not have these striations in my chest at the beginning of the year. So like you said. What are your current stats at the moment, Paris, height and weight? Ooh. So in terms of body weight, I'm about in the 190s. And in terms of height, like 5'10", 5'11". Damn, that's good. Yeah. That is with those stats at your level of leanness. I can see how you can keep making gradual improvements in your muscularity because we know this a bit more now. But in the past, it used to be go on this big bulk. You've got to be on this massive surplus. You have to have a really high body fat percentage, 15 plus to make productive muscle gains. But we're seeing more and more now. If you've been training for five years, you don't need as excessive of a surplus because in the end, you're just going to have to reduce a lot of that fat, take it off, take it off anyway. That's what's great about calisthenics is it incentivizes you to be on the leaner side. Because if you get way too heavy, those weighted pull-ups, man, it directly shows if you're carrying a bit more cushion. For me specifically, I get the talking point of like the heavier that you get, the harder calisthenics are. But provided that you stay within a reasonable body composition, you're not going to gain more than like 20 or 30 pounds at most peak bulk versus peak cut. So for me, I'm always someone to say that if the calisthenics are dropping a ton in performance, there's something going on with the programming. You know, because it's just like a total weight type of thing. Yeah. Actually, that's a really good point, Paris, because you've got to consider when you're doing your conventional lifts at the gym, you track how much weight is on the bench press. You also have your body weight too. But with a pull-up, it is added weight plus your body weight. So if you're tracking that as a measure over time, then you've got a good sense of your actual strength levels. Absolutely. And I think that the easiest thing that someone could do to just track their progress better or even work with percentages if they wanted to do like a power lifting style of program and just plug in the weighted calisthenics is to use the total weight. So for me, when I release programs and I use weighted calisthenics and then I'll give them a little drop-down table, put in your body weight, weight added, and then it'll spit out, you know, over the course of eight weeks or whatever, what I want you to do based on that. And I think that's a lot smoother than just trying to say, well, I did three plates, peak bulk, and it's getting easier as I lose weight. Or even as I gain weight, it's becoming more difficult as in I can't add as much weight. When really, if you look at the total weight, maybe it's not that you're getting weaker. It's just that the total weight is increasing and it's not necessarily weight added that's increasing. With the key weighted calisthenics exercises, what are your favorite rep ranges to train? Let's break it down per movement scientifically because that's important. Back exercises, I do find lend themselves well from like a mind-muscle connection for slightly higher reps. Experientially, I've just decided that there's this idea that it doesn't matter if we can feel the muscle working or not. If we go through the range of motion, it's the muscles working. And there's something to that when you're newer. But I feel like if you're bench pressing, for example, just to talk about that, and you never feel your chest and you only feel your triceps, there's something to that. So if we can use a rep range that helps an exercise feel better, we should do that. And I like spending the majority of my time when I'm laying out like a weighted pull-up progression or whatever with higher reps for that reason. Now, when it comes to your chest presses, like weighted dips, like a moderate rep range. So like anywhere between 5 to 12 is what I really enjoy. But the 20 rep sets are fun, but I don't spend as much time with those. I like that simplicity because you go less than 5 reps. You're really starting to enter more strength territory. Every single rep is a lot more difficult. They're slower, tons of mechanical tension. But as you are in that sweet spot of the 5 to 12, it gives you a nice guardrail as well because then you can keep your form pretty similar. Your main form, progressive overload, is increasing the weight. Because once you get into those 15, 20 plus sets, you're probably not going to be using that much weight for one, which has its downsides. But more importantly, the technique breakdown tends to happen, even to the best of us. Absolutely. And I think, see, when I lay out my own training, that's a bad habit that I even have sometimes when the weights are a little bit lighter just because the rep range is going to be higher as a result of that. Those reps aren't necessarily bad, but they don't look and feel as like in that form standard range as good as like when the weight is moderate or heavier. Especially when you're doing three sets and we know that a good training session is going to have around 10 to 15 sets on average total, say for a pool day. That's a lot of concentration. And I think we take that for granted because if we don't film our training, then we'd be surprised how many of our workouts we're not really mindful. We're going through the motions. We're not pushing ourselves as much as we should. But that sweet spot, 5 to 12, it's enough time per set where you can actually stay focused. Absolutely. And I think just this warrants talking about just because this is something that people in the space are concerned about at the moment is what is the optimal rep range? And a lot of folks ascribe to what is it, the 4 to 8 rep range because it comes with a variety of benefits that you can't deny. They develop strength better. The stimulus to fatigue ratio is probably in terms of like how gassed out you get. You're not going to get as gassed out on a set of 5 as you will on a set of 20. And they make your tendons stronger, better than like the lighter weights. But something that I think needs to be said is that we can't, at least in my opinion, you can take it or leave it, fellas at home. But we shouldn't just look at things within one axiom or one way of looking at it. Muscle building is not the end all be all. We talked about this a little bit earlier, but the tendon health also comes from blood flow. And you're not getting as much blood flow like a pump with a set of 5 or 8 that you will with a set of 20. So it makes sense to me, at least at some point in my programs, to include higher rep work because you're still building muscle with a set of like 12 to 15 or depending on the exercise, 20 reps. But it's also driving a lot more blood flow, which is needed if you're spending a lot of your time primarily training in a higher weight and lower reps because your tendons are going to need that recovery. I wish it was simpler, but then I also don't wish it was simple because you can't even make some recommendations such as if you're doing isolation. Yeah, do more than 15 reps because there is value in doing a heavy set of 5 to 8 on an incline curl as well, for example. I've done a heavy set of 3. I took those 70s for a ride once. Oh, 3 reps, hoist them up. 3 or 4 reps, yeah. Yeah, right. Yeah. What is that, 30 kilos, 35? I'm not sure. That is… I'm a mathematician. That is very heavy. The stimulus to fatigue ratio, questionable. Yeah, no, for sure. I mean, it looked cool. It felt cool, but I don't do that typically on isolation exercises. So, say someone's basing their program. They're doing weighted calisthenics because they value that form of progression, but they still want to do bodyweight training. A well-rounded program would include some free weights in the mix and machines. What would it look like, a session, say a pull workout, if you're using weighted pull-ups, but you also want to plug in the gaps that are missing if you only did just weighted pull-ups? That's really easy because, like I said, I just got back from the gym, so I can just tell you what I did. All right, so I follow, and we've talked before, but I do like a hybrid of weighted calisthenics and barbells and machines. That's why this is easy to answer. I started off with bench press. I do like a push-pull type of split, push-pull arms in the same workout. Started off with bench press, moved into the weighted calisthenics. In terms of machines, at this point, we've already worked our chest and our back with a compound movement. We really just need to work our arms. You can do press-downs, and you can do like a preacher curl machine. It's as simple as that. Now, if you're to include non-upper body exercises in the context of a total body program, I would say that a weighted sissy squat is probably the best quad exercise that you can do, but you've got your adductors, and you've got your glutes, you've got your lower back. In terms of things that I would do to supplement, say like a weighted sissy squat, you could do leg extension, hamstring curl, a stiff-legged deadlift, and the adduction, good girl, bad girl machine. Really, that's all you need. Yeah. You're just thinking about what can't you achieve with your calisthenics exercises, and then you add in those missing pieces at the end. Just following this simple flow in a workout, I find is very effective. You start with your calisthenics and your free weight barbell, dumbbell, and then you can finish off with some more stable type of movements where you're using machines. There's a lot of anchoring in place. There's not much skill or technique. You just have to push and grind, because then you're getting all those benefits of strength, stability in your body with moving your body in space plus moving the free weights, so you can progress those easily. But then at the end of the session, it's more about just hit that muscle really, really hard. Yeah. And it's really that simple. Like we were saying, calisthenics is not this crazy, undefined thing that's so different than if you were to just train with barbells and machines, or you were to do whatever for resistance training. I'm actually making a video that I need to finish tonight that's going to get posted the day after this, where I talk a lot about that. So when it comes to programming, it doesn't matter if you're doing your TikTok exercises, your basic lifts, weighted calisthenics, anything. If you're following basic programming, they're all going to fall within a similar type of slot within the program. It's just about what you want to do specifically at the end of the day. Yeah, exactly. And that's where it's so fun combining calisthenics and weights, because you've got so many exercise options. When I first started, I just did purely calisthenics for the first, geez, I want to say like six, eight years of training. So you can understand that your exercise options are quite limited. The pro of that is you get hella strong, because you're not going from dip to bench press to military press to different types of machines. You've just got the dip, the push-up pretty much. So there's benefits there. But then over time, if you want to add some diversity into your training, you can swap what comes first. So if calisthenics is your arc that you're on at the moment, put that to start, finish with weights. Alternatively, you can put weights at the start, really focus on that. And then what I find really fun is because you've stimulated all the prime movers, then just a humble pull-up, it's going to be plenty challenging if you've thrashed your back before. So then you're getting this double whammy effect of bodyweight exercises being highly stimulative when you've already been fatigued. Yeah. And just to talk about what I did at the gym today, or just in my total training week, I have a day where I'll do a chest-supported barbell row. And then after that, when I do behind-the-neck pull-ups, the behind-the-neck pull-ups don't take as many reps to reach failure. Perfect example because I've been training since I was 17. I'm 32 now. I've always done vertical pulls before rows all the time because I've always prioritized being strong at my weighted pull-ups, how many reps I can do, muscle-ups, those type of things. Early this year, I'm like, why don't I do rows first? I'm going to progress some penlay rows or a chest-supported row, and then doing pull-ups afterwards. My performance on the pull-ups was just cut so much. It's like a really cool feeling when you're used to something being really easy, and you're able to do something to kind of elicit the feeling that you had when you first started doing it. Yeah, exactly. And I'm there training at the gym, just being humbled by bodyweight pull-ups. I'm thinking if someone was to see me, I was like, oh, look at this big jack dude struggling with eight reps on the pull-up. That's really cool. That's really cool. We spoke a lot about gymnastics rings for muscle building. They can be criticized because of the instability and the argument being that with rings, you can't create as much mechanical tension. So the argument is that they're not that great for bodybuilding. What has your experience been? I get those talking points, and in a vacuum, those things are true, where if something becomes overly unstable, you're not able to push as hard. So it's like you squat on a BOSU ball. It's like the prime example. I was going to give the same example, yeah. Exactly. But when you boil things down to extremes, they don't tend to apply as well in practical application. And in that regard, I find that if something is like, I like to say one deviation less stable than using the rings, for example, the rings are not so unstable that you can't generate a lot of force. I've loaded up over 100 pounds on those for reps, and I would not be able to do that if it wasn't stable enough for me to generate that force. I find that when something is one deviation less stable, it just forces you to use better rep quality to create that stability, which leads to better gains. Well said. I agree. And we have to think practically. Most people using rings are putting them in a squat rack, so the strap length is not that much. So what are the rings going to rotate a little bit on your chin-ups, or it's not going to kill your performance? Same thing if it's in a squat rack and you're lowering it to the floor to do push-ups. That strap's not the equivalent of at a gymnastic center where it's hanging from a high rig. That's really unstable. So I do agree. I don't think that the inherent instability renders it poor choice for muscle building. I think there's a lot worse TikTok exercises than doing ring dips or ring push-ups. Absolutely. And I think with regards to auditing or seeing how good our general approach to exercise is, I find that if ring push-ups are really so unstable for you that you can't do very many of them, and you're a pretty strong guy, that's just a symptom of how you tend to approach the more stable exercises. So are you getting more lax with the lowering, the eccentric? Are you getting lax in general in terms of your stability on that? And a barbell is stable. It's just a fixed object. You can get away with it in that regard. But the rings, they're going to move if you're not intentionally moving your own body. So I just find that they're a good diagnosis for that. And the criticism, I would say, comes from people that have just looked at the movement or haven't trained it extensively themselves. Because the first time that you do a ring anything, you're shaking like mad. And after a few workouts, you really surprise yourself with how stable you can be. A good example of this in free weights is a lunge with a barbell or with dumbbells. First time you do it, you're like, this is insane. How are people doing this? Couple workouts in, you're practically on a Smith machine. Absolutely. You're clipping off reps. And I'm so glad you brought that up because I was going to use that as a piece of supporting evidence. When you look at like a raw, how well are the legs worked by the exercise kind of standpoint, lunges or Bulgarian split squat or anything like that, they work the quads better for a lot of people with regards to, you know, are they able to stay upright? Are they able to keep their lower back out of it? Like for myself, for example, I have a shorter torso, longer legs. Split squats work better for me in that regard. And for a lot of people, they do. It's just the learning curve aspect of it. And then applying what you just said with that principle to the rings, if say you want to do push-ups with a wider grip to target more of your chest and you're doing it on parallettes or hands on the floor, you're fixed there. And sometimes that wider grip can feel uncomfortable on the joints, but you want to hit your pecs. That's where the rings come in because they move around freely. So you can get that deep stretch and the rings, even just for this one movement of the push-up, we keep talking about it. I think it's worth its weight in gold because it's almost a hybrid fly slash wide grip bench press. Absolutely. There's something to the way that it allows you to load not only the stretch, but the squeeze part of the movement. I really like cueing, and we'll just use another movement as an example of why that's important. I really like cueing on rows, making sure that even if you can't pause at the top, you're still squeezing your upper back and your mid-back. And that, for me, was the difference between the mid-back getting recruited and it not getting recruited. And much the same, it's the same on the ring push-up, but it's built into the movement so you don't need to be intentional with it. Ah, I see. It's forced activation of your stabilizers in your rotator cuff and around your scapula as well. And then also just with the chest as well because you come in and you squeeze at the top. You don't get that on a bench press. There is a squeeze aspect to it, but it's not like a full contraction like you can get with a ring. I think it's that encouraged retraction to protraction, which is present in many bodyweight exercises, but not so much in the bench press. At least not naturally, I think. I think you can cue that in bench press, but it's not intuitive for people. So like I've said for years now, you know, because it was a big talking point, I would say, when things were a lot more powerlifting centric. Oh, you can't move your scapula on the bench press. You can actually, you just have to be intentional about it and you likely aren't doing it because you've, you've cued over retracting your scapula on bench press for so long. Your body just, it's like with anything else, it's habitual. You're just not, you're just back here and pressing like that as opposed to pressing with like a more, I don't know the biomechanical term for it, but you're a more neutral scapula. It comes back to the blanket technique cues that are taught for exercises tend to be just about maximizing how much weight you can lift. And over, over time, as the fitness community has progressed, there's a lot more nuance now, which is awesome. It's, this is the technique. If you want more growth, this is the technique. If you want more performance, which as someone new to training can be a bit overwhelming because Jeff Nipper, said this, but a powerlifting coach said this, who do I listen to? I think it's why I shifted kind of less towards being purely educational because that can get overwhelming for the viewer and to incorporating like, here's just what I like to do. And here's why I like it. And then offering like an entertainment aspect to my video as well. Um, because like you said, what one guy says, another guy might say something different. I really just break it down to, Hey, I've been doing this for a long time. Here's how it feels. If that sounds cool, you can do it too. And it's not really all that complicated. I love that. And, um, it reserves you the right to change your mind over time because we all go through this, whether you're putting content out there for other people to see, or just sharing some tips with a friend at the gym, your understanding of things will evolve over time. And, and, and that's okay too. Absolutely. Like even, even for me, I, um, we were talking about the weighted dips earlier. I used to like, like, I would say that like weighted dips are a good exercise, but in my mind, I felt like they were shit because I was doing them poorly. And they're one of my favorite exercises now because I do them in a way that suits me better, works my muscles better and allows me to progress, um, better over a longer period of time. This episode is sponsored by Fitness FAQs. Learn how to master calisthenics with the best body weight workouts. Use the coupon code podcast 20 at checkout to get 20% off when shopping at Fitness FAQs. Hurry, take advantage of this discount and enjoy the progress. With, um, your training, have you had much experience with, uh, any type of calisthenics strength skills? Because I've seen you do one arm pull-ups. Kudos to join the club on that one. But what about other stuff like, uh, planches and front levers and stuff? See, that's kind of where, uh, uh, my, um, expertise doesn't extend as far just because I can do a front lever, but I'm not really sure how to leverage myself to do it for time. It's just more like a brute strength type of thing. And same thing, honestly, with the weighted, uh, I've done weighted one arm chin-ups as well. But with a one arm chin-up, it's like, uh, just, uh, I've gotten strong at rows and weighted pull-ups. Let's just see if I can do the, the weighted one arm pull-up. But even with that, you know, I'm sure that there's a more efficient way. And then same thing with the planche. I've never really tried one before, honestly. I bring it up because our, our topic's about building size with calisthenics. And when you get exposed to body weight training online, you're going to see all the weighted calisthenics movements. But you'll also see the skills, handstands, front levers, planches. And when we see calisthenics athletes, they're lean, ripped, so they look big, right? There tends to be this thought that planches and front levers build size. But I want to clear up that if you're doing those for the majority of your training, you're not going to get any meaningful change in, in muscularity because they're isometrics. I'm glad you said it because I've, I've mirrored a similar sentiment. I actually, in a video that I uploaded not too long ago where I just demonstrated doing the weighted one arm chin up, I was like, this is a parlor trick. This is a horrible exercise if you're trying to get bigger because it's like, you think about it. How strong do you have to get to even do a one arm chin up in the first place? And when we look at like a standard set and rep range for what we would do for any other back exercise, are you going to do three sets of 12 on one arm chin ups? You would already have done so much more training before that because you can't just do that. I'd imagine it's the same thing with planches and things of that nature. Now, if I'm wrong on that, you know, that's just, you know, where I'll just eat my piece of humble pie and admit that. But in my experience, I'm not building any muscle with a one arm chin up personally. Yeah. You've got to think of it like powerlifting, the same thing, because one arm chin up training is for strength. You're going to be doing heavy chin ups in the three to five rep range consistently, like doubles or triples if you're trying to build a lot of top end strength. And by virtue of doing that, your CNS is pretty cooked. So you're not going to be able to do as much volume or quality work with your other exercises for hypertrophy purposes. And the same thing applies for the isometric skills, your front levers and planches. You have to put them in somewhere generally at the start of a workout or any other time in the week. And our recovery capacity is finite. So the people that are doing the strength skills tend to not be the biggest people, especially for the straight arm stuff. That's interesting. I would have to delve more into the research of that just because like anytime personally, when I see someone doing like the crazy planches, they do tend to be pretty jacked when I see them because it's mostly on Instagram. So I saw Baki, like the street lifter guy. He was doing the planche and the crazy handstand stuff. And obviously, he's jacked. But it's relating back to what we're saying. What did he do to be able to get to the planche to do that? That's the exact point, Paris. It's not that jacked people can't do planches and front levers. That's not what I'm saying. What did they do to get there? Exactly. And you can get really good at planches and front levers by just doing those exercises. You're not going to get bodybuilder big. If you're just doing isometrics, you're going to have a lot of lagging body parts, arms, certain parts of your back, your chest and stuff. Yeah, you're developing strength predominantly. It's not an efficient vessel for growth. Otherwise, we'd go to gyms and people would just be doing planches and front levers or people would just be doing that at home and just be walking around looking like a natural bodybuilder. It's like when you ask a rich guy what they did to get rich and they're like, oh, well, completely unrelated to how I got rich. Here, do this. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And that's another thing to consider. When you see someone that is really strong and also big, they tend to periodize their training. So same thing for me. If I'm doing mainly general strength training and bodybuilding stuff with weighted calisthenics and weights, if I do a phase of planches and front levers, I'm going to be able to improve my strength and performance in those movements. And I'll still have the size. Absolutely. It's interesting that you brought up the periodization aspect of it because for a while I felt like in the hypertrophy space, a lot of folks were saying that you don't or periodization doesn't have value or you don't need to. I've never really ascribed to that. So I'm glad you brought it up because I want to talk about that just a little bit. Periodization for people that don't know that just means you spend one section of time doing one thing in terms of your training. You spend another section of your time doing another thing at a basic level. And people that say periodization isn't needed for bodybuilding or hypertrophy, three sets of eight to 12 in a double progression, you're periodizing your training. It's anything you do in training is periodization. It's about how granular do you need to get to be able to, like we were saying, make the progressive overload. So for me, I set my training up much the same as if I was doing like a regular percentage-based strength program. You start off low percentage, higher reps. You end off higher percentage, lower reps, whether that's a set of five or a set of one or whatever. Yeah, it is important because I speak about it because I've been the person that's tried to be really strong but also doing a ton of accessories and isolation and volume. You end up spinning your wheels. This is why most good powerlifting programs, when they peak towards the end close to a competition, they reduce their volume. They reduce how many accessories they're doing. It becomes more specific, yeah. And it works the other way if you're trying to go from a strength program to a more holistic muscle building program. Yeah. And in that regard, just to avoid program bloat, what you were referring to, periodizing it, like spending one time of the year doing one type of thing is one way to do it. But also just the general programming concept to keep in mind, no matter what you're doing, is that I like to say, say you want to get bigger biceps, for instance. If you're going to go into the gym, you've already done heavy incline curls. There's really no reason for you to do another bicep exercise, in my opinion. You've already done three sets of, or however many sets of incline curls, three to five sets. There's no benefit to doing another five sets of another curling exercise, and you're using baby weights because you're already fatigued. If people took that one thing from this podcast, their training is going to skyrocket in terms of making sustainable linear gains because I see that so much. When I look around the gym, people doing a ton of different bicep exercises, or more commonly in calisthenics, they're going to do weighted pull-ups, and then they're going to do drop sets on pull-ups, change up all the different grips. A simple thing there would be, after you've done your three sets of pull-ups, hit it from a different angle with some horizontal rows. That prevents the program bloat that you said. Not only the program bloat, but in addition to that, just buy-in, just having fun with your training, just having variation that makes sense. But when it comes to your pulling example, we're not just going from weighted pull-ups to lat pull-downs. It's the same type of exercise, really. We're going from weighted pull-ups to rows. And I think in regards to our arm example, there is merit to maybe doing like two exercises, but the volume on each of those is going to need to be a little bit lower, just because you're not going to be able to give full effort to four sets of incline curl. And then you expect to come in and do the same thing for four sets of like a hammer curl. It should really be two sets of that and then two sets of this if you did want or need that variety. So it's all about, in my mind, you have an amount of effort that you can put in in a given session. It's already accounted for. It's like your budget. How you spend it, you can have multiple exercises, but your per exercise volume is going to need to be lower. And that's where you can get a little bit more complicated. Like I've made programs that you have multiple exercises per muscle group. But a lot of folks like doing like five sets of curls per curl. I'm like, dude, do like one to three. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I want you to expand on that because if we only do calisthenics, we can run into some symmetry problems where the torso gets hella developed, but then the delts, the arms, they can be lagging. How do you like to include that weak link type of stuff into a program? Do you put it at the end of a pull or push workout or do you prefer having a dedicated arm day or like isolation day? I've tried it both ways and I keep coming back to the way Dan Green and John Meadows lay out their upper lower programs where when you do your push, you do your pull and then you work shoulders and arms. That's pretty much how I do it. So for me, it will use my weighted dip workout, for example. It'll go weighted dips, of course, weighted pull-ups. Then I'll do easy bar curls, tricep extensions with an easy bar. And then I'll do like a shoulder isolation. So like a lateral raise or a rear delt fly or something like that. And then I'll work abs. And then that's my upper body workout. That's perfect because you're ticking each box of the different movement and muscles. You're not doing too much doubling up on any one of those areas. So that allows you the time, the energy to smash progress in each of those areas. Had you done two back, two chest movements, and then you're doing two shoulder movements, an arms, bicep, an arms, tricep. But you get to the end of that workout, man. There's just no way you can give equal effort to every single area and progress. And it's interesting because for me, there is value to doing that in a single session. So each session can have its own type of layout. But to your point, if you had to repeat like a high, high, high volume workout every time you go to the gym, if you're not in a really big calorie surplus or you're taking exogenous stuff to recover better, you're not going to be able to do that long term, in my opinion. It's going to be a short term thing that you do. Or if you're trying to do it long term, it's not going to work at all. Yeah, I really like how you highlighted that because, yes, you can get away with high volume, high intensity if you're working out two, three times a week. But I know most fellows that are listening want to work out four or five days a week. So you're going to spend all your cash in one session, so to speak. And, you know, that's, again, that's cool every once in a while. But when we're talking best practices, it's really just about how you manage your training budget. So for me, just go through my upper body stuff, for instance, really quickly. I have an upper body day where I focus on like shoulder pressing, upper body day where the main press of the day is dips, and then an upper body day where the main press of the day is like a bench variation, whether it be barbell or camber bar bench. On that shoulder day, I do tend to include more exercises, and that's my day where I include more variety. So I'll do the shoulder press, and then I'll do behind the neck press, and then I'll do one or two shoulder isolations, and then I'll work my triceps and then my abs. But then that weighted dip day is a lot more punchy. It's to the point where I'm just doing my dips, the pull-ups, and then arms, and then one shoulder isolation. And then that third upper body day is even more truncated. So I'm just doing bench press, just doing a row, just doing one arm exercise each, and then I might do abs. But I'm not doing the shoulder isolation this time. I see. And this is something that you've evolved over time through what you can recover from, building up your work capacity, reflecting on can you keep progressing after four, five, six weeks? Because I'm sure you've tried doing more, less volume, more, less intensity, and you get to this happy sweet spot, like a Goldilocks zone, where it's what you can recover from with your movements and you can progress with. Absolutely. And I think just from an audience standpoint, it's really easy to look at like a snapshot of what someone's doing and just be like, well, have you tried this? So I'm like, yeah, I have actually, but I'm doing it this way because it just lends itself better to recovery over the week because you don't just go to the gym, go to sleep, wake up, and then you're 100%. Your session at the beginning of the week is going to impact your session at the end of the week and vice versa. So those things need to be taken into account. Given one of your main objectives is hypertrophy, we know that your effort relative to failure is one of the most important things. How do you manage if you're under a lot of fatigue, but you've had a good session where you've just pushed yourself really hard, but you're not using heavier weights? Do you still look at that as a successful muscle building workout? Absolutely. So I like to look at my training as, you know, you have like a video game character, for instance, and you have stats. The different exercises for me are like the different stats. And really, I'm treating them all like performance metrics. So if I'm able in a workout to increase load on four of the five exercises that I'm doing, I'm not going to get bent out of shape just because one of them was like a repeat performance. Because when it comes to even that, it's this idea where you think that if you bench 315 once, you're never going to be able to grow from benching 315 again. That's like, it doesn't make sense to me. If you do the same performance again, you're going to be able to grow from that. It doesn't necessarily need to be more reps, more weight every single time for you progress. You still should be trying to progress long term. But it's like with anything else. You ride a bike once. Are you a master at riding a bike? No, you get more reps and sets in. But you're still just riding a bike. Yes, yes, yes. And that's what's more forgiving about muscle building training compared to pure strength. Because if you don't have that heavy weight, then you're not progressing towards your goal of lifting heavier weights. But if you come in, you're a little bit more fatigued and you just have a really good session, even with some lighter loads, good proximity to failure. It's better because your chance of having a good workout can be there every single time. Absolutely. And when you look at it more so from a perspective of am I moving well? Is everything feeling the way that it should? If you leave the gym with like a huge pump, everything felt really good, but you added like one rep to a couple exercises. A lot of folks will be like, I'm never going to get bigger. But it's like, dude, you had an excellent workout. And if you come in and even if you did that three times in a row, you're getting three excellent workouts in a row. It's not every workout where you're going to add weight and a bunch of reps to everything. I like to say for me personally, I prefer when training is more gradual like that because I know just from training for so long that when you do get rapid progress on something, you're adding like eight reps to something in one workout. That's neural adaptation. Like it's like the first time you do something, you're going to get better at it quicker. And I don't want that because I'm not getting bigger from neural adaptation. I'm getting bigger from the gradual progress. That's what's adding ounces of muscle over a period of time, not the fast stuff. One thing that's really helped me, Paris, over the last year and a half, two years is really treating my isolation with objectivity. Trying to track my weights, my reps, my technique and progressively overloading those because a common trap people fall into is they tack on the isolation at the end after they've done all their heavy compounds. It's like, oh, I am going to finish with my shoulders, finish with my arms. How much weight are you using? I don't know. I just put the pin in, just go as much as I want. You just go through the motions when you're doing that. But if you track what you're doing and really try and over time trend upwards with your performance, adding a rep, adding a little bit more weight, it's going to transform your physique. And I've been doing that particularly with movements that I can repeat, i.e. incline curls. Like now I'm doing sets of eight with 22 and a half kilos. So I know a lot of people wouldn't track what they're doing with that and their arms would be staying relatively the same because then they're just going through the motions. I think the issue we have is it's less interesting to compare those lifts because if I go to you, I'm doing 22 and a half kilos on the incline curl. That's all right. What's your squat? What's your bench? We just compare these standard metrics. But what I'm getting at is the highlight here. Have your own numbers for your lateral raise, for your bicep curl, for your overhead tricep extension with the same equipment, same type of technique. And if you look back on your program three months later, you should be up a little bit on those movements. Absolutely. So I think that's where I like to call it log booking. You're just doing effective tracking of your programming. And when it comes to like the arm stuff, when it comes to getting people bought into it at first, I just talk as if it's extra credit work. You do it even though it's hard and though you're fatigued from the larger movements and you progress that over a longer period of time, your work capacity is going to improve over time. And you'll be able to push harder on those exercises, even if you just did like, for me, a good upper body day is like, like I said, like weighted dips. And then I'll do the weighted pull-ups. And then I'll do arms. If you're starting off, that might not be as good performance-wise. But over time, if you just push, it's going to be uncomfortable. You just do it anyway. You have your standard of form. You progress it over time. Like you said, your physique is going to improve and your overall strength is going to improve from that. A hundred percent. I want to nerd out a little bit now because I know you've got a lot of knowledge with how your body proportions changes what exercises you choose. So whether you're a long or short limb lifter determines what type of movements you're going to feel more comfortable doing. Because now we know that we want to do some calisthenics. We want to lift some weights and use machines. How would you self-identify based on your physique what movements are best? That's a really, really good question. And this is where I find that a lot of the exercise selection comes into play for people. Because if you're built a certain way and you're looking at your favorite lifter and they're totally built different from you. Like one of my favorite lifters of all time is a Japanese fellow, Toshiki Yamamoto. He's an Olympic weightlifter. He does bodybuilding now, but his build is entirely different from mine in terms of like his torso length, his leg length, his arm length. So the stuff that I pick in terms of like the compounds is different. He can just squat and get massive legs. I do because my legs are longer and my torso is shorter. I do a lot of weighted sissy squats. I do a lot of leg press because I can leverage myself better to get to like a ass to grass without engaging my back or throwing my hips into it. And then in terms of the arm exercises, because my arms are longer, it's kind of the inverse thing. I'm able to get a deeper range of motion on presses. So my triceps are getting worked more than someone whose arms are a little shorter. And the same thing with like the pulls for the same reason. Like if I do a set of neutral grip pull-ups, my biceps can get pretty pumped from that personally. I still do the arm exercises because I look at it more as I'm getting in more effective volume. And if I ask myself the question, would I be able to get the biggest arms that I could if I only did, I do three sets of pull-ups in a workout. Could I do three sets of biceps in a week and get the biggest arms? Probably not. So I just do the isolation, just fill in volume because I can't just do a million sets of pull-ups. Yes, yes, you could. But the diminishing returns from what you're getting into your arms, it's a lot of fatigue unnecessarily. In the elbows, in the tendons. And I've trained like that and it's led to a lot of tendinitis, a lot of unnecessary aches and pains and not even as good results. When I was training like that, my arms were nowhere near as developed as they are now. And I attribute that less necessarily to the fact that I was isolating, but more to the fact that because I was filling in volume with the isolations, I'm getting in a better training effect. I can relate to your situation because I'm also a fellow long limb lifter. And pulling comes a bit easier to me. It's a lot stronger on my vertical pulls and horizontal pulls due to the leverage of the arms and how it relates to the torso. But pressing, bro, man, I'm putting my arms overhead to do overhead press. It's so much slower. And I think of that the way that you did. You can either go, woe is me. I'm not as strong on these movements. Or you could think, I'm getting more stimulus out of less weight because of these long limbs. Absolutely. And when you get to the point where you are just objectively strong, regardless of leverages, your physique is going to look astounding compared to people who don't, you know, in your same situation, longer arms, longer legs. And they just say, well, squats feel like shit. Bench press is horrible. I'm just not going to try to alleviate that. I say leverages are not necessarily you have. It's not a curse or a gift necessarily. It's more so just a rule of engagement. You know, how are you going to engage with exercise given your leverages? If you, you know, have a square peg and a circular hole, you know, a circular block, and you're trying to force that through, you're not going to get the same results as someone who's putting the circular block and the circular hole. So let's just pick up that square block and put it in the square hole. It's important to understand that because you can easily compare yourself to others who are a similar height and weight to you, but are proportionally completely different and be like, wow, they're doing so much on their bench press, on their weighted dip. Why is it so much harder for me? I'm long limb. They're short limb. And there could be other factors too, such as how much they prioritize those movements and other things. But if you understand that, you can be less hard on yourself because that's what I'd default to. Ah, should be, should be stronger. I look at it as a very internal thing. So I find that if you, and this is going to sound nerdy to people who don't play video games, but if you have a background in playing video games, if you look at it more as I'm just developing my character within my strengths and weaknesses, you can get a player character that is just objectively strong in every stat. And you might not see your potential for that when you're looking at, say like, oh, my arms are long. It's hard for me to do this. Or my legs are long. It's hard for me to do that. But what if you just approached a little bit differently? You did your, your leg press and you maxed out the machine for a bunch of reps, or you get your, uh, your, your sissy squats, you're adding like 50 pounds on them, or you're doing a bunch of reps on those. Your legs are going to look entirely different this year. In fact, I haven't done any barbell back squatting whatsoever. I haven't actually done that in like two or three years. And just from like a development standpoint, they're the most developed that they've ever been. And that's off the back of doing exercises that work well for me, the weighted sissy squats, um, the deep leg press, hamstring curls, stiff legged deadlifts. And then that, that good girl, bad girl machine. I'd say for lower body development, it's the most forgiving from a hypertrophy perspective in terms of exercise selection. For most of your squatting movements, your hinging exercises, you've got just a plethora of different options. And that's really uplifting because you can pick movements that suit your body. In the early 2010s, it was squat deadlift. Otherwise, do you even lift? People look down on it. And, and, and, you know, I'm glad that it's gotten to a point where, I mean, me personally, I'm just going to do whatever I want to exercise wise. And I, I, I don't, I don't care. It works for me, but I think for the average lifter engaging in content, because lifting is very cultural. You know, you're, you're going to, on some level care about what other people are doing and what they think about what you're doing. That's why everybody asks, how much do you bench? Right. But it is a lot more of an atmosphere where people can just leg press if they want to leg press or do pendulum squats. If they want to do pendulum squats and people are getting better results from training in a way that suits them. As opposed to just doing what other people say you need to do. And I've done, not to say that I haven't gotten really strong at, at back squatting. I've, I've gotten strong at back squatting. I've gotten strong in conventional deadlifting. Um, but I will say that I got a better return of investment than I did, uh, getting my deadlift to five plates for reps. Then I did from getting my stiff leg deadlift to five plates for reps, because it's just a, it's a better suited exercise for me in terms of I have longer arms. So the conventional deadlift is going to be easier from a leverage standpoint than if I was doing a stiff leg deadlift or an RDL. It's going to work my back more on the RDL as opposed to the stiff leg deadlift. Same with the hamstrings. Yeah. Choosing exercises that are first and foremost comfortable. Super key because I mean, if you're in pain, you can't produce as much force. So it's just, it's just a no brainer there. But also with, um, you doing that, it just allows you to have longevity too. I think that's, that's really key. Cause you enjoy it too. If you were forced to be doing back squats, you'd be like, yeah, I see the merit and how it develops the quads, the glutes. But you know, I'm just not vibing with it. It was fun. I'm not going to lie, but I got to a point where, um, overuse injuries wise, it was just this thing where my adductors were not recovering very well. And for like the amount of quad stimulus that I was getting from the back squatting, it was like, is this worth my adductors feeling like they have lava running through the, the tendons when I'm trying, when I'm just sitting down or walking. Yeah. When your activities of daily living, you feel your shoulder joints or wrists, anything, you just think to yourself, uh, is it really worth it if I'm not competing in that lift? And these are the thoughts you have to have as you become more experienced because you get stronger. You can really mess yourself up from a fatigue perspective. When I was doing, um, RDLs really heavy, just that one exercise, when you're taking it pretty close to failure, which is very hard to do, it cooks you for the rest of the workout, the rest of the day, you feel it the next few days. So exercise selection of, um, choosing things that are meaningful to you, but also knowing the consequence of these big lifts, because unless you really want to specialize in it, um, it's, it's really going to cook you. 3DMJ, a natural bodybuilding platform, they release really good content all the time. And they mirror something that you just said. There's no particular exercise that you need to do to develop your body. And that's the truth. You could do pushups, you could do cable fly presses, you can do bench press dips. As long as it's comfortable, you can progress it over a long period of time. And you do progress it over a long period of time. And you like it, you love it. I love it. Yeah, definitely. And, uh, if someone in calisthenics, they tend to care more about the upper body. Legs are more of a, I'm just doing it. So I have basic level of strength, some decent size. So I don't have chicken legs as well. Um, and mobility in the, in the lower body. So in that point, putting all your eggs in the deadlift basket, either off the floor or RDL, uh, a good substitute would just be a 45 degree back extension progress with a Zertra grip. You're going to train your posterior chain at a fraction of the fatigue cost and still get good benefits. That's interesting because, um, in, in a video that I'm releasing soon, um, I have and do like prioritizing the RDL as an alternative to the, to the deadlift for a similar reason that one might prioritize the back extension over RDL stimulus to fatigue ratio. So, but I have been incorporating more back extensions into my program as opposed to just doing RDLs multiple times per week for that same reason. Exactly. You're just working the muscle, but it's with less weight and you're still working it hard though. And, uh, that gives you enough time between that RDL session where you've got at least that seven days to do it again, because otherwise you've got to start an intelligent way would be using variations of that lift. I.e. pauses to make it harder instead of just heavier, each workout, heavier, each workout, you store really quickly like that. I know for me, when I do RDLs, the, the, the, the amount that I can brace into my lats because of how strong my lats are, my lats can like really cramp when I'm doing RDLs. And then you take the, the weighted stretch component on top of that. If I'm doing like a regular training week where I go, uh, chest supported rows, I'm doing 315 pounds in the barbell chest supported row. And then the day after that, you want me to use four to five plates on the RDL. It's like, it got to a point, especially now that I'm, I'm, I've stayed lean the entire year. I just not, was not recovering because I'm doing the RDL here and then I'm doing it there. It's cramping my lats on both days and I'm never really fully recovering. So then that's where I was like, Hey, I don't need to do the RDL. I started with the deficits, trying to reduce the loads and things like that. But then it just got to the point where dude, just, just do back extensions. Exactly. Exactly. What's, um, what's a training belief that you have that hasn't been proved by science or that people say commonly online? That's interesting. Just because I'm going to be honest with you. I do tap into what people's, what their opinions are and things of that nature. But these days, I would say maybe the past couple of years, I don't internalize that so much. You know, I take what's useful and I discard what's not. But I think one thing that I've always felt with regards to back exercises is that they work, they work better for higher reps than they do for lower reps. I feel an entirely different stimulus when I'm doing higher rep pull-ups than if I'm doing a lower rep set of pull-ups, like weighted pull-ups. And that's just been something that I always like to incorporate when it makes sense. But I don't have any real big training hot takes because I don't really care what other people think. I do what works for me. I like what I do. So, yeah, does that come down to the topic of do you need to feel a muscle to get an effective stimulus from that? I.e., if you did heavyweight pull-ups for sets of five, just because you're not feeling it, does it mean that it's not working compared to you doing higher reps? Somewhat, somewhat. I do, like I said, it's a sliding scale with that because it's interesting. A fellow just asked that in a comment under a back training video that I uploaded. And he was kind of like explaining how his upper back wasn't really getting recruited on rows. And he was like, is this just a matter of I just get stronger or is there something I can do to feel it better? And I answered like at a basic level, I would never tell someone who's never like done a back exercise that you need to hyper-specialize your technique to feel your back. Like it's just going to be unfamiliar to you because it's unfamiliar to you. So just get a little bit stronger over time. But I guess this is my hot take now that we're talking about it. There is something to I should be feeling the target muscle work on the exercise that I'm doing. And, yeah, like if you got stronger on a bench press or whatever and you don't feel your bench or your chest on the bench, but you add 100 pounds to it, your chest is going to get bigger. But I have the opinion that if I do an exercise where I can feel my chest and I add 100 pounds to it, I'll have grown more from doing that. It's the best of both worlds, the sensation as well as the performance. And I don't think anyone can discount your opinion on that because it's if you enjoy that sensation, that's what gets you in there, gets you fired up. That has to count for something beyond even if it was quote unquote more optimal to do the heavier back training, but you're not feeling it. It's not as if you're not doing heavy stuff in some way, shape or form. There's something to that. At the end of the day, it's about buy in because for most people, even like you and I, it's a hobby on some level, which at least it should be. You should be enjoying what you're doing. You shouldn't be doing this unless you enjoy doing it. And buy in to what you're doing helps you perform at a higher level. There's something to be said about, you know, I've made exercise tier lists before, but just because I put your favorite exercise in C tier, in my opinion, doesn't mean that someone hasn't done that exercise. Say like a whatever exercise and gotten extremely jacked from it or that you can't get extremely jacked from it because you can. What I take from our conversation is a lot of self experimentation and exploration is needed. Imagine working out and you never make decisions yourself through trial and error. I can't imagine doing that. It'd take out all the joy for it. So sure, you can consume information and content, but ultimately you've got to be a big boy and put your big boy pants on and just decide which type of exercise do I want to do. Absolutely. And it's like, what's the worst thing that can happen? You try and exercise, you do it well, and you end up getting in a good workout. But then you find out that, hey, I didn't really like doing that exercise so much. You still got in a good workout, though. Exactly. Exactly. Well, that was a great chat, my friend. Where can people find out more about your work? Bald Omni Man on Instagram and YouTube. Peace. See you in two years again. See ya. You'll see you in two years.