 If you want savagely strong shoulders from calisthenics, pike pushups are a must. The problem is, many people struggle with this movement. They either find it impossible, can't increase their reps, or just straight up plateau. It's frustrating because even just a slight tweak in your technique, going a little bit deeper, leaning slightly further forward, can make it feel impossible. In this video, I'll show you how to fix your technique first, then I'm going to speed up your progress with... Bands. Hey legends, Daniel Vadnal here for Fitness FAQs. Pike pushups are the calisthenics overhead press. They're an exercise that you really want to be getting better at. For perfect pike pushup technique, I want you to follow this checklist from head to toe. Starting with the hand placement. You don't want to put your hands out super wide with these flared elbows. You also don't want to have them super tucked in. Happy medium, shoulder width apart, elbows around 45 degrees in the scapular plane, is going to feel the strongest and most stable for many of you watching. Next up, we have the head position. You basically want to get your head forward of your hands, forming a tripod shape. This shows that you're leaning forwards, loading up the shoulders. Because a common mistake that people do is they get their head between the hands. This is a no-no. This is cheating. This makes the movement easier. It's on you to keep it strict, lean forward and get those strong shoulders. All right, welcome to the floor. What you want to do here is look at your torso position. You want to keep your hips high in the pike push-up. It is essential. Coming here, you walk your feet towards your hands and you keep those hips high. Push down, push up, shoulders being worked. I hope you can see that. The mistake, people keep the hips low and you end up turning this into this pseudo-incline push-up. It's just a way of making it easier. Keep it strict. For successful pike push-ups, you want to keep a vertical elbow during the exercise to ensure that you're actually loading up your shoulders. So you can see here that my elbow is vertical. The mistake is doing this. Knowing how to do that in practice is a different story. And the best way to coach yourself is using some yoga blocks as a tactile reference. If you're doing these correctly, you're not going to hit the blocks. But if you succumb to cheating and making it easier, you'll lean backwards and touch those blocks. This is great to do in a warm-up and when you're learning the exercise. The million dollar question is, what should the scapula be doing during pike push-ups? Some coaches say you've got to lock them down into depression as you're pressing overhead. It's a lot more simple than that. You want to respect natural shoulder movements. This is called scapula humoral rhythm. How your shoulder blades are moving when you're pushing your arms overhead. Basically, let your body figure it out. You just want to resist any unwanted movement of the scapula. So what I'm thinking as I'm pike pushing, I just want to keep my shoulder in the middle of the socket. So coming down, I'm trying to resist elevation. Just keeping it neutral. And then as I press up, I'm letting my shoulder blade go into upward rotation to get full overhead movement like this. So, down and up. Pike push-up speed is an important consideration that you should have in your mind every single rep. On the negative, you want to control the eccentric using your muscles as brakes. You want to use a full range of motion until your head hits the floor, or if you're doing a deficit pike push-up, all the way as deep as you can. On the way up, an explosive and aggressive concentric to make use of your upper body muscles. And then a full lockout at the top. Bonus points if you want to be getting those best possible gains. Pause the top, pause the bottom, and you'll be progressing like crazy. To instantly make your pike push-ups feel stronger, you've got to take care of the feet position. Instead of being feet together like this, just take them out shoulder-width apart. This widens your base of support. It increases the stability and also reduces that lateral sway. That way you don't have to worry about balance and you can just focus on pressing like your life depends on it in those pike push-ups. In terms of calisthenics overhead pressing, that's the end goal right there. If you want a complete step-by-step guide to master your body with calisthenics, go to fitnessfaqs.com and I'll be your coach. Alright, sponsorship over. Let's go back to the video. Dan's four pike push-ups are going to be your best friend. Because if I told you go to the gym and do 30 kilos in each hand for an overhead press, you'd be like, that's way too difficult. But when we go into calisthenics and I say, do a pike push-up on the floor, it's the equivalent of doing a really hard exercise if you don't scale it. So with the bands, it's going to reduce some of your body weight so you can use a full range of motion, actually use proper technique and do more volume. You can do more training with this. So the people that do use bands for pike push-ups will progress faster than someone that doesn't. Firstly, choose a band that is challenging for around five to six reps. That's the sweet spot of intensity where you're building strength, but you're also doing enough volume. You want to throw the band over and you're going to, really importantly, you want to set it up so the band is assisting vertically. You don't want to be stepped back all the way here because of the line of pull. You don't want to be all the way forward either. Get this onto your waist in that crease right there. And you can feel where that feels centered. Hands shoulder-width apart. Feet shoulder-width apart. You're going to step so that your torso is nice and upright. All that weight is forward onto my shoulders. I'm going to lean forward, creating that tripod shape with my head and my hands. And I'm going to push back up. That's it, baby. Something I forgot to mention about the beauty of bands is it matches the strength curve difficulty of pike push-ups. We know that that deep range of motion is the most challenging. And this is where many of us struggle. We start to cut our range, but we just can't get that depth that we really want. With bands, it offloads the intensity where we need that help the most. The key here is choosing the right difficulty so that it assists but doesn't slingshot you into the next rep. What's going on here? A common issue is floor pike push-ups. Too easy. But the deficit version is too difficult. Bands, I'm going to keep teaching this to you guys because it's so powerful for your progress. It bridges the gap between the impossible, making it possible. This reduces the difficulty. Then you'll build strength with that increased range of motion. And eventually, you can take off the training wheels and you'll be doing this like an absolute bodyweight beast with no problem and no plateaus. What I'd also recommend is training with a neutral grip. The advantage of this is it forces correct technique. Because when we're on the floor, we can have that temptation to flare the elbows out and not build strength in the way that we want. Whereas with the neutral grip, it forces you to tuck those elbows in and use correct pressing mechanics that will translate really well to stronger shoulders and those freestanding handstand push-ups someday. Another helpful pike push-up variation for my intermediates that you may not have seen before is the floating pike push-up. I know that you guys are on your handstand push-up journey. You're building your strength with pike push-ups. But many of you really struggle with the freestanding handstand push-up, particularly the balance at that bottom position. Just spamming handstand push-ups won't fix this. This exercise, it isolates that weak link. So not only will you get stronger shoulders, you'll actually get better balance in that handstand push-up for the best of all worlds. Get into your pike push-up as normal with all correct technique cues. You're going to float the feet off the ground, pause, own it, feet down, push back up. We're harnessing the power of isometrics, pausing in that position with the feet off the ground to build control, balance awareness. So we get those strong shoulders and the transfer to handstand push-ups, you're going to feel the difference. My biggest warning about pike push-ups is they only work if you work. Calisthenics, with this type of movement, it is very subjective because it's hard to quantify. How much are you leaning forward? How much is your upper body actually pressing? And you have to take ownership over your technique, making it as strict as possible. Because your body is so smart, it tries to find efficient movement patterns to make things easier. We don't want easy. We want to make the pike challenging. And my simple way of solving this dilemma is just filming yourself. Combining that with actually the subjective feelings of how difficult it is. What was your RPE or how many reps in reserve did you actually have? Was it authentically difficult for those six reps? Because you can do six reps where you're just going through the motions and you could have done 15. Or you do six genuinely challenging ones and they're the ones that are really going to change you. If you want those 3D cannonball delts that are big and strong, progression with the pike push-up is what you must do. Starting at the floor with bands. Then you strip away the bands. And then eventually, if you want to get massive with calisthenics, you want to work on that deficit pike push-up to increase the range of motion for a host of benefits. But we're also getting that increased stretch which we know is glorious for hypertrophy. This is where people look at the pike push-up as a beginner movement. And they think when they've done on the floor, that's it. There's nothing more to gain. And that's a big mistake because this exercise, it is stable when done correctly. And if you push it towards failure, it will grow with only bodyweight training. And it's humbling how difficult the feet elevated deficit pike push-up actually is. I know that you're not doing this for more than 30 reps. I've been trying for many years to get strong at this exercise. I haven't outgrown it. It is a perfect compound pressing exercise in calisthenics that trains that vertical pushing path. And it's not just for beginners. Keep it in your routine. You'll look better, get stronger without ever needing to lift a weight. You want to learn how to put it into an actual workout, right? Good thing I've got a free video right here that you can follow right now to put this into practice and get those gains. Pike push-ups in the workout.