

=== FILE: 6 Arm Exercises That Actually Work (Bodyweight Only) [M_ahcuwYdxQ].txt ===

 psst. You don't need a gym or weights to build big arms. Most people think that bodyweight training is just pull-ups and push-ups. That's why their arms never grow. Did you know that your biceps and triceps can actually be targeted too with some slight tweaks? Today, I'm breaking down the six best exercises to blow up your arms with nothing but calisthenics and a desire to improve. If you want big, beefy biceps that are all so strong, the ring curl should be your isolation of choice. What's cool about calisthenics is that your body is the resistance, especially my fellow big boys who are watching. You don't need weight. You are the weight. Effort is the equalizer when it comes to seeing results. Just attack your training with passion and intensity, and your biceps, they're not going to know the difference between this or curls at the gym. I love training on rings because they're scalable to the suit everyone. As you lower the rings closer towards the ground, your body becomes more horizontal. That increases the percentage of your bodyweight that your biceps are lifting, so the curl, it becomes much harder. Knowing when to progress is easy. Once I can do three sets of around 15 reps at a certain posture, I just make it harder by lowering the rings and stepping forward. You'll never outgrow these. I mean, they can even be done with the feet elevated and your body at a decline. If you reach this level, your biceps will be so big, you're going to need oversized t-shirts. Ring curls are basically the bodyweight version of preacher curls because your arms are positioned out in front of the torso. This exercise is hardest through that mid to end range of motion where the biceps are forced to work overtime. Guys, when it comes to arms growth, just train to failure on every set of isolations. Leaving reps in reserve in this context, it's simply not good enough. You need to give your biceps a reason to grow. Staying in that comfort zone, it just isn't going to cut it. Now curls are great, but your workout needs compounds to truly reach that next level of size. If I could only pick one exercise for biceps, it would be the ring chin up. That might surprise you because it's a compound movement that also trains the back. With the palms facing towards you, chin ups place the biceps in a mechanically strong position. The biceps primary role are elbow flexion and forearm supination. And the chin up does both of these actions. That's what makes chin ups different from overhand pull-ups. It's this supinated grip. It allows your biceps to contribute far more force, making them the major driver of movement rather than a secondary assist. Elbow pain on chin ups is the most common complaint. I'm sure most of you watching would love to do them more, but you simply can't because the straight bar, it just messes them up. Rings are the remedy. They allow you to do the chin up grip. But now, with that extra freedom of movement, this way your body can pull in a comfortable path without beating up your joints and tendons. For those of you who don't have rings, come on man, just don't eat out at a restaurant for one meal and invest in rings instead. You can always do the half supinated grip on a cable machine or a squat rack as a substitute. When I've forgotten my rings, which is the worst sin imaginable, I'm using this half supination instead. This gives you the bicep building benefits of the chin up, but it's much more forgiving compared to a straight bar. Try it out and you'll really enjoy the feeling. Now, progressive overload is the name of the game. I'd recommend increasing either reps or weight added while keeping the sets constant because I notice a direct correlation between the size of my biceps and how strong my chin ups are. There's no reason why you too can't be doing weighted chin ups with multiple plates, repping these out and getting jacked out of your damn mind. If you take one thing from today's video, it is commitment. I believe most people give up on their chin up journey way too soon. Don't be another dropout chin ups. They're going to take your biceps a long way, but they don't hit everything. There's a portion of the arm that even the great supinated curl doesn't target and that's where neutral grip rose come in neutral grip rose for the bros because when you hit these hard, everyone is going to be admiring your gains. Just not women. The harsh truth about calisthenics is exercise options are limited for muscle growth. We don't have the luxury of endless variety with machines, dumbbells or barbells. We've got to do the basics well and rose. They're one of the most effective arm builders that we have. Think about it this way. We're basically doing hammer curls using our body weight as resistance. We're getting elbow flexion and using that neutral grip. Just with a row. It's a closed chain exercise where the hands are fixed and the body moves. Keep in mind, you're probably lifting around 60 to 70% of your body weight with inverted rows. There's plenty of load to challenge your arms, especially when done to failure. For most people, the arms are going to fatigue well before the back, which is exactly why rows work so well for arms growth. Now the row doesn't just train your upper back. It's a serious arm build up with the right grip. That neutral pull up recruits a ton of the forearms heavily loading that break your radials. If you want thick, Popeye style forearms that are looking yoked when you roll up a shirt, neutral grip rows are hard to beat. For aesthetics, having a pair of big forearms signals that you not only look strong, you are strong. There's nothing worse than seeing a bloke with these teeny tiny forearms who can't even take the groceries up the stairs in one go because he uses straps on everything. Come on, mate. Neutral grip rows also stimulate the break. This is the muscle that sits between the biceps and the triceps. If you only ever do supernated or pronated grip back exercises or isolations, you'll never develop this dormant part of the arm. Neutral grip training for break yallus gains makes your arms look thicker from the side and it helps everything pop more on a biceps flex. Every time I hit a few sets of 10 to 20 on ring rows, I get a sickening arm pump. The arms getting gorged with blood, you get that skin tightening feeling. And yeah, there's nothing wrong with taking a second to check out your gains in the mirror. Don't be shy, boys. I know, we all have a cheeky glance in the reflection for that positive feedback. Don't forget, you can always do single arm rows. I like to rotate these in every few training blocks to keep my horizontal rowing fresh. Instead of only doing bilateral movements all the time to arm rows, mixing in their unilateral equivalent adds variety, it exposes asymmetries, and it keeps progress moving forward. Keep grinding away on these three body weight bicep exercises and I have no doubt that you'll see muscle growth. Now, if building muscle with calisthenics sounds like your thing, head over to the Fitness FAQs website. I've got the exact programs there that I use myself and with my clients. Go on ALT tab to fitnessfaqs.com. I'll keep talking. Moving on to the triceps that horseshoe on the back of your arms, this muscle is underrated, given that the triads make up around two thirds of the upper arm when someone says, Hey, flex your muscles. I wish it was acceptable to flash a side triceps. It just looks so cool seeing all the fibers and the details when you lean. But no, it's always flex a bicep. The biceps are like the lead actor in a film, while the triceps are the supporting actor that actually carries the show. Anyway, I digress. Body weight skull crushes won't actually hurt your skull, but your triceps are going to benefit. I remember doing this exercise as a teenager at home, the desk in my bedroom, the coffee table. Yes, I was that annoying child. I'm sorry, mom and dad with some creativity. This can be done on almost anything sturdy. All you need is some equipment that allows your head to travel between your hands so that you can load the triceps properly. A nice gym option is actually the Smith machine, given that you can easily adjust the height of it. What makes this so effective is that we've got the arms overhead. When you train trice with this variation, you're targeting all three heads of the muscle, particularly that long head. This is because you're getting a deep stretch on all parts of the muscle belly. If you're someone who neglects direct triceps work or only ever does push downs, you're leaving muscle mass on the table. Despite this being an isolation exercise, it's important to take your techniques seriously for pain free gains. Simply slow down that negative and pause in the deep stretch, followed by an aggressive concentric to lock out. I'm a big fanboy of rings, if that's not obvious so far in this video. The reason is it just feels so damn good once you become skillful at all the exercises after a few workouts. You'd be surprised how many people complain about joint and tendon problems with tricep extensions. They can easily be avoided. Simply choose a level of difficulty or intensity that's within your means. You wouldn't jump into doing skull crushes with 30 kilo dumbbells in each hand. You've got to respect body weight training and start at a level of incline that's possible for you to use sound form for eight to 15 reps as a guideline. You've got to drop the ego initially so that your body can tolerate the load. Callus thangs, it's no joke and the resistance level is very demanding. Training can get stale when you've done the same thing for years and years. For those of you who've been doing bodybuilding and have worked with overhead tricep extensions such as on a cable machine, this body weight variation is a nice substitute. Why not experiment with the same movement pattern with callus thangs to smash your triceps? Instead of lifting heavier weights, you gamify this exercise by working close to the floor and even feet elevated someday. All you got to do is tuck those elbows, dominate the tempo and take your sets to failure. Simple in theory, hard in practice. Pushups are considered a chest exercise. This is wrong. I'm just kidding. Checking to see if you're actually paying attention. Now yes, pushups are a compound exercise that are going to primarily work the pecs, but a small tweak to your technique can make it more heavy on the triceps. Introducing the ring pushup with tucked elbows. Expect to be humbled by this variation for three reasons. Firstly, pinning the elbows in means that the chest can't be recruited as much, making this a more arms dominant tricep press. Secondly, the rings adds a deficit. Now you're working through a larger range of motion compared to doing floor pushups. Third, the instability. When you're doing this on rings, it amplifies the difficulty. Expect your rep numbers to be much lower compared to when you're using parallel bars for pushups. This also works extremely well as a triceps finish up. After you've done your head heavy pressing with dips or bench, this is where your chest is already fatigue. When you follow up with tucked elbow ring pushups, it lets you get more out of the triceps in every rep that you do. Now if you've built a jacked torso, but your arms are lagging behind, please modify your technique if muscle mass is something that you value. Pushups, they're an exercise you should always return to. Don't think that you're beyond the basics, even if you've been training for years. Whenever I stop doing pushups for a few months, I notice that my shoulder stability starts to decline. I lose scapular control, which calls me to plateau in strength and even get pain if neglected for too long. There's more to training than just building muscle. And I know that sounds strange given today's topic, but size doesn't mean much if you're constantly dealing with a broken body. Training like a bodybuilder and relying heavily on machines, sure it is good for building muscle. But when movement quality decays and the stability is always provided for you, plateaus, aches and injury risk starts to creep in. That's why I like the pushup as a holistic exercise. It shows whether you can still move well, control your body in space. And that's something that tends to disappear if you neglect bodyweight exercise entirely. This is why calisthenics is the goat. You'll build size, gain strength and move well as a result. A well performed dip is surprisingly effective for triceps. To make this hit your arms more than the chest, just keep an upright torso. When dipping with this vertical posture, you're going to be getting more range of motion out of the shoulders into extension with the arms going further back behind your body. This puts a greater stretch on that long head of the triceps and leads to overall greater triceps development. When an upright torso is combined with a narrower grip on dips, the difference in muscle emphasis is going to be night and day. This setup reduces chest involvement and shifts more load onto your triceps, which is the goal of today. If you're trying to bring up those arms, so modify your technique. If you've got the mobility for it, I'd also aim for a deeper dip beyond 90 degrees because the more shoulder extension and more elbow bend means more stimulus for the triceratops. Just because we're talking about bodyweight training doesn't mean we can't add load either. Weighted dips with a belt and plates are a staple in my training year out because they're one of the most reliable ways to keep on progressing. You get a huge return by progressively overloading compound movements like dips because the chest and shoulders they assist your triceps. So this means you can handle heavier loads and create more of that juicy overall tension. How heavy your dipping for reps is going to have a carryover to what your physique looks like. It's rare to come across someone who's doing 60 plus kilo dips that has a small upper body. Success leaves clues. There's so much growth to be gained from weighted dips that I hope my peer pressure that I'm doing on you here actually makes you take it seriously. Come on mate, join the club. We need to stop majoring in the minor details, obsessing over optimization instead of doing the work. You need both isolations and compounds to build a complete physique. Get the sweet spot of both in your workout and you'll pack on serious mass in your arms. Effort, progression, consistency matter more than anything else. Apply those principles to calisthenics and the gains will follow. Even more gains are going to come by watching this fitness FAQs video sponsored by fitness FAQs. Click it. It's free.

=== FILE: Dips Are The Upper Body Squat (KING OF CALISTHENICS) [0FySPc3O9Mk].txt ===

 dips of the upper body squat. And if you're skipping them, you're leaving gains on the table. If you're serious about building muscle and willing to do the work most people avoid, this old-school exercise will transform your body. Today, you'll learn why dips are effective, how to train them pain-free, and learn my best tips for making progress. Now, just like squats, dips train multiple muscles at once. Compound exercises like this are an efficient way to overload your chest, anterior delts, and triceps. Now, if you progressively overload on these, you don't need complicated workout programs or new exercise that you see online. Shock horror, hard work is what counts. The reason dips aren't more popular is because they're difficult. And there are so many easier alternatives in the gym. Just look around you. There's usually a wait time for the cables or machines. That dip station, it tends to be more available by comparison. And sure, machines have their place in bodybuilding, but if your goal is to build a well-rounded body, one that not only looks good, but is broadly strong, the old-school dip is an exercise that should be in your routine. Honestly, 10 dips in a row is something that everyone should strive to do at a minimum. If you're not there yet, please roll up your sleeves and let's get to work. Don't worry, I'll show you guys the best exercises on dips to get stronger from easy to hard. All right, dips are what we call a closed-chain exercise. You have to move yourself through space, creating enough tension and coordination to handle each rep. Because of all that body stabilization, the strength that you do gain has an excellent carryover to both calisthenics and free weight training. When using a full range of motion, that's when the gains are going to be truly bestowed onto your body. By getting a nice stretch through the chest, it's going to blow up your pecs when you take those dips close to failure. Here's the most important technique tip. You want to lower down as far as your mobility allows. Aiming to hit around 90 degrees is a good standard. Even deeper is good money if your body agrees with it. The key with dips is using a form that feels pain-free on your joints, yet hits your muscles hard. Just experiment and find that sweet spot that works for you. When dips are included as part of a complete routine, that is when the magic happens. I want to teach you how to get big, strong, jacked, flexible with calisthenics. Get my programs, I'll be your coach at fitnessfacues.com. High volume dips are an underrated method for growing bigger with calisthenics. I'm talking about doing 20, 30 plus reps in a set, which theoretically still builds muscle. Now it's safe to say that most of you doing this are going to be failing on dips well before this, making them a highly effective way to build muscle. The key here is just like on any exercise, you've got to be pushing yourself hard. The rep speed, it should be slowing down, especially towards the end of a set. You should also be struggling to lock out those final few dips. That's the intensity that challenges you, and that's the intensity that's going to change you. Dips are often mistaken as just a body weight movement, but they can be progressively overloaded with a belt for a lifetime of gains. The weighted dip is an exercise that's constantly in my own program. These Plump Pecs right here, they're a product. I'm a big fan of the simple strength approach here. I keep my reps between three and six, and my only goal is to lift more weight over time. Keep it simple, stupid, is something that I have tattooed in my mind. By just using linear progression and focusing on getting stronger at dips, the results are going to come as a byproduct. I'm genuinely grateful for the impact that weighted calisthenics has had on my physique. When I was around 20 years old, after a few years of training, weighted dips and general body weight exercises were basically all that I did. No bench press, no overhead pressing with weights, just dips for the pecs, shoulders and triceps. This is a reminder of the value of old school exercises. Progression, putting full effort into your training, training hard and consistently over time. If you're eventually doing dips with weight added, there's simply no way that you're going to stay skinny. I wish most people would stop fluffing around with all of these isolations. Instead, just embrace dips like a calisthenics bro and get a crazy build. One of the best filters for if an exercise is good is simple, can you overload it? Dips prove that the intensity can be increased with progressions, weight and eventually challenging yourself on rings. This variation is a game changer because you have the freedom of movement. Your body can move in a way that suits its strength and mobility, which equals pain-free pressing. The instability on rings is the obvious difference on this compared to training dips on parallel bars. When you first try this out, your arms are going to be doing interpretive dance and you'll be feeling really awkward, muscles working in ways that you've never felt before. But with practice, you're going to be dipping in a more straightforward path and be more stable. Rings are what we call a self-limiting exercise. This means you'll be doing fewer reps with less weight compared to the parallel bar version. This is good news for recovery because you're going to bounce back quicker for the next session. The only downside is that your ego is going to take a hit. Just accept it. Because the hands move freely, the chest is going to work towards full range, getting that deep stretch at the bottom and a strong contraction at the top. All that freedom on rings means you're going to get better muscle activation, better growth, less joint discomfort. It's all embedded in there. Dips being painful is a common complaint. Here's some reasons why and how to fix it. The elephant in the room is body fat. If you're too fat, carrying too much extra weight, say around 25%, dips they're going to feel hard if not impossible. That's often why people avoid them and default to doing the bench press instead. The takeaway isn't to blame the exercise, but to remember that improving body composition and your overall health makes your relative strength improve. So things like dips are going to be far more manageable. Dips hurt because you don't have enough shoulder mobility. Keep doing your dips at a pain-free range and you're trying to go deep over time as you can. You'll build up your mobility and they shouldn't be as uncomfortable. If you're training on dip bars that are too wide, this can really jack up your shoulders. So you've got to experiment with different grip widths, play around with different equipment and find what suits your body. Not being strong enough is another reason for getting pain on dips. You've got to use regressions to reduce the amount of body weight going through yourself. So bands or machines should make it comfortable. Otherwise, train the deficit pushup to increase your shoulder extension mobility and also strengthen up all of those dip muscles that are involved. So that way you get back into your dips and get that old school strength. Calisthenics shouldn't be slept on. Watch this fitness FAQs video to learn this beautiful training style and join the club. Go on.

=== FILE: How I’d Learn Handstands in 2026 (If I Were Starting Over) [pzf6nfzc4lE].txt ===

 if you're a handstand beginner and you just can't figure out the balance, you keep falling over, this is the video for you. I'm going to show you the four best exercises that you should be doing. I'm going to teach you how to avoid mistakes and you're going to progress so much faster. The most overlooked aspect is the kick up, because people just spend all their time on the wall, but they neglect this aspect, they get frustrated, and they wonder why they can't do it, and it is a skill which requires practice. So hands on floor, kicking up in a lunge, maintain balance, now come down. Alright guys, tutorial's over, you know how to do a handstand now. That was fantastic, so what I really liked there is you did a split leg position, and that's what I recommend when I teach beginners how to do it, because controlling the weight of one leg is easier than two, it also lowers your center of mass, so it makes the balance a bit easier. And what I really liked is that you waited until you actually had balance before you joined the legs together. But if you were an actual beginner doing it for the first time, you wouldn't kick up into it straight away like you did perfectly, instead you would do progressive kick ups. Can you show me what that looks like? A little bit more, and a little bit more again, split, now kick up all the way again, leg straight, find your balance, and then legs together. Awesome, coming out of it as well. Beautiful, so if you were to go again, my advice to you would be keep those arms straight, push really tall, but get that leg straight as quickly as you can. Point the toes, it is key. Beautiful, there you go, and then together. Awesome, coming out. When practicing your kick ups, it is completely normal to over balance and fall over as well as under balance. So you want to practice both, so don't be really timid and never fully kick up all the way. It is completely cool to fall over the top, because by practicing over and under, you get equilibrium in the middle with enough practice. Three levels of kick up progression that you can do. First one is just a split leg handstand and hold. Second one, split leg, slowly bring yourself into a full handstand. Third one, try and make it as efficient as possible, split legs together. Let's show those three if you can, as a beginner, a tall 6'3", handstand, beginner. Nice. Now find your balance, slowly legs together. Fantastic. And now this one, a faster form progression. You get up into the handstand quicker and you can serve energy. A drill that I really like is the split leg handstand. So when you get your upside down, get about 15-20cm from the wall in a handstand. Get your body tight, push tall through your shoulders, boom, tap the toe off. This leg is staying straight here, I love it, that's exactly where it should be. As you get more confident with this, you can eventually just float that foot off and just hold this split leg handstand. It should feel a little bit easier because of that lower center of mass. Why I like this one so much is because a huge struggle that beginners have is when they go to kick up, that final phase of going from the split leg handstand to the actual full handstand. If you're practicing your kick ups in isolation and you're practicing your wall stuff in isolation, you can eventually bridge the gap between those two and you've got the skill, you've got the balance and you bring it together. So if you're struggling with over balance and falling over, often the limitation can be your grip and fingers and your forearms to be able to claw the ground and save yourself from falling over. Simple drill that we can do is the heel pull against the wall. Kick up nice and close to the wall. That's right man, just grip it. Oh yeah, the tap variation, good. Let's do five of these Tom. So you can see the handstand line is staying in one shape, it's not arching excessively, so we can tell that it's actually coming from the grip. That was great, I like the one. Now we're going to work on saving that under balance. If you're kicking up to a handstand, you're trying to hold it and you feel like you're going to fall back towards your feet. You can fix this with an isolated wall drill. Let's see it mate. Nice, pure wet entry. You can also just walk your way up if you've never done handstands before. Oh, lovely. Now go back to the wall. That's good. Can you show me if you're doing it with just like an arch variation off the wall? Great. And now come back and you can get out of it Tom. Great. Nice. What I was showing there was when you're practicing these toe pulls, the first ones you were doing was more of a shoulder strategy. So you were kind of planching your shoulders, closing them a little bit, and then entering the handstand. Fantastic. The other one that I got you to do, which you probably don't do as much in your regular training, is the lower back strategy, where you correct at the hip. It's great to practice both of those because in handstands, things go wrong. It gets chaotic. So if you've got more movement variability in how you practice things, it's going to make you more well rounded and be able to catch your handstand under different conditions. The most common beginner mistake is just doing kickups to handstands and failing to build your foundation. It's going to slow down your progress. You're going to be frustrated. And the easiest thing that you can do is just spend time in the chest to wall handstand, building up your strength endurance, doing sets where you're working up to 60 seconds is a really good beginner goal. Because this way, when you build up that foundation, when you go to try your kickups to handstand, or your toe pulls off the wall, you're actually going to have that capacity to be able to be upside down for at least 30, 45 seconds comfortably. If you skip that, you're going to try your handstand. You're going to be shaking. If you don't have that strength, how do you expect to do skill and balance at the same time? I'm not pointing a finger at you. I'm talking figuratively at the beginners that we see. And if you just tick this box, the basics, everything else will fall into place. So we're going to do a basic chest to wall handstand. Now, based on your level of mobility and flexibility determines how close you get to the wall. Tom's pretty good in this respect. So he can go that usual 20 inch centimeters from the wall and just going to apply all good handstand cues. Elbow straight, push tall through the shoulders. Enough tension here to make sure that our joints are stacked legs straight. And it's not glamorous. It is not overly enjoyable. You're just going to set a timer and you're going to hold this for as long as you can. We're using this as a conditioning piece and you should be doing your 30, 45 to 60 second sets. It is not going to be fun. Tom can come out of it now because I don't want to kill him. But you have your timer there. You get into your Zen state. You just focus on your breathing and you can always handle more than you think. So I'm sure you've done a lot of handstands with other people and if you're competing or you've got that mindset of gun to your head, I've got to keep going. You can push a lot longer than you think. So if you work on that endurance, you're going to find that you will progress a lot faster. And the people that I see that actually have that good foundation, their journey is much more seamless and they can work on all the other stuff and unlock that handstand balance much sooner. All right, guys, here is a sample handstand routine that you can follow. Now with this, try and hit these reps and sets, but use auto regulation. So first starting out, it takes time to build up to this, but this flow of exercises and practicing the skill as well as the balance as well as the strength of handstands will put you in a really good place to unlock this skill. With enough hard work, practice patience and dedication. You too can be like Tom Merrick, the body weight warrior who after 15 minutes has learned how to do a handstand. I don't know if it's the superior teaching from fitness FAQs or the elite learning capacity of this man. Check him out if you want to watch some stuff on mobility, handstands and what else do you do, man? Attempting to do some sort of legs. Okay, so there's no skip leg days if that's your cup of tea. He's also English, so you'll enjoy that too. Thanks, brother. Thanks, man.

=== FILE: How To Go From 0 to 10 Pull Ups (Step By Step) [Hyrk8sSHTkk].txt ===

 Hey mate, it's time for you to go from zero to ten pull-ups the smart way. If you're feeling overwhelmed with how to start or what exercise to train, don't stress. I'll give you a proven step-by-step plan that you can follow. This video is going to save you months of trial and error, making the pull-up far easier to rep out. A weak grip is one of the bottlenecks that's stopping you from that first pull-up. The best way to strengthen your hands and forearms is with... Wow. The dead hang. Simply grab the bar with a shoulder-width grip and do an active hang. Now engage your shoulders by pulling them away from your ears to get some activation happening. Now all that's left for you is to suffer in silence. The longer that you can hang, the stronger your crushing grip is going to become and the better your pull-ups. The hands serve as a link to your pull-up muscles. The stronger your grip is, the better force transfer you're going to get to your biceps and your back. Negatives are such a potent way to learn pull-ups and honestly, that's one of the best exercises in your toolbox. This is because you're training the exact movement pattern in reverse. Your body is getting familiar with recurring the muscles in the manner needed for actual pull-ups. That specificity is why negatives transfer better than lat pull-downs. Sorry lat pull-downs, you're not welcome for this goal. Now because we're stronger lowering than we are lifting, it makes the impossible possible. Yay. To do these properly, just jump to the top of the bar and then lower yourself down slowly into the hang, taking around six to eight seconds each time. Make sure that you're controlling the full range of motion, not dropping down when it feels hard. We want to build strength in every part of the pull-up so that we have no weakness. Every over-quantity means everything for this style of training, given how hard eccentrics are. Once you're getting tired and you can no longer control that full negative, that's when you stop your set and move on. The inverted row is the perfect accessory for building up your pull-up strength. They teach you that important scapular control. How to retract and protract your shoulder blades under bodyweight load. This exercise is all about training your mid-back muscles. The same ones that we need strong for pull-ups. Invert rows also make your arms stronger so that your back isn't going to be limited by weak biceps during pull-ups. Difficulty is all about posture. Rows are easier when done at an incline and they get progressively harder as the body gets horizontal. Technique here is really simple. You want to keep your body stiff like a plank, row until your arms meet your sides, and then getting your shoulders through protraction to retraction. That's it. The confidence that you're going to gain from inverted rows is worth it. You're going to get this self-belief that you can pull aggressively, limiting that hesitation, and you're going to be better at moving your body in space, overcoming gravity, and having that self-belief that you can succeed at pull-ups. So you want to bridge the gap between rows and pull-ups. The jackknife pull-up should be in your routine. All you're going to need for this is a low bar or rings that are set up around armpit height. You're also going to have a bench for your feet because the reason for this, you want enough space for yourself to do a dead hang with clearance with the hips from the ground. Congrats. You can now do feet assisted full range of motion pull-ups with that concentric lift and that eccentric lower. A pro tip for you. Start each rep by setting your shoulders first, then bending the arms to pull yourself up. This teaches good habits of activation that are going to happen automatically with practice. It's also important to keep an upright chest so that you're moving up and down like a pull-up. If you lean backwards, it's going to turn into a row. So be sure to avoid that. Jackknife pull-ups are awesome because they can be scaled in difficulty. When you first start out, you're going to be using the legs a lot to help out. But as you get stronger, your goal is to try and use the legs less and less so that your arms and your back can do more of the heavy lifting. Another hidden benefit of jackknife pull-ups is stability. As your feet are anchored, it helps with balance. This way, you can just focus on doing those pull-ups without worrying about coordination. I'm feeling extra generous today. Here's a sample routine that you can follow to unlock that first pull-up. When done twice per week and progress consistently. It's not a matter of if, but when you're going to be doing those pull-ups. Go on through them. Rep after rep with absolute pride. Band pull-ups are how you train back strength. Not test it. Let me explain. If you can do one or two pull-ups on a good day, just spamming more and more pull-ups. It's not the best approach. The intensity is so high that you'll be taxed after a few sets. This crushes how much total work that you can do in a workout. With bands, you're able to lower the intensity so they can get more pull-up reps, which leads to faster results. Plus, you're able to work within a larger rep range so they can use light assistance for strength and moderate assistance for more endurance. To do these, loop the band around a bar and place it underneath your knee or foot. Whatever feels good. Now, please do strict band pull-ups. The assistance isn't an excuse to start kipping or flailing around like a fish. Do use a full range of motion. Fast up and a controlled down tempo. Make sure that you're not bouncing from the bottom either. You want to be generating all of that force from your muscles. You're not using that band as a slingshot to cheat. Aim to use a band that lets you work within the 4-8 rep range. That's the sweet spot of difficulty for building strength. Once you're comfortably doing 8 plus pull-ups with a given band, make it lighter and get back to work. Band pull-ups are a smarter choice compared to the assisted pull-up machine at the gym. Unlike assisted machines, bands they force you to stabilize your body, which is why they transfer better to real pull-ups. Training with bands isn't just for complete beginners either. Even for my strongest students who can bang out a couple of body weight pull-ups, I often give them this as a drop set of sorts with banded pull-ups afterwards. Having some extra assistance after you're fatigued that allows you to add more high-quality reps once that heavy work has been done. Now what nobody tells you about band pull-ups is auto-regulation. We all have those days where we feel really tired and heavy when grabbing the pull-up bar. It feels insanely difficult to do pull-ups, even though you've banged them out on a good day. With bands, they let you get those reps in on low energy days, which keeps your training consistent and consistency is what builds pull-ups, baby. For those of you who eventually unlock your first pull-up, congratulations and welcome to the club because many fitness surveys they suggest that the average adult can't do a single rep, so you're in a rare company. Now that you've got your first pull-up, you've officially caught the bug of body weight training. Go to fitnessfaqs.com to get my complete programs to take this next step in your journey. Click the link below. All right, now that you can do a couple of body weight pull-ups, doing 10 reps in a row should be achievable in a matter of months for most of you that are watching. If you stay consistent, if you dedicate yourself to the goal and make it a reality. A simple way to increase how many reps you can do is following what I call the 25 pull-up workout. You're going to accumulate 25 total reps split up into a number of sets that suits your current level. Here's what I mean. Here's an example if you're doing three reps in a set. The key is staying shy of failure. Leave one to two reps in reserve on each set so they can accumulate this quality volume of 25 total. With a submaximal intensity, you should be able to do straight sets the whole way through. This means doing the same number of reps each set. Once you progress to hitting five by five, most people should be able to bang out 10 reps or more pull-ups in a max test. The reason this 25 rep method works so well is because it builds strength without failure, a time-tested way to stimulate and not annihilate. It builds up your work capacity for 10 reps in a row thanks to that total volume of work. It reinforces clean technique on every rep because you're not building bad habits with half reps when fatigued. It allows you to train twice per week without burning out, feeling recovered for each workout and actually progressing every time. Now that you can comfortably hit five reps of the pull-up with a couple more reps in the tank, meaning you can do a few sets of five, adding weight is recommended. By even doing plus two and a half to five kilos to start with on pull-ups, it's going to be a massive help. The best practice is adding an amount of weight to your body that you can still do pull-ups for three to five reps. This is the sweet spot for training strength. Pro tip, pull every rep with maximum intent. Even if you're moving slowly due to the extra weight, trying to be explosive will make you stronger compared to just going through the motions. Your job here is simple, linear progression with heavier weighted pull-ups over the coming months. Once you're adding 20% of your body weight on that dip belt and doing pull-ups, I'm certain you're going to be doing 10 pull-ups in a row quite easily. Now just imagine being able to rep out pull-ups easily whenever you want. You'll be so strong that you don't even need the perfect recovery or testing your max pull-ups after a deload. Your base level of fitness on pull-ups will be good enough that doing 10 reps just feels like a joke. So if you're 70 kilos, your goal is doing 15 kilo pull-ups for sets of five. Let's go man. This goal isn't as hard as you think with some dedication. Weighted pull-ups, they're going to raise your strength ceiling. This way when you go to do body weight pull-ups, you'll be flying light like a feather, doing way more reps as a result. Expect to improve your force production with weighted calisthenics. This means you'll pull up much faster from that dead hang. This basic routine will get the job done. By doing both body weight pull-ups for endurance once per week and weighted work on the other session, your reps are going to consistently be going up. All of those accessory exercises are also going to help work on those weak links to overcome plateaus. There's three common mistakes that most people make and unless you fix these, nothing else that you do is going to matter. Problem one, lacking patience. Being impatient is setting yourself up for disappointment. We all want results today. Of course, it'd be nice to get that pull-up straight away, but if it was easy, everyone would be able to do them. It takes time. Even when you're doing everything correctly, just focus your effort on each workout, each set, each rep, and those pull-ups will improve. Problem two, being inconsistent. Inconsistency is the main reason that people plateau with their pull-ups. If you truly want to master this exercise, you can't be skipping workouts or doing random exercises that don't actually help with pull-up strength. It's easy to be motivated in the short term. Everyone can do that, but the person who trains pull-ups twice per week without fail is going to make much faster progress. Problem three, volume. Not doing enough total reps of the pull-up is holding you back. Constantly doing pull-ups to failure is a rookie mistake. Instead, volume is the name of the game because after all, strength is a skill and the more reps that we can get in our body and recover, the better. If you need more help with Calisthenics, I got you. This video here contains everything that your heart desires. What could it be? Give it a click.

=== FILE: The Only Rear Delts Exercise You Need [w2zPIyyUfFk].txt ===

анизанизанизанизанизанизаниз and the arms are up and they're going out. For the stretch, the cross-flight aspect. Exactly. Maybe they're doing a peck deck, a reverse peck deck, or reverse fly, or something like that. I think for a lot of people, that gets quite a lot of traps involved, and they might not feel it as much when they're elevated. And so having something where it's a little bit more tucked can be a good idea. And then this is a contraction-focused movement, and so it's very, very failure-friendly. We did a few sets, and all of them were beyond failure. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And these are tough, but I found them to be quite productive for the rear delts, and then also for the mid-back as well. What I like about it is the compound nature of it, the ability to lift heavy weights for this muscle group, as opposed to your dinky T's with dumbbells, you know, with your arms straight, and using, yeah, going out more in that horizontal abduction. Doing these skiers, it replicates basic human movement, you know, being able to- Ski. Ski. Ski, as the name suggests. Sprinting, you know, like in this fashion. What's awesome is the scapular component too, being able to get in that retraction. You're getting in some stimulus to your mid-back, which goes a long way. Definitely feeling doms in my mid-back today. One, because it's a novel exercise. Two, because I had Jeff shouting at me to use 17 and a half for the first time I did it and finish the exercise as you should, you know, barely being able to get a few reps out, but still productive. Yeah. And so I really like movements in general that are cheatable and you can progress beyond failure and keep going after you've hit that strict technical failure. Definitely not for everyone. If someone likes stricter movements or they like training lighter, that's totally fine. But I just feel like I can get a lot more out of almost the creative side of bodybuilding in the moment when I have that freedom to go a little bit beyond failure. Plus it looks absolutely fantastic for any social media post where you're looking down the barrel of the camera, full eye contact, never breaking, just straight to the failure. Especially when you're lean because you have like all the details just popping out. You basically are sat upright and then you hinge forward and then you just go straight back. Straight back. And you can allow like the shoulders to come forward a little bit to get a little more traps. But you're basically going... Are you keeping your elbows relatively fixed in whatever angle? They do bend a little bit as... Because I find that if... If they stay totally straight, it turns into like triceps. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So a little bit of bend as I go. And it's not something I think about. Like I'm not actively bending the arm. It just happens because I'm not trying to flex the triceps. Okay, so you lean forward and then you're basically straight back. And you can use a little bit of like explosiveness. And then I usually finish... So I finish the wrap a little bit more upright compared to on the way down. Yeah, it's almost the same as doing a bent over barbell rope. If you were to keep it as strict as possible for as long as possible. And then maybe as you're tired, you can... There's nothing wrong with just a few more. Yeah, yeah. I'd say so. Okay. So first time trying the skier. One of Jeffrey Verity Schofield's inventions here. I don't know about that. Yeah, it is. It definitely is. I can say it. So I'm bent over here. I put the feet a little further forward. Yep. Yep. And definitely keep them together. Otherwise, you'll hit them on the way back. Yeah. Yeah. So you're working a bit of rear delt. That's sick. A little bit of terry. You can use a bit of... Exactly, yeah. And you can really... Because it is a contraction-focused movement. So you are... You can really jam the mech at the top. Am I thinking both elbows and scaps back as much as I can? You will get retraction. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's a decent amount of mid-back as well. And I'm not sure if I recommend this, but if you put the head up, you'll get like back of the neck as well. Yeah. When people are like, have you been training your neck? Well, no. Not directly. At least not much in the past year or two. But these will because you're like... Yeah, yeah. You're getting that strain at the top when you're really trying to contract. I can see the potential for this movement because a traditional rear delt type of exercise, it's almost... You're a bit limited by the weight that you can use. Yeah. Whereas this, you can hoist some... It's very natural to throw... Like you're skiing. Yeah. Essentially. Sprinting. You're trying to... Yeah. Exactly. It's natural to move in this point of movement. Whereas this, it's hard to generate power from the hips and then have it go out. Yes. Right? It's possible. Like you can cheat your laterals for sure, but it's just... You can fling in that direction. And I also like how you can use some almost supra-maximal weights to use momentum and then... Control. Eccentric down. So it does take a little bit of getting used to but I think you'll like them. It's fun when you first do a new exercise, you get the little... Oh. A little shake. Yeah. I like the scap bit too. Yeah. Exactly. Like that's a big part of it because you're not just boom, boom. Like you're really getting that. Because that almost gets a bit missing the full scap from rowing movements because I've been using a fair bit heavier weights and you're often finishing just boom, here. Exactly. You're not actually retracting. The whole, you know, lats are most active here so it's almost redundant going back here. So consequently, I've lost out a bit of this retraction. These and the... and then like a cable from the two sides. Oh yeah. But even those, like even the cable from the two sides, it's just so difficult in this position and you're not really, you're not loaded against retraction. You're loaded against pushing out. Whereas this one, you're loaded into pure extension. Right there. And you could argue there's a lot of carryover to this for any vertical pulls, horizontal, that are in this motion. For sure. Yeah. Man, this is going to make me sore flying back. I can just tell this new movement. I think, I think you could try these. Yeah. Or maybe back to the 10s if you don't. I'll try 15. I just want to feel what you mean by that increase in. Very nice. And it's very failure friendly. Well, not friendly. It feels, feels awful, but it's doable. Oh, that'd be scary if you're going, oh yeah, I'm just sitting on the toilet. Want to look at some fitness content here on Instagram. And you come across Jeff's page, just, which is most posts actually. A lot of them. Yeah. That's how you should trade all the time. Nice, Jeff. Look at this. Fuck. Oh. You went up five kilos, didn't you? You went up five. I went up 10. Was I up 15? Yeah. Oh, wow. Okay. I'll use 15. Yeah, I think. All right. Squeeze it back. Squeeze it back till it's just a shrug. Till it's just a shrug. Get that thickness. And drive it back. Drive it back. Squeeze. Very nice. Good, good fucking set. Thanks, man. Do you get any feeling there? Oh, definitely, yeah. Yeah. I would say it's just as much there as for rear adults. It's a strange sensation for me. It's not a muscle pump. It's not pain, but I get this mini sharp, sharp sensation. It's like a cramp. I haven't felt that in. On both sides or one side? Both. Yeah. Kind of just between my scaps, I feel a little... Yeah. Yeah, at the very top. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. I don't know what the fuck that is. Maybe a rhomboid or... Yeah, it's just not used to inner range contraction with such heavy load. Like, when you see someone do... Look at this, yeah, it's... Yeah, look, I mean, you've... You've... Cheers, legends. Your next job is to watch this video here so that you can become the best version of yourself. Let's get it. Come on.

=== FILE: The Problem With One Arm Pull-Ups Is Dangerous [oHqAwhhnUxg].txt ===

 Res Resumatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatuatu become a meme at this point among serious pause. My goal is to teach you how to get that one arm pull up or chin up the smart way with longevity in mind. Now if you're dealing with elbow pain from calisthenics that comes on gradually you're most likely dealing with a tendinopathy. Spamming chin ups can cause golfer's elbow. This is the pain on the inside of your elbow. Overdoing the pull ups can cause tennis elbow. This is pain on the lateral side of the elbow. The reason many people get injured when training one arm pull ups is because muscles they recover faster than tendons can adapt. You'll get DOMS in your back and biceps for a couple of days after a workout and you'll feel fresh to train hard once again. But those tendons they need 6 to 12 weeks just to begin adapting to resistance training due to their poor blood supply. Now if you're training for one arm pull ups pay close attention to the following problems. These are the ones that are going to sabotage your journey unless you fix them. Problem 1. Being too weak. If you're jumping into one arm pull up training without adequate strength it's a big no no. I used to think that if you could do 10 pull ups in a row you're probably good to go on those one arm progressions. I've changed my mind about this fact. Because if you don't have a really solid foundation with two arm pull ups, two arm chin ups with added weight, the body's going to break down eventually. I'd recommend simply building up your weighted two arm pull ups to around 50% of your body weight for 3 to 5 reps. Once you have this base level of strength you're going to find progressions like one arm eccentrics or assisted one arm pull ups much easier to recover from and actually progress. Besides, having a strong weighted pull up ensures that your back and biceps are actually strong enough to handle training rather than offloading all of that extra stress where? To the elbows. Problem 2. Poor technique. Using bad form is one of the biggest culprits for pain. This mistake is so common on all types of pull ups. Weighted, archer pull ups, assisted one arms, etc. Almost everyone does this when training low reps. After all, it's the optimal tempo to get best performance. What this looks like is dropping down quickly from the pull up and then rebounding with a bounce from that dead hang. You all know what this looks like. We're using that stretch reflex to slingshot ourselves up getting the chin over the bar. As good as this is for displaying our strength, it can be very taxing on the elbows. Given that plyometric movements place the most load on our tendons, we've got to be careful with how we use them. Instead, a more tendon friendly technique is as follows. Use a controlled negative from the top of the pull up and most importantly, control that final part into the hang, pause, then pull up. I highly recommend this technique for longevity on the one arm journey. Controlled negatives, they're something that I wish I started doing from day one. It's so simple and such an easy fix. Many people, they're not going to listen because it kills the ego. You lift less weight and do fewer reps, but health and longevity are more important than one good workout. Take it from someone who's been doing calisthenics for 16 years. Problem three, frequency. Training too often is a recipe for disaster with one arm pull ups. A frequency of four times per week on one arm pull ups or training every single day is just not sustainable long term. I'd recommend just do two pull workouts per week. One day focused on weighted pulls plus accessories and the other day focused on assisted one arm progressions plus accessories. The body needs a good 48 to 72 hours to recover between these hard elbow sessions. The stronger that you get, the more important restraint becomes because at an advanced level, a single workout can stress your body so much more that rest days become almost as important as training days. Calisthenics isn't about just doing more and more hoping for progress. It's about choosing the correct exercises and routine for your level. Just get our complete calisthenics programs at fitnessfaqs.com. We'll take out all the guesswork for you. I'll be a coach and guide you every step of the way. Top link in the description. Problem number four is not listening to your body and I'm absolutely guilty of doing this myself. I'm very driven in my training. I want to progressively overload every session and beat my previous numbers. The problem is when you get early signs of overuse start showing up and you just push through them anyway, that's no longer discipline. That's a warning sign that you're ignoring. The most important red flags to watch out for when training one arm pull ups include pain and stiffness in the morning, even during basic tasks like opening a jar or turning a door handle. Pain at the start of the workout that improves as you warm up, but it worsens after training. Reduce grip strength is a telltale sign and this is your pain inhibiting you in your workouts. When they show up, the solution isn't just doing more or pushing through pain. It's load management. This means that you're getting that balance of work that you can actually recover and adapt from. Okay, so what's the best thing to do? Auto regulation. Simply listening to your body. Just temporarily lower the number of sets and reduce intensity. Then use symptoms as feedback for what to do next. Completely stopping training is one of the worst things that you can do for tendons. It's a common misbelief that you need just complete rest and it'll get better. You need load management. You need to find that sweet spot of what your body can actually handle, adapt from, and then you try and progress it slowly over time. It's just as much an art as it is science. If you don't measure your training, you can't manage it. This is the most common thing I see calisthenics bro do. They train without a structure and when pain shows up, they have no idea what caused it or how to fix it. That's why a structured program matters so much. By writing down your training, it lets you manage volume, intensity, and frequency and gauge your recovery so you can actually progress in a controlled way. Don't just nod and agree. Keep yourself accountable so that you can be healthy and get stronger. Your body is too precious to leave up to guesswork. Another problem is doing one-arm chin-ups on a bar with that supinated grip. This variation has cooked more elbows than I care to count, myself included. On a straight bar, your hand is locked into one position. This fixes your forearm rotation and it forces your elbow and shoulder to adapt to the bar. Even if that position doesn't suit your anatomy. Under one-arm loads, that restriction massively increases stress on the elbow tendons. To do these pain-free, you need exceptional strength, solid shoulder and forearm mobility, and a lot of patience with progression. Most people are missing at least one of those, often all three. Instead, I would use rings for all of your one-arm training. Rings allow that natural rotation through the wrist, elbow, and shoulder as you pull, which spreads more of the load across more tissue instead of concentrating it in one place, being the elbow. Simply changing the equipment is going to mitigate that injury risk quite a lot, while still building up the strength that you need for one-arm pulling. Here's the lowest to highest elbow risk one-arm exercises. This is the order that I would personally work through. This is just a guide. Individual user experience may vary. Always read the privacy policy, T's and C's prior to use. Listen to me. One-arm pull-ups, they require a strategic approach if you want to unlock them without destroying yourself in the process. You can trick your nervous system into getting strong fast, but tendons adapt slowly and the body always keeps score. Calisthenics, it can be really complicated. Fitness FAQs makes it simple. Click here to get smarter, stronger, stronger, and sexier. Calisthenics, it can be really complicated.

=== FILE: What High-Rep Push-Ups Actually Do to Your Body [V31snHSKCD8].txt ===

 I've been training calisthenics for 16 years, and I still do pushups. These basic body weight exercises should not be skipped. When done properly, they build serious physical and mental capacity. It's just so enjoyable to push yourself to the limit. And as you're going, you want to stop, your body's screaming. I just always think, okay, one more, a couple more, catch your breath, keep going. And it's a really enjoyable aspect. I just can't remember back in the back of high volume, I just can't remember back in the back of back in the back of back in the back of back in the back of back in the back of back in the back of back in the back of back in the back of back in the back of back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in back in type of work it's about getting all that blood engorged into the pecs into the triceps it feels awesome now you don't need to get a pump for a workout to be effective you don't need a pump to build muscle it's just a nice proxy for your effort and the sensation for me has always been addictive i've loved this ever since i was a teenager and i think that's what really draws me one aspect of high rep training is i love the sensation i like feeling like i need a sports bra after i've finished my set because i'm getting some double d action here some watermelon pecs this is one of those small drivers that makes you consistent and makes you want to do your workouts so despite the pump not being some amazing metric of success in a workout if it's fun for you you actually enjoy it if you're crazy like me then keep pumping those push-ups i'm pretty gassed i look cooked i'm leaving this running here just so you can see what happens afterwards you get tired i get tired it's just where you should be working how you manipulate your rest also matters for endurance training if you really want to get better at working under fatigue then i recommend shorter rest periods 60 to 90 seconds just so that you can get better at going again going again repeat effort even when you're tired alternatively if you want to maximize performance and how many reps you can do each set then i'd recommend a longer rest three to five minutes is a really good zone to make sure that you're fresh enough to do that next set of push-ups and give it your all now don't get it twisted just because you're doing high reps don't replace quantity for quality that is such a common mistake people will be doing yeah 50 push-ups and they're these really fast short range of motion the technique is horrible i want you to do high reps but don't trade quality for it that's the real discipline and that's what's going to transform your body i'm talking full range of motion dominant tempo consistent technique from the first to the last rep you're not adding reps for the sake of it with diminishing quality you want to have high standards for yourself keep those standards have them even when you're tired even when fatigue's coming through and then you're adding reps with that quality that's what it's about there's a misbelief that you can't build muscle gain hypertrophy from high rep ranges the science is quite clear that anything up to 50 reps can still make you grow given that you're training with enough intensity the most muscle growth happens from those final five ish reps in a set and these are called the stimulating or effective reps these are the ones that are going to build muscle and what's important here is your intensity relative to failure if you're doing a set of 30 push-ups but you can do 50 before you can't do any more that means you're not going to grow because you're not close enough proximity wise to failure so that's the key thing the high rep sets will build muscle but you've got to be pushing them really hard it's just going to take a little bit more time under tension before you've reached that threshold of fatigue you're up to those final few push-ups that are actually effective and those are the ones that really count the biggest benefit of high reps is building up your endurance as well as your work capacity high reps they're basically teaching your body how to keep going even when you're tired as that fatigue builds up you have the ability to handle it and keep pushing through the discomfort the true value is you can just do more your workouts can be longer you can handle more exercises and you can also do just a greater volume of work overall which your goal is to increase your endurance it's also going to be really helpful if you can just fit more training in from a recovery perspective i've noticed a massive transformation when i do high reps consistently i find that when i return to a similar movement for a lower rep range that i'm actually able to handle more work and my body tends to feel better overall so the takeaway here is if you only ever do low reps or only ever do moderate reps you're going to miss out on something that is gained from high reps if you want to be well rounded you got to spend some time doing everything what i enjoy i guess about push-ups is how it teaches you breathing during a long set so if you come from strength training you can just do that valsalva maneuver hold your breath increase peak abdominal tension and your sets over within 20-30 seconds if you're training for higher reps you can't just hold your breath you're going to pass out get lightheaded it's just not going to work so you naturally learn consistent breathing through the diaphragm how much tension you actually need throughout your body to handle a long set and i find that this is really helpful because it happens naturally expect to improve your motor control this is basically just technique coordination and awareness of your body by the sheer fact that you're doing tons of push-ups you're going to improve super quick with how your body feels and functions during that push-up because exercise is a skill you need to learn it you need to practice it and just put simply the more reps you do the better you're going to get i'm an old school dude i like the basics i like building up a foundation of these high rep push-ups because it serves you so well for the future of advanced calisthenic skills the people i see that don't have a foundation of push-up strength endurance muscle mass in those prime movers they tend to struggle more on other exercises like skills like handstands handstand push-ups dips planches it prepares you for the more fun stuff to come you can't skip your homework it is really motivating when your rep numbers go up you're going to start this high rep journey and you might be at 20 push-ups before you fail within a few months you'll be smashing out 30 40 yes even 50 reps and i've thought about this with push-ups and and why they're such a popular exercise because we can all do it it's kind of like jogging going for a run you put your shoes on you get to work with the push-up it's the same thing you don't need machines your body is the machine you get on the floor you grit your teeth you push yourself you rest you repeat you try and beat your previous numbers then after a while you're going to look back on your training log and think to yourself wow i've really transformed my body and it's just because of this exercise it's time tested always there it's not going to close on you like a gym it's not going to be unavailable if you're traveling or life gets busy that push-up it's always been there for me and i know it'll always be there for you the push-up it's going to expose any weakness that you have and this is highlighted even more for high reps if you're unable to control your shoulder blades you're getting scapular winging or you're losing shoulder position it's more about the scapular stabilizers your rotator cuff and with the push-up because your shoulder blades are free to move through retraction and protraction you're actually going to enhance your shoulder stability this is something that you're not going to get from a bench press where your shoulder blades are fixed the result of this is you're going to have a more robust stable shoulder that is able to produce more force in this pressing pattern you're not going to have as much pain and your body's going to feel better when pressing if you want stronger shoulders that are stable and that is going to translate to better performance high reps is the way to go because these areas they're a bit more postural muscles and they require a longer set in order to actually fatigue them and adapt them to improve so if you only do heavy sets or only do moderate reps you're not really going to get this benefit something i'm guilty to admit is i tend to skip over my core work i don't do enough for this area i'm a little bit lazy so when i can do a exercise like a push-up where it gives me core strength for free when i'm doing high reps you better believe i'm going to do that we're building up anti-extension anterior core strength and instead of having to do planks we're doing a moving plank in the push-up and you're going to get some benefit without having to do a ton of direct core work so for the lazy like me you are benefiting from doing your calisthenics movements because it is integrated into it not saying that's the right thing i think you should do your core homework do as i say no as i do bodyweight exercises for high reps are epic for improving your connective tissue and tendon health when done correctly and patiently progressing over time expect your shoulders wrists elbows the joints all the tendons around there as well to get more resilient adapt and be able to handle hard training getting that blood flow there and improving your tissue tolerance really goes a long way for sustainable training now the key here i know you're excited after watching this video you're going to want to do a workout of 300 400 500 push-ups just relax if you go from this to this straight away that's a recipe for disaster for anyone when you adapt tendons and connective tissues it's a patient progressive process gradually add reps within a workout gradually add reps between workouts many of you aren't going to listen to this and then wonder why your body feels beat up but just remember danny telling you this tip because the ones that are focused patient and progressive will win the long game in a world with all these fancy exercises different training methods calisthenics stands the test of time keep on learning by watching this video over here and i'll help you

=== FILE: Why I Stopped Doing 3 Sets (And Got Better Results) [t2n4MWhdMlU].txt ===

 I've always believed that doing only two sets per exercise would lead to under-training, that I'd lose muscle and strength from this lack of volume. I was completely wrong. Today, I'll show you how less can actually be more, and how fewer sets can lead to better results, faster recovery, and long-term progress. I don't train hard enough when I do three sets on everything in my program. That's the honest truth. This extra volume compensates for a lack of intensity, and it's a way that we can wiggle ourselves away from what's really going to make a difference in our workouts. The problem I face every time with three sets is really annoying. I either pace myself on those first two sets and only really start trying on that third set, or I'll go all out on those first two sets and I'm cooked on that final set with poor performance. Junk volume is tempting with three sets. This means your training makes you tired and it kills recovery, but it doesn't actually contribute to progressive overload. When you limit things to two sets, it's way easier to lock in effort-wise. More importantly, the effort relative to failure is consistently better. Like a C-Saw, if you have low volume, two sets, it's naturally going to tilt the other way with high intensity, each set with less reps in reserve, or going to failure like a boss. Most lifters don't train hard enough. It's arguably the number one reason people are small and weak once they've got their technique basics dialed. My job as a content creator is to get you the best gains. If I could only transmute through the camera how to push your sets with a high level of effort, the world would be a better place. At least, you'd be girthier and heaving heavier loads. The best way I've found to push hard is to do less. The effort comes as a byproduct because you're no longer doing all these half-ass sets. Here are some of the practical reasons why two sets are so effective. Two sets is a cheat code when life gets busy and you just can't recover. For me, travelling can be a really stressful time. You've got the flight, different food, changing time zones, and your sleep gets out of work, especially when flying from Australia, where it's so far away from everywhere. In the past, Old Daniel would try and force my usual routine while on the road in this new environment. It's just not realistic to expect that you're going to have the same performance when travelling. But my ego, it'd always struggle with this to my own detriment. Bad performance. And worst of all, I'd feel disappointed in myself every single time. After swallowing this bitter pill of self-reflection, it gave me the kick in the arse that I needed to drop down to two sets, and it's been eye-opening to say the least. Now I can get in there and have an awesome session and be done and dusted in an hour. Finishing workouts quicker without sacrificing results is something that we all want. I've noticed that I can usually shave off around 20 to 30 minutes if I only do two sets compared to three. And best of all, my performance is consistent because I can mentally and physically give more. But really, it's just fun. I'm not dreading these marathon workouts that I would have to do previously to feel satisfied with myself. Instead, I can give each rep my full focus, and I'm highly motivated now to beat my previous numbers because it's actually realistic now. Being able to fit more exercises into a workout is another big benefit. You can realistically do six exercises times two sets, whereas with the same volume, you can only do four exercises for three sets. With more variety, you're going to hit your muscles from a variety of different angles, different resistance profiles, hitting the muscles in their shortened and contracted positions. This gives you greater freedom to do calisthenics, free weights, machines, all in one workout. Now fellas, if you want to train the same way that I do, and why wouldn't you, I'm going to help you get jacked out of your mind. I've laid out all of my programs at fitnessfaqs.com. I'll see you in the community. Now, this is important and a word of warning for everyone watching. Once you get stronger and you're lifting heavier absolute loads, each set that you do is much more taxing than a newbie in the gym. A big boy doing pull-ups or dips with a few plates hanging between his thighs is going to feel more taxed after a session compared to beginner Billy, squeezing out some bodyweight reps. Bless his soul. Keep grinding, son. What worked at the start of your journey, three sets for everything, won't continue working forever. There becomes a point after a few years of consistent training where you can really tie yourself out from each set that you do. You're better able to recruit those high threshold motor units, aka your nervous system can make more use of your body's total muscle mass. You can't lift massive weights and expect to do massive volume. It just doesn't work that way in the real world. This is why so many of us who have been in the game for a while are now praising the benefits of two sets, other content creators, coaches, people you see in the industry. I wish I understood this basic fact earlier in my journey. I hope it's a teachable lesson that you can leave this video with and avoid wasting time and stressing yourself out unnecessarily. The biggest battle in training is actually against your own mind. I know I'm a creature of habit. I've done three sets or more on everything since the day I started training many moons ago. This two set experiment that I did just as a test while traveling has been so effective that I've just kept going with it. Through this, I've learnt what it actually means to train hard, what training to failure really looks like and I just don't get that when following a higher volume approach. It honestly sounds too good to be true. Doing less while still making muscle and strength progress, plus bouncing back sooner with better recovery for the next workout. Sounds like a good way to sell a program. But still, it's not easy. Many people don't have what it takes to actually train this hard. But you're different. You're watching fitness FAQs. You're an outlier in the fitness space, someone who knows the science, but actually does the damn thing. For those of you still unsure about two sets, here's how I got past the belief that you must do three sets. Get out of your head and into the logbook. Is your strength maintaining or improving? Is your physique staying on point or improving? If the answer is yes, which are found to be the case after doing two sets for many months, the proof is in the pudding. Just don't overeat the pudding. The holidays are over. My biggest pet peeve in fitness is the all or nothing mentality. People either train with insane intensity, crazy high volume every single day, which is unsustainable. Or they completely fall off and they don't even train a minimum of three days per week. We're wired to strive as humans. So we either swing between extremes and we forget about this middle ground. If your goal is to maintain your physique, which I think is massively underrated, two sets is your best friend. It takes far less volume to keep what you've built than it does to build it in the first place. If you want to stay fit and healthy for life, sprinkling in two sets at times hits that minimum effective dose. And it's going to keep you in the game. Burnout won't. Abundance can be disorientating unless one hones one's aim. Should I do more sets? Should I add more reps? Should I lift more weight? This is a dilemma all of us can relate to. Having too many choices can lead to confusion and a lack of direction unless you focus and define your goals. When you commit to the two set method, there's less overwhelm. You have a clear priority because you can either increase reps or increase weight. I love constraining the variables because then you don't have that little temptation to do more sets, do more sets, and you'll actually do progressive overload. My favorite approach is using double progression to get the job done. You pick a rep range, lift a weight until you reach the top of that range. Then increase the load and repeat the process for life. Don't get into that bad habit of adding sets for sets sake. I realized I'd catch myself doing just that when I was being a little bit a little bit of a wuss man. I just didn't want to push hard and I thought, oh, yeah, I'll just do four sets because, you know, volume bro, when in reality, less done with a high effort isn't what you want, but it's what your body needs. With two sets, it's the closest thing to a sweet spot with stimulus to fatigue. We know there's a diminishing return on the number of hard sets in a workout where more isn't always better. Let's say if you're doing two sets, it gives you 80 percent of the gains. Three sets may give you 90 percent, four sets, 95 percent. But the fatigue doubles or triples the more sets that you perform. Injury risk goes up and recovery time is exponentially longer. These numbers are just estimates to suggest that muscle growth increases gradually while fatigue, joint stress and recovery demands increase disproportionately with more sets. Now, two sets isn't perfect and it does come with some downsides. If you're not training close to 100 percent, it's just not going to work. I'd say the average person in the gym is more like five plus reps in reserve. There's no noticeable slowing down of the tempo. If this archetype, this person does two sets, it's a bad idea. Low volume plus low intensity equals under training. I'm going to keep it honest with you. Before each set, you're going to get really nervous because you know how hard it's going to be and it takes your full effort. This greater mental challenge, it's going to take some time getting used to compared when you're doing three sets because with this traditional way of training, you spread out that effort also. Two sets, it's not ideal for strength specialization. If you want to get strong AF on how heavy you can lift, you're better off doing more volume in a workout and throughout the week. After all, strength is a skill, specificity and all that stuff where more total reps makes you master the movement faster. And of course, training shy of failure is ideal for strength. You're going to be doing more exercises, which means more warm up before the working sets. This can be a real pain in the ass. If you're doing lots of technical exercises, think free weights or calisthenics. All right, TLDR, I want to give you a two set workout structure that can be followed on most workout splits with success. Doing six total exercise with two sets each, you can adjust the number of compound or isolations based on your goals and muscle group priority. With the compound exercises, aim to leave a rep in reserve or hit failure if it's safe to do so. With isolations, just guarantee you're hitting the muscle to the max. Go to failure or even do a few partials beyond failure at the end. Single joint exercise, they're not going to cook your recovery. Just keep going until the muscle gives up. If you want bigger arms and shoulders, this intensity method hasn't let me down. I find 12 total sets to be the sweet spot. For both upper and lower body workouts these days, as long as if you're hitting each muscle group twice per week with around 48 hours recovery between sessions, you rinse and repeat that with progressive overload. It's game over in a good way. Fellas, we have to chase progress, not just doing more work for the sake of it. Increase weight on the bar or reps. If that's your sole focus, I'm certain your physique will transform. If I can avoid just one person watching from that pesky volume trap, I can sleep peacefully tonight. My gains, they're important to me and so are yours. Don't let me down. The next time you have the thought during a workout, I'll just do some more sets instead or when you're designing a workout routine, thinking that you need three sets per exercise and 20 total sets of workout, please catch yourself wanting to hide away from the effort. For me, this comes back to longevity. Always doing high volume in the hopes of being optimal. Isn't worth the chronic aches or inconsistent progress. The best program isn't one that looks impressive on paper. It's the one that you can show up and give a hundred percent, recover from and repeat for years. Don't be afraid to try two sets for some or all of your exercises. You'll learn what training hard actually means.

=== FILE: Why You Can’t Muscle-Up (And How to Fix It) [oL9EhZ5Mbk4].txt ===

 naringumpleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleple high rep pull-ups builds endurance. For muscle-ups, you need to be doing power training instead. The best way to increase your range of motion on pull-ups, which is a byproduct of power, is with bands. This is where many people get it wrong. They think because they can do normal pull-ups just fine, but can't muscle-up, why the hell do I need to use bands like some kind of noob? You see, high pull-ups are a skill. You're pulling in that arc, moving away and then towards the bar, instead of going straight up and down like on a normal pull-up. With chest-to-bar pull-ups, you're training the exact same technique that we need to be using in muscle-ups in order to succeed. Specificity means everything for skills. Your pull-up training should be done in a way that has the greatest transfer to our goal. This one training tip right here may be all that you need to unleash what your body is actually capable of. After several workouts of band-assisted high pull-ups, you should be reaching chest-to-bar without a problem. Naturally, you're going to want to progress to lighter bands until eventually you're able to train those explosive pull-ups with just your body weight. Just be mindful of keeping a hollow body during those high pulls. You're always trying to explode from the hang as fast as you can, trying to smash your chest or even higher your stomach to the bar. When it comes to power training, you've got to limit your reps for best results. When doing these chest-to-bar pull-ups, stop at six reps per set. That's right, six. The goal here is max speed and range of motion. Once you feel like the quality is starting to suffer, that's a clear sign you've got to stop the set. Your form of progressive overload right here is height. If you've gone from chest-to-bar in week one to stomach-to-bar on week six, that's progressive overload. Explosive power training for low reps is the secret to muscle-up mastery. It's something that beginners in calisthenics always fail to understand. This exercise highlights the importance of part practice. We know a muscle-up is a pull-up, a transition, and a dip. By working on that first part in isolation, you can genuinely overload it, build power, and improve. Lacking dip mobility can be a sneaky problem that creeps up for many people. You'd be shocked how many people just spam their pull-ups over and over, crossing their fingers that this alone is going to make them fly up and over the bar. Dip mobility, specifically on a straight bar, is a real cheat code for making muscle-ups easier to learn. This is because the deeper that you can dip, the less height that you actually need to pull up so that you can begin pressing out sooner and locking out that muscle-up with pride. So when training this variation, try and lean forward and lower as deep in the dip as you can. It should almost be uncomfortable. It's all about max range of motion and max mobility. After just a few workouts, you're going to improve and really feel the difference. So just keep slogging away at those straight bar dips. More commonly in calisthenics, we're doing the parallel bar version, but as you can tell from today's goal, doing that straight bar is worth focusing on. Because after all, that muscle-up, it is usually done on a straight bar, so we've got to train how we want to perform. Because if we're chasing this calisthenic skill, I want you to do at least one workout per week of straight bar dips, so that when you go on that muscle-up, it's not a surprise. Because straight bar dips, they put you in the same shoulder position that you need on the top of a muscle-up. Elbows behind the body, shoulders into extension, and chest over the bar. They're going to build confidence in that awkward in-between pushing phase where most people are going to panic when they're up in that transition. After all, the deeper and more controlled your dip, the easier the muscle-up is going to be because your body is going to feel stronger and you don't need as much back strength to overcome the bar. Parallel bar dips, they don't teach this exact loading, hence why the transition phase can feel sketchy if you haven't trained for it specifically. The straight bar dip is probably the easiest addition to your routine that's going to give you a big return on investment. Besides, having some extra shoulder mobility is never a bad thing. And if you're doing those deep dips with the goal of muscle-ups, it's going to motivate you to be consistent and actually transform your body in the process. I'm hiding in the mobility within the muscle-up training so that your body becomes more well-rounded as a byproduct. Cheeky, I know. So far, we've broken down the muscle-up into the pull and the push. That's two-thirds of the equation. Now comes the technique. Bad technique is bottlenecking your performance and one of the main limiters for unlocking that muscle-up. If you're someone who's just spamming muscle-up attempts, failing over and over again, it's not the smartest idea. Instead, using progressions is how you actually master technique and unlock that muscle-up much faster. The jumping muscle-up is one of my favorite beginner-friendly exercises. Find yourself a low bar. Then you're going to use your legs and pull at the same time to get over the bar. There should be enough momentum to carry you through the transition, into the dip, and above the bar. Woohoo! With this one, you're learning the movement pattern of arcing the body in that C-shape from the dead hang to getting over the bar. The other bonus here is that eccentric negative on the way down. You're building strength in reverse for the transition phase from that deep dip to the high pull-up. Plus, the jump helps you make the hardest part of the transition manageable. This lets you experience the full movement, learn correct coordination, and also timing. Lowering slowly also strengthens the exact pulling, transition, and dipping positions that we need for muscle-ups. That way, you're ingraining good technique as well. Negatives, they're the best tool for making impossible calisthenic skills possible because we're about 40% stronger eccentrically lowering than we are concentrically lifting. How do we make the muscle-up easier without cheating? I'm talking none of that dreaded kipping or chicken winging that some people do as a way of cheating to do their muscle-ups. Bands, they're going to be your best friend for learning a muscle-up, but also increasing your reps. Think of this like training wheels. It's reducing how much weight that you're lifting on the exercise. The band's going to help give your pull-up that extra pop so that you can reach chest to bar. Then, you'll also be able to transition into the dip. Like a good spotter at the gym, you want that band helping as little as possible. This beginner variation is so helpful for unlocking muscle-ups because it builds your technique and form with repeated practice. Because the intensity is lower, when I say you should be pulling in an arc away and towards the bar, you'll actually be able to do it. This is where people who skip progressions, they shoot themselves in the foot. After all, when a muscle-up feels like a 1RM attempt, of course the form is going to break down. When training with bands, you'll be able to do way more volume before fatigue sets in. We need to remember, muscle-ups are a skill, and the more successful reps that you can get into your body, the better. All of that extra practice helps you progress faster than someone who skips bandwork. I've lost count of how many people I've taught the muscle-up by just doing regressions first. It unlocks the dormant strength and technique that's needed for success. Instead of over-analyzing form by watching a million tutorials, just make muscle-ups easier for now with bands and let your body figure things out. If you need some extra help with calisthenics, my workout programs are going to turn you into a bodyweight beast and also build muscle too. Click the top link in the description to go to fitnessfaqs.com and get those gains. A weak core equals a weak pull, which equals a weak muscle-up. If your muscle-up is a muscle-up looks like you're doing the worm in the air, that full-body arch, it's a compensation, usually from a weak core. This is why the hollow body hold is one of those boring basics that you just can't be skipping in calisthenics. It strengthens your anterior core so you can resist spinal extension and keep your body hollow during the muscle-up instead of breaking down at the midline. One of the hidden blessings of calisthenics is that movements like muscle-ups, they expose your weak links fast. You need both the awareness to train your core and the discipline to actually do your homework. Hollow body holds are the preferred exercise here because they train the exact isometric core strength that muscle-ups demand. This is far more specific and beneficial than sit-ups or crunches, so skip those for now. Once your isometric core strength levels up, now your spine is going to be more stable. Your body, it's going to move as a connected unit and the whole movement is going to feel stronger and look cleaner. P.S. For those of you legends that are still here, here's a bonus hollow body progression that is perfect for muscle-ups. It strengthens your abs to withstand the dynamic demands of calisthenics, leading to less banana back and a bulletproof core. Now fellas, muscle-ups are easy to learn with progression, patience and persistence. Time is your best friend. Keep working at it and before you know it, you'll be bouncing over the bar like a kangaroo. Here's another Fitness FAQs video you simply must watch. More workout wisdom awaits you right here.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.342797Z ===
