 The front motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated motivated The front lever pull will transform your body in the following ways. You'll get the most muscle growth in the lats with this unique exercise. When the arms are straight, there's a ton of mechanical tension thanks to that long lever loading. Especially when training pulls out of that true dead hang, you're training the back at long muscle lengths, which is a good trigger for hypertrophy. If you're struggling to do pull-ups fast from that dead hang, this back exercise is going to fix it. Front lever pulls are all about building straight arm scapular strength, which improves activation and power. So if you're struggling with muscle-ups, or you're just feeling weak on your pull-ups, initiating it at the start, this exercise is gold. It targets the exact weak links that create bottlenecks in your strength training. Now, you'll no longer be limited by poor stability, which can mask the strength of your prime movers in pulling. With pull-ups and rows, you're mostly training pure vertical or horizontal planes. Front lever pulls, they load your back through the in-between angles that these traditional bent arm exercises miss. Think of it as a diagonal pull. You're strengthening a range of motion that's rarely overloaded, which is why it fills gaps, and it makes your pulling strength more well-rounded. And if you can't feel your lats working, no matter what exercise you do, it's not your fault, man. You see, the lats run diagonally from the pelvis into the upper arm. So they're designed to produce force across multiple angles, not just straight up or straight back. Front lever pulls line up far better with your back fibers, which is why people can often feel their lats switch on immediately as soon as they try this exercise. Front lever gains are coming your way. Expect your isometric front levers, that horizontal hold to improve for free as a byproduct of doing this. I've had countless people train only dynamic lever pulls and still unlock their static strength, holding that front lever without doing holds in their actual training. It's not that surprising if we think about it. High volume reps of front lever pulls accumulate a huge amount of time under tension in the horizontal position. So if you want a bigger, stronger back and better calisthenics skills transfer, this is an exercise worth using. In other news, if the idea of building your body with calisthenics interests you, unlocking cool strength skills like this, while also building muscle, head over to fitnessfaqs.com and get your program today. Here's a perfect technique checklist for front levers. And if you don't get this right, all of the benefits are going to be gone. Step number one, the most important, removing your shoes. Honestly, if you've got these on your feet, you might as well have cinder blocks on. This is a calisthenics bro cheat code to make your front levers easier to hold. Front levers are a straight arm exercise. During the movement, you've got to lock those elbows out completely. Bending the elbows, even a little bit, is not on. This is where those unique scapular gains come from. The moment the elbows start to bend, it turns into this sort of hanging leg raise abomination. To get the most out of your lats, you want to be in retraction and depression. This puts your shoulders in their strongest position to make that front lever a success. With posture, you want to be in a plank position during your front lever. I want to see you lock in that core and extend the hips. Just like that. Got to hold that throughout the course of the full front lever pull for success. When viewing it from the side, I should be able to draw a straight line from your shoulder joints to your hip. A common mistake is the reverse banana during front lever pulls. This isn't a core weakness. It's a lack of back and shoulder strength causing you to shorten the lever to compensate into that banana. If this is happening, you've just got to make the exercise easier. Keep on watching because I'll show you how to do so a little bit later on. Training through that large range of motion is what makes front lever pulls so effective. You'll see two main variations in today's B-roll. Pulling to horizontal and pulling all the way up into an inverted hang. Both are useful, but just know the horizontal range is the hardest part and it's the priority. The front lever itself is the most difficult movement because when you're in it, the moment arm is the longest and the lats and your scapula have to overcome the most torque. Science over. All right, let's discuss how you can build up your own back strength step by step. Using bands is going to be best for getting the hang of these as quick as possible. Straight arm exercise can feel really awkward the first time that you train them. So reducing how much body weight you're working against, it's going to be helpful. The band is really helpful because it lets you practice the full movement with more control than you'd have unassisted. Just focus on an explosive pull from the bottom, then control the negative, getting the most out of every single rep. Always choose a band that lets you keep that perfect form. Locked elbows, plank-like posture, no sagging, with a dominant tempo the entire way. Now, throughout this video, you've seen me demoing the end stage pull, being in that full front lever, and repping them out. Fellas, I know that you can get there too someday. Truthfully, it's a hard exercise, but it's not impossible if you regress to progress. Start doing this exercise in a tuck position, and you'll get it straight away. This shortens the lever arm, and it makes the movement feel less heavy on your back. Once you're able to comfortably do sets of five on a given regression, you'll want to gradually, yes, I said gradually, extend the lever towards the full thing. This is the calisthenics version of lifting heavier weights when we play with that longer lever length in our training. The final way to unlock your missing strength is with... eccentrics. Training from the top down is a great way to bridge the gap between progressions. This is because you're stronger in reverse. I like doing negatives from that inverted hang through the front lever and into that dead hang. So if you're someone who's been grinding away with band assist, and also doing those tuck front lever pulls, once you can do a few control eccentrics, you'll be able to rep out that body weight version with the leg extended like a boss, no problem. For those of you who do get strong enough to do the full thing, congrats, man. It shows that you've got a strong back that's capable of throwing yourself around like a rag doll. I guarantee, after training this exercise consistently, you're going to feel the difference in how your body feels, especially on pull-ups and rows. Expect your lats to grow big like you've got bloody bat wings, mate, thanks to hitting them in a way that you've never done before. That's one of the reasons why gymnasts or calisthenics bros training on rings develop such impressive physiques and body weight control. It's that straight arm scapular strength. It's something that our bodybuilder mates that are training at the gym, they don't understand just yet. The YouTube algorithm knows what you want to watch. This video here has been handpicked. It's bespoke exactly for your needs. Check it out.