 Have you tried pin dips before? Adding a pause changes everything! You'll unlock new strength and improve your technique on dips fast! This one variation has been a game changer for fixing my weak links! Here's why I recommend you do too! Technique inconsistency by missing that 90 degrees dip is a common problem! You see, a downside with normal dips is you don't actually spend much time at the bottom because you're bouncing out of the dip using the stretch reflex! Pains dips finally build n-range strength! Thanks to that isometric hold at the bottom. Instead of spending minimal time in the challenge, you'll get stronger in the position where most people are weak. Collapsing at the shoulders during dips is a common issue for beginners. We see this scapula going all over the place during the exercise. So if your shoulders are creeping up towards your ears or wobbling around all over the place, you're going to lose stability and strength. Your chest, delts, and triceps can only produce real force when the scapula is locked in. Pause dips teach this because as you slow the descent and pause, you're naturally keeping the shoulders depressed and protracted, which is the exact position that you need for safe, comfortable, strong weighted dips. Weighted dips are the greatest exercise in calisthenics for pushing gains. They're a real key feature in my weekly hybrid routine. The good news is I'm offering 50% off hybrid by Fitness FAQs this Black Friday. Don't miss out. This ends November 30, once per year sale. Let's get back to the video. If you want more mobility, you've got to use it or lose it. Pausing at the bottom of dips will help you get more shoulder extension mobility. So you can actually get your arms behind your body without groaning like a grandpa. With time, all of your pressing is going to feel nicer. Push-ups, bench press, and especially dips without jacking up your joints. By pausing, you're going to get more challenge out of your dips. Expect performance to drop by around 30% when you're doing the pin variation. It's a feature, not a bug. For example, if you're a calisthenics beginner and you can do, say, 10 dips continuously, you'll probably be struggling by rep 7. During this workout here, for example, I'm using 50 kilos and doing sets of 5 reps. When bouncing out of the bottom of my normal weighted dips, I can use 70 kilos. So I'm noticing this performance drop myself as well. Well, why is this a good thing? It's related to the fatigue and frequency of your calisthenics training. I train dips twice per week and on the second workout, I do the pin dip variation to get more gains with less fatigue. The reason being, they let me train the dip pattern hard without overloading my heaviest weights a second time. This gives me a huge stimulus with far less joint and CNS fatigue. This pairs well with that first session in the week where I'm going hard using continuous weighted dips to move my heaviest loads and build maximum strength. By combining one heavy dip day with one pin dip day, you get twice weekly specificity, better technique, and steady strength gains without burning out your recovery. For most intermediate calisthenics athletes, myself included, this is the most sustainable way to continue progressing long term. When training dips this way, you'll unlock explosive strength from a dead stop, no stretch reflex. Pause dips fix the energy leaks in the bottom position, making your dips stronger and more stable. Once your weak links get some love and attention from that important pause, when you return back to regular dips, they're going to profit from this investment. Real talk, most dip injuries happen when people drop too fast and don't have the strength to control the deep dip. Peck and bicep tears are the most common when you hit the bottom without stability, proper technique, or adequate strength. With pin dips, removing the stretch reflex, slowing down that negative, it makes it far more controlled in that risky position. It dramatically reduces the chance of anything going wrong. Over time, you're mastering your technique in that sketchy bottom position, building up strength, resilience, and bulletproofing your tendons. The good news, when you go back to your normal dips and bounce out of the bottom to lift your heavy weights or do the most reps, you're going to feel much more safe because you've actually unlocked strength in that deep romp. And now your body can handle it thanks to the work you've put in. I've also noticed a carry over to my muscle ups, which has been a surprising benefit. The reason for this is if we look at a muscle up, when you catch the transition, you have to push out of the deep dip from a dead start. I say it so often, people who can do 10 normal dips, they really struggle with muscle ups because they can't press from that low, awkward, momentumless deep dip. Pin dips are going to give you that mobility out of that deep position so that when you get over the bar, you're going to push sooner. So your muscle ups feel better, look better, and you'll do more reps. For range of motion on pin dips, if your goal is maximum strength, I'd recommend 90 degrees as a standard where your rear delt is below your elbow. If you want to get more mobility and some extra hypertrophy, you can go a little bit deeper, get some more stretch, but you've always got to choose a range of motion that's comfortable for you. Don't push into pain, play the long game. Don't forget, when you're pausing, you're not just resting here passively on your joints. You've got to stay active using your upper body muscles before you push back up. From the bottom, when you're in this poorly leveraged position, you'll get more gains by exploding with everything you've got. You want to be mindful of slowing down that negative and also controlling the weight plate because if you control the plate, you control the dip. Keep in mind, you have to make the weight plate touch the ground and come to a complete dead stop. So why do I have such a long chain length when I'm doing my dips? This keeps the weight lower towards your feet, it lowers your center of mass, and it makes your dips feel more stable. Plus, with this setup, the weight is going to touch the floor each time. This way, you've got a consistent dead stop and your range of motion is the same every single rep. Surprisingly, dips are an exercise that many people get wrong. Are you doing them correctly? Find out in this video over here. Just click it. Stop recording me now.