 Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick No more of that stubborn tightness on the back of your legs, if you follow my advice. Using a band to stretch your hamstrings is an absolute cheat code. By lying on the floor, your body can relax so that you can access a deeper stretch. Just follow this sequence, extend your leg and hold it there for five breaths. Then you're going to relax for a moment and repeat, doing five reps of five breaths. Using a band makes stretching your hamstrings more effective for a few reasons. Notice how the band pulls the foot towards your face? This dorsiflexes the ankle, giving you a strong calf stretch. For many people struggling to touch their toes, tight calves, not just hamstrings, are the limiter. Since the calf crosses both the ankle and knee joints, you're getting a two-for-one special, stretching the calves and the hamstrings at the same time. The band acts as resistance for the hamstrings and assistance for the hip flexors. As you extend the leg straight, you're getting a serious stretch alongside the back of your leg, and this resistance builds strength at length. On the other hand, most of us have weak hip flexors. This is where band assistance comes in to save the day. Thanks to the help of the band, you can bring your hip closer towards your body, helping you stretch further. This means that your hip flexors don't have to work as hard. So for beginners who are struggling to feel the stretch, this setup is an absolute lifesaver. The most important cue with this hamstring stretch is don't let your leg drift away from your body, because this weakens the stretch. The goal is to drive your thigh as close to your chest as possible, while straightening your leg to the max. If your leg starts shaking uncontrollably, and you're flirting with a muscle cramp, you're on the right money. The Jefferson Curl is the best hamstring stretch, and it's not as dangerous as most people think. With the legs locked out and the quads engaged, you're going to slowly curl your spine, one segment at a time. Lower down as far as you can comfortably tolerate. The stretch should be uncomfortable, not painful. During Jefferson Curls, just calm down. You gotta chill. This way, you can access your deepest range of motion. Calm breathing is the best way to tell your body that it's okay, because this activates your parasympathetic nervous system. Rounding your back on deadlifts will not kill your lower back. This myth has no strong scientific evidence. The human spine, it's designed to bend, twist, and rotate under load. The poison is in the dosage. If you've never tried this before, of course, stacking on your heaviest deadlift and trying it is a risky recipe. But our body can become robust and resilient with training. Yes, even loaded flexion is safe when approached sensibly. The best way to keep your Jefferson Curls safe and effective is just to load them lightly to begin with. Loaded stretching is a powerful method for increasing range of motion in adults, because the weight assists you to go deeper, while also making you stronger. If you've only ever done gentle static stretches, this may be the reason why your hamstrings remain forever tight. I've spent the last six months doing Jefferson Curls twice per week. I started with just an empty barbell, and I've progressively overloaded up to 50 kilos. The hamstrings have always been a real problem area for me. When I first started, I could barely reach down past my knees. Legit, that's how tight it was. The Jefferson Curl has been a lifesaver for increasing my ROM, but one caveat. Expect serious muscle soreness. This is because your hamstrings and spinal erectors are being trained at length. Keep in mind, progressive overload applies to flexibility training, just like lifting weights at the gym. With Jeffersons, you want to gradually increase how much range of motion you're using, as well as the load. You have to auto-regulate with this stuff, just like you would in regular training. Some sessions, you might feel tighter or weaker. So just cut your range of motion and use a little bit lighter loads on your Jeffersons. With flexibility, progress isn't linear. You're not going to constantly be able to stretch deeper and deeper, just like how you can't always progress at the gym. But if you keep showing up consistently and doing the work, trust in your body, and eventually you'll be able to fold yourself in half. I can't wait to eventually throw on 60 kilos on the Jefferson Curl, only to be told by some uneducated, contextually dogmatic, fear-mongering pessimist that this is dangerous. Your body can change. Your body can get flexible as an adult if you build that strength at length with these range of motion movements. Optimism. The single leg Good Morning will stretch your hamstrings like never before. Set up with a weight held behind your head. This encourages you to keep a straight back and correct movement mechanics. Your stretching leg stays straight to get a deep stretch in those hammies. Your support leg stays bent to maintain balance and stability. Good Mornings are all about that hip hinge motion. When you keep your chest up and you drive your hips back, you're going to feel this all hamstrings and no lower back. This technique and posture loads the hamstrings in their most lengthened position, where they cross the hip joint. This creates a strong stretching sensation without faking ROM at the lower back. In the single leg Good Morning, you should be feeling this proximally high up in the hip, not distally at the knee. Most people butcher the tempo of Good Mornings, moving way too fast. Make sure that you're lowering slowly, especially as you're getting close to your deepest range. The negative phase is where the hamstrings get their most effective stretch, especially for our goal of flexibility. Doing 10 reps plus a 10 second hold on that final rep in the deep stretch is a potent protocol. You're strengthening the full range of motion and spending some extra time in that deep stretch for lasting gains. For those of you already doing the Jefferson Curl, single leg Good Mornings are the perfect complement. With the straight back and hip hinge, it gives you a comprehensive way to target the different heads of the hamstrings through different angles. Remember fellas, you've only got one body and one life. If you want to unlock adult flexibility, get my full body flexibility routine at fitnessfaqs.com. Overhead mobility isn't just about the shoulders. It starts with the thoracic spine. If your upper back is locked down, your shoulders, they never stand a chance. This one stretch is all you need to unlock a better posture and that overhead shoulder mobility that you've been missing. I don't want to waste my days doing a dozen boring stretches that don't work. That's why I love the body weight pullover. It's the best way to open up your shoulders and spine simultaneously. Specifically, it stretches your thoracic spine into extension while opening up the lats, pec minor and teres major. Those big muscles that usually lock down your shoulders overhead. You'll also feel a huge release through the chest, ribs, stomach because your body is arching backwards in this one. This setup might look a little fancy, but trust me, it's worth it. You'll need something solid to act as a fulcrum for your upper back. Yoga blocks work well or even a firm foam roller. Next, you'll want to fix your hands overhead. Stall bars are perfect for this, but if you don't have them, a barbell and a squat rack or a smith machine with a bench combo works just as well. The body weight pullover is simple to perform. You're going to arch and try and get your hips down towards the ground. You should feel a massive stretch through your spine and shoulders. But here's the warning. It is very intense. Always move slowly and stay within your strength limits when starting out. With big tension comes big stretch and with that comes more range of motion gains. Funny how that works, isn't it? The challenging movements are the ones that actually change our body. If you commit to serious strength stretches like this, you'll be rewarded with lasting mobility. After just a few sets of bodyweight pullovers, I feel like a completely different person. I'm standing taller with a proud upright posture. Breathing feels easier and when I lift my arms up overhead, there's less resistance to doing so. But I get it. Watching a difficult stretch like this that you can't do is frustrating. Don't stress. I'll show you the best regressions for beginners so you can work up to this movement step by step. Pullovers with a weight overhead are a great start. You're still using the spine as a fulcrum and opening up the shoulders, but with a fraction of the load. Passive holds in the bodyweight pullover posture where you keep the bum on the feet or the floor help to reduce the intensity. These are great because you can scale it to a difficulty and amount of weight that you're actually bearing that suits your strength level. Isometric holds in the air without moving into deeper extension are a great intro. The body feels safe doing statics and it's a good intro to the bodyweight pullover. This is my go-to spine and shoulder stretch because it actually has room for progress. All you need to do is elevate your hands and feet to expand your range of motion and keep going deeper. The mark of a good flexibility or mobility drill is progressibility. If you can't make it harder, it's not worth your time. We live in a sitting society, at work, in the car, or even at home watching fitness FAQs on YouTube. The result? Hips that don't move the way they should. Let's fix that by opening up your hips for comfy squats and supple hip flexors. Welcome the pigeon stretch, a absolute classic for hip mobility. With this one, the front leg is placed across the body, which puts the hip into external rotation. That's why you feel such a strong stretch in the glutes, piriformis, and deep hip rotators. The best way to perform this stretch is actively, using strength to increase range of motion. It's okay to keep light hand support just for balance, but don't use them to offload too much bodyweight. From here, you want to press your front shin into the ground, squeezing the glutes and owning the position. It's this pushing with control at your limits is what transforms a basic stretch into true mobility training. And that's what delivers lasting results. For beginners, I recommend using an incline bench. This way, the hip can be positioned at a friendly angle, helping to ease into the stretch and without any of that knee discomfort. From here, you want to hinge forward. You can play around with using a straight back or a rounded back. Each of these stretches different parts of your body and it offers different sensations. Explore, experiment, and find out what you enjoy more. When you train pigeons consistently, you'll feel the difference. Hips that move freely, glutes that are switched on, and less pinching when you sit or squat. Over time, you'll notice more freedom on every hip dominance movement. The reverse Nordic will open up even the tightest of hip flexors. If you struggle to sit in a deep squat because of tight quads, this is your go-to option. For correct technique, start by squeezing your glutes. You want to keep a slight posterior pelvic tilt as you lean back. This directs the stretch into the quads and the hip flexors. Just avoid arching your lower back excessively. This is a common way people try and cheat the movement. The band assisted variation is my go-to option. I recommend you train. When using a band, it helps the most at the bottom. It provides assistance where you're weakest. This lets you explore a deeper range of motion than would otherwise be possible. Reverse Nordics are sometimes called natural leg extensions because they mirror the movement at the gym. With one big difference. A machine leg extension loads the quads most at full knee extension in their contracted position. While the reverse Nordic hammers them hardest in the stretch lengthened position. Don't be surprised if your legs are sore or even tighter a day or two after training these. That's just the eccentric load kicking in giving you DOMS. Don't stress. Once you recover, you'll notice that your hip flexors feel more open. Especially if you do the movement consistently. The loaded lunge is the cure for stubborn hip flexors. If you've tried the couch stretch before, you know how brutal it can be on tight quads. The problem is most people hold the couch stretch passively. There's not enough load to make lasting changes. The loaded wall lunge is the upgrade. By adding weight and holding under tension, you force the hip flexors and quads to adapt. Building strength at length instead of just hanging out in a stretch. Start light with around 5 kilos in each hand. The weight should encourage you to sink deeper. Not so heavy that your body seizes up. Notice how in this one you're not moving in and out of the stretch. Instead, you're holding the end range and letting the load pull you deeper over time. Think of it as a yielding isometric. You're slowly letting your body sink deeper into hip extension. The deeper you go, the more the stretch shifts into the hip crease and lower abs. Targeting the psoas muscle. Stay calm, breathe and let each exhale guide you into more hip extension. The loaded wall lunge is tough. But do it often and you'll notice a big difference in everyday things. Such as standing and walking. That means Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick Mick