 siskisk, tnthole, result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result result impingement and my rotator cuff got irritated. This led to me getting frustrated because my performance was limited by this injury. Wisdom is learning from other people's mistakes so that you don't have to. When the average person gets injured, one of two things usually happens. They either push through pain like a meathead or they stop training completely. Neither of these is a smart idea. The best approach is finding exercise that don't hurt. For me, the neutral grip was a lifesaver. The reason neutral grip feels better on the shoulders is because there's more joint space when you're hanging. There's less compression on the rotator cuff muscles, the humeral head stays centered, and there's less risk of impingement. After nearly two decades of calisthenics, I can confidently say this. The neutral grip pull-up is the most joint-friendly way to train. It's because of that freedom of rotation at the wrist, elbow, and shoulder, and it just feels better, especially if you've been dealing with that pesky golfer's elbow. Switching to rings is often all you need to mitigate that pain and injury while still getting your reps in. The downside of training on a straight bar is that you always overload your tissues in the exact same way year after year. With a wide grip pull-up, you've got an internally rotated shoulder position, which can make it a little bit grumpy here. If you're doing a supinated palms facing towards you chin-up, it goes downstream to the elbows and it can make them not happy too. Now, both of those variations are fine if your body can handle them, but if you've got pain or injury, just save them for later. If you take one thing from this video, it is even if you're healthy. Doing a training phase on the rings is a smart move because we all want to have that longevity to be able to work out for decades, and this approach is going to preserve your precious connected tissues while still building muscle and strength. Injury is the fastest way to stall your potential. I've seen many bros suffer this fate. I don't want you to be the same. Rings, they challenge your stabilizers, they build strength in a way that pull-ups simply can't, and they expose your weak links and address them. If longevity matters to you, and it should, spend some time on the rings. Your future self will thank you for it. Oh, the best investment you'll ever make is getting bodied by rings by Fitness FAQs. I'll teach you how to build muscle with callus necks, harnessing the full power of the rings. Alright, let's talk about the part everyone cares about, building mass. Surprisingly, the close grip neutral pull-up may be superior for lats. This is because when we're using a tucked elbow technique with a neutral grip, we're going to be using more shoulder extension. This uses the lats where they've got their greatest leverage and strength. By contrast to a wide grip pull-up or pull-down, you're using more shoulder adduction, lats, weaker leverage, and it shifts more of the tension to the posterior delts and that teres minor. So, if your goal is to actually hit the lats hard, that neutral grip may actually be superior to the wide grip pull-up, despite that age-old adage of wide grip for back width. Moving on to the arms. The neutral grip targets the brachialis and the brachioradialis. When the brachialis grows, it acts like a wedge under the biceps. It lifts the biceps higher and adds width to the arm, which makes your arms look bigger from every angle. Most people think that the biceps are the strongest elbow flexor, but when you're using a neutral grip, the prime mover is actually that brachialis that sits between the biceps and the triceps. Moving on to the brachioradialis. If you want forearms that actually stand out, you roll up a shirt, you've got these yoked forearms, doing the neutral grip pull-up is going to target this better than any other bodyweight exercise. Because this muscle is so superficial, it's close to the skin, any hypertrophy that you get through here looks absolutely sick. The good news is your hard work on the neutral pull-up is going to have a direct carryover to your rows because it shares the same movement mechanics, shoulder extension, you're getting that retraction as well, using tucked elbows. It's going to have a nice carryover. This means you're building the same muscles through similar angles, which boost size and strength in your back and arms. So basically, when you train your neutral pull-ups, it feeds your rows, you do your rows, it feeds your pull-ups. Again, this double whammy effect to boost your strength. My preferred equipment for the neutral grip pull-up has to be the rings. They're so versatile. You get all of those benefits in terms of how it transforms your body due to that rotation. You can take them anywhere, cost-effective. There is absolutely no excuse for not getting your gains no matter where you are. Otherwise, if you're at a park, lots of parks have those monkey bars. You can kick little Joey off there when he's doing his hanging and swinging, and then you can get your gains in that setup. A really fun neutral grip variation is using the V-bar attachment that's commonly used on rows. This one's called the Geronda pull-up, but it uses that neutral grip. It is going to blast your back, hit your forearms, and it's a great way to use a straight bar. You put that V-bar on there. Wow, you've got that neutral grip, and you can make that progress. Let's catch up to speed on the perfect technique for neutral pull-ups. A common mistake is using too wide of a grip. This is going to decrease how much arm recruitment you have, and the line of pull isn't that great. You're not working directly against gravity like this. What I recommend is using a shoulder-width grip. Now, your forearms are in a vertical alignment. You've got max recruitment of your brachialis and brachioradials, and you're going to get best lat leverage so you can make the most of your back. Using a dead hang is what I recommend because you're getting extra range of motion at your shoulder as well as your scapula. When the lats can work through more contractile ROM, you're going to get more gains because there's more tension. What I also like about the dead hang is it standardizes every rep. There's no cheating at the bottom. There's no inconsistency in your ROM or any of that half rep nonsense. You get honest progression and cleaner rep quality from session to session. Going into this dead hang is also going to improve your shoulder health because you're getting that upward rotation of the scapula. It strengthens the lower traps and serratus anterior. These are key muscles to be functioning well if you want resilient, robust shoulders that can do anything overhead. An annoying part about ring pull-ups is it's hard to know if you're pulling high enough because on a bar, you touch it, you clear it vertically and horizontally, you're all good. On the rings, you're in no man's land up there. That's why I recommend adding a band to your rings because this way when you come to the top, you've got this tactile reference if you've actually made it above the rings. A bonus here is this adds extra stability when you're pulling it out, increases recruitment of those rear delts. To build balanced strength and size without beating up your joints, use this tempo. On the way up on that concentric, you want to pull as aggressively as you can for max motor unit recruitment. On the way down, you want to control using your muscles as brakes to enhance that hypertrophy stimulus. Lastly, don't skip that dead hang portion of the movement. You want to control those final few degrees. This is going to be very sustainable on your joints as well as your tendons. It's easier said than done in practice. When you're training hard, you're getting fatigued, you often want to skip this. But if you're beating up your joints and tendons and your body's not feeling great, slow it down. You've only got one body. Respect it. Now, when consistent technique is combined with hard training, that's a winning formula. Weighted calisthenics is the best way to ensure that you are progressively overloading. Just look around at gyms. The most jacked people all apply this principle. You either lift heavier or you don't. This is how you improve mechanical tension and it's reflected in your size as well as your strength. Can't lift much on the neutral grip pull-up. You're probably going to be weaker and smaller compared to a big beast over there that's got two or three plates doing the same thing. One of my biggest problems is constantly swapping exercises. And I'm sure most of you guys can relate to this as well. It is literally killing your gains. You don't need to constantly be swapping your pull-up, your chin-up or your lat pull-down grip. But it is a smart idea every three months to just stick to a variation. Being that neutral grip, progress on it and you will change. I always tell myself, keep it simple, stupid. Don't be tempted to change your workout every single week. Can you stay focused and consistent without getting distracted? That's the true difference between people who get gains and those that don't. We've just scratched the surface on what is possible with rings. Watch this video here to learn some new exercises. It's got to be bush. Push. Push.