 How to grow a bigger back by combining calisthenics and weights. Follow along this hybrid pull workout to get the best of both worlds. Front lever pulls are epic for size and strength. By using full ROM, we're making this calisthenics classic, classic, suitable for bodybuilding. This exercise is a straight arm pullover using our body as resistance. Stretch mediated hypertrophy is the advantage. A fancy way of saying the hang is where the muscle growing goodness lies. Building our back with exercise at long muscle lengths is a well researched, proven method. Concerning resistance difficulty, the bottom range is the hardest and it gets easier towards the inverted hang. Don't worry if you're a beginner and can't do it. Choose a tucked posture. Pulling with a shorter lever drops the intensity for progressing at your own pace. Correct technique involves elbows locked straight and minimizing momentum. A powerful pull followed by a slow eccentric is the tempo to strive for. Why are dynamic front levers better than isometrics for bodybuilding? Full range training takes our muscles through a complete contractile range. We know that lowering with a controlled eccentric from the top down is more effective than statics for size. Expect to improve your front lever strength, increase back mass, and have a challenging exercise for years to come. Let's do our pull ups differently for unique benefits. Not many people do neutral grip pull ups. They're missing out big time. By pulling neutrally, we target the outer bicep and forearm muscles, areas which are often neglected with regular grips. People who consistently pull with a neutral grip tend to have more impressive arms compared to those who don't. Rings are a cheap yet effective equipment which feel amazing when used. The rotation is very forgiving. The elbow joints and tendons don't get as grumpy. Neutral grip pull ups are a sustainable way to stress our muscles, mitigating injury risk which allows you to pull passionately. By keeping training intense yet safe, you're going to build more muscle and strength long term. Neutral grip pull ups are a powerful variation when coupled with progressive overload. Doing more reps, sets or weight over time. Please respect the value of variation when it comes to exercise. Neutral grip isn't better or worse than regular pull ups or chin ups. What matters is rotating main movement variations every couple of months. Neutral grip simply keeps the conventional pull up novel, stimulatory and fun. Chest supported rows are a go to horizontal pull. The added stability from the bench reduces lower back fatigue. It's nice not having to worry about core bracing which can be a concern with bent over variations. A fixed posture reduces cheating. The bench gives physical feedback which keeps technique honest. Rows like this shine because they are reliable and repeatable. Consistency allows progressive overload without compromise. I'm opting for a low row technique, pulling towards the waist and leading with the elbows. Do stretch and squeeze the shoulders. Full protraction to retraction gives a glorious back pump. Please don't skip the negative with rows. I can't stress how important lowering with control is for eccentric overload. Using straps for heavy weightlifting has been my personal paradigm shift. The back muscles are undeniably bigger and stronger than the forearms. Straps allow us to train to true muscular failure and beyond. If we only ever row raw, relying on grip strength alone for back day is a losing battle. Everyone can pull heavier, do more reps and accumulate greater volume when strapped up. There's nothing sissy about straps for bodybuilding. If anything, it should be celebrated. Ever since I started using straps, training is finally pushing my prime mover muscles properly. What matters is effort. Try hard, give enough effort relative to failure, get uncomfortable and force growth. You honestly can't go wrong with dumbbells. Working both sides independently helps with size and strength symmetry left to right. Want bigger biceps? Incline curls, my friend. This exercise stretches the biceps and targets the long head. Play around with an incline of around 60 degrees. A lower angle is harder and vertical is easier. The beauty of incline curls is we get more from less weight. Take whatever you can lift standing and reduce it by around 20% for incline curls. Once again, bench bracing prevents cheating and keeps us honest. The stability takes away body English and our biceps bear the brunt. The higher stimulus from lighter loads is great for bodybuilding. Better stimulus to fatigue. No one cares about how much you curl. What matters is stressing the muscles and progressing. I recommend keeping a proud chest to fully challenge the biceps. No hunching. Squeezing the triceps at the bottom is good for rep to rep consistency and full range training. Stretch overload exercises are truly effective. Incline curls will pump up your biceps like never before. I highly recommend you commit to incline curls during regular workouts. So simple, yet so good. When consistency, correct technique and high effort relative to failure are combined, there's no reason why the biceps won't get bigger and stronger. Let's finish off with face pulls. Rings feel incredible for this exercise thanks to freedom of movement. There's something special about overcoming our body weight. The functional gains through improved motor control can't be discounted. This exercise targets the rotator cuff and rear delts. Keep a rigid posture by bracing the abs and clenching dem glutes. Also contract the back as you pull the shoulders towards 90-90. Face pulls are often promoted as a bulletproofing exercise, a cure-all for every problem. Relax. Be wary of extreme claims. Face pulls are good, but they're just another tool in your arsenal. We can all agree face pulls overload a pattern that we don't conventionally focus on. External rotation. Improving potential weaknesses. Face pulls are a great all-rounder because the benefits are beyond just a aesthetics. Sure, the mid-back and posterior shoulder muscles are going to grow, but that's not it. From anecdotal experience, my shoulders feel more stable with less pain when face pulls are done regularly. Improved performance at the top of pull-ups or while overhead pressing is definitely noticeable. The scapular stability gained from face pulls are worth the effort. Please choose a posture relative to horizontal, which makes it possible to pump out reps. If failing after three reps or doing 20-plus reps with ease, change your setup. It's no big deal to sprinkle in some external rotation at the end of a workout. A little proactive shoulder strength goes a long way. It's also no big deal to leave a thumbs-up rating to support fitness FAQs. Here's the complete pull workout. Progress by adding sets, reps, or increasing intensity. Mixing calisthenics and weights is fun and effective. I hope you enjoy it. Keep watching fitness FAQs to level up your brain and body. See you next time.