учучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучучуч you the best way to structure supersets using calisthenics. It's one of the most efficient ways to train and more people, yourself included, should be doing it. On those days that I'm really busy, but I don't want to skip a workout, all I need is 30 minutes to get those gains. The simple secret that I have up my sleeve is using antagonist supersets. This method has you pairing opposite movements that use opposite muscle groups. For example, a vertical pull and a vertical push. So you do a set of pull-ups, hop off the bar and then go straight into a set of dips without any break. With pull-ups, you're working the back, the rear delts and the biceps using a vertical pull movement. With dips, you're working the chest, front delts and triceps in that vertical push movement. Now, after you've done each of those pull-ups and dips back to back, that's when you take your rest period, you catch your breath and recover. Surprisingly, you only need around 90 seconds before going into that next superset. And this is where the real magic happens. The reason you can get away with only 90 seconds of rest is because each muscle group, it's actually resting twice. Once while you train the opposite movement and then again during the rest period after the superset. Here's an example to show you what this looks like in practice with the time-saving benefits embedded in. So when you come back to the start of training the superset again, each muscle group has actually had around two to three minutes of recovery. Here's something you may not know. When you're doing high rep training, you get that fatigue that builds up from all the lactic acid and the other metabolic byproducts in your muscles. Supersets, they can help you here because when you're alternating exercises, that blood is circulating with all the other muscle groups while at rest, which can help reduce fatigue and allow you to perform more total volume. Now you guys know how important rest times are. Get this wrong and your performance will turn to trash or you'll just be wasting time. Say you had no rest at all. You're supersetting back and forth endlessly back and forth. Fatigue, it's going to accumulate and your reps are going to drop off a cliff. On the other hand, if you're resting for more than three minutes, there's usually a diminishing return when you're sitting around for this long, unless you're doing very heavy sets or one rep max work. This is why resting about 90 seconds between antagonist supersets works so well. ATP, it's the main energy source for resistance training. And when you factor in the time spent performing the opposite exercise in a superset, each muscle group is actually getting around two to three minutes of recovery, which is in line with the science. That's right in that sweet spot for strength and muscle growth. As far as rest times are concerned, you're getting all of those benefits, the best of both worlds with supersets. Plus your workouts finish faster and your performance doesn't drop. You're performing more work in less time. It's a win-win. It almost seems too good to be true. Am I just a shill for big superset? You be the judge. Another all-time favorite exercise combo is alternating rows and pushups. With rows, you're targeting the back and biceps, horizontal pulling. And with pushups, you're hitting the chest and triceps, horizontal pushing. Smart supersets don't just save time. They also improve movement quality. You're going to feel more connected with your body, greater joint stability, and more coordination between muscle groups. Basically, when you're doing pushups after rows, you'll feel stronger compared to if you just did pushups by themselves. Try it out for yourself. Antagonist supersets, they really prime your body to move well. This is because your upper back, rear delts, and shoulder stabilizers are already activated after rows, which helps keep your shoulders in a strong, stable position when you start pushups. In practice, your scapula will naturally be moving the way they should because you've already worked that movement pattern with the muscles on both sides of the joint. This right here is one of the unique benefits of antagonist supersets. You become more connected with the exercises that you're doing. It just feels so good. That's why upper body workouts really lend themselves to this method. It saves time and your body body just feels epic when you're moving. Now, don't think this only works for pull-ups and dips or rows and pushups. You can structure your entire workout using antagonist supersets. For arms, I'm a big fan of alternating ring curls and tricep extensions. This way, you can smash out some extra isolations and get those aesthetics. Plus, the pump, it's out of this world. It's addictive when you've got all this blood which balloons your arms. If you're wearing a t-shirt, it may or may not rip. Now, if you want to build muscle with calisthenics, get jacked with my programs over at fitnessfaqs.com. I'll be a coach. I've been at this stuff for over 17 years and I want to give you the best gains possible. Click the top link in the description and I'll show you the way. And for legs, you see where this is going. Alternating a sissy squat and a nautic curl is a match made in heaven. You're hitting the quadriceps on the front of the thigh and the hamstrings, those ham hocks on the rear. If you're a masochist for discomfort, then you're going to find this fun. Otherwise, be warned that walking afterwards may be a task, especially if you push those sets close to failure. For the core, you can work the abs and the lower back in a superset manner too to get all of those time-saving benefits. A hanging leg raise and a back extension are staples that you can do antagonistically. Expect your spine to fill a million bucks as you train it from the front and the back in one workout. Okay, enough theory. Here's how you put it into practice, those antagonist supersets. So if you're someone who wants to save time, these are going to show you how to cover the major movements and muscles. Yes, even got legs in there, you don't want to be skipping the pins. I'd be failing you as a coach and an educator if I didn't put that in. If you're not doing supersets, don't sleep on them. Here's a few of the benefits you're going to get with this training method. It's a form of density training. You're doing more work per minute, which makes things really productive and efficient. Supersets also build up your work capacity. Because you're moving more and resting less, your overall conditioning and fitness is going to improve. Especially if you're someone who only does straight sets or you don't do any formal cardio, you're going to adapt quickly and feel the difference. Supersets are also a fun way to switch up your workout. I find it's easier to gain to flow state with this style because you're constantly moving and you're engaged in the workout. With straight sets, there's always that temptation to get distracted and start scrolling on your phone. Those three minute rest periods can get really protracted when you start doom scrolling. It happens to all of us, not a good habit you want to gain to. But with supersets, you're genuinely resting or you're locked in and mindful with the exercise that you're doing. With supersets, you actually maintain performance with a more efficient workout. These antagonist exercises really optimize that work to rest ratio. I find you can still train hard and heavy, allowing you to build muscle and strength, but in a fraction of the time. You may have the perception of supersets being harder due to this density, but with practice, like anything, you're going to build up resilience to handle training this way. And that's what it's all about. Adaptation. The excuse, I don't have time to work out, is one that you can't really use anymore once you know about supersets. I know most of you watching are busy studying or working full time. It's very rare to have perfect circumstances where you can spend two hours in the gym every single day. But I'm confident all of us can carve out 30 minutes a few times per week, especially with calisthenics and training at home. If we're being real with ourselves, if there's a will, there's a way. The secret to success with fitness is adaptability. It's not about being optimal. It's about showing up and doing what you can on the day. With supersets, you'll be shocked at how much you can get done in an efficient way. And these small workouts compound over the years. What also compounds is the knowledge that you'll get from this Fitness FAQ's video. It's the type of info that I wish I had when I first started. Give it a click and enjoy.