 The hips and hip mobility, is something that are, if you increase it, gain some more rotation, it can help you with squats, and a whole host of different mobility exercises. What do you do for the glutes specifically? Glutes. For me, my go-to would be the pigeon. It hits the glutes and also hits the piriformis. And the pigeon, it can be scaled so many variations of the pigeon. So, let's say, so, let's say you're a beginner, you can probably just sit down on the floor, and have your legs crossed, and then you can just do contract and relax. That way you can try to get more end range of motion. And then when you get really good at that, you can do something like a pigeon on an elevated bench, where you either do something like a good morning, or you can do press-ups. But for me, I find that's my go-to. I've got a lot of excellent rotation, I'm just doing the pigeon. And a way to scale that back, because once again, we see your end-stage beastly dedication to this exercise, you've got a ton of rotation, you're actually feeling it in your glutes. A common problem is, when you get into that external rotation, feeling some knee pain. Easy solution, use an incline bench, so that instead of being completely flat, you can change the angle, and the more you go towards upright, the more forgiving it's going to be on the knees and hip complex. Totally. And I find that sometimes, if you do experience some torque or discomfort in the knee, I find that just releasing this area of the calf just makes that discomfort go away. Because I think there's a lot of tension in this area, and so by releasing it, it just makes the movement more accessible. Have you ever tried it? Have you actually experienced knee torque? I felt it a bit before, but I haven't tried myofascial. But it makes sense, you always think, okay, I'm feeling discomfort here, what can I do? Look above and below. Like maybe a bit of ITB, myofascial release, terrible, we all hate it. A bit there for the, like the tib and perineals as well. But I find that, because I've had it quite a few times, and just by releasing that part, it just made it go away and I could still do the movement. But yeah, 100%, if you want to make it easier, just make it incline, make it higher and higher. Or you could potentially just bend the knee a little bit more, that'll also take the torque out of the knee. With the back position, straight back, round back, what's the difference? I feel like if you have your back more straight, you get more of a stretch. Do you think that's right? Yeah, definitely through the glutes, yeah. Because it's got nowhere to go per se, you're hitting the limit and that's it. Whereas if you round the back, generally you've gone maxed out that range, and you're getting essentially a ton of spine. You're not getting more hip flexion, which happens with a straight back. Yeah, totally. I think that's right. When I think about when I do it, I always try to keep my back as flat as possible and then try to reach the belly or chest towards the shin. And then even when I load it, like I carry a weight, more emphasis on trying to keep that back more flat and more stable. So yeah, definitely doing it with a more active back gives it more of a stretch on the glint performance. What I'd also recommend is when you find your angle, work on that angle, especially if you're doing a static hold. A little cheeky thing that we can do is kind of wiggle around and actually takes you off tension. Like we always find ways of avoiding the discomfort. So that's a little tip that you can apply to this pigeon position. But also for anything else, it's going to be hard. It's going to suck. But I find that just staying there, eventually spend enough time or do enough reps, it won't have that initial sensation. Or even maybe trying to go down in different directions, like different angles. So like hinging towards this side and hinging towards the middle and hinging towards the outside. I feel like some people have tighter area than others. And so just by exploring to see where you feel the tightest can also help as well. My recommendation for the glutes and external rotation of the hips is the tailor's pose. This is a great one because it actually helps to improve your side splits as well. But if you look at the position that we're in, we're stretching into external rotation and we're lengthening the adductors. But when done correctly, you're firing your glutes to actively pull you down into the position. We love loaded mobility positions because of the infinite progressive overload. So this isn't just some dinky stretch where you're just holding it with some simple contract relax. I mean, it's nice as an adjunct, but as the key go-to primary movement, you do this one thing. It's going to help you so much. I find that for me, the transfer to squats, so much easier to drive my knees out because I'm doing that against load. And pretty hard to cheat too. Put your back against the wall, bring your feet in, just rotate the hips out. What do you think about it? Yeah, I think it's also a good accessible exercise too, especially for beginners. So if you have really tight hips, you could just sit on a block or two and that'll immediately make it so you can actually get your feet closer in. And then just using weights. I think it's a good scalable exercise. You could even maybe get your girlfriend to stand on your knees and then do some positions. Hey, honey, can you just pause Netflix for a moment? I just really want to work on my glutes, specifically the hip external rotators. That's true love. If she doesn't want to do it, I don't know, that's a big red flag for me. 100%. I like how you said about the regression of the yoga block because the struggle you can have is you get into this tailor's pose and you're all hunched over, you can't keep your chest up because you're missing that anterior pelvic tilt. By putting the block underneath, it gives you that so you can actually start to see some success with the movement. And if you're super advanced, you could probably put a block underneath your feet. And there so that your knees can drop even further. Or you can put a block in between your feet so that it forces you to get those feet more separated apart, their legs more separated apart. And just to give people confidence with the tailor's pose, it might look a bit sketchy if you just see someone doing it. Oh, look at these big dumbbells, big kettlebells. Kettlebells. But you're in this position, your knees are bent, so your adductors have really good leverage because of the length-tension relationship. When a muscle is in its mid-position, it can generate the most force. You think about a bicep curl, you're up here, you've got the most. If you're down here, not so much. So if you were doing a hip-opening exercise with your legs straight and you're trying to contract, it would be difficult. With a tailor's pose, it's pretty accessible. Starting with around 8 to 10 kilos per leg works for most people. And I've seen up to 20, 20-plus kilos per knee. I've done that a bit myself in the past to really open up. 100%. Want to increase your flexibility? Fitness FAQs has the best programs to get supple and strong. Shop Fitness FAQs and move freely in your body. The adductors, the groin, inside of the leg, how would you go about being able to spread the legs wider apart so you can go deep? I was going to say tailor's pose, but you already mentioned it. So then my next one would be probably horse stance. Horse stance is essentially like a middle split, but with your knees bent. And I think that one also, you can really scale it with the weights. Also, you could just hold it for maybe 10, 20 seconds, or you could actually ramp it up into something like two minutes, which I used to do in the past. And that one is really nice because you can get into a position and just sit in it and just feel that stretch. Same thing. You can also do the contract and relax. You can hold a weight. You can kind of press into it. Or you can try to drag yourself down towards the ground in that position. I feel like that's a good one, especially if you're trying to train for something like middle splits, which we both are. Yeah. So, yeah. It's a nice, accessible one. You can play with your range. There's a school of thought. There's a five-step, seven-step, nine-step horse stance. You can or you cannot be pedantic about it. I like Will's approach of just over time, just going slightly further apart. Eventually, you're almost in side splits because your knee angle's changing over time. Love the reps or just holds or reps and holds. That's what we need to understand about flexibility stuff in particular. You don't need a million different drills. This one movement of the horse stance, you could vary in so many slightly different ways, but you're still improving at adductor length, adductor strength. That's what I think you do really well, Will, is just dedicating yourself to a movement, not getting distracted. If you're going to do horse stance, you do horse stance, and it reflects in your progress. Yeah. Well, that's, like you said, it's the only way to really see results. You can't just jump from one exercise to another. You've got to stick to the same exercise for a period of time. I think it's also good because then you can actually explore the potential of the exercise because even though it's just an exercise, there's so many variations to it. Like what you just mentioned, like you could just do the normal six step, but then you can even go wider into a really wide stance. And then you could even load it and do like wide stance squats type of thing, you know? Yeah. So there's so many variations to a particular exercise that I think it's worth just staying with it for a good period of time. Yeah. And it's changing the exercise too often doesn't give you the opportunity to improve and progress because no matter if you're a beginner, someone that's more advanced, we are so specific at what we get good at. And if you're constantly varying your adductor movement week to week, every couple of weeks, it doesn't give you enough time. We can all relate to you have a week off training because you've gone on holiday. Even if you go back to your exact same movements, it feels a little bit awkward, you're not as confident. Now, imagine that if you change exercise all the time. And that's one of the little hidden ways in which people don't make progress with stretching because it's like, oh, I want to increase my adductor length. I'm going to do the horse stance one time, Cossack squat the next, Taylor's pose. I'm going to do some dynamic stretches. We could say 20 different movements, but you pick one, you stick to it, you're going to improve that area. And even if you do see some level of progress, you won't know what is causing that progress. You know what I mean? It's just like too much variety. So while you stick with one thing, you know exactly if you're progressing and how to actually progress it better next time. My adductor movement is the Cossack squat. Essentially a unilateral side split. So it's a great introductory movement to getting strength at length through adductors, progressing towards the side split. You can be confident in it. Everyone can do it. If it's difficult for you, you can do an elevated Cossack, go down towards the floor. So reps, holds, weighted. If you've got any side-to-side asymmetry in strength or range of motion, this is very helpful for doing that. And I know that Will has a slight difference in one of his adductors. So some unilateral stuff is really helpful for trying to target that a little bit more specifically so that when you go into a full-on adductor stretch like a side split, you'll be okay with it. And if you're targeting the adductors, you've got to make sure you try to keep the feet facing forward and flat on the ground while focusing on trying to press the blade of the foot down on the ground. Because you can also have the toes pointing out, which would bias more of the hamstrings. But yeah, that's much more easy. You can go deeper. But when you have the foot flat, you feel a nice, well, I don't feel it's nice, but you feel a stretch in your adductors. And just being mindful of the bottom range of motion is the most important. Because you'll hear, oh yeah, I've got to control the full range of motion or control the exercise. You spend a lot of time in the easy part, like right at the top, oh yeah, I'm controlling, controlling. And then you'll just rush through the bottom. It's almost the other way around with stretching. The top, when you're out of the stretch to the mid-range, just control it. But then towards the bottom, really dominate it, really fight that discomfort, that temptation to rush through the movement. Add a pause at the bottom to solidify that strength. You do that, getting your ROM up, getting your strength up with more weight. I don't think you can lose, but it's easier said than done. You know, I just had a thought. We could essentially combine both the exercises that we just mentioned into the one exercise. Yeah, let's fuse. So it's like you go down to the Cossack squat, but instead of standing back up, you stand back just enough to transition into the other side. So you're staying really low in the hip position. So it's kind of like a Cossack squat, go into a horse dance, other side of the Cossack squat. That's like the archer push-up equivalent of lower body. I like that. See, if I was sitting at home trying to think of some YouTube tutorials and how to give people the best possible advice, I would have never thought of that. But the combination of brains is where the magic happens. All good things must come to an end. Not on this YouTube channel. Click this video. Click to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave to leave