 When training calisthenics for endurance, where do people usually go wrong? Oh, overreaching, training until failure, that's the first thing that comes to my mind. Training until failure every time I show up to the park, to the gym, or to the home gym, yeah. It's the feeling that the endurance athlete chases every time he shows up or she shows up to the park. It's the pump, it's the feeling like enough amount of work was done. It's the feeling like enough to be done in the session, you know what I mean? So that's something that deviates the athlete from, you know, let's say, managing the stress, managing the recovery properly because you show up to every next training pre-fatigued. And it's, while sometimes it may make sense training for the recovery capacity, improving, yeah, all those things, but most often it plays a bad thing for the athlete and it just accumulates a lot of fatigue. And then we may progress for a certain amount of time with the, I call it the shocking therapy, especially when the new athlete comes to my coaching, for example, and we start the new training, new exercise choices, maybe more precision in the training. And then the progress kickstarts kick, it just goes skyrocket, but then it needs to be regulated after the first shocking wave to the body, to the central nervous system. So we can actually digest the work that we've done over the past month of shocking therapy. But when you don't have this knowledge about your body, the ability to, the skill to listen to the body and all those things, you may overreach with those things and accumulate. So you progress without the guidance, you progress skyrocketing, but then you pay the price for it. You need to recover, you don't, you are lost, you are sitting back and like, but I've trained, I've been training for the past few months vigorously, consistently, consistently, consistently. And like, I should be gaining more strength, but I can't because my body is just saying no. So then the revision comes, we need to redefine the whole training process and yeah, that would be it. That misconception is so common because we look at calisthenics, body weight exercise, high reps. It is something, if you have a decent enough level of strength, you can do pull-ups, push-ups, dips every single day. There's never going to be a point where you're so fatigued, you can't do a single rep. And it's this misbelief that, oh, because it's a little bit easier to just do body weight exercise, that I can train every single day, train to failure. But inevitably, I would say a very similar thing to you, that training too much, being too excited, can I train every day, can I train to failure all the time? You can, but not for very long. I always use this quote, just because you can, doesn't mean you should. How would you describe the endurance side of calisthenics to someone that hasn't seen it before? It's the, yeah, how would I even put it? The definition of the endurance in calisthenics would depend on the category or like, let's say, subcategory of the endurance because we can speak about statics, endurance, strength lifting, multiple categories of calisthenics. So in endurance, we have the reps and sets, body weight, weighted reps and sets. We have even the competitions in which the static elements are being practiced in an endurance way and you just knock out the other athletes who holds the front lever the longest or who's the first to reach the 60 seconds of cumulative hold or something like this. Yes. So I would say it's the grinding element that makes it the endurance. Of course, we can speak about pull-up, push-up, the basics, the fundamentals that we should practice regardless on which level we are. Sometimes we need to just come back to those basics and connect the dots, missing links in our strength and two steps back to make three steps forward, all those things. But yes, pull-up, push-up dip at a higher rate with a higher volume than the casual strength gaining workout would look like, I would say. Yeah, like rep, sorry, rep range five and above, depending on the level, of course, whatever makes you reach near failure state, that would be in the way that you don't do one or two reps only per set, but more than like reaching your maximum, but very carefully. That's how I would put it. But there are multiple definitions that I can put in here for the endurance, I would say. Yeah, yeah. It's just good to have a general idea for people that are listening because when most of us get into calisthenics, there's always that idea of got to master your basics before you do heavy-weighted work or doing the skills. A common recommendation is to get your endurance first. Is this something you believe is good for base building? I would say in the very beginning for someone who just starts the calisthenics, I would say that trying to figure out what's your road, what's your journey is going to be. So you should set your goals for sure. They will define your program, whether it's more strength-based or endurance-based or skill-based. But in the end, at the end of the day, for the beginner, we can actually play it all together. And after the first, let's say, few months, we can dial into something that is truly weaker and we need to push further in there. For example, your strength is good, but you cannot recover within the session or for the next session after what you've done or what you're doing in the session. Yes, so you need to work on this recovery capacity with maybe less weight, so less strength-based workout, but more reps with a shorter rest to just build up this, you know, lactic acid resistance just to even work out for strength, right? For me, there is no strength without endurance. There is no endurance without strength. Yes, it's the strength and endurance in the end. If you ask me, I would always tell what I'm doing, what I've been competing in, the reps and sets is the strength and endurance for me. My definition of endurance would be, you know, more like where the strength element is not involved, running. It's involved, but at the smaller portion, right? You still need strength to push yourself off the ground, right? It's relative to your threshold. Exactly. Yes. You're someone who's been training calisthenics for over 15 years. First of all, major shout-out for sticking to something for, geez, man, more than three years deserves credit, but shout-out to you as a fellow 10-plus-year veteran. Thanks, man. Thanks. You've had endurance as one of your main priorities. Like, you can do strength skills as well. You've dabbled in some little bit of weight calisthenics for more moderate reps. I've seen you over the years. What are the real benefits that you've found from this more endurance calisthenics? What are the benefits that you get from it? Injury, resilience. I'm really, really resilient to injuries. My body can sustain the stress. I play tennis. Yes, I play tennis. I play football. I play basketball. Not professionally. It's just... I'm a sportsman. I'm an athlete. I love being, you know, active and spending my off day from the workout on the tennis court. So, you have a lot of movements that require, you know, agility and, like, twisting here and there. And while... Like, it comes from the comparison and experience. And while someone who does not do any calisthenics, especially endurance, shows up to the court with me, he's cracking his, you know, a little bit, like, behind, let's say, in the physical condition. And I'm moving around very well. I'm picking up most of the sports safely. I'm able to move here and there. I'm able to listen to my body and understand it. And I believe that calisthenics in general give it to you. And training, you know, for skill within the endurance context is still possible because it's still in the endurance. We still have certain skill elements. Skill doesn't end in aesthetics. We have multiple skill elements such as the muscle-up technique, right? It's different for everybody. Or let's say the one-arm pull-up. You may pull it, pull up like this. You may pull up with the twist, right? Or the pull-up grip with. And you work on those techniques. And you work on the imbalances from side to side. And it's beautiful. So, the skill is never absent in the endurance. So, I would say ability to understand my body under fatigue, under the extreme conditions where, like I said before, the endurance is grind. Yeah, it's like... So, understanding that your body can actually push more and nothing is going to happen as far as you control. And you're not just, you know, training until blacking out. So, yeah. That's something that I would emphasize about endurance. Understanding my body. And how well-rounded I become thanks to it. But it's not only about endurance. I would say calisthenics in general. And my priority since day one has been calisthenics in general. Endurance specifically, of course. That's where I competed in. Even though my very first competition was about freestyle. You know, the old school freestyle where you would do like three seconds phone giver. And then you would just stand up, like, suggest people to clap for your performance. And then... The bar was a lot lower back in the early 2000s. Exactly. Exactly. And that's funny because nobody would expect me to name my first competition title as the freestyle one. Yeah, usually it's like endurance and sets and reps. But that's something that, yeah, defines my vision for calisthenics for the upcoming years. It was only my third year in calisthenics when I won my first competition. And it helped my vision for this. Not to say I'm complete, but trying to be the best in what I do and what I like in calisthenics, which is strength skills, some statics. I even did my 360 back in the day. Just did it once. Checked and thank you. Yes. That's it. It's on the resume. Exactly. Just to experience it, yeah? There are certain things that I practice more, but I try to cover calisthenics in general. And I'm for this unity and trying to learn from each other and take the best for you. I'd say calisthenics for endurance, it's more than reps. It's resilience. Because when I first started training, 2009, doing high rep stuff, pyramid sets, you're doing hundreds of pull-ups, hundreds of push-ups in a workout as a teenager. That does something to your brain, bro. It just sets this level of I've got pain, discomfort. I've got this burn in my muscles. Safely, I'm going to keep pushing myself. Ooh, what did I do last time? I'm going to try and do some more reps. I'm going to try and do this routine in a shorter amount of time. Beyond just the physical stuff, you apply that type of mentality. You can do sports. You can do university stuff. It's just the beauty of calisthenics. I agree more. It's an absolute art of mastering yourself through exercise. And you can apply it in multiple areas of your life, just like you said. What I also really like and dislike about calisthenics, if you slack on your nutrition, things start to get a little bit heavier, don't they? They do. They do. At a certain point, you just start to realize that it's not just the grind. It's not just you showing up to the park. It's also you regulating, managing those decision-making. Yes, micro-decision that adds up to the bigger decision that leads you to the success. Yes, that you chose for yourself when you started. Yeah, that you visualized. Yeah, so then you need to calculate those calories or at least an approximation. Calculate those. You should take care of your body deficiencies because if your shoulders behave differently on the polar bar, to a certain extent, they can. Of course, imbalances are totally natural. But when you see that it's definitely a strong deviation, then you should work on it. So yeah, it's a mastery, constant mastery. So for people that are listening, that are excited, they want to increase their reps on all calisthenics movements. They want to get more endurance. What are the smartest progressive overload strategies that you like to use? There are multiple ways. I would say to each his own. I would like to share my approach to this. So I see the workout plan as something that we can, of course, control, prioritize, do the deloads, everything that we know about the proper training and program making. But I approach the trainings conceptually. So day number one, we would have skill-based training, a pull skill-based training with some strength accessories that are only complementary, not something that comes in the beginning of the workout, right? And then the second day could be the same, but for the push. So push, strength, and skill. Skill and strength, I mean. And I would approach it in a way that I have a specific RPE for the day that I should feel, that I should achieve. And I use multiple tools. It could be EMOM. It could be a drop set. It could be a pyramid. It could be different principles of the workout. But I apply them in a way that I target the missing point or the point where I struggle with the most. So maybe 100 pull-ups in a pyramid. I can split it in a 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, build it up to the number that I'm comfortable with and back down. Then back up again until I reach the 100, right? But I can also put it into the EMOM and make an EMOM of 10 minutes with 10 pull-ups. Yes. Which is more intense. So depending on where I'm at in my training plan, I usually go for, I start, for example, with three weeks ramping up. Then the fourth week is the deload. Then next block, four weeks in training, fifth week is the deload. And then I just push my deload one week later. Yes. Unless I feel the need that I need a deload or like the hypercompensation due to the, yeah, life happens. You know, stress comes, traveling, some extra fatigue has been accumulated. So I need to reschedule something, take an extra day off. But approaching these things conceptually allows me to use multiple training methods to reach the same goal. You know what I mean? Yes. So it's not really rigid. Like Monday, this week and Monday, next week, we just stick to five sets of five or I progress and overloaded into like one more rep next week. Yes. I may just apply less rest or maybe I will include more isometric holds or like, you know, to spend more time on detention in the end of the set instead of adding more rep to it. Or I would make the EMOM, you know, it's every minute on the minute. I would make it every 50 seconds. Yes. Or I would distribute the reps in a different way. I would do the infamous barbarian requirements. For example, I would, I could scale it down. Here we go. The best. Yes. We're coming from the same background. I know you, yeah. Once a barbarian, always a barbarian. Completing those was a trial by far for sure. Yes. So you can scale this down. Originally, let me just give you the one of those variations because it's been changing over the years. So I think the one that we started with was 40 dips, 20 pull-ups, 50 push-ups and five muscle-ups. It was like 2010. Then it was 5, 45, 25, 55, five. I think like this. So we can play it. We can split it into two. Let's say five muscle-ups, 50 dips or 45 dips and 25 push-ups. Pull-ups, sorry. Then we would, we could rest for five minutes. Then we would do the rest of it. Yes. The second segment. Next Monday, I could do the same thing but in an EMOM but with less reps. Yes. So I would do six minutes of EMOM and I would do two muscle-ups, then maybe 25 dips by every minute and a minute. So if the intensity increases, the volume drops a little bit. Yes. And I'm staying rigid with the timing. Then I could do just the max rep approaching or accumulated reps towards the amount of the requirements. For example, just giving this example of the BBRs to share the concept. And then you can approach it like you can ramp up the numbers. Say instead of five, you will have 15 muscle-ups, then you will have 100 dips. And you just go through the exercise cumulatively, ramping up to the total number. Yes. Within the time or without time. So it could be as fast as possible routine or just the time routine. Within the five minutes, you should achieve that amount of muscle-up reps. So you teach yourself the grinding element, the control element, dependency on the time with the EMOM. And then you also practice the routine as it is, but with the rest time in between the exercises. And then shortening it the rest time over a few weeks ahead. Yes. So just a short overview of how you can play with the same routine differently. Let me try and explain this to see if I've understood it. And then the listeners will probably have a similar frame of mind as well. So you have a rough schedule that you stick to. You work out, say, for example, five days a week. And on those days, you tend to do a pulling workout, a pushing workout, a leg workout, rest however you want. May repeat that again, the pull and push. Or you could be doing multiple upper body workouts in a week. Whatever it is like that. Within that, you have your different workouts that you do, whether it's EMOMs, pyramids, different ways of structuring things. And then over time, when you repeat the same type of workout, you try and beat it in some way. Whether through reps, time manipulation, depending on what you're doing on the day. Yeah, pretty much. Pretty much. So basically, I stick to the schedule in a way that I can always postpone one workout because I overreached in the last one. So it was never rigid. I'd never... Not trained to failure again, were you? Yes, exactly. I try to stick to listening to my body. Of course, it takes time to learn more about your body. It takes experience. It takes testing different routines, different weights for this or that rep range, collecting information about your body. That's why taking notes about your workouts and remembering or even putting down how you felt about the workout makes a lot of impact. Yes? Especially for beginners. Because if we just work out like robots without trying to understand what's going on to my body, it's going to be quite tricky. And even after one year of working out, you may end up like, whoa, do I even know something about my body or did it just work out? Yes? Yes. So actually, I expected this question, honestly. And I actually have the whole schedule prepared here so I can share. Oh, no, you're cheating, man. Come on. But it's going to be easy because I have two weeks cycle. And one week looks one way and the next week looks a little bit differently. So you put it really nicely in the way that I stick to certain concept of the training. So day number one for the week number one is pull strength and skill, low weight or body weight. Yes? Then day number two would be push strength and skill. Strength and skill comes together. I mean, like for the day number one could be one arm pull-up, pull-up to muscle-up transitions, front lever, front lever pull-ups, and then some emom in the end of the like gerunda pull-ups or just weighted reps to finish my body, so to speak. But in a moderate way because I build up throughout the week towards the last workout of the week or the stage. I approach it not weekly but like stage. Week puts the time frame for me. Yes? So then I kind of may rush myself into the workout just because I want to squeeze it in a week. But I approach it on a stage level. First stage, second stage. Yes? So day number two, push strength and skill, low weight and body weight. Could be also handstand push-ups, planche workouts, impossible dips, and then dips or overhead presses. Yes? That's a complementary work. Then day three would be pull and push, reps and sets style, usually body weight. Just, yeah, sets in the bar like five muscle-ups, five pull-ups, 20 push-ups, something like this. Also still moderate intensity. As I said, I'm building up towards the last training and the stage. So first training could be 50% of my maximum output. The second training could be 55%, then 60%. And I'm building up towards the hardest workout in the end. Okay, coming back to the schedule. Day four would be cardio plus or leg plyometric and speed workout. It could be tennis, could be basketball, could be sprints, could be me running in the forest or cycling in the forest. Stuff like this. I don't push too hard in the cardio. It's more of a time for me to reconnect to myself, understand my recovery as well through, you know, the blood flow and the blood circulation being increased. And I just feel, you know what I mean, feeling the body better through activity. Yes, then day number five is purely skill, pull and push, body weight. It's sometimes supersets and some, yeah, you see, I love skills. Even though I'm coming from the mostly endurance background, recent years have been quite all around for me in terms of this training. So yeah, day six, weight is strength and endurance, which is the hardest training for me. And I go all in on that day. So I'm ramping up towards the last day, day number six on the schedule. Ideally, yes, if I don't have to take some breaks. And day number seven is either rest completely or some easy cardio. And now proceeding to the second week, I will also mention the comparison between the first and second. So the first two days are basically the same, pull strength and skill, but the body weight only this time. So first week, you remember I mentioned for the first two days, the strength and skill, low weighted or body weight. So I may even throw some two kilograms from my one arm pull up on the first week or like weighted muscle ups on the first day. Technique mastery, not necessarily grinding. But on the second week in the cycle, I do it purely body weight. So I don't do too many weights. You will understand why later in the second week is going to be more weights. So day number three, then again, legs plyometrics cardio. Day number four, weighted reps and sets. So you see last week with number one, the day number three was pull and push. It was three days in a row. This week, the second one, the legs plyometrics come on the day three. So it's kind of a rest for my upper body. It's legs plyometrics or cardio. And then I go for the harder session with weighted reps and sets. You know what I mean? For this reason, I don't do weighted on the first few days of this second week. And I know it's complex, but I'm trying my best. No, no, I'm with you. It all makes sense. Awesome. Day number five is either rest or cardio, depending how I feel. Again, coming back to listening to my body. Then day number six is also the one that I ramp up towards, is the heavy weighted strength and endurance. And this is honestly one of my favorite workouts, where I just go first for like two, three rep range or some drop set from two, three rep range to five, six. And then I proceed to some weighted muscle ups in the EMOM. Maybe some, yeah. Many people would call it overreaching, overshooting for reps, like 20 minutes EMOM of 30 kg muscle over 25 kg. Like what? Why would you, why would you do it? But it's a train, it's the same thing that we spoke about. Resilience, the grind, the ability of the body to sustain. It's the conditioning. The definition of conditioning is EMOM goes really well to master your technique, to master your understanding of the body and within the same exercise. And you have the consistent time of rest as well. And then I would go for handstand pushups, maybe some, if I feel good enough, one arm pull-ups. I genuinely consider one arm pull-up and handstand pushup as a really nice complementary work for streetlifting and weighted calisthenics in general. I love that, Ruslan. I agree 100%. I think they're heavily underrepresented. People, it's either they specialize in them and that's all you see them do. You rarely see people doing the sets and reps, other skills, plus one arm pull, chin and handstand pushup. I know it's a lot of training and especially with, say, the handstand pushup, it is very skill orientated. I mean, you've got the balance, you've got the strength, you've got how much fatigue you've accrued through a training cycle impacts it. The one arm pull-up, one arm chin, a little bit more raw strength. So that one's, I think people just want to do their two-arm work too much. For me, the unilateral things, especially the one arm pull-ups we started talking about, this is not only the show-off, it's not only the skill to post on your Instagram, it's the tool, it's a screening tool. What kind or, how much of the external rotation and depression of the shoulder you have on your right in comparison to your left, regardless of your level. You may be advanced and you're able to do one arm pull-ups or you're just starting and you may want to implement some single arm hanging or scapula pull-ups or rotations to discover more about how your body behaves side to side and front to back as well. What I say about the one arm pull-up, it is the equivalent of a beginner learning how to do a pull-up on two arms, except when you're more intermediate or advanced. You've seen a beginner overweight male or a male that's not strong or many women as well, all in that bucket, try and do their first rep and it's like, can't engage the scaps, can't initiate that pull. You take someone that's been doing workouts for some time, can you please do a one arm pull-up for me? They do the exact same thing on one arm. So it is a perfect thing what you just said there with it as an assessment tool, because can you depress your scap on a single arm? Do you have enough scapular stability and strength through there, number one. Number two, is your grip strength enough? That is super underrated. Because if you can't grip it, you can't rip that one arm pull. Grip is so important. It's not only you holding on to the bar, it's you engaging the whole body through gripping the bar. I hope it makes sense. It should make sense. You grip it and you transfer this. You regulate the contraction, the control over your body through the thing that you're holding on to, basically. If you put lifting straps on, so you took away the grip component, you would still not be able to generate enough force through the kinetic chain to your back to be able to do the movement. A hundred percent. That's why every time I see a student of mine putting gloves for his pull-ups, I will always say it's a no-go. I would rather see you ripping off another blister than seeing you disconnect. Mental resilience, boys. Come on. Than seeing you disconnecting from the bar. That's what I'm talking about. It's a layer between you and the bar. You cannot, like you said, you put it perfectly. You cannot distribute the, you cannot put enough effort, then you cannot control the bar or yourself on the bar. This episode is sponsored by Fitness FAQs. Learn how to master calisthenics with the best bodyweight workouts. Use the coupon code PODCAST20 at checkout to get 20% off when shopping at Fitness FAQs. Hurry, take advantage of this discount and enjoy the progress. Just coming back to your routine. Firstly, thanks for going through that. It is awesome to see what someone that is really experienced high level actually does in their training. Instead of just, oh yeah, just do this type of thing and it is what it is. Yours makes sense because you've got the frequency. You've got a variation of the same exercise, but you're still keeping it specific. You're doing bodyweight reps, then weighted for the different movements. And you answered something there as well that many people want to know, which is, can you do endurance plus skills? And you've outlined that, of course, you're not going to be the world champion in either if you do both. But if you put the skills first, you've got plenty of energy there to give to the endurance afterwards. Yeah, I agree 100%. There are some freaks that are good in both. Yeah, like Vitaly Festschuk or even Simon Hauser from Sweden. Those two men. But Vitaly, man, it's a freak of nature. There are some individuals that are just beasting out and everything. But like you said, you still have plenty of room within your energy levels after skills to play with endurance. But you may not be like the competitive athlete or you may not be the competitive athlete immediately. You may want to improve your skill for three years, let's say. Then endurance for another three years. And then you've become a complete athlete. While I'm saying so, three years here, three years there. It doesn't mean that one excludes the other. We have 100%. We have a scale. 70% for skills. 30% for endurance. Then when I'm improving in skills, I may want to add a little bit more of the endurance and make it 60-40. You know, it's... Yeah. Your goals dictate your outcome. Great. You used that seesaw analogy there of putting your time and energy into either endurance or skills. Because a pitfall that I got into pretty early in my calisthenics career was you learn more. You get excited. Okay. I can do a ton of sets and reps. I've discovered these skills. I'm not going to reduce any of my sets and reps. I'm just going to do an equal amount of skills as well. And that may work for a little bit when you're beginner-intermediate because you're just not strong enough to create a lot of stress. But what happened to me is I was very stubborn. I wouldn't want to take anything away. And I wasn't making any progress. If not, I was regressing. Happened to me as well. It's just wanting too much too soon or too much at the same time. I think back in the day, we've all been there trying to explore. While it may make you regress or stagnate for a moment, it's still a priceless experience about your body. Because the amount of information you collect through this failed theory. I wouldn't really call it a failure. It's an exploration. It's the journey. And this is the beauty of sports. Not only calisthenics, we're speaking about calisthenics, but in general, in sports, you never stop learning. You explore. You expose yourself to certain things. This program, that program, this exercise stress, that exercise stress, intensity, volume. All those variables. Yes. Different traveling. The tasting. The different climate in your training. All those things. It's beautiful. That's one way to overcome the question of how do you stay motivated for 15 years? How do you avoid burnout? How do you stay consistent? You've got to make it fun. As soon as it starts to get stale, that's when you start, oh, I'm going to skip a workout. I'm going to go 50% for weeks and weeks. I'm just going to drag my feet through a workout. I'm sure you have to hold yourself back more often than not because you get so excited about trying that one arm pull up and then doing all your sets and reps afterwards. Because it's your routine that you've come up with. Yeah. You know what was my main nemesis or maybe the trait that would always or would often lead me to some burning out point is reattempting something that I failed. Back in the day, I didn't know about auto-regulation or adjusting the workout based on my KPI, key performance indicator. It's something that I would use in my workout in the beginning because, yes, I created the whole plan for Monday, correct? But my body may not be ready to align with my thinking process for this day. So if you hadn't written down that you had five hours of sleep and you've been traveling, but you reflected on a time when you did a similar workout, when you're just at home resting, perfect nutrition, then you can get upset. But if you have the data, you can be more of your own friend in that situation. Absolutely. And my best exercises for this, well, it's individual. You should see for yourself the exercise that you are familiar with the most and your body within the context of this exercise for me is the muscle up, one arm pull up. For example, I show up to the park and I have the written down workout. Yes. First thing I do after my warmup, of course, I try to listen to my body during the warmup. Sometimes I feel heavier at the warmup. Then the body performs like a diesel. Sometimes you need a longer warmup or you start to feel good only in the middle of the session. But after the warmup, I try to do a few sets of something that shows me whether I'm explosive enough, whether I have enough juice for this session, how my body is feeling in this one arm pull up, which is hard enough for me. So like hard enough intensity wise for me to see whether I have some discrepancies in a day, some deviation from my normal state, from a normal condition to be able to give my best performance. And then I either increase the rest time in between the sets if I'm feeling a little bit slower and maybe it only will be needed for the first segment of the workout, for the main segment, the hardest. Then the secondary, more complementary work can be done at the same rate because my body will perform better later in the workout or maybe it's not that taxing, that demanding. Yes. So I would use certain skills, certain movements to calculate my energy for the workout. And then based on this, I would make decisions. That's really smart because if you just go in just with a meathead mindset, like a gym bro just saying, no, I'm going to do this no matter what, then unfortunately you're not going to get a very productive training session because you're just going to be doing attempt after attempt. And of course, there's a time and a place for attempts in a training phase to see where you're at, measure your progress. But every workout you're coming in and when you're not feeling good, you're smashing your head against the pull-up bars, so to speak. You're not going to make really good long-term sustainable gains. You only accumulate more fatigue. It's like at the competition when the athlete doesn't listen to the judge and continues to do the no rep. And it's only the fatigue that accumulates. You're not really moving anywhere. Talk to me about weighted calisthenics for the goal of endurance. Is it actually that helpful if I am getting my one RM up on my weighted pull-up and weighted dip? Does that translate to endurance? What's your experience been? It does, but specificity matters in the end. You may progress to a certain extent in strict lifting by doing body weight or low-weighted or medium-weighted cycle for a month or two. But it may be only... It's occasional, I would put it this way, because the more elite you are in the weighted, the more you've peaked. You maximize your strength, like the final rep athletes, yes, at the World Cup. But for them, doing all of a sudden for like a few months, just endurance may not make any sense. They will just lose the readiness to perform with the one, two rep range, one rep range, basically, for the competition matters. They will lose the efficiency there. But for someone who is beginner or intermediate, but not above intermediate, for sure, not intermediate to advanced, body weight training for a few months. With the shocking therapy, coming back to the first thing we spoke about during the podcast, is going to help. It may help. It doesn't have to. But it may ramp up your one rep max by five. Sometimes it's even 10 kg. Yes, but you will not proceed any further, because if you don't practice one, two rep range, this exertion. Yes, same goes in the opposite way, the other way around. Spit lifting will increase your speed, because the recruitment of the motor units is going to be faster. You're going to be faster on the bar. But you may go for like 20 reps like this, but then on the 21st, you will suddenly face the wall, and you will just go, whoa. And it stops you, because you don't condition yourself for the higher rep range. And in the end, specificity matters. But you can play around. You can play and manipulate when your level allows you to. Because, like I said, for the elite, it's different. It's a bit depressing that it doesn't work that way, because you'd like to think, oh, I'm doing a pull-up with weight, and then I'm doing a pull-up with my body weight. If I just push myself really hard, like I do on my strength stuff for low reps, it should translate automatically to the endurance. But it's just not the case, from my experience. Even for stuff, say, weighted pull-ups for moderate reps, just say you're playing with like six to eight rep range. It's completely different to doing a single, double, or triple. Completely different. Even the eccentrics. The eccentric portion is sometimes being skipped for the one rep max training. It's just I don't really need the eccentric. I've mastered the specific amount of control in my eccentric, but then I'm just going to pull up. Yes, but for the five, six, seven rep range, you spend way more time under tension. Way more time. And it's different. Yeah. I've noticed in your training, you use contrast training or post-activation potentiation for your endurance stuff. Could you explain why and what that looks like? Yeah, it's basically one of my favorite things to do in terms of when I want to perform faster, or I have like a speed routine to go with, with my reps and sets, let's say something to perform under one minute. Yes. 10 muscle-ups, 10 bar dips, 10 pull-ups, for example. Yes. Within a minute. Then what I would do is I would put this contrast method, the post-activation potentiation method, in a way that I would start, of course, warm-up. Then I would proceed to some potentiation, as we said. I would do sets of three or maybe even an EMOM of three, four, up to five minutes, depending on my time availability. But to not do some junk volume, I would stick to three sets or even two per exercise that may maximize my performance in the following routine. That is the priority for the day. So I would do, say, 50 to 75 even percent of my one rep max capacity on the pull-up, for example, for one or two reps, with the focus on the speed and control and engaging my body for those two, three sets. Then I would do the dip, for example, because the routine involves some bar dip. Yes. And then I may do some muscle-up as well, some maybe high pull-up or explosive pull-ups with the weight, just to trick my body into moving faster, into moving more explosive. But not fatiguing it. Exactly. It's only a tool. So you don't have to feel fatigued or like your bicep needs to become twice a size bigger. In order to potentiate. This is literally just like tasting, tasting the pie like this, literally. And then you just proceed. You make the appetite stronger, so to speak, and then you perform better. So you're basically tricking the body with a stronger output for less reps. So basically recruiting the strength units. That's what the strength workout looks like. Yes. You work on a lower rep range with more control over the eccentric and concentric. And you also manipulate the speed with which you want to go. Yes. If the set is longer, you may want to dedicate a little bit more reps in a set to potentiate. Yes. You may want to go for three, four reps with the weight. So you may want to use like 50% of your one rep max instead of closer to your one rep max. Because otherwise you will just fatigue yourself too much. Yes. If the set is just, for example, for the one arm training, one arm pull up training, I often use the potentiation as well. Not only in endurance. Because then the body becomes kind of lighter. Yes. Yes. So. Let me share with you how I've used post-activation potentiation recently. So I set myself a goal of doing a 25 kilo muscle up. Now in the world of straight lifting, it's not the best. It's not the heaviest. But I'm more of a generalist kind of guy. So I set myself that challenge. And I noticed I kept getting stuck at 20 kilos on the muscle up. Now I was realized and reflecting when I'm warming up, I didn't actually do heavier pull ups before I tried that 25 kilo muscle up. So I just do a set of body weight pull ups and then I do maybe a set with like 20 on there or something. And then I'd start doing body weight muscle ups, 10, 15, 20, et cetera. Then over time, why don't I just try doing heavy pull ups first before I start the muscle ups? So I worked up to 40 kilos pull up for like three reps, which isn't that much for me. I can do 60 for like sets of six relative to that percentage we just discussed. Did that. Man, I'm feeling pretty fast on these warm up muscle ups, building that confidence. And lo and behold, I got the 25 kilo muscle up recently. So I was like, yeah, I saw it. Congrats, bro. This is it looks clean, actually. Very nice. I'm a big fan of muscle ups. It's my favorite movement. And what you just said is the way I did my first 35 kg or 40 kg muscle up when I was training the street lifting vigorously. Relax, man. Do you have to show me up on my own podcast? Yeah. He's good. That's why he's on the show, boys. Well, to be fair, you are so complete of an athlete, man. I've been watching you for years. You've been doing so many things nicely and meritoric, I would say. Like it's really nice to see. It's like you said, it may not be competitive, but it doesn't have to be. You show a different way of approaching calisthenics and being well-rounded and enjoying the process. And the physique as well, bro. The compliment. I think everybody in the comments section will agree. And we can all clap for your work, man. It's a... No, kudos, man. It's all about defining what your success is. Because you go online, you'll see full planches, front levers for 45 seconds. And it's... You've got to really define how far you want to take things and what your particular goals are. Because then you'll really enjoy the process. You'll be pleased with where you get. And more importantly, you'll know when it's time to move on. So for me, this... I have no goals of doing A-50 kilo muscle-up. But I've learned a lot through building up this strength specificity for one rep with weighted. And I've learned a lot, enjoyed it. And then it's like, okay, what do I want to move on to next? That's, I guess, my philosophy. And this is the beauty of it. Calisthenics has no limits. If there is no category for you, create yours. That should be on a shirt, man. Let's call up Gornation. Hell yeah. Yes. But coming back to the topic, I agree 100%. The post-activation potentiation method works well for one rep max increments for the muscle-up. Like you said, you did some potentiation with the pull-ups. You don't even have to touch dips. Just pull up. Muscle-up is more pull explosiveness based. You still need to pick up the pushing element in there. There is a pushing segment depending on how high your pull is. And all those things is a whole different topic. But worth mentioning as well. So, yes. Pull-up would be just enough for this. And then going for your one rep max. One arm pull-up. Or even front lever pull-ups. Max reps in the pull-ups. Without leaving the bar. Whether it's body weight or low weight. Those things. It gives you this confidence. Confidence boost. And feeling the body. It's like you've already done the first set of the workout. After which you usually feel maybe a little bit more connected. But without fatiguing yourself. We've spoken about the muscle-up. I want to dive deeper into it. Because you've got some silky smooth reps. I mean, I see your wrists rotating over that bar. And I just think this man has got some glorious mobility. Some bulletproof joints. I love that term. Can we talk about if you have someone coming to you. I want to learn a muscle-up. I want to increase my reps. What type of techniques or training do you generally give people? All right. So when it comes to the muscle-up. We're all very individual. In terms of the length of your limbs. Entrepreneurs, basically. The measurements. Yes. Someone has the longer humerus bone. Someone has more loose shoulder joint. You know. And it dictates the technique that we may end up with on the muscle-up. So I don't always try to. I don't try it at all. To put some pressure in. You need to do the muscle-up without the wrist transition. You need to do the muscle-up with the transition. Another example of that is. If you have limited internal rotation. You're not going to like taking a wide grip. And trying to flare out like this. Whereas someone else's shoulders. I'm like. I've got full range of motion there. They could do it easily. So I think it comes about. Agree 100% with what you said there. If you need to. Based on your anthropometry. And mobility as well. Choose a position that is just most comfortable. That's the simplest way to look at it. And the training. It results in the training. During the progressions. And building up the strength. Towards the regular clean muscle-up. Or perfect muscle-up. It will show. What kind of style. Your body wants to go for. And again. It's the beauty of calisthenic. You don't have to be. Back in the day. For me. It was Zef. And Lee Wade Turner. Like the examples. Of the muscle-up. Though. After time. I realized. I don't have to be. The next Zef. The next Lee. They have their own dimension. They created some. Super. Techniques. Of the muscle-up. What I did. I've tried to take the best. Out of both. And I. Let's say. Created my own. I believe. We all have. The unique styles. Of the muscle-ups. It doesn't matter. How much. We want to see. The quality. It is. It looks like a muscle-up. You go from point A. To point B. And you rotate your arms. But we all. Do it. With this little spice. Of. Of our own. To it. You know what I mean. There is still some. Difference. And. Coming back to the progressions. And the techniques. That I would use. Is. Well. It depends on. What we are starting with. The background is different. The fitness background. Whether you were. The kid that. Would climb the trees. Or the one who would. Sit still. Yes. It already dictates the. Let's say. Someone is. Pretty decent at pull-ups. They can do. 10 reps. But they can't do a single muscle-up. I can do so many pull-ups. Why can't I. Why can't I do a muscle-up? So. First thing. I would actually start from. Hanging. Hollow to arch. Reps. It's. It's. It's not something that. That yes. I know. It's not something that. Most athletes or coaches. Would go for. In the first way. In the first place. It's. It's just about. The ability to control. Your body. While hanging. And. Like counter do the. Extension. And. To control deflection. Of your back. And. You know. This. Arching of the lower back. The compression. That happens often. Because it's not just. The hollow body strength. That's the integration. Of hollow. With scapular depression. Yes. Yes. It's. It's. A few. Dots. To connect. In the. On the muscle. That's why. When. We try to. Do the muscle up. Or the high pull up. After being able to do. Ten. Calm pull ups. I will put it this way. Now. And then. When the speed element. Comes in. The dynamic distraction. I call it. Then everything. Collapses. Collapses. And the lower back. Compresses. And then. You pull. Not in a. Hollow. Or neutral position. Of your body. But. Like this. Yes. And then. You start to pull. With your arched lower back. And. The. Yeah. Mechanics work this way. That your body just. Comes back to the hollow. To the posterior pelvic tilt. Your legs go to the front. And you. Are cutting the curve. That is needed to be. There for the muscle. The C-shaped movement. Yes. You don't have to be. An expert to see this. You. If you're a beginner. And you try your muscle up. For the first time. You record yourself. From the side. And you may see this. Issue. And what to do. In this case. Is. Dragon flags. Hollow. Hollow. Hollow to arch. On the bar. On the straight arms. On the bent arms. Obviously. Practicing. The. High pull up. Not even. Completely. Like. Pulling as high as I can. But. Practicing it segmentally. So. Only the starting point. To work on this connection. Through your hips. To your shoulders. And the toes. Should be also aligned. They cannot be behind you. As we spoke. Yes. So. Understanding these pillars. For the body alignment. And the proper. Mechanism. Mechanism. On the way up. So you. Are. Crunching up. And squeezing the core. So to speak. While. Having your hips. Connected to it. Not. Moving through the hips. Because then. It breaks like this. Not. Not squeezes. Like this. You know what I mean. Through the hips. Understanding those pillars. Help you. Approach. The high pull up better. Approach. The muscle up. With the band better. Because then. You come. With the intention. You train. Those progressions. With the intention. Of doing it properly. Rather than just. Getting it over the bar. Because. There is a muscle up. But there is also. A muscle up. You know what I mean. Two different muscle ups. 100%. Yes. You're not. And I. I like the fact. That you've. You've highlighted. The importance of that. Initiation phase. Because it's make or break. At that point. The only exercise. I would add. Classic calisthenics. There's a million progressions. Every single time. Is a front lever race. With a straight arms. I really like this one. Like a. It's almost like a body weight. Pull over in a sense. Because. It helps you to. Depress the scaps. You've also got that. Dragon flag. Esque. Position of your. Of your core. And you're out horizontal. Combined with what you said. I. Can't see with. Time. That they won't. Dominate that initial part. Of a muscle up. Yes. The initial part. You should. We should emphasize. The start of the movement. The way you start. The way you establish your body. Before you. Actually flex the arms. It dictates. A lot. And the maximum. Core contraction. And alignment. Within the body. Like tensing up. Rigidating up. Should come. At the moment. Of this. Initiation. This start. Because. When you go from the straight arm. Into the bent arm position. Your body wants to collapse. And you. You should. Counter do it. Even just. Starting your muscle up. The swing. Where you go. Into the bar. Forward. To create that arc. Starting it with. An engaged. Scapula. Is such a good thing. For a beginner. Because. I've taught. Many people. In workshops. And personal training. One-on-one. Common thing. They jump into it. And they just. Go down to this. Elevated shoulder. And they just. Don't have the strength. To set it. And then pull. Get your ears. Away from your shoulders. That's what I would always say. But. I would actually. Like to emphasize. One thing. Sometimes. We depress. Way too much. And the. The body. Looks like. We like the overhead mobility. So. We may want to. Leave. Some room. From this depression. And from this elevation. And keep it. I call it. The bouncy. Scapular position. So it's not. Too tense. Too loose. It's something. That you can. Kind of stretch. The. The pack over here. And go into this. Swing. To the front. With the muscle up. So you don't tense up too much. So. Finding this sweet spot. Is the. Is the way. For me. The frontal part. Of the muscle up. In the swing. I mean. During the swing. Should be. Hands. Shoulders. Hips. Toes. Aligned. That's. That's the. The. The best. Way. To me. Because if you. Over arch. Over here. If you over stretch here. Then your back. Is extended. And it's. It's not going to. Help you. On the way out. Because your body. Will come back. Into this. Hollow body. Way too soon. And your. High pull up. Will. Cut off. Yes. Same thing. For the muscle up. Yes. It will just be. Compromised. Is there any. Strength. Goals. Or standards. That people should aim for. If you saw it on paper. X number of reps. In these different. High pull ups. That's a good. Like goal. To strive for. Because we hear. Progressions. In exercise. It can be just. Oh yeah. How. What level. Do I need to get with it? Well. It's a tricky. It's a tricky point. Because. Athletes. Have. Different. Weak links. And sometimes. Your. Your height. The height of your pull up. Is on point. But then. Your internal rotation. Of the shoulder. That helps you. Get over the bar. And. Get into this. Bar deposition. Is not allowing you. To do so. Yes. You are just like. You cannot really. Shift. Roll your shoulder. To the front. Properly. So. If you're lacking. Dip mobility. Then you have to. Do a higher muscle up. To get over the bar. To even receive it. Yeah. Very interesting. Exactly. So. There is no. I wouldn't. There is no specific standard. But of course. When you just get. To your waist high. In the high pull up. With a certain band. Resistance band. That you use. Then you want to. Yeah. Go harder. Progress. And use. Use less resistance. From the band. Or just go without the band. And try to. Yeah. Go higher and higher there. Obviously. We have progressions. That are more strength based. And there are some. Progressions like. Jumping muscle up. That are more technique based. Yes. So. Again. For the jumping muscle up. I often. Go for the jumping muscle up. Over the banded muscle up. In the very beginning. Of the journey. I don't. I'm not saying that the bands are bad. But they have the. The right time and place. So to speak. For the beginner. Working with the band. Sometimes. Compresses the body. And like. From the. From the bottom. Yes. And. Kind of. Disconnects. What we want to learn. About the body. And the context of the muscle up. Through those. Hanging hollow to arch wraps. Or. Just. The general connection. Yes. So it may. Do more harm than good. For someone who is. Lacking the control. From toes. To the. To the arms. You're never addressing. That weak link. Of the actual. Activation. Yes. You're trying to. Yes. Exactly. As soon as you. Mastered this. Control. Over the body. With the band. And you're not. Recording yourself. Was it. Is the best thing to do. When you see that your body. Is not like. You know. Disconnecting. From. From the. Alignment. Yes. When the band. Is not pulling. Your. Your legs. Behind. Or to the front. During the muscle up. Then it's fine to use. But jumping muscle up. Is the tool. To go for. In my opinion. For the beginner. Like. You did your 10 pull ups. And now. You want to understand. What it is like. To get over the bar. Yes. So then you want to. You may want to include. The. Starting high pull up. Position. The initial. Point. Yes. This. Half. Half high pull up. To see. What you're missing. Maybe. Using the band. For this. So the goal. Is not that high. To get. You know. All the way. Through your belly button. But just. Start properly. So to speak. So. You see. The goal of the exercise. Changes the narrative. A lot. Because. Back in the day. In my coaching. I would. Often. Give the. Very beginner. A high pull up. With the band. But they would fail. Technically. Just because of this. But they're hitting their numbers. Why am I not improving coach? Why can't I get it? Exactly. And yes. Coming back to those standards. Yes. High pull up. The height. Should be. Measured. You can monitor your height. Of the pull up. Then. The bar dips. Or the so called. Transition dips. That I. Love. For the. For beginners. For intermediate athletes. Especially for someone. Who's learning with the muscle up. Is the dip. In which you. For. Is the straight bar dip. Imagine the straight bar dip. I'm going down first. All the way down. With my front delt. Passing the. The knee. Of the. The elbow. Sorry. And then. I'm. Basically. Imagine that. Going down. With my elbows. While. Sticking my chest. To the bar. And I. Do. Basically. For that transition phase. Exactly. And it's also a mobility. Plus strength. Exercise. It's not just. You know. Technique for the muscle up. It's basically. Your ability. To. Stay with your. Adductors. Rigid in here. While rotating. Down. And up. Which basically happens. On. On the muscle up. It's also a good tool. To use in your weighted reps. Because on the weighted reps. The height of the pull up. Is a little bit compromised. Naturally. So then. You should. Be able to pick up. The transition lower. That's what you. Can see. Me doing. Because of the transition. Of course. I mean. The mobility in here. But it's also the shoulder. That I'm able to. Kind of roll. Forward. And. Make it. Counterbalance. For. For. For the transition. That is. An absolute. Cheat code. There. For muscle ups. Because people. Would just look at the wrist. But it's. Wrist and shoulder. And another thing is. Oh. The muscle up. The dip phase. It's so easy. Yes. It is easy. But. We're just doing. Parallel bar dips. All the time. The straight bar dip. Topic of today's. Theme. Of today's video. Is a lot of specificity. You still got to do the dip. In that straight bar fashion. To build up strength. And mobility. For that transition phase. Of the muscle up. Even if you're more advanced. Yes. Exactly. Just put more weight on it. Or more reps. Or more time under tension. It's a very nice tool. Very nice. It allows you to. Also master this. Close distance to the bar. Which makes your muscle up. More efficient. The closer you're able. To stay to the bar. The faster you perform. The muscle up. And less. Hip hinge. Chance. You get. Because you don't have to. Pull from the bar. Like this. And your legs. Move forwards. Often. Yes. So it improves mobility. Control. Grip. And. Yeah. The connection. Between the pull. And the push. Yes. And working. With your forearm muscles. As well. Yes. It really opens. A lot of. Roads. Out there. My closing thoughts. For muscle ups. To not overwhelm people. Because we've. Thrown out a lot of. Progressions. Techniques. It's going to require. A rewatch. To fully understand that. Is. Get your weighted pull up. Up. Get it stronger. The amount of people. I've seen. That can do. 10. 15. Pull ups in a row. With their body weight. But they can't do. 25 percent. Of their body weight. Added. On a pull up. They just lack that. Basic strength. Which translates. To the power. Of being able to. Explosively. Pull yourself up. Pull. My thing. For people. First. Would be. Build that. Basic foundation. Get your weighted pull up. In the three to six rep range. Go heavier. Heavier. Heavier. Just linear. Progressive overload. Then start putting in your. Jumping muscle ups. For technique. Do your straight bar dips. Do your high pulls. And you'll notice that. You're not going to have. As many of those. Limitations. From the start. Absolutely true. It doesn't have to be. Complex. Just get stronger. So to speak. Put some weighted reps. In. Pull. Pull. Parallel dip. Straight bar dip. Try different grips. To improve. Understand your body better. On the bar. Different grips. It allows you to control it better. Like this. Like that. Twisting. Like that. All those things. It does teach your body. A lot of control. And then. Just move on to the progression. That we spoke about. Well put. Daniel. Thanks man. If you had to pick. Only one. Endurance. Style of workout. Or routine. Or structure. What would be your go-to one? Weighted reps. And sets. So. Things like. Five. Pull-ups. One muscle up. Five bar dips. With 20 kg. Then going down. Something like this. Or. Not to sound crazy. Just like. One of my favorite workouts. Would be. A drop set. Five muscle ups. Five bar dips. Five pull-ups. With 20 kg. Then. Same thing with 15. Same thing with 10. Same thing with five. And same thing. By the way. Four tying. For example. This kind of stuff. Or. The competitive. Endurance. Sets. So. Coming back to the barbarian requirements. Or. Something like. Five MD. Five minutes drill. He has the 50. Pull-ups. 100 push-ups. Within five minutes time. Or faster. Yes. It's also. It's. It's the roots. Of my training. That I come from. Is the. Barbarian philosophy. Helped me. A lot. In my vision. It played a big role. So. All the sets out there. Are based on the. Higher volume. Higher intensity. And. Throwing in some weights. For sure. So. Sets without leaving the bar. With some. Elements to it. Old school. Sets and reps. High rep. Calisthenics. Is just. I love it. I got to get back into it. This summer. I might be doing some. Some routines in the park. So. Watch out for that. Weck. Yeah man. I got to get back. I'm inspired. After this. Conversation. That's. I love. I love to hear it. Because I remember. You. Doing the endurance. In like. 2010s. Like. Mostly. The. The. The reps. And. Yeah. It was. Was it. What a time man. What a time. How has calisthenics. Evolved so much. Since then. It's. So. Yeah. I've. I've noticed. Maybe this is just social media. Across the board. But it's a little bit more combative. A little bit less inclusive. A little bit of. Oh. You're doing a muscle up. Your technique's bad. Oh. You're doing this. It's like. It's like. Training form. Versus actual. Competition form. In my mind. Real talk. If you're doing calisthenics. When I first started. I was just so happy. To meet someone. That was doing calisthenics. I. Could not care. What level they're at. It's like. Man. You positive. You're working hard. You're doing calisthenics. Let's be mates. Absolutely true. It even. Gave me goosebumps. Literally. It's just. What we are here for. Like. It's. It's nice to exchange. The information. You know. Each one. Each one. It doesn't. Meet up. Share the workout. And stay happy. I've been calling this. Facts man. Where can. Where can people go. To follow you. If they're not already. Saibov. S-A-I-B-O-V. On Instagram. I have my website. Also. My last name. Dot com. You can find the programs. Out there. The coaching services. Some collaboration. Possibilities. On YouTube. I have been silent. But I am actually. Coming back. With tutorials. These days. So this podcast. Comes just right. On time. So it's just. Promo. Yes. And yeah. Also Saibov. On YouTube. Guys. I'm just happy. To be here. Being able to. Talk to you. Dale. Thank you. For this opportunity. For giving me the microphone. So to speak. And it's an honor. Yeah. Just thank you guys. For listening. Honestly. And yeah. Follow me. Good on you Saibov. See you mate. So. So.