 naringumpleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleplepleple high rep pull-ups builds endurance. For muscle-ups, you need to be doing power training instead. The best way to increase your range of motion on pull-ups, which is a byproduct of power, is with bands. This is where many people get it wrong. They think because they can do normal pull-ups just fine, but can't muscle-up, why the hell do I need to use bands like some kind of noob? You see, high pull-ups are a skill. You're pulling in that arc, moving away and then towards the bar, instead of going straight up and down like on a normal pull-up. With chest-to-bar pull-ups, you're training the exact same technique that we need to be using in muscle-ups in order to succeed. Specificity means everything for skills. Your pull-up training should be done in a way that has the greatest transfer to our goal. This one training tip right here may be all that you need to unleash what your body is actually capable of. After several workouts of band-assisted high pull-ups, you should be reaching chest-to-bar without a problem. Naturally, you're going to want to progress to lighter bands until eventually you're able to train those explosive pull-ups with just your body weight. Just be mindful of keeping a hollow body during those high pulls. You're always trying to explode from the hang as fast as you can, trying to smash your chest or even higher your stomach to the bar. When it comes to power training, you've got to limit your reps for best results. When doing these chest-to-bar pull-ups, stop at six reps per set. That's right, six. The goal here is max speed and range of motion. Once you feel like the quality is starting to suffer, that's a clear sign you've got to stop the set. Your form of progressive overload right here is height. If you've gone from chest-to-bar in week one to stomach-to-bar on week six, that's progressive overload. Explosive power training for low reps is the secret to muscle-up mastery. It's something that beginners in calisthenics always fail to understand. This exercise highlights the importance of part practice. We know a muscle-up is a pull-up, a transition, and a dip. By working on that first part in isolation, you can genuinely overload it, build power, and improve. Lacking dip mobility can be a sneaky problem that creeps up for many people. You'd be shocked how many people just spam their pull-ups over and over, crossing their fingers that this alone is going to make them fly up and over the bar. Dip mobility, specifically on a straight bar, is a real cheat code for making muscle-ups easier to learn. This is because the deeper that you can dip, the less height that you actually need to pull up so that you can begin pressing out sooner and locking out that muscle-up with pride. So when training this variation, try and lean forward and lower as deep in the dip as you can. It should almost be uncomfortable. It's all about max range of motion and max mobility. After just a few workouts, you're going to improve and really feel the difference. So just keep slogging away at those straight bar dips. More commonly in calisthenics, we're doing the parallel bar version, but as you can tell from today's goal, doing that straight bar is worth focusing on. Because after all, that muscle-up, it is usually done on a straight bar, so we've got to train how we want to perform. Because if we're chasing this calisthenic skill, I want you to do at least one workout per week of straight bar dips, so that when you go on that muscle-up, it's not a surprise. Because straight bar dips, they put you in the same shoulder position that you need on the top of a muscle-up. Elbows behind the body, shoulders into extension, and chest over the bar. They're going to build confidence in that awkward in-between pushing phase where most people are going to panic when they're up in that transition. After all, the deeper and more controlled your dip, the easier the muscle-up is going to be because your body is going to feel stronger and you don't need as much back strength to overcome the bar. Parallel bar dips, they don't teach this exact loading, hence why the transition phase can feel sketchy if you haven't trained for it specifically. The straight bar dip is probably the easiest addition to your routine that's going to give you a big return on investment. Besides, having some extra shoulder mobility is never a bad thing. And if you're doing those deep dips with the goal of muscle-ups, it's going to motivate you to be consistent and actually transform your body in the process. I'm hiding in the mobility within the muscle-up training so that your body becomes more well-rounded as a byproduct. Cheeky, I know. So far, we've broken down the muscle-up into the pull and the push. That's two-thirds of the equation. Now comes the technique. Bad technique is bottlenecking your performance and one of the main limiters for unlocking that muscle-up. If you're someone who's just spamming muscle-up attempts, failing over and over again, it's not the smartest idea. Instead, using progressions is how you actually master technique and unlock that muscle-up much faster. The jumping muscle-up is one of my favorite beginner-friendly exercises. Find yourself a low bar. Then you're going to use your legs and pull at the same time to get over the bar. There should be enough momentum to carry you through the transition, into the dip, and above the bar. Woohoo! With this one, you're learning the movement pattern of arcing the body in that C-shape from the dead hang to getting over the bar. The other bonus here is that eccentric negative on the way down. You're building strength in reverse for the transition phase from that deep dip to the high pull-up. Plus, the jump helps you make the hardest part of the transition manageable. This lets you experience the full movement, learn correct coordination, and also timing. Lowering slowly also strengthens the exact pulling, transition, and dipping positions that we need for muscle-ups. That way, you're ingraining good technique as well. Negatives, they're the best tool for making impossible calisthenic skills possible because we're about 40% stronger eccentrically lowering than we are concentrically lifting. How do we make the muscle-up easier without cheating? I'm talking none of that dreaded kipping or chicken winging that some people do as a way of cheating to do their muscle-ups. Bands, they're going to be your best friend for learning a muscle-up, but also increasing your reps. Think of this like training wheels. It's reducing how much weight that you're lifting on the exercise. The band's going to help give your pull-up that extra pop so that you can reach chest to bar. Then, you'll also be able to transition into the dip. Like a good spotter at the gym, you want that band helping as little as possible. This beginner variation is so helpful for unlocking muscle-ups because it builds your technique and form with repeated practice. Because the intensity is lower, when I say you should be pulling in an arc away and towards the bar, you'll actually be able to do it. This is where people who skip progressions, they shoot themselves in the foot. After all, when a muscle-up feels like a 1RM attempt, of course the form is going to break down. When training with bands, you'll be able to do way more volume before fatigue sets in. We need to remember, muscle-ups are a skill, and the more successful reps that you can get into your body, the better. All of that extra practice helps you progress faster than someone who skips bandwork. I've lost count of how many people I've taught the muscle-up by just doing regressions first. It unlocks the dormant strength and technique that's needed for success. Instead of over-analyzing form by watching a million tutorials, just make muscle-ups easier for now with bands and let your body figure things out. If you need some extra help with calisthenics, my workout programs are going to turn you into a bodyweight beast and also build muscle too. Click the top link in the description to go to fitnessfaqs.com and get those gains. A weak core equals a weak pull, which equals a weak muscle-up. If your muscle-up is a muscle-up looks like you're doing the worm in the air, that full-body arch, it's a compensation, usually from a weak core. This is why the hollow body hold is one of those boring basics that you just can't be skipping in calisthenics. It strengthens your anterior core so you can resist spinal extension and keep your body hollow during the muscle-up instead of breaking down at the midline. One of the hidden blessings of calisthenics is that movements like muscle-ups, they expose your weak links fast. You need both the awareness to train your core and the discipline to actually do your homework. Hollow body holds are the preferred exercise here because they train the exact isometric core strength that muscle-ups demand. This is far more specific and beneficial than sit-ups or crunches, so skip those for now. Once your isometric core strength levels up, now your spine is going to be more stable. Your body, it's going to move as a connected unit and the whole movement is going to feel stronger and look cleaner. P.S. For those of you legends that are still here, here's a bonus hollow body progression that is perfect for muscle-ups. It strengthens your abs to withstand the dynamic demands of calisthenics, leading to less banana back and a bulletproof core. Now fellas, muscle-ups are easy to learn with progression, patience and persistence. Time is your best friend. Keep working at it and before you know it, you'll be bouncing over the bar like a kangaroo. Here's another Fitness FAQs video you simply must watch. More workout wisdom awaits you right here.