ourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourageourage anyway I digress. Bodyweight skull crushes won't actually hurt your skull but your triceps are going to benefit. I remember doing this exercise as a teenager at home, the desk in my bedroom, the coffee table. Yes I was that annoying child, I'm sorry mom and dad. With some creativity this can be done on almost anything sturdy. All you need is some equipment that allows your head to travel between your hands so that you can load the triceps properly. A nice gym option is actually the smith machine given that you can easily adjust the height of it. What makes this so effective is that we've got the arms overhead. When you train tris with this variation you're targeting all three heads of the muscle, particularly that long head. This is because you're getting a deep stretch on all parts of the muscle belly. If you're someone who neglects direct triceps work or only ever does push downs, you're leaving muscle mass on the table. Despite this being an isolation exercise, it's important to take your technique seriously for pain-free gains. Simply slow down that negative and pause in the deep stretch followed by an aggressive concentric to lock out. I'm a big fanboy of rings if that's not obvious so far in this video. The reason is it just feels so damn good once you become skillful at all the exercises after a few workouts. You'd be surprised how many people complain about joint and tendon problems with tricep extensions. They can easily be avoided. Simply choose a level of difficulty or intensity that's within your means. You wouldn't jump into doing skull crushes with 30 kilo dumbbells in each hand. You've got to respect bodyweight training and start at a level of incline that's possible for you to use sound form for 8 to 15 reps as a guideline. You've got to drop the ego initially so that your body can tolerate the load. Calisthenics, it's no joke and the resistance level is very demanding. Training can get stale when you've done the same thing for years and years. For those of you who've been doing bodybuilding and have worked with overhead tricep extensions such as on a cable machine, this bodyweight variation is a nice substitute. Why not experiment with the same movement pattern with calisthenics to smash your triceps? Instead of lifting heavier weights, you gamify this exercise by working closer to the floor and even feet elevated someday. All you've got to do is tuck those elbows, dominate the tempo and take your sets to failure. Simple in theory, hard in practice. Push-ups are considered a chest exercise. This is wrong. I'm just kidding. Checking to see if you're actually paying attention. Now yes, push-ups are a compound exercise that are going to primarily work the pecs, but a small tweak to your technique can make it more heavy on the triceps. Introducing the ring push-up with tucked elbows. Expect to be humbled by this variation for three reasons. Firstly, pinning the elbows in means that the chest can't be recruited as much, making this a more arms-dominant tricep press. Secondly, the rings adds a deficit. Now, you're working through a larger range of motion compared to doing floor push-ups. Third, the instability. When you're doing this on rings, it amplifies the difficulty. Expect your rep numbers to be much lower compared to when you're using parallel bars for push-ups. This also works extremely well as a triceps finish-up. After you've done your heavy pressing with dips or bench, this is where your chest is already fatigue when you follow up with tucked elbow ring push-ups. It lets you get more out of the triceps in every rep that you do. Now, if you've built a jacked torso but your arms are lagging behind, please modify your technique if muscle mass is something that you value. Push-ups, they're an exercise you should always return to. Don't think that you're beyond the basics, even if you've been training for years. Whenever I stop doing push-ups for a few months, I notice that my shoulder stability starts to decline. I lose scapular control, which causes me to plateau in strength and even get pain if neglected for too long. There's more to training than just building muscle. And I know that sounds strange given today's topic, but size doesn't mean much if you're constantly dealing with a broken body. Training like a bodybuilder and relying heavily on machines, sure, it is good for building muscle. But when movement quality decays and the stability is always provided for you, plateaus, aches, and injury risk starts to creep in. That's why I like the push-up as a holistic exercise. It shows whether you can still move well, control your body in space, and that's something that tends to disappear if you neglect bodyweight exercise entirely. This is why calisthenics is the GOAT. You'll build size, gain strength, and move well as a result. A well-performed dip is surprisingly effective for triceps. To make this hit your arms more than the chest, just keep an upright torso. When dipping with this vertical posture, you're going to be getting more range of motion out of the shoulders into extension, with the arms going further back behind your body. This puts a greater stretch on that long head of the triceps and leads to overall greater triceps development. When an upright torso is combined with a narrower grip on dips, the difference in muscle emphasis is going to be night and day. This setup reduces chest involvement and it shifts more load onto your triceps, which is the goal of today if you're trying to bring up those arms. So modify your technique. If you've got the mobility for it, I'd also aim for a deeper dip beyond 90 degrees because the more shoulder extension and more elbow bend means more stimulus for the triceratops. Just because we're talking about bodyweight training doesn't mean we can't add load either. Weighted dips with a belt and plates are a staple in my training year-round because they're one of the most reliable ways to keep on progressing. You get a huge return by progressively overloading compound movements like dips because the chest and shoulders, they assist your triceps. So this means you can handle heavier loads and create more of that juicy overall tension. If building muscle with calisthenics sounds like your thing, head over to the Fitness FAQs website. I've got the exact programs there that I use myself and with my clients. Go on. ALT tab to fitnessfaqs.com. How heavy you're dipping for reps is going to have a carryover to what your physique looks like. It's rare to come across someone who's doing 60 plus kilo dips that has a small upper body. Success leaves clues. There's so much growth to be gained from weighted dips that I hope my peer pressure that I'm doing on you here actually makes you take it seriously. Come on mate, join the club. We need to stop majoring in the minor details, obsessing over optimization instead of doing the work. You need both isolations and compounds to build a complete physique. Get the sweet spot of both in your workout and you'll pack on serious mass in your arms. Effort, progression, consistency matter more than anything else. Apply those principles to calisthenics and the gains will follow. Even more gains are going to come by watching this Fitness FAQs video sponsored by Fitness FAQs. Click it. It's free.