To improve your health and solve health problems, you need more than just one product, but a combination of products. Today we'll talk about a product that's worth adding to your daily salad, and that's regular carrots. I've already made a video about carrots on the keto diet, but I haven't talked much about their health benefits. I recently came across some pretty amazing data: carrots are healthier than I thought. The first thing I usually thought about carrots was that they were sweet. I try to avoid them because I want to reduce carbohydrates on the keto diet. It's true that carrots have a glycemic index of about 72. Anything above 70 is considered high, and yes, it's an index, but because it has so much fiber, and there are only 4.3 grams of digestible carbohydrates in carrots, even though you can eat 50 grams, carrots are a fairly safe product. However, their glycemic load is slightly different from the index. Otherwise, in essence, this is the amount of carbohydrates from which fiber is subtracted, so the glycemic load of carrots is only  2.8 load less than 10 is considered low and this is a fairly low indicator. So one carrot a day will not knock you out. It is usually believed that carrots improve vision because they contain a lot of vitamin A, but this precursor beta-carotene is not the active form of vitamin A, retinol, and only a small percentage of beta-carotene is actually converted into retinol, a little, but it is still something. In addition, carrots contain many different phytonutrients and antioxidants of general action. So, let's go through the list. The first point is fiber, we cannot digest it, but our microflora can carrots can help get rid of estrogen. If you have estrogen dominance, carrots can balance this. What problems does estrogen dominance cause? Heavy periods, excess weight in the lower body, an increased risk of cancer, and anything that softens the effects of estrogen will be useful. The second point is that it reduces the activation of pro- carcinogens, these are substances that can contribute to the development of cancer, and carrots reduce their activity.  3 carrots are an antioxidant 4 it has an antigenic effect What does this mean cancer cells need blood there are various vegetables primarily cruciferous but also carrots which can suppress the creation of new vessels that feed tumors they are called antiangiogenic carrots can also prevent the formation of blood clots it can also help in the fight against mycoplasma these are bacteria without a cell wall But one of the most useful properties of carrots is associated with another nutrient it is called tolkarinol according to some data it is not a separate nutrient but a complex of several substances but in any case eating one carrot a day you will get enough alkarinol alkarinol This is a natural pesticide and also a fungicide palkarinol is also found in dill celery as well as in ginseng and parsley but there is a lot of it in carrots and Although this is a natural pesticide it is harmless for our body do not worry on the contrary it can help cope with pathogenic fungi in the body but the main advantage of tolkarinol is its anticancer effect studies have shown that it can significantly  Reduce the risk of cancer, especially breast cancer, prostate cancer, and stomach cancer, and possibly other types. Its other properties can also help with cancer or inflammation in general. The fact is that alkarinol is a powerful remedy for intestinal inflammation, even stronger than sulforaphane. I have a video about sulforaphane. There I talk about how it helps with gastritis and not in the intestines. It is found in broccoli and its sprouts. But don't forget about carrots, and I recommend eating at least one raw carrot, organic raw carrot, in a salad or separately, daily. One of its anti-cancer mechanisms is the stimulation of tumor-suppressing genes. This mechanism can block those genes that are associated with tumor growth. Research ( links below) revealed a slowdown in tumor growth, blocking aggressive cancer cells, and also activation of apoptosis, a process that causes cancer cells to die. Since we're talking about cancer and nutrition, be sure to watch another video about other cancer-reducing products. This video