I invite you to a program on healthy theta and intermittent fasting. From Dr. Berg, it doesn’t matter if you’re just starting out or your progress has stalled. This program can help you. There will be a huge number of video tutorials available on what exactly to eat where all the details are discussed. There are a lot of examples of what and how to eat. I will also tell you what to avoid in all the details when you lose weight. You often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, eating out of boredom. I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition. This is an important part of a healthy diet. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks of your health, and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It’s not just about reducing calories, but also in nutrients. I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. Thus, this program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything right. To acquire new  Healthy habits for the rest of your life If I tell you that you can take a tablespoon of something That will help you lose more belly fat, will this interest you? If so, know that there is an excellent natural remedy and it goes beyond the usual recommendations to eat less, exercise more, and so on. This video is intended mainly for people with a slow metabolism who need a Fora, but I must clarify something for those who say that they have a slow metabolism, in fact, their metabolism is immediate. They have an immediate metabolism, it is just very economical. If you compare a Hummer with a hybrid Cry. What is their main difference? The first one simply eats fuel, and the second uses fuel economically. A liter of fuel for a Hummer will not be enough for even 7 km, and a Camry. It will be enough for extra Camry. There is a huge difference. That is, the real problem of those who find it difficult to lose weight is deep in the engine. Their engine is too economical. Less fuel lasts them longer than people with a fast metabolism. And that is the question. How to switch your engine to such a mode so that it eats fuel faster, that is, so that you. A new term for you is called Mitochondrial uncoupling. The mitochondria is a power plant that converts food into ATP. ATP is, so to speak, an energy reserve. I think for ease of understanding it is better to describe mitochondrial uncoupling as follows: the mitochondria begins to produce less ATP and more heat. That is, instead of storing energy in the form of ATP, the mitochondria simply produces a lot of heat that can be wasted. Today's conversation is devoted to how to find out what can be used for mitochondrial uncoupling. There is a drug for weight loss that I think is no longer sold, at least in the USA. It is called 2.4 dinitrophenol. We will simply call it DNP and this drug. If I am not mistaken, they stopped selling it. That is why. Yes, it helped to lose weight very quickly, but it had quite serious side effects: the body overheating. People sweated a lot, by the way. Aspirin is another uncoupling effect, like bleeding ulcers, although otherwise everything is fine with it. There is also a drug called niclosamide, which is an antihelminthic drug.  It was also tested on mice as a weight loss product. It's unlikely that they would sell it as a weight loss product, but this drug also causes mitochondrial uncoupling. The question is, is there a natural uncoupler? In Japanese retri, they make tea from it, and resveratrol is sold in powder form. If you take a tablespoon a day, it can help. But it's interesting that resveratrol is a polyphenol, and all the berries I mentioned contain polyphenols, and even chocolate has a lot of polyphenols. Remember, I mentioned the drug 24- dinitrophenol. So, apparently, there is an interesting connection between phenols and ordinary phenols. Phenols, as chemical compounds, seem to cause mitochondrial uncoupling. Mitochondrial uncoupling is also caused by other factors, such as ketones. This is probably one of the reasons for weight loss on the Keto diet, and of course, ketones improve mitochondrial function in general. Cold hardening, what happens when we dive or douse ourselves with cold water, the temperature inside the body should remain the body tries its best to maintain a temperature of 37°. Imagine  How much heat is needed to generate for this and when we dive into cold water we do not train we do not eat Otherwise we just experience severe discomfort And we generate a huge amount of heat burn a lot of fat Another factor of training Yes, training helps mitochondria to expend energy fasting is another way to cause mitochondrial uncoupling Green tea causes mitochondrial uncoupling to a small extent even when we are in a sauna or take a jacuzzi an effect similar to mitochondrial uncoupling occurs on the other hand it is important for us to know about those factors that block mitochondrial uncoupling Number one is excess calories think about this when you overeat and by overeating I mean that you give up more than the mitochondria can burn mitochondrial uncoupling is blocked and their condition worsens this can be excess carbohydrates excess sugar as in most people but it can also be excess fat in the diet I rarely talk about this but I think it is important not to overeat because by doing so you force the body Overloading the mitochondria and the body can't burn it all. If you exercise a lot, you need to eat more. But how many people eat too much, given their activity level and age? This includes snacking. That's why intermittent fasting is also a great strategy. As you age, mitochondrial uncoupling decreases. The more sedentary you are, the less mitochondrial uncoupling you have. Heavy metals can also block mitochondrial uncoupling, as well as some medications, especially statins, beta blockers, metformin, and antibiotics. If you want to learn in detail how to start a healthy ketogenic diet and what exactly you need to eat, watch this video.