There is one drink, a kind of tea, that I highly recommend drinking for depression. This drink is the second most common in the world after water. Guess what, this tea contains many active compounds that can bring great benefits. A study showed that if you drink three cups of this tea a week, depression will decrease by 1%. The same study found that if you drink not one cup of this tea a day, but four, depression will decrease by 51%. I will also tell you about a couple of things that will help you get more benefits from this tea. What causes depression? There can be many reasons: loss of family and friends, stress, lack of sleep, depression can also be caused by certain nutrients. Many are looking for an alternative to medications because they have side effects. This tea can help you. Green tea is not fermented, it is different from other teas. Black tea, for example, is fermented, but green tea is not. People drink green tea to lose weight and there is a lot more research on this topic. Who drinks green tea to get rid of stress because it increases the ability to adapt to stress and is considered adaptogens affect certain parts of the brain, for example, the frontal cortex. It also acts on the nucleus accumbens of the brain. What is it? This is the area of ​​the brain that is responsible for addictions, but it has not yet been fully studied. Bioactive compounds in green tea also affect the hippocampus, which is responsible for cognitive functions, memory, and the ability to learn. Green tea also contains a compound called theanine, an amino acid that helps stabilize mood, get rid of depression, sleep better, reduce stress, and improve neurogenesis. Restoration of nerves. Green tea also has anti-cancer, antimicrobial, and neuroprotective properties. Green tea can also potentially help lower cortisol levels. Cortisol is responsible not only for stress and anxiety, but also for depression. Green tea is an adaptogen, so it helps regulate cortisol. I recommend drinking at least one cup of green tea a day, but I recommend doing something else along with drinking green tea, namely, exercise - it is also an antidepressant. One study, which involved 156 adults, studied the effects of exercise on  In 4 months, they reduced depression no worse than Zoloft. After another 3 months, only 30% of people in the training group remained depressed, while in the medication group, 52% remained depressed. So, if you exercise constantly, movement affects emotions better than any pills and tablets. High-intensity interval training is the best help for depression and anxiety. The most important thing is not to train for a long time. You need short, high-intensity workouts with long rest breaks. For example, running, run for 12 seconds, rest for 4 minutes, then run again, and so on several times. This is exactly how you need to exercise. It’s good. Walking in the sun is best in the summer. Vitamin D also has a strong effect on depression. If a person has depression, that’s why people start to feel blue in the winter. So, I recommend vitamin D. You need to take at least 20,000 international units of vitamin D every day. This should work well. And the fourth thing I recommend is fasting. I’ll tell you a short story. A guy contacted me and shared his success story. He had depression and was haunted by suicidal thoughts. I  I interviewed him, the link will be below. He had suicidal thoughts. He wanted to kill himself. He locked himself in a room and decided to starve himself. He sat there for 3 days. He had no water or food. On the third day, he felt very good. It worked unexpectedly. He was starving. Hunger has a curious effect on the body that helps it survive better. It got rid of him no longer bothered him. He went online and started looking for information. He found my channel. Now he has a job. He no longer has depression, anger, or anxiety. And this is amazing. Fasting is simple. We touched on the topic of stress and cortisol. You can learn much more about it. Below is a link to a document from which you can learn how to lower cortisol levels to get rid of stress, anxiety, and depression. I invite you to an anti-stress course. Stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be the cause of excess weight. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and restore a beautiful body. Stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, in the Pro package, you will find a gift: a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system. I will tell you how.  How does immunity work and what reduces it? I will also give a list of the best means for strengthening it. I am waiting for you on the course.