Hello, in this video I will tell you about ten causes of inflammation. What is the danger of inflammation? Firstly, cancer tends to migrate to the area of inflammation. Firstly, inflammation also causes an immune reaction with histamine. Too much histamine in the body causes fatigue. You will be tired. You will have mucus, congestion, and fatigue. There are ways to reduce inflammation, but first you need to determine the causes. Let's look at the possible causes. 1. Food allergies are the most obvious. When you eat something you are allergic to, inflammation usually begins in the intestines. In the small or large intestine, some parts of the body can be allergic to something, while other parts are not. It's interesting to know, for example, the lower part of the small intestine can be allergic to gluten, and this can cause an ulcer, irritation, or even inflammation, and develop colitis, diverticulitis, anything that ends in it is inflammation. Classic allergens include dairy products and nuts, for example, peanuts. These are the most common allergens in general, they simply cause severe inflammation. Then there is insulin resistance. With it, there will be more inflammation. The body will feel like wood, and there will be joint pain. insulin resistance is caused by sugar. Sugar is closely linked to inflammation, and it's not just regular sugar, but all the hidden sugars in juice, bread, pasta, cereal, and sweeteners. All of these can cause inflammation. I'm focusing on this because it's the most common cause of inflammation, and you only need to change your diet. The inflammation goes away when I was 20. I had severe inflammation in all my joints in my back and arms, and I had insulin resistance. Because of it, I had inflammation of something, but I did n't try anything, but it was all in vain because I didn't think about nutrition at all. So, you need to change your diet. Next, cortisol is usually an anti-inflammatory hormone. It's an adrenal hormone. It's produced by the outer layer of the adrenal glands and, theoretically, should relieve inflammation. But when there's little cortisol, let's say there's resistance to the cortex, and somewhere in the body it's low and somewhere high, or it's not produced at all. Due to adrenal fatigue, inflammation of Addison's disease can develop. This isn't Kidney failure, when inflammation is everywhere in the body, John Kennedy had this, you have to take steroids, what is it, for example, prednisone, it's basically synthetic cortisol, any condition for which cortisone ointment is used, cortisol injections, prednisone is actually weak adrenal glands, there are many inflammatory conditions from autoimmune diseases to skin problems, poison ivy burns, arthritis, and all of them are mainly associated with low cortisol levels. If you have this condition, I will leave links to all of these conditions, but with low cortisol, you need to strengthen the adrenal glands. By the way, licorice is a good substitute for natural cortisol. It's not candy, but licorice extract, but there is definitely a close connection between cortisol and an inflammatory condition. Further, old injuries, if there is an old injury, be it a sprained ankle, a bruised tailbone, or a fracture, like mine, I've had many injuries throughout my life and they do n't go away. The joint becomes inflamed, loses mobility because it was damaged and there is poor circulation. I have many videos  about what to do with this, but if you practice intermittent fasting, you can significantly reduce inflammation, even in old injuries. It is important to know this. People think that this was in the past, that everything has healed, but there is no inflammation. The infection does not go away. Inflammation occurs because this is an immune system reaction, which is such and such. Many people have candida yeast or viruses in certain parts of the body. Bacterial infections and excessive growth of unfriendly bacteria. Lyme disease. All these various infections that can occur in the body even due to a damaged tooth from which bacteria enter the system. Even in the heart, various inflammations can occur. In different parts of the body, there is a very small microbe called na-na bacteria that use a kind of calcium shell for their protection, and therefore it is very difficult to kill this microbe because it is seriously protected, and these small na-na bacteria spread the infection in the body and create inflammation. Kidney problems, heart, tartar. The infection spreads, but this can also be fought. One of the means that allows you to dissolve the shell is called and dth. This is he. Later, he removes the shell, then you need to take a natural antibiotic. Therefore, with such an inflammatory condition, I always recommend herbal antibiotics. Two sticks of oregano are very helpful. Thyme is also very good. You can take garlic, but it is very important to start cleansing the body of the old infection. Of course, avoid sugar, which feeds the infection. It is a very common cause of inflammation, but it is also a latent infection, and it is difficult to detect a latent infection, but you will immediately notice fatigue. You will have fatigue. Oxidants. This can be anything from too much sugar, long-term use of alcohol, and fast food. I also want to mention that iron is free and free, and iron very aggressively creates oxidation in the body, destroying it. It gets into the brain and destroys it, oxidizes it, it oxidizes arteries, and in general, it creates a rust effect, and then the body needs to restore tissue with the help of calcium and cholesterol. This is called plaque. They form in the brain, in the heart, and in other places. Oxidants can create inflammation because an immune reaction occurs. By the way, microbes, both good and bad, eat iron, and therefore, when inflammation develops, the body begins to hide and remove iron as a defense mechanism so that pathogens, bad bacteria, cannot feed on it. Iron deficiency and even anemia can suddenly occur. Whenever you have too much iron, there will be more infection, more oxidants, and more problems. Where does this excess iron come from? Firstly, and in addition, there are very low-quality supplements that contain iron, but this is the wrong type. The right type is found in grass-fed liver extract. It comes in tablets, or there is spleen extract, it's even better. You will have enough of the right iron. It is bound to protein, it is not free iron, not elemental. Avoid this iron. It is found in popular synthetic vitamins. I do not recommend them. It is also found in wheat products that are fortified with iron. After eating them, you will feel heaviness. In Europe, they don't do this, only in America. Here you have America. Iron is very aggressive and very harmful. It can create many problems in the body. Alcohol, of course, and fast food will harm the body and cause inflammation. I went through this myself. I lived on fast food, drank alcohol, and wondered where my inflammation came from. When the liver is damaged, there will be a lot of inflammation. Fatty acids Omega-6 soy and corn oils cause inflammation, this is gamma, they cause inflammation, you should not consume these oils in raw nuts and raw seeds, there are enzyme inhibitors, they can cause digestive problems, especially with the gallbladder, if you consume too many nuts, especially unsprouted ones, if they are not soaked in water overnight and then washed and dried, you will have more irritation and inflammation in the body, for some, not for everyone, but this can be a problem. I added the gallbladder as a cause because there is almost no research on this topic. This is my personal 30-year experience working with many people, tens of thousands of people often have bile stagnation for various reasons, possibly from unhealthy food or sugar, but the gallbladder swells, stagnation occurs, little bile is produced, the intestines bloat and become inflamed, and the stomach becomes inflamed from this during meals, also problems with cortisol can cause intestinal inflammation, especially if the stomach is flat in the morning and becomes larger at night, but the fact is that a problem with the gallbladder will cause not only swelling and inflammation in  The digestive tract and the gallbladder itself, but the pain will radiate to the right shoulder, neck, and shoulder blade. All inflammation on this side comes from the gallbladder. This is not uncommon. To check, press on the right side under the rib cage, massage this area for two minutes, and everything will go away. Now you know that you need to do something about this problem. A change in diet can help. This was a brief overview of all the possible causes leading to inflammation. I hope this helped, and write below what you think of this video. Thank you for watching. Many people really need this information, so click the share button and let's spread this video.