I'm Dr. Burke.  Today we'll talk about the best superfoods for your heart. There is an easy way to find out what it is. Look at conventional medical opinion and go in the opposite direction.  This way you will achieve great success.  Dr. Berg's original dietary supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries. They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. They say you should eat less saturated fat, less foods with cholesterol and sodium, but more fiber.  No, no, no and no.  You shouldn't do that.  This won't help you. Today we're talking about superfoods.  Yes, I admit my guilt.  I have recommended many of these products and made videos about them. Yes, goji berries, chia seeds, flax seeds, izila smoothies, spinach smoothies, almonds, green smoothies with different greens, spirulina, walnuts, blueberries.  All these foods are considered superfoods.  But if you eat all of that, you'll be bloated and it won't give you much energy.  Yes, they are indeed rich in antioxidants, but they lack many other key nutrients that we need.  And first of all, I mean protein, amino acids.  And without protein you won't feel good, just for the sake of experiment.  Try living on just these foods and see if you feel very weak and tired. So these are not the superfoods I would recommend.  We need nutrient-rich foods with vitamin A in its active form, heme iron, B12, DHA and APA to reduce inflammation. This is omega-3.  Walnuts and flax seeds contain a precursor of DHA and APA, ALA acid, but it is not converted very efficiently.  None of these foods contain high-quality, complete protein and are deficient in zinc.  So let's get to the list of things you should be eating, what are considered heart-healthy superfoods.  First, red meat.  Exactly what is said to be bad for the heart. Eating more good quality red meat and grass-fed meat can improve your health.  You can eat lamb and meat from other animals.  The main advantage of red meat is that it contains very high quality amino acids.  This is real support for the mitochondria in the heart muscle.  Red meat contains a lot of cornitin. It also supports mitochondria, which are the source of energy for the heart.   There is also a lot of coenzyme Q10.  It is truly a key nutrient for mitochondria. By the way, the currently popular statins deprive you of this important nutrient, which is essential for the heart.  So if you're taking statins, you need to take this too, otherwise you'll have muscle problems.  After all, muscles, especially cardiac muscles, need mitochondria.  And this cofactor is coenzyme Q10.  One of the saturated fats in red meat is methionine.  It helps to glue together fragments of mitochondria, restoring them to their full form, increasing the efficiency of mitochondria as a whole.  So , as you can see, the main benefit of red meat is the real support it provides to Stearic acid is beneficial for both mitochondria and for burning more fat. Red meat also contains another substance, carnasin. It is a very important antioxidant for certain heart problems. Red meat is full of zinc, which is involved in more than two hundred different biochemical reactions, and also B12.  It helps reduce levels of a substance called homocysteine, an excess of which can cause heart problems.  B12 helps control this.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Number two.  Butter.  I know someone will say, “But butter is bad for the heart.”  No, grass-fed butter is good for the heart.  It contains a lot of vitamin K2.  which removes calcium from the blood vessels.   It also contains butyric acid. Butyric acid reduces inflammation in the intestines.  CLA is a substance that helps reduce insulin resistance. People with insulin resistance have a lot of heart problems. Butter contains vitamin A in its active form, not precursors.  It helps heal and reduces inflammation in various places within the body, including the inner layer of blood vessels, the endothelium.  And, of course, the oil contains estronic acid. Number three.  Egg yolk, not just the white.  For many years we have been told that egg yolks are very harmful.  They are full of cholesterol, which clogs blood vessels.  But it turned out that this was not true. Egg yolks are super healthy and contain something unique.  They contain a lot of haline. Halin helps prevent the accumulation of fat in the liver, and this fat from the liver can flow into the heart.  Fat in the area of ​​the heart is called epicardial fat.  This is probably one of the main biomarkers of heart health and lifespan.  There is nothing good about fat around the heart. Unfortunately, we are told that saturated fats are bad and unsaturated fats like oils and seeds are good, and people have been consuming them for years.  Oils from seeds can become embedded in cell membranes and damage them.  It takes 600 days to get them out of there after you stop eating these oils.  Achaline from egg yolks can support these membranes.  This is important for insulin receptors and membrane permeability in general.  Another key component of egg yolk is cholesterol.  Yes, cholesterol is the material from which bile salts are made.  The gallbladder is the main outlet for excess cholesterol.  If there is excess cholesterol in the liver , bile is needed to get rid of it.  But bile is made from cholesterol.  Ultraviolet light from the sun interacts with cholesterol under the skin, synthesizing vitamin D. Thus, bile, vitamin D, and some hormones are produced from cholesterol.  Egg yolks also contain a lot of vitamin K2, which prevents calcium from accumulating in blood vessels.   The yolk also contains certain carotenoids, such as lutein and sexanthin, which are also beneficial for the inner walls of blood vessels.  Let's move on to number four.  This is cheese.  I don't mean American cheeses, but good cheeses. Usually from Europe, raw milk and aged.  Jarlsberg cheese contains more vitamin K2 than any other cheese. Many other hard cheeses are also rich in vitamin K2.  This is a key vitamin that not only cleanses blood vessels of calcium, but is also a nutrient for mitochondria.  Cheese contains so-called peptides, short chains of amino acids, natural ACE inhibitors, which help with blood pressure.  Number five. Maluski.  So, wait, aren't they high in mercury? Yes, they contain mercury, but they also contain a lot of selenium.  And selenium helps to bind this mercury and neutralize it.  So don't worry about mercury in these seafoods.  And they are useful, I mean oysters, mussels and other bivalves, because they contain a lot of omega-3 fatty acids, DHA and APA in active form, which is very important. Plus they contain a lot of microelements, a lot.  Our food, unfortunately, lacks microelements because they are not found in the soil.  At the same time, the production of protein, say, for hair, nails and skin, the body's ability to detoxify, the ability to produce energy.  It all depends on cofactors.  And microelements play a big role here.  Number six.  Meat by-products.  Of course, the liver must be completely grass- fed.  Our ancestors ate a lot of offal, and in some tribes they even gave the meat to dogs, and people ate the organs, that is, the offal. And it's not just about the liver.  This also includes the heart, kidneys, brains, things that few people eat these days. Below is a link to a company called US Wellness Meets, which sells cutlets that include organ meats. I think this is a good way to hide these products, because not everyone likes their taste. I don’t like liver, so I mix it with other food.  In general, I prefer canned cod liver .  Cod liver contains more omega-3s than anywhere else.  I eat one or two cans of cod liver every week. But what is useful about offal? Each organ has something of its own, for example, the heart muscle is rich in it.  This is coenzyme Q-10.  In his heart most of all.  I know that in some European countries and cultures they make sausages from offal .  They also contain a lot of vitamin A. The liver contains the most of it.  As for vitamin A, yes, it is beneficial for the eyes, mucous membranes, blood vessels and the immune system. Organ meats also contain a lot of B12, which is needed by red blood cells, as well as copper, which helps produce collagen.  Blood vessels are made of collagen, a type of elastic protein.  Number seven is fermented foods.  Among them, of course, are sauerkraut, kimchi and kefir.  This is what I eat regularly to help my gut flora, which is also very important for heart health.  There is another fermented product called NAtto.   It contains a lot of vitamin K2.  In addition, it contains a lot of so-called natronase, a very effective means for reducing blood clots. Number eight.  Sea salt.  It is not food, but we add it to our food. Himalayan salt is a great option.  How is sea salt different from regular salt? Sea salt contains 80-90 minerals, while regular refined salt contains two.  Sometimes they also add some kind of anti-itching agent or even aluminum. We are told to eat less salt for heart health because it raises blood pressure.  We have been told this for a long time, and people have become very afraid of salt.  And just to give you an idea, it was recently discovered that this is not true.  It has been established that a low-salt diet is not necessary for everyone.  When you eat little salt, the production of a certain hormone, nin, is triggered, which increases blood pressure due to a lack of salt.  I'm not suggesting that you eat salt in huge quantities.  It just has to be enough.  Yes, there are people who are sensitive to salt, and their blood pressure may rise if they consume too much salt, but the real cause is usually a lack of potassium, not too much sodium.  The point is that when there is too little sodium in the body , many other problems can occur. One of them is high blood pressure. Another possible problem is high cortisol. I recommend one simple technique that works well. If you have trouble falling asleep, eat some salt and you will find that you sleep much better.  There are signs of salt deficiency. The first is problems with falling asleep or sleeping without waking up.  And the second is a craving for salty things.  Add more salt to your food rather than gorging on salty chips.  Plus, if you don't get enough salt, your risk of insulin resistance increases, which is the real cause of high blood pressure.  And that's why you also need salt, sodium chloride, so that you have more chloride to produce hydrochloric acid in your stomach.  When there is little acid in the stomach, it leads to acid reflux, heartburn and increased bloating.  And this can also indirectly affect the heart and sleep.  Number nine.  Fatty fish.  I mean salmon, wild commercial salmon.  It is rich in omega-3 fatty acids, which are essential for the heart.  There is another option.  Smaller fish, sardines, are an excellent source of omega-3, as are anchovies and mackerel.  Let's not forget about number 10. Halgeni.  These include bone broth, fish skin and chicken skin. But when you eat collagen, it doesn't convert completely into collagen in your body.  90% replenishes the supply of amino acids that the body uses at its own discretion. And 10% of this collagen does not break down completely into amino acids, but remains in the body in the form of peptide chains.   A peptide is a chain of amino acids. Peptides are absorbed in the intestines, enter the bloodstream and act as signaling molecules, transmitting the message to the body: "Produce collagen."  If there is little collagen, the vessels become stiff. Why am I even talking about this?  The fact is that we get only 1-3% collagen from the meat we eat now. We need much more.  If you only eat tender steak and easily digestible proteins, you won't get enough coloden.  Personally, I add cologne to my coffee every morning and don't worry about it for the rest of the day.  I invite you to Dr. Berg's healthy ketogenic and intermittent fasting program .  Whether you're just starting out or your progress has stalled, this program can help you.  You will have access to a huge number of video tutorials.  There is a video about what exactly to eat, where all the details are discussed.  There are lots of examples of what and how to eat.  I will also tell you what to avoid in detail.  When you're trying to lose weight, you often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, and eating out of boredom.  I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition - this is an important part of a healthy ket.  You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition when it comes to food.  Because food is the very building blocks of your health.  And it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients.  It's not just about cutting calories, it's about nutrients too .  I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body is lacking, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. So, this program increases your chances of success and also shows you how to do it right to establish new healthy habits for the rest of your life.