Let's discuss 10 signs of a dying liver, that is, the last stage of liver failure. The liver is very resilient, it can recover, but there is a point of no return after which recovery is almost impossible. But at this stage of damage, I would do everything possible to try to recover before moving on to the signs of the last stage. Let's discuss the first two symptoms that arise with the first problems with the liver. The first is malaise, this symptom is quite difficult to describe, it's like poor health, you just feel somehow unwell, and the second is fatigue. These are the first two symptoms, but as the disease progresses, the following signs appear. The first is clouding of perception, design. This occurs due to the accumulation of ammonia in the body and its entry into the brain. This is due to the fact that the liver is responsible for detoxification and removal of ammonia. The second is ascites. Ascites is a serious liver disease in which the protein albumin accumulates in the blood and fluid flows into the abdominal cavity and fills it. It looks like pregnancy. The best description is a guy on the beach in swimming trunks with a round belly. This is ascites, and except for the belly, the person is not fat. Because it's not fat, it's a fluid-filled abdominal sac. Many people go to the hospital, where they pump out this fluid, but a week later it returns because the liver remains diseased, so it's a shame. This is a sign of serious liver disease. Third, severe itching, this is called a couple. No, this usually happens due to problems with bile salts, because the liver is responsible for the production of bile salts, and they can accumulate in the body, even in the skin, and irritate nerve endings. Fourth, you start to turn yellow, the whites of your eyes turn yellow, your skin turns yellow, this is called jaundice. 5, you lose your appetite. Personally, I think this is a kind of survival mechanism when you lose your appetite to starve, but this is just a hypothesis. I don't know if this is true, but when you fast, various healing processes occur, including the so-called out-of-a-due processing of old damaged proteins. With serious damage to the liver, fibrosis occurs, and so there is a loss of appetite. Sixth, a feeling of weakness and fatigue. 7, you feel nauseous. 8, bloating, especially after each meal. Then number nine, swelling of the ankles and in general in the legs, especially on the right side because that's where the liver is located. It can be on both sides.  But mainly on the right, and finally, you will have a lot of bruising because the liver is closely related to vitamin K. There are many other symptoms of liver disease, but these are the 10 main signs of severe liver failure. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, you have a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos, a special diet, and exercises for effective training await you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.