We are so concerned about high LDL cholesterol, but we rarely look at it from the other side. What is the danger of low LDL or low cholesterol? You will be surprised to learn that low LDL and low cholesterol cause no less, or even more, problems than high LDL and high cholesterol. I will tell you a few facts. First, the body itself produces most of the cholesterol. Our brain is a quarter made up of cholesterol. Brain cells even produce cholesterol. Cholesterol is needed to produce vitamins, bile salts, which help absorb fat, vitamins A and D, and omega-3 fatty acids. Cholesterol is closely linked to the creation of cell membranes. And when your LDL or cholesterol levels drop too much, all sorts of problems can arise. When I talk about cholesterol, I mean cholesterol of 120 mg per deciliter, or three and one- tenths millimoles per liter. And when I talk about LDL, I mean LDL below 50 mg per deciliter, or one and three- tenths millimoles per liter.  When LDL or total cholesterol falls below these values, there is a risk of the following problems: 1. cataracts, which is quite serious; 2. fatty liver; you might think that the liver will be fatty if you consume too much cholesterol, but this is not true; 3. you will not be able to produce enough bile; bile is made from cholesterol and is associated with many problems; fatty stools, if they float; this means that you do not absorb fat well and you will most likely develop a deficiency of vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E, vitamins K1 and K2; and a deficiency of omega-3 fatty acids can cause many different problems; the next symptom is constipation. Why? Because bile salts help lubricate the gastrointestinal tract; another major side effect of a lack of LDL or cholesterol is mental retardation; mental abilities deteriorate; affective disorders occur; anxiety; depression; the risk of cancer increases; immunity suffers; this can be due to a lack of vitamin D; hyperthyroidism can also occur; this is when the thyroid gland works too fast; when the topic of cholesterol comes up, it is necessary to consider not only its  Excess but also deficiency, and after watching the following video, you'll be surprised that excess cholesterol causes far fewer problems; they mostly come from deficiency. Watch that video.