I'm going to tell you about ten vitamins and minerals that you should never, ever take.  And not because they are ineffective, but because they can be extremely dangerous.  I am surprised that these ingredients are even allowed to be included in various complexes.  Although, of course, I know why.  They're just very cheap and you can make a ton of money with them.  The profit from their sale is huge, that's why they are produced.  Most of the major vitamin manufacturers are owned by pharmaceutical companies, large chemical companies and junk food producers, and their motto is to make as much profit as possible.  First on our list is synthetic vitamin A. Never take synthetic vitamin A. It has to be converted into its active form, and this conversion is not very efficient.  Because of this, synthetic vitamin A accumulates in the body, in the liver, in fat cells and can be extremely toxic.  During pregnancy, this can lead to a birth defect in the child.  It may also interfere with the action of vitamin D and vitamin K2 and increase the risk of fractures due to bone loss.  Synthetic vitamin A is also added to creams and other skin products.  But when such vitamin A is irradiated with ultraviolet light, it increases the carcinogenic effect. Its presence can be recognized by the names retinolopalmite or retinoloacetate. Instead, get your vitamin A from egg yolks, liver, and cod liver oil, not the synthetic version. We need vitamin A for the mucous membranes of the sinuses, lungs, and intestines. We need vitamin A to see, especially in the dark.  The immune system depends on it, so it is very important. Number two, synthetic beta-carotene. When I talk about beta-carotene, many people think, “Well, that’s vitamin A.” No, that's not true.  Although some people think so. Betacarotene must first be converted into the active form of vitamin A. Betacarotene is abundant in carrots, but you would have to eat a huge amount of carrots to even get close to the daily requirement for the active form of vitamin A. Synthetic vitamin A is made from coal tar and petroleum.  That's why, when they did a large study on synthetic beta-carotene, they found an increase in the incidence of lung cancer in smokers of about 18%. Why is it specifically for smokers, while others may not?  Firstly, smokers have a lot of damage to their lungs, which makes them very vulnerable and even susceptible to cancer.  Apparently, synthetic beta-carotene turns on something in the body, activating cancer. Natural vitamin protects. Synthetic does not protect and can cause harm.  Number three.  Folic acid. Vitamin B9.  This is a B vitamin. Folic acid differs from the active forms of B9 folates.  And this is another synthetic vitamin.  That's why you shouldn't take it.  30-40% of the planet's population has a problem with a certain gene.  Their gene has been altered. which is designated by this abbreviation.   The simple explanation is this.  This gene helps convert folate into its active form, folate.  But if there is a problem with the gene , this does not happen.  As a result, folic acid accumulates in the blood, which increases the risk of cancer and suppresses the immune system.  There may be other symptoms that people don't associate with it.  unless they did a DNA test and found out about this date.  Moreover, they often don’t even know that they get folic acid from food.  Read the ingredients, make sure they contain phalates, or eat foods that contain a lot of phalates.  For example, they are abundant in dark leafy greens. Next we have number four, synthetic B12. It's called cyanocobalamin. Notice there is cyanide in here, just a tiny bit .  This form of B12 is certainly not as bioavailable as its natural form, methylcobalamin.   The natural form remains in the body much longer compared to the synthetic one.  And to convert cyanocobalamin into its active form, glutathione is needed.  If you get a lot of this vitamin, as is often the case, from energy drinks, various foods, or supplements, it will deplete you of glutathione, which is an important antioxidant.  For example, a smoker takes such a vitamin, and when you smoke you get a lot of chemicals, including cyanide.  And it can accumulate with cyanide from B12, creating toxicity. Especially if your genetics don't allow for good detoxification, like mine.  DNA testing can tell you how well you detoxify.  And if you have problems with this , avoid synthetic vitamins at all costs .  Getting natural B12 is very easy.  It is in red meat. I recommend getting it from there. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.  Number five.  Calcium carbonate.  Look at what ingredient comes first in many popular vitamin and mineral supplements.  The first ingredient in each of them is calcium carbonate.  That's why the jar is so heavy.  It was as if stones had been placed there.  And since it is the first ingredient, it means that there is the most of it in this product .  And this is very strange.   Once it enters the body, it can settle in the blood vessels or kidneys.  But the main problem is not even this.  The main problem is that it can increase the risk of heart attack.  Calcium in this form is not found in natural foods, so it is better to get it from dairy products, cheese, yogurt or kefir. Calcium is also found in some leafy vegetables.  This is a mineral that needs to be handled with care as it is not easily eliminated from the body.  Calcium also needs magnesium to function.  And the more calcium you get, the more magnesium you need.  in a one to one ratio.  If you are told to drink 10 times more calcium than magnesium, don’t believe it, it should be one to one.  But in many complexes this is not even close .  So we create a magnesium deficiency by overloading the body with calcium.  Iron. Iron is highly susceptible to corrosion and is very dangerous for the body.  The fact is that we have no mechanism for removing iron other than through blood donation or menstruation in women.  This is especially dangerous for men and postmenopausal women.  The source of iron in many supplements is ferrous sulfate.  It's terrible, because it's practically rust.  About one in 200 to 300 people has a condition called hemochromatosis.  With it, the problem gets worse, and even with a normal dose, the harm will be even greater.  The body clings strongly to this iron.  It comes from iron pans, iron supplements, and many foods that are fortified with iron, such as wheat and other grains. Viewers of my channel probably don't eat this.  For others, it may end up in their diet.  Excess iron generally increases the risk of type 2 diabetes, liver problems, Partinson's disease, and Alzheimer's disease.  Otherwise, everything is great. In general, I highly recommend avoiding any iron supplements or iron-fortified foods.  Get it from food.  Even if you are anemic, I would recommend eating liver or red meat rather than taking supplements, especially ferrous sulfate.  Number seven.  Magnesium oxide.  You probably know how important magnesium is, but the form it comes in is extremely important.  Magnesium oxide is a very cheap option.  It is absorbed at only about 3%. That is, if a capsule contains 500 mg, you will only get 15 of them from one capsule. This is about nothing.  If you increase the dose, it will lead to diarrhea because it draws a lot of water into the intestines.  And when you have diarrhea, electrolytes are flushed out of your body.  So this is not the best form.  Magnesium is poorly absorbed, and increasing the dose leads to diarrhea. The best form is magnesium glycinate. Absorption rate is up to 85% and there is no diarrhea.  You will get all the benefits of magnesium.  improved sleep, lower cortisol, fewer muscle cramps and more energy.  Number eight is synthetic vitamin D. It's called ergocalciferol.   It is produced by irradiating mushrooms or yeast with ultraviolet light. Its effect is weaker.  And the conversion of this synthetic D2 into the active form of vitamin D is much less efficient than that of vitamin D3.  There is a certain protein that delivers vitamin D to the mail and liver.  It's called vitamin D binding protein.  And vitamin D2 does not attach to it as strongly as D3, so the effect of D2 is less than that of D3.  But, of course, most often doctors prescribe D2 to patients, not D3.  I think it's because it's impossible to get a patent for D3, since it's natural.  This is the most important vitamin of all, and many people are deficient in it.  People rarely spend time in the sun.  A lack of vitamin D affects immunity, causing bone pain, depression, and many other problems.  Number nine.  If you see omega-6 fatty acids listed on a supplement, possibly in the form of linoleic acid, don't buy it.  This ingredient is also added to dog food.  I think people generally know that we don’t need more omega-6.  We already have too much of it. We need omega-6 and omega-3 in a one to one ratio. While the average American gets 25 times more omega-6 fatty acids than omega-3. Omega-6 significantly increases inflammation, while omega-3 reduces inflammation.  On average, people get 25-30% of their calories from seed oils.  Result: inflammation.  Get your omega from fish, cod liver oil, grass-fed meats, and similar products.  Number 10. Copper.  We need copper.  We need zinc and all the other micronutrients.  But if you take the cheap version and in high doses, it can be very toxic. It is important to maintain the proportions of medicine. We need 10 times more zinc.  And for everything to work well, this proportion must be maintained . Taking too much zinc can lead to copper deficiency.  And if you take a lot of medicine, you may have problems with zinc.  Excess copper can reverse the antioxidant properties, turning them into oxidants, causing ameloid plaques, Glzheimer's disease, and inflammation in the brain. In connection with Glzheimer's disease, copper is called the new aluminum because aluminum is also toxic to the brain. as well as copper.  So, excess copper in the wrong form accumulates in the brain, as well as in the liver.  Get micronutrients, especially copper, from shellfish, liver, or dark chocolate.  If you take copper, do so in combination with other micronutrients in the right proportions. Sugar is not just a habit, it is a real addiction.  You walk, you feel a rise, then a fall, then candy again. cookies, cakes, buns and so on in a circle.  Why can't we just stop eating sugar? Sugary foods stimulate the pleasure hormone, but the effect quickly wears off, and the brain requires a new dose.  It's a vicious circle: pleasure, decline, craving again.  We break down, feel guilty, make new promises to ourselves, and everything repeats itself. It's not weakness, it's biochemistry.  And to get out, you need a system.  The Sugar Free Marathon is a step-by-step plan to help you overcome your addiction.  You receive three assignments per week.  They take 15 minutes a day.  Everything is presented simply, without unnecessary theory.  You implement one change after another and see the results.  You are not alone.  The marathon features a live chat, topic-based discussions, and experienced curators who respond daily. Support is one of the greatest strengths of the marathon.  In 8 weeks, participants overcome sugar addiction, lose weight, restore sleep, eliminate swelling, and feel different, lighter, calmer, and more confident.  Sugar has a stronger hold on you than it seems, but you can break out of the cycle with support, knowledge, and step by step. You can join the sugar-free marathon by following the link below.  Start changing yourself from the inside.