Let's discuss what can cause paroxysmal acute abdominal pain. This particular symptom actually has 10 reasons. The first is the so-called SIBO, which stands for small intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome. Look at the small intestine. And the large intestine. Normally, all bacteria, or most of them, are in the large intestine, not in the small intestine. There are a small number of bacteria there, but most live in the large intestine, where they ferment, especially fiber. If you have an imbalance, too many microorganisms in the small intestine, then this happens. This is what happens when you eat, especially probiotics. That is, in fact, bacteria or vegetables where there is a lot of fiber, this fiber gets here and your microbes begin to eat it. At the same time, they ferment, a lot of gases are formed. And in addition, microorganisms steal nutrients from you, and it turns out that you are left without nutrients, since they eat almost everything that gets here. Normally, there should not be so many microorganisms here; instead, food should be digested by enzymes from the pancreas and the mucous membrane of the small intestine. intestines they break down food and 90 percent is absorbed in the small intestine So if you have small intestine then the worst food for you is vegetables in this case you should sit on the root diet for a couple of months to put everything in order if you have small intestine I have a video about this link below take betaine hydrochloride to increase the acidity in the stomach then microorganisms will die in the stomach and will not be able to get into the small intestine The second reason let's assume that part of the intestine is just a part here at the very end let's say it is inflamed say you have ileitis inflammation of the ileum here below you ate something and the food passes through this long tube no pain no pain And then it reaches the inflamed area which hurts and you feel pain so if you have inflammation in some part of the intestine this will cause acute pain usually this is damage due to some food this happens with food allergies for example to gluten or something else you need to get tested for food allergens and exclude these products then it will start here  I probably need to heal. Add gluten and food allergies. An ulcer in some part of the intestine can also cause pain. By the way, chlorophyll is an excellent remedy for ulcers. The third reason is the gallbladder and bile ducts. We have a liver, it produces bile. Bile goes down the common bile duct, a tube of this kind, and enters the gallbladder, where it is concentrated. And when you eat, the gallbladder contracts and bile goes into the small intestine along with pancreatic enzymes. You get bile plus lipase, a pancreatic enzyme for breaking down fats. But if you eat unhealthy food or have elevated estrogen or cortisol, you can develop and experience irritation. Or if you eat unhealthy foods, such as fast food, as well as vegetable oils, rapeseed or soy, which cause inflammation, all this can irritate these ducts and cause pain and bloating. When this duct swells, pressure can cause pain. Problems with the gallbladder and its ducts are common. By the way, I often have a whole course on the gallbladder. A link to the post is below. Reason 4  The pancreas or its main duct is a gland that produces enzymes. The pancreas also produces insulin, so it produces a hormone, even several hormones and enzymes. It has a dual function. If you eat too many carbohydrates, the load on the pancreas increases greatly and it has to secrete insulin in huge volumes. We remember that it has a dual function: it produces both hormones and enzymes. If you stimulate one part of the pancreas, it stimulates the other part, creating a large load. All this can disrupt the normal flow of digestive juices. This is where inflammation and many digestive problems can occur. Especially acute pain. Foods and grains are probably the number one cause of acute abdominal pain in people. For some, they can be a real poison and cause a lot of damage in the small intestine, as well as food allergies. The sixth reason is enrichment, which is what is meant here. Manufacturers enrich flour products with iron and synthetic vitamins. Iron is very toxic both for the microflora in the intestines and for the body as a whole. Especially for men and women in postmenopause. When there is no longer menstruation, monthly blood loss occurs. Our body does not have a good mechanism for removing excess iron. Iron causes great harm to our brain, our intestines, and especially the liver, it creates many problems, including cirrhosis. When you eat grain products, especially in America, Canada, and the UK, they are fortified with iron, which is one of the reasons why you have stomach pain. In other countries, where food is not fortified, people can, more or less, eat grains without problems and may not have bloating or gastrointestinal problems, but they still gain weight because grains are fast carbohydrates. There is another thing that they do in Europe and other countries: they bake bread a little differently. They make the dough, they leave it overnight to ferment, unlike bread in the US, where the dough does not stand for a long time, as a result, it ferments in the stomach and you feel severe bloating, and bloating always causes pain. We have already talked about vegetable oils such as soybean, rapeseed, corn, and cottonseed oil. They cause severe inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract. The consumption of these oils is off the charts. They are hidden in many foods, especially in dressings and mayonnaise. You can find them in regularly eat without realizing that they can actually be the cause of abdominal pain. In addition, there are grain products such as soy, corn, and even wheat that is pollinated with glyphosate. This is a herbicide; they can greatly irritate and harm the microflora. 9. The common phenomenon is low acid in the stomach. If there is enough acid in the stomach, what will happen? The food will get here slightly undigested. And since it is not digested, getting here, it creates enormous tension. This leads to abnormal fermentation, bloating, and pain. There is a simple solution: apple cider vinegar and betaine hydrochloride, and the problem is solved. And the last thing is to eat frequently. Six times a day, breakfast, lunch, dinner, and snacks. And for children, with intermittent fasting, you allow the intestines to rest and recover. So, if you have acute pain and bloating, intermittent fasting is the best solution for you. The body will be able to reboot and heal. You do not need to eat too much protein food in moderation. Excess protein can also overload the digestive system, especially if there is little acid in  The stomach and carbohydrate intake need to be reduced, they can irritate the liver, gallbladder, and especially the pancreas. I usually recommend eating a lot of vegetables, but not if you have bipolar disorder. Thank you for watching, and until next time, I invite you to my new ketogenic diet. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't return. I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already completed this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.