Let's discuss 10 possible reasons why Nastya is exhausted. I have a lot of personal experience in this regard. It happened to me for quite a few years. I had no idea about all this at the time, but I will share my experience with you in this video. The first and most important thing to do when you are exhausted is to remember when it started, and then look at what happened right before it to understand whether it is related to nutrition, stress, or the start of taking some medication, and then you will understand what the matter is. It's very simple, but very few people do this. Let's start with the first point. Drugs have side effects. Many people on medications experience fatigue and do not understand what the matter is. In fact, I don't know of a single drug that would not cause fatigue, lethargy, or some kind of decrease in energy levels as a side effect. They all cause fatigue because they block or stimulate neurotransmitters, which are a kind of hormone-like signals in the nervous system. Especially if you are taking antidepressants, tranquilizers, or high blood pressure medication. They all definitely cause fatigue. Find another solution. I'm not saying to quit medication, but  Talk to your doctor, try to find something more natural, and if the solution to one problem creates another problem, it's not worth it. Number two, your body runs on the wrong fuel, namely sugar. This applies to those who are new to my channel. If you're not a newbie, you already know this, but when you burn fat, you have a lot of energy. When you burn sugar, energy is either too much or too little. This happened to me after 20. I was so exhausted I didn't understand that it was related to nutrition. I ate cereal, muffins, drank orange juice in the morning, avoided saturated fats, ate only carbohydrates and didn't see any connection. Sometimes my wife and I are driving in the car and we see a health food store. " Honey, let's buy some vitamins," and so we go out with all these vitamins. We were hoping to raise my energy levels, but it never worked, and then I finally came across the book "Enter the Health Zone." The first chapter talked about insulin and carbohydrates. I thought, why didn't I read this in college? I started eating more egg whites and cut down on carbohydrates, and who would have thought the energy came back. I quickly became very interested in this topic and began to study it thoroughly, and here I am. If you want to know what you need to eat, I'll leave a link below. Number three: poor sleep is an important factor. If you don't sleep all night, if you don't feel energized in the morning, then it might be due to your stress level. Perhaps you lack something. There could be many reasons. I think I have at least fifty videos about sleep. Below are links to the best of them. If you lack vitamin D and zinc, because of this, you definitely won't sleep. And one little piece of advice: if you take vitamin D3 and zinc right before bed, your sleep can immediately improve greatly. You also need to change your diet. Number four: a hidden infection. I had this at school. I had mononucleosis. It's the Epstein-Barr virus. I had this infection. Everything was very bad. My tonsils were very swollen. Later, there was a lot of stress and I developed chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia. It was the Epstein-Barr virus, which was dormant and then activated. Viruses usually hibernate due to stress, and later in life  They come out of hibernation, but not in the form of a full-fledged infection, but in the form of fatigue, joint pain, or flu-like symptoms. I had a lot of stress in my life at the time. Getting rid of the stress caused dice activation of this virus. The fact is that stress activates cortisol. Cortisol paralyzes immune cells. White blood cells, cortisol, simply turn off the immune system. They come out and create a lot of problems. So you need to eliminate stress to eliminate the infection. Then I had Lyme disease. I remember how extreme fatigue fell upon me for no reason. Why am I so exhausted? Then I looked in the mirror at my back and there was a concentric rash. But it was clear. So I started taking an antibiotic, but no, I didn't get better. It felt like my body was spinning in a washing machine. It was very bad. So instead of antibiotics, I started taking a number of herbs. There is a link to them below. Then these symptoms disappeared and my energy returned and to this day I have no problems with this. Number five of the post is about visible fatigue. Many people complain about this. I have a video about it. Here you need a lot of vitamin B1 because a visible infection depletes you. Vitamin B1 and one of the serious side effects of this is a lack of energy, because the mitochondria, the energy plant in the cells, need one to create energy, that is, you need a lot of B1. I would take natural and synthetic and your energy level will increase. Gastric bypass usually reduces B1 levels, causing fatigue. Those who drink a lot of coffee and tea throughout the day have a B1 deficiency, because of this, they are not tired and want even more caffeine. Number six, if you started the keto diet and you have keto fatigue, this just means that you do not have enough electrolytes, in particular potassium, or B vitamins. The best source of B vitamins is nutritional yeast, not fortified, and of course, my brand of electrolytes is better. And of course, I am modest myself, but here's what you need to know about calla. Each cell has small pumps called sodium-potassium pumps. Their job is to produce energy for the nervous system and for the muscular system. Therefore, we need a lot of potassium for these pumps to work. Because with a deficiency of B1 and potassium, especially if you are on key, this need for them increases. Now I will not explain why, just add  B1 and potassium, after all, this fatigue will pass, number seven, and anemia are possible. Guess which product has a lot of vitamin B12 and iron in red meat. That's right, in red meat. Taking B1 and B12 doesn't always help simply because they may not be bioavailable. So, if you switched to a plant-based diet or a vegan diet and you developed anemia, it may not have been the best decision in the world. Many people have soup, clinical anemia is another reason. Anime, and maybe you are getting B12 iron, but you have low acidity in the stomach. Then you need betaine hydrochloride. A simple remedy: 5 capsules of betaine hydrochloride before meals increase acidity in the stomach. How do you know if there is little acid in the stomach? Here are some very good signs: indigestion, acid reflux. Yes, yes, if you have these two symptoms or bloating, try betaine hydrochloride. These symptoms will go away. Perhaps you think you need to lower acidity. No, you need to increase it. So, if you are taking or have taken on tacit, anemia may be because of this.  Antacids reduce acidity, which is another mechanism for fatigue. Number eight: hypothyroidism can undoubtedly cause fatigue. Perhaps you just need a little iodine or selenium. In most cases, hypothyroidism is autoimmune in nature. Number 10: There is severe inflammation here, and it can cause fatigue. Here is a remedy for thyroid problems such as Hashimotos disease and all other autoimmune diseases: you need to take more vitamin D3, at least 30,000 IU.  per day, this will help reduce inflammation and increase energy levels, I want to say about number 9 mycoplasma that this is an invisible microbe, a very small bacterium that hides in calcium houses in the so-called biofilms. This happens, for example, as I know with Gulf War syndrome, mycoplasma is behind it. So if you have these hidden infections, oregano oil and any herbal remedies such as garlic, thyme and sage and many others help well. You can use these natural remedies against mycoplasma. You also need to cope with stress, because mycoplasma can kind of wake up when there is too much cortisol. Well, okay, I gave a lot of information, I hope I did n’t overload you, but I think that now the most important thing is to switch to a proper diet, so I have a large course on this topic. I invite you to my course, Healthy Chum Salt, it is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.