Let's talk about what foods you should definitely avoid if you have thyroid problems. Especially if it's hypothyroidism. The main thing you need to know is what are called goiter-causing factors. What are they? These are foods and substances that cause goiter. This is essentially an enlargement of the thyroid gland. This gland is located inside the neck. It is about 6 cm wide. When it swells, it is called a goiter. There are foods that cause this. These foods should be excluded. They interact with certain enzymes, stimulate some enzymes, and also increase the level of some hormones, including thyroid-stimulating hormone. This hormone comes from the pituitary gland and causes the thyroid to grow. There are many different aspects of what a goiter can do to the thyroid gland, but I will name the foods that cause this problem. So, number one is cassava. This is a goiter-causing product. Number two is lima beans. Number three is sorghum. This is a cereal crop. Number four is sweet potato. Number five is flax seeds. Number six is cruciferous vegetables, including broccoli, kale, and Brussels sprouts. cabbage radish watercress pak choi cauliflower horseradish and arugula you should not eat a lot of cruciferous vegetables But if you eat them a little somewhere less than 140 grams it will not cause problems I am talking about a large amount And even if you eat cruciferous vegetables if you cook them or ferment them like sauerkraut this effect will decrease And if you add seaweed it will also help Judging by the research you can get a goiter if you eat all this for a really long time and a lot I am listing all the products After all, you can constantly eat some of them maybe different but in total you can get a lot Another product on the list is millet Another one and it is potent is soy tofu soy milk especially soy protein isolate any products and soy Next, you may be surprised by onions This is the product that has the most quercetin and quercetin can have a harmful effect So if you have a goiter you should be careful with onions and the last factor that I want to talk about  It is not usually considered harmful to tell, but it definitely destroys the thyroid gland, especially if you have Hashimoto's disease. In 90 percent of cases, hypothyroidism is Hashimoto's disease, and this villain that was mentioned is gluten. It is found in many grains. Gluten must be excluded. But here is the question. Why is this connected with the so- called molecular mimicry? If you have antibodies to gluten, many have them. These antibodies can switch to the thyroid gland and begin to attack it. And all this is due to molecular similarity. To support the thyroid gland, you must also avoid anything that depletes the body. Selenium, iodine, iron, and vitamin A. These key nutrients must be in sufficient quantities. Iota. Selenium can be obtained from seafood, seaweed, Brazil nuts, and also from sea salt. Iron is easily obtained from red meat and other animal products, and sources of vitamin A are egg yolks, butter, cod liver oil, fresh liver, and the like. In this video, we discussed only a small topic related to We'll go into more detail about the thyroid gland in this course. I invite you to my course. If you have a thyroid body type, hypothyroidism or autoimmune thyroiditis, an enlarged goiter, thyroid cysts and nodules, or excess weight evenly distributed throughout the body, this course will help repair your thyroid, restore energy, and get rid of excess weight. My unique videos, food lists, exercises, and special massage techniques for the thyroid gland are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.