Today I will tell you about eleven very strange and unusual symptoms of vitamin D deficiency. Common symptoms people usually know are lower back pain, depression, high blood pressure, inflammation, autoimmune diseases, but I guarantee that you don’t know these. The video will be in two parts. The first part is for those who just want to get brief information on this topic; they don’t need details, and the second part is for those who want to dig deeper and learn about the mechanism of these symptoms, about why they occur in the body. There are about 25,000 genes, and a tenth of these genes are significantly influenced by vitamin D. When you do a blood test for vitamin D, you only see inactive vitamin D, and not what’s going on in the cells. So, the level of vitamin D in the blood has little to do with the amount of vitamin D in the cells. Everything positive about vitamin D in the news and research is suppressed because it is a direct competitor to the best- selling drugs. I was invited to give a presentation. I came and presented this data to leading vitamin D researchers from around the world. They all gathered there. They furiously attacked me. Vitamin D doesn’t work like that. How can you say such a thing? I told them it’s just data that we  You've collected everything that these people have dedicated their careers to. They couldn't imagine that this was possible. Well, let's start. Number one: sweating of the head. This is usually observed in infants, but it also happens in teenagers and adults. But if you notice that a child or you yourself sweat more on the head, this could be a vitamin D deficiency. Number two: night sweats. Even at cool temperatures, this can also be noticed by a damp pillow in the morning. Increased sweating, especially at night, is a vitamin D deficiency. Number three: mood swings. A person can fall from a state or emotion of happiness to irritability or feel angry and then experience grief. Because vitamin D controls the process of mood regulation, it greatly affects emotions. This is due to the effect of vitamin D on the brain. If emotions rush back and forth, this could be a vitamin D deficiency. Number four: procrastination and putting it off until later. You don't feel that you are achieving anything. It's surprising that even a person's motivation is associated with a vitamin D deficiency. Number two: panic attacks. In other videos, I talked about how they can occur. due to B1 deficiency This is possible, but there is also a connection with vitamin D. A panic attack is a very strong fear or a state of high anxiety. This is associated with some hormones and neurotransmitters such as serotonin. But for those who resort to drugs in such cases, I think it is worth thinking about vitamin D in high doses. I also have a video about special breathing techniques, breathing through the nose. I will leave a link below, but don’t forget about vitamin D number six. Dull pain, aches in the pelvic area, in the lower back, in the sides and in the legs above the knees. Vitamin D is closely related to the processes of bone formation, and one of the symptoms of its deficiency is pain, but not acute pain, but aches inside the bones in those places. Where the bone is destroyed, it’s sad because it’s so easy to fix, but only in large doses of 10,000 to 20,000 minimum. If you are worried that 20,000 vitamin D is toxic, then you know that in the summer, in 40 minutes in the sun, you get the same 20,000 vitamin D3. It’s toxic, no, if you take it according to  200,000 IU of vitamin D3 per day, and over the course of months, it will become toxic, but not 20,000 IU. Number ce loss of muscle strength. Vitamin D directly affects calcium. Without vitamin D, a calcium deficiency occurs in the muscles. Calcium allows muscles to contract, but it is responsible not only for this, but also for the formation of the muscles themselves. Without vitamin D and calcium, it is impossible to grow muscles. Weakness also occurs in the muscles that are responsible for strength, mainly in the muscles of the legs and shoulders. And in addition to this, vitamin D controls and regulates pain. Number vest stiffness. Stiffness usually occurs in the knees and fingers. Of course, this is directly related to inflammation, but also to what vitamin D does with cartilage and collagen. You may find that when you stretch the costal cartilage in this way, you feel stiffness, and in this area, this can also affect breathing, etc. Number de chronic fatigue. It is closely related to the energy stations of the cell, the mitochondria, and vitamin D is very important for supporting these small stations without it.  you won't be able to produce energy number 10 your ability to quickly deteriorate as if you have too many applications open on your computer and number 11 you have a hard time getting enough When you eat, it's possible that your food simply doesn't have the nutrients and you keep eating in the hope of getting them in food there may also be something addictive But if you have little vitamin D, you can't get enough and there is a tendency to overeat these were general data And now I will give you the information on each point it will be interesting first sweating of the head the head is somewhat different from the rest of the body in terms of sweat glands there are many more sweat glands on the head than anywhere else and through the autonomic nervous system the head sweats excessively this also applies to the second point night sweats but there is something else here vitamin D suppresses an overactive immune system How the immune system works For example It raises body temperature But when you have a vitamin D deficiency the immune system reacts more strongly than necessary the sweating mechanism is controlled by a small chip in  In the brain, the hypothalamus, and with a vitamin D deficiency and an overactive immune system, sweating increases, which compensates for this immune imbalance. In the case of temperature, the body creates more heat and, to compensate, releases more, and all because of a vitamin D deficiency. Thirdly, mood swings. When you have ups and downs in mood, your adrenal glands are involved. The hypothalamus, pituitary gland, and adrenal glands are the so-called GNS axis with a circular motion, and when there is a vitamin D deficiency, cortisol rises. I do n't know. Does it grow to help get rid of inflammation, but with a vitamin D deficiency, the action pattern of cortisol is similar. An excess of cortisol forces you to switch to a different emotional state. Number four, motivation to do anything is low. There is a small center in the brain, it's a small bundle of nerves. An amazing thing is called the nucleus accumbens, and it is the heart of many things, including addictions. You could say that it works on a neurotransmitter that affects motivation, reward activity, goal achievement, and similar things. Number two, panic attacks, high levels of anxiety, very strong.  Fear, panic attacks, from the body's point of view, are associated with one part of the brain, the so-called amygdala, a kind of adrenal gland in the brain, it controls fear and it needs vitamin D. We have some, including serotonin, a kind of happiness hormone, and vitamin D is needed to balance these two things. Number six, aches in the pelvic area, lumbar region, upper thigh muscles, it is associated with the so-called osteomalacia, which is a severe deficiency of vitamin D that affects calcium in the bones. Look, vitamin D deficiency is the main cause of osteomalacia, in fact, the bones become very soft. In my opinion, osteomalacia is very common in modern society. It can be asymptomatic, and in my opinion, I had it at school because I ate poorly. I definitely had a vitamin D deficiency and my bones began to break. The bones become soft, some necessary proteins are not produced. The fact is that vitamin D increases the absorption of calcium in the small intestine by 20 times. In other videos, I talked about two vitamin D systems. The first controls calcium, and the second does not relate to calcium. There is a blood test for vitamin D, most likely the result of it. will be quite low around 30 or below in this case just take D3 I would take high doses of at least 10 or 20,000 IU daily until the level rises in case of bone problems you can take vitamin D from time to time somewhere once a week If you want But I would do this let's move on to point se loss of muscle strength Why Because vitamin D controls calcium and calcium controls muscle contraction if you do not have calcium due to vitamin D deficiency and the muscle does not contract what will happen to it pain will appear it is not clear in what place in the form of aches number in stiffness mainly in the knees and finger joints because cabbage soup needs vitamin D but they do not get it, so they become inflamed in the knee joints that are loaded possibly in the lower back And if you work a lot with your fingers, for example on a computer, then in the fingers and this can lead to osteoarthritis all this is a lack of vitamin D which is essential for maintaining cartilage as well as maintaining ligaments and tendons In addition, the ribs are connected with  The sternum with the help of cartilage. So you can feel it. And here too, this is why stretching is so important to open your chest because it tends to compress, it becomes inflamed and bends you forward, your posture deteriorates and you hunch over. You need not only to drink vitamin D but also to do stretches to reverse this. Number de chronic fatigue syndrome can have two different causes. Firstly, vitamin D regulates the amount of mecho energy produced in cells. There are fewer mitochondria, less energy. Without vitamin D, mitochondria do not work. The second reason for chronic fatigue syndrome is related to immunity. When you lack vitamin D, some viruses come out of hibernation and become active, they especially the Epstein-Barr virus wake up and become active, and one of the symptoms of this is fatigue. This is not a full-blown disease, but you develop some of its signs, such as chronic fatigue. Almost always, such activation of the Epstein-Barr virus or chronic fatigue syndrome occurs after a serious loss of a loved one, work, and so on. But the cause may be a deficiency of vitamin D, and by the way, if you have such a deficiency. Yes.  Also, loss of stress will hit you harder, you just need a lot of vitamin D. I would take 50,000 vitamin D3 per day to get out of this state. Number 10: mental slowness, slow thinking, thoughts and attention are scattered. Vitamin D deeply affects the front of the brain, a kind of relay system, even for communication between neighboring neurons, vitamin D3 is required. And the last feeling of satiety. Leptin tells the brain that you are full. But if there is not enough vitamin D, Leptin works worse. Vitamin D helps leptin work. There is also insulin. With a lack of vitamin D, insulin also does not work well. And you feel hungry. insulin brings nutrients into the cell, and with insulin resistance, due to a lack of vitamin D, you do not get full. Vitamin D increases sensitivity to insulin and the cells receive more fuel and nutrients. I hope this video helped you understand these strange symptoms of vitamin D deficiency. Start taking vitamin D and along with it, magnesium, vitamin K2, zinc and vitamin B6. They all protect against problems and help vitamin D work better. Thank you for watching and until next time, I invite you.  During the anti-stress course, stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be a cause of excess weight. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and regain a beautiful body. Stress is closely linked to immunity. Therefore, in the Pro package, you will receive a gift: a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system. I will tell you how the immune system works and what reduces it. I will also provide a list of the best products for strengthening it. I look forward to seeing you at the course.