I don't even know why, but we don't like to freeze, we don't like to be hungry, it's very uncomfortable, we love warm weather, we want food to always be at hand, and we like to be warm, our ancestors adapted to the temperature for a very long time thanks to the season called winter, now we can easily cope with this harsh winter cold by simply turning on the heating in the house. Today I will tell you about an interesting study on how immersion in cold water and our genes are connected, and how such therapy can influence your genes very positively. I have a special bath in my yard for such procedures. When I first plunged into it, I set the temperature to P3. It's quite cold. I don't recommend starting with such temperatures right away because I could only stand it for 5 seconds. I recommend starting with a temperature of + 10° C. Start with one minute and gradually raise the bar, but to get all the benefits of such therapy, you need to feel discomfort, and to get all the benefits that I will tell you about, you only need 11 minutes a week. Everyone can do it, even if you don't have a special bath. You can take a cold shower or find a pool with cold water.  water or any body of water, there are many different ways. If you compare cold therapy with heat therapy, for example, a hot shower, then you will get more benefit from the cold, of course, simply due to greater discomfort. If you are afraid to even think about doing this or cannot stand it, you may not have enough B vitamins. They help you tolerate extreme temperatures. In the description, there is a link to the site where I bought my bath. I am not affiliated with this company in any way, they do not pay me. Its name is ST. And my bath is called K. I really like it and the benefits from it are enormous. You will see that there are many advantages in the area of ​​cognitive functions, appearance, inflammation, recovery, and so on. Now let's talk about these advantages, including those associated with genes. I just want to say that when you first plunge into such a bath, your pulse rate and heartbeat will increase. You will probably have the need to breathe frequently. You may feel like you are suffocating. Cold affects your breathing. Focus on controlling your breathing. Inhale slowly, then exhale slowly. This will help cope with the shock of immersion in cold water. First, I will list the  What this therapy reduces is the first thing it can reduce. It is the so-called ratio of apolipoprotein B and A, which means the risk of cardiovascular disease, without going into details. Aa and Aβ are proteins that are attached to lipoproteins. When this ratio decreases, the cardiovascular system functions better. Your homocysteine ​​level will also decrease, this is another factor associated with cardiovascular problems. Oxidative stress also decreases. The level of cortisol and the hormone that controls cortisol decreases. It's interesting, because you might think that stress will increase, but it decreases. Perhaps not immediately. And after you leave the bath and relax, the need for antibodies decreases, and this strengthens your immunity, especially if you have an autoimmune problem. The insulin level decreases. This is very good because high insulin is the cause of many problems with the body. The level of uric acid decreases. The risk of upper respiratory tract infections decreases, and by the way, it decreases especially strongly in swimmers. They also have healthier serum and blood vessels, plus the water in pools is often cold. In short, swimmers are much less likely to have upper respiratory tract infections. In addition, this helps.  Reduce depression Cold water therapy is a kind of natural antidepressant and without side effects reduces pain, inflammation and muscle soreness I want to say one more thing about muscles According to Lenya, regular immersion in cold water can actually slow down the process of muscle growth But if you do this only 11 minutes a week, you know, I highly doubt that it will harm your muscles In any case, the pros far outweigh any potential possible cons Recovery time is also When you do this therapy after training or sports, you recover that cold therapy reduces tumor growth According to one theory, this is due to the growth of brown adipose tissue, which absorbs a lot of glucose, fuel for cancer cells, it is logical that this therapy has an anticancer effect Judging by the effect on your genes, on the immune system and on your survival in general Now let's see that cold therapy, on the contrary, increases it increases the level of thyroid stimulating hormone and also the level of T3, the active form of thyroid hormone, it increases the number of T-cells I mean cells  T-killers that attack viruses and cancer cells, the total number of white blood cells also increases the concentration of zinc, the level of norepinephrine rises, making you more energetic, even insulin sensitivity increases, which reduces the overall level of insulin. One of the benefits that seems very valuable to me is increasing mental resilience, this is your ability to adapt to stress, it makes you mentally stronger, somewhat similar to fasting. When you can go without food for a long time, your willpower, in fact, you have more control over your body. On the other hand, people with weak willpower simply give up when their body really wants something. Now let's talk about gene expression. We turn on some genes that would otherwise be turned off. There is such a gene. Here is its abbreviated name. When this gene is turned on, it starts mitochondria, increasing their growth. This improves metabolism and oxygen synthesis in the body. There is another gene, vascular endothelial growth factor, it increases the number of blood vessels, angiogenesis is enhanced, the process of producing new vessels. The next gene is its abbreviated name. It is associated with the VO2 max indicator, maximum oxygen consumption, if a person has a mutation in this gene.  His VO2 max can be reduced by as much as half. Cold therapy can cause the expression of this gene to turn it on and thereby increase a person's VO2 max. There is another gene. That's what it's called. It is associated with the accumulation of damaged proteins in the body, which creates many problems. When you do cold therapy, you increase it, but it becomes less. The expression of another gene is associated with glutathione, the most powerful antioxidant in the liver, it helps break down poisons, making them harmless, and also acts on the network of other antioxidants. Cold therapy increases the number of antioxidants, and by the way, heat therapy, such as a sauna or even a jacuzzi, can suppress antioxidants. I do not dissuade you from merging it with stress. In this case, cold therapy is probably more beneficial for you than heat therapy. Another gene whose expression occurs. That's what it's called. It is associated with increased stress resistance. So, the more you do this, the more resistant to stress you become and mentally stable in general. And the last two genes. You see their names on the screen. They increase cell survival, improve DNA, and stabilize RNA. This is a copy of DNA.  Which improves protein synthesis, or in other words, protein building, and also creates an anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effect. As you can see, the benefits of immersion in cold water are simply enormous. I think it is useful to alternate it with heat therapy. If you haven't watched my video on this topic, I recommend watching it here.