When someone has chest pain, they immediately think it's a heart attack, but according to statistics, the cause is often something else. Only 31 percent of people with angina or chest pain have a heart problem, and even true angina or chest pain doesn't mean a person is having a heart attack. A heart attack is a situation where blood stops flowing to the heart, which leads to damage. Therefore, chest pain can mean that something is happening to the heart, but it's not necessarily damaged. However, damage also happens. And the important thing you need to know about a heart attack is that most heart attacks are asymptomatic, 64 percent, there are no symptoms at all. But when a person has angina, it is often accompanied by sweating, dizziness, and shortness of breath. However, when they are taken to the hospital, it often turns out that the heart is fine. So today we'll talk about other reasons, about 11 other causes of chest pain. If you examine the chest, you will see that there are many different organs located inside. The heart is there, of course, the lungs are also located there, as well as the liver, gallbladder, and all the gallbladders.  The pancreas has ducts and other ducts that connect to the bile ducts, and finally, the stomach is located there. 42 percent of people with chest pain have symptoms related to the digestive system and the heart. They are not related in any way. There are also other, rarer causes, such as those related to the lungs. The first cause is GERD, gastroesophageal reflux disease. This is essentially heartburn. Acid reflux occurs when the valve at the top of the stomach closes, and food is thrown back into the esophagus. This can cause discomfort and chest pain because it all happens right behind the breastbone. I will post links to videos about each of these areas of the body. You can learn more from them if you have this particular problem. But if you have pain, you always need to ask yourself what happened right before the pain appeared. Perhaps we ate something we shouldn't have eaten, or experienced stress, or something else happened. The next cause of chest pain is the gallbladder, but not necessarily for me. Usually, it is associated with the bile ducts, small tubes that come from the liver, they also connect to the gallbladder. and then with the small intestine they do not yet connect with the ducts of the pancreas and the bile that comes from the liver and should get into the small intestine often becomes thick and forms a sediment and for some reason there is very little information on this topic, although this is a common occurrence I have a lot of videos about this, all this really exists and when bile becomes thick due to the fact that there is not enough of it, increased pressure occurs in the ducts and this place of high pressure is located right under your ribs many people with Costa melancholy there is inflammation of the sternum in fact problems with the bile ducts if you think about it, why on earth does a person develop inflammation of the cartilage near the sternum unless he did a bench press during training and did not feel pain because of what inflammation can occur right under the sternum is illogical and for those who have never heard of this before and have not watched my video I inform you that the solution to this problem is bile salts they can be ordered online and one of the very good options is called this if you have ruled out heart problems and are sure that the heart is not to blame and then did a massage on the right side under  I have a video about this with my ribs, they are in my course, and immediately felt relief. The chest pain decreased or went away. Then most likely, all this is connected with digestion, and ideally, you need to sort out your diet to completely resolve this problem. Another reason is called stress. If someone has a panic attack, it is often accompanied by chest pain. There is even something called broken heart syndrome. It really exists when someone experiences the loss of something or the loss of a loved one, they begin to hurt in the chest due to severe, all-consuming stress. Of all the types of stress that can be experienced, it is losses that have the greatest impact on physical health and increased production of stress hormones, especially cortisol, which remains high for a long time and becomes chronic. It has a destructive effect on the heart and other parts of your body, even on the brain. People even develop diabetes and gain excess weight due to chronically high cortisol, which causes an increase in blood sugar even if they do not eat sugar. So, the main sources of chest pain not related to the heart are gastrointestinal problems and stress. As for the other reasons, they are very rare, but I will list them. The first on the list is pulmonary embolism, what is it? These are blood clots or clots that form in the blood vessels in the lungs, and this can definitely cause chest pain because it affects breathing and circulation. All the blood circulating in the body passes through the lungs, and if there are blocked vessels, severe chest pain occurs, especially during inhalation. In my case, this is essentially a collapsed lung, which increases the space between the lung and the chest wall. This usually leads to one-sided acute chest pain. Next on our list is the so-called aortic dissection. The oortic dissection is a large blood vessel that begins to leak or ruptures, and this is very dangerous, but this happens extremely rarely. Pneumonia can also cause chest pain, but if you have an infection in the lungs, you will know about it by other symptoms. Asthma can cause chest pain. If you have asthma, I can advise you something. I have two recommendations. The first is vitamin T, it will relieve the condition, and the second is an amazing breathing technique. There will be a link below. This breathing technique can pull a person out of an asthma attack in a matter of minutes. Shingles is a viral disease too.  can cause chest pain and finally, so-called pericarditis is an inflammation of the lining of the heart, also of viral origin, since digestive problems are a common cause of chest pain, I strongly recommend watching this video.