Let's talk about 11 reasons for leg pain, number one is lactation doses, and what else is this if we don't go into details? This is a condition in which there is too much lactic acid in the legs, and the reason for this is your diet. You consume too much sugar and other carbohydrates and you have a serious deficiency of vitamin B1, as a result, you form acid, and in addition to this, there is a lack of oxygen, hypoxia, which causes restless leg syndrome. There is severe discomfort in the legs, especially at night. I had this affliction for many years. I literally got up in the middle of the night and had to hit my legs because they had so much energy. I had to run in the middle of the night in an attempt to get rid of this energy because my legs were restless and kept me from sleeping. Who would have thought that a half-liter jar of ice cream every night for over a year was the cause of this, not to mention other carbohydrates that I ate. The more sugar and other carbohydrates you eat, the more B1 you need to absorb them. This is the reason for lactation doses, caused by a B1 deficiency, excess carbohydrates in the diet. Number two is a pinched nerve. As a chiropractor, I often had  This may be the case, the problem is above the axis, perhaps a nerve root is pinched on one side that runs along, find it, it is not necessarily the sciatic nerve, it may be another sciatic nerve, a very large nerve, as thick as a thumb, it runs along the back of the leg to the foot itself. If there is any pinching, be it arthritis, a bone or disc displacement, this is one of the causes of pain. In this case, you need to check with a good chiropractor. I have a couple of videos about the highway here. The main thing is that you need to maintain a curve in the lower back so that there is cushioning when you sit. The lower back should be [ __ ], because if the curve disappears, the pressure increases and the nerve can protect itself. And of course, with arthritis, if you consume a lot of omega-6 fatty acids, soybean oil, corn oil, canola oil, and the like, as well as bushes and carbohydrates, you will have constant inflammation and because of this, the nerve will be constantly pinched, no matter what treatment you receive. Number three is blockage of blood vessels in the legs. One of the forms of such blockage causes a moving claudication, intermittent, which means 100 appears. It disappears, let's say you start exercising and your legs start to go numb, cold, or weak. This can be caused by vascular occlusion. This is intermittent claudication. The blood supply to the legs also deteriorates so much that hair falls out on the legs. The skin on the legs becomes shiny. Intermittent claudication usually intensifies with exertion, especially when climbing a hill. There is simply no oxygen in the legs and they cannot move, and you cannot run fast. Number four, a lack of vitamin D is the cause of pain in childhood. Many teenagers have such pain. These pains are not related to growth. This is a vitamin D deficiency. Take a little vitamin D and bam, and the pain completely disappears. Usually, these pains occur in children in the middle of the night for several hours. They are sometimes stronger, sometimes weaker. This can be cramps in the calves or quadriceps. Vitamin D is very important for preventing inflammation and lower back pain. If you have a deficiency, there can be many problems with the lower back and pelvis. This can affect walking, and due to an acute deficiency of vitamin D in infancy, even a curvature of the spine is possible. This is  It can affect the curvature of the spine and can lead to scoliosis, which creates many problems with movement, because the muscles are connected to the bones. I think many will be surprised how often this problem leads to pain in the legs and not just in the lower back. If you don’t understand why your legs hurt, start taking 40 thousand IU of vitamin D and for sure, within one day, this pain will decrease significantly. Number five, diabetes. Why do legs hurt with diabetes? There is a disease called peripheral neuropathy. This is nerve damage that is caused by the fact that part of the vascular system is damaged, namely the capillaries, and they can no longer supply the nerves in the feet. The feet can hurt, then the pain spreads to the hands and forearms. It is peripheral, since this periphery of the body is curious. What helps here is the same as with lactation. The dose is actually the same and the same remedy is suitable for vascular obstruction. After all, if there is atherosclerosis, [ __ ] or plaque, this is usually caused by an excess of carbohydrates. Lactation also causes vascular obstruction. Diabetes remedies for  Peripheral neuropathy vitamin B1 but you need vitamin B1 form that penetrates fatty tissue into the myelin sheath that covers the nerve, so you need to give a person the so-called benfotiamine benfotiamine relaxation dose is suitable water-soluble bo1 is best nutritional yeast, but in case of lactation dose you need to remove carbohydrates, but it can be relieved simply by taking B1 and of course it is also suitable for diabetes number six flat feet if the foot does not have the correct arch to support the entire body, this can disrupt the functioning of the knees and pelvis, causing very, very severe pain in the legs. I know this from my own experience. I have had flat feet all my life. I wore insoles, they did not help. In fact, they only made it worse when I threw them out and started doing strengthening exercises and stretches. Only then did I feel better. Now I wear shoes without heels with completely flat soles. Excellent shoes, they force the toes and feet to strengthen the muscles. These are the best shoes. And of course, flat feet are associated with a deficiency of vitamin D. Probably in childhood, everyone had a tense lumbar muscle and I also suffered from this for many years because I rode a bicycle, the same movement is repeated over and over again, this strengthens the triceps and the psoas, and when you stand up, they are too tense, this disrupts the functioning of the spine, this reflects pain in the legs. From what I already mentioned, I had lactation, a pinched nerve, vitamin D deficiency, almost had diabetes, I had prediabetes, flat feet and tense muscles, so I know this firsthand. Let's add number eight, I had old injuries, I'm talking about ankles. If, say, you sprained your ankle or twisted it and broke it, you will limp, adapt, transfer weight to the other leg, the gait will change, and then after a year or two or three, you will notice that your leg, ankle, knee, or back hurts because the gait compensates for the injury. I have an excellent video about old injuries, the link is below, and I have an excellent video on how to relieve muscle tension. An old injury can definitely cause leg pain. In fact, just ask yourself if you have had  Have you ever had an ankle, foot, or knee injury? Have you ever fallen on your tailbone? These injuries can ruin your life if you don't know how to deal with them. Below is a link to a video about this. Number nine is deep vein thrombosis. This is somewhat different from clogged arteries, but veins can also be clogged for the same root cause. If a clot blocks blood flow, it definitely causes leg pain. 10 Perry workout. Many people train too often without allowing their legs to rest and recover. They get pain. They train through the pain and train again through the pain. They simply don't see the connection. If such a person allowed themselves to rest for a week or even 2 and noticed how much better their muscles became because they were allowed to rest, then they would understand everything. But they are so used to the fact that they need to train every day. There is a connection between muscle weakness and nutrients. If you don't have enough vitamin E, your muscles will be weak. You should try it yourself. If you feel weak, take vitamin E. Wait now and feel a surge of strength during walking and training. A lack of sodium and a lack of salt, especially when fasting, can weaken muscles, and this  Another reason is that low omega-3 levels increase the duration of pain, so Pripyat friction requires more omega-3 to reduce pain and speed up recovery. 11 spinal stenosis, what is it? There is a spinal column and the spinal cord is in it and there is simply not enough space for the spinal cord, that is, the spinal cord is compressed, this can definitely cause pain in the legs. This can be caused by too thick ligaments around the spinal column due to arthritis or from the processes near the joints, or it can be caused by inflammation due to which the lumen narrows with stenosis due to thick ligaments. I strongly recommend first restoring the curve of the lumbar region below. There are links to videos about this. Eliminate sugar and all empty carbohydrates. Take vitamin K2 to possibly remove calcium. And if you tried everything but nothing helped, then there is an excellent non-invasive operation. It was performed on my mother. It helped her a lot. The thickened ligament is trimmed and small osteophytes are removed from the processes. All this is done through a very small opening and then it is closed with a band-aid.  It's not some kind of serious laminectomy, I'm talking about a serious invasive intervention. The problem with surgeries is that the scar tissue from the surgery can sometimes make things worse than they were before the surgery. I'll write the name of this procedure below if anyone needs surgery. Now you need to watch this video. And for the tense lumbar muscle, here it is. Take a look.