Today we will discuss 11 bad habits that can greatly affect the brain. Most of them will surprise you, and the last habit on my list is extremely interesting. Bad habit number one is regularly receiving bad news. Do they talk about anything good in the news? In fact, these programs are filled with fear, pessimism, and bad news tells us that this is the end. Go home, crawl under the bed, because the world around you is extremely dangerous. How does this affect your health? It worsens your emotional state. If before you were joyful and optimistic, now you are gloomier than clouds, anxious, and you can even become depressed. There is interesting data that the state of mind can affect the structure and physiology of the body. A person actually loses neurons in the brain. In fact, perhaps you should control the flow of bad news in your life. And bad news can be communicated to you by people. We all know certain people who usually not only tell us bad news, but also turn good news into bad news. Number two, toxic people. We have all known people who worsened our emotional state, which actually affected  On the physiology of our brain, it is sometimes useful to make a long list of everyone you communicate with, then highlight those who are a little toxic and just ignore them. You need those who lift your spirits and support you. Number three, you spend too much time indoors or in another room. It is not very useful to be indoors all the time. It is extremely useful to be outdoors in the fresh air and the sun gives us not only vitamin D, which is necessary for brain health, it gives us infrared radiation, what is this energy with a wavelength that penetrates the body by 5 cm and passes through the skull. This infrared light stimulates the production of melatonin. This is not the same. Melatonin, which is produced by the pituitary gland, is Melatonin, which is found in all cells and which act as an antioxidant. This Melatonin is even more powerful than glutathione. It is the most powerful antioxidant that protects us from a lot of things, including stress. So, there are people in the rooms, there are centimeter lamps, poor ventilation, no sun, and at the same time, our light and darkness cycles are also disrupted. Most people would benefit greatly from taking vitamin D before bed. Especially if they have trouble sleeping. Especially if they are sleeping for too long. indoors and can't go for a walk in general vitamin D is very important for brain health number 4 a diet low in fat and cholesterol How does this affect the brain And did you know that the brain is 60 percent fat this is an organ that accounts for only two percent of body weight but it uses 20 percent of all energy and 60 percent of it is fat in fact the brain is the fattest of all our organs this fat is needed to produce myelin which improves the conductivity of neurons information is transmitted along nerve cells at a speed of 430 km / h incredibly fast and factors that reduce fat or cholesterol levels such as a low-fat diet and statins can greatly increase the risk of dementia and poor emotional state anxiety and even depression and here's what's very important cholesterol is needed to produce bile salts and bile salts help us absorb vitamins A D E and K So without fat-soluble vitamins another nutrient omega-3 fatty acids the brain can suffer greatly number five staying on a diet high in grains this is what almost all medical experts recommend no less  60% of the diet should be whole grains. There is a problem with special grains. Firstly, they are not as nutritious as you might think. They contain a lot of omega-6 fatty acids. The book "Grain Brain" has a lot of new information about how grains affect our brain. When you eat refined grains, you deprive the brain of vitamin B1. This can cause serious consequences in the form of brain damage, which is associated with memory and cognitive function. Number six: a lot of sugar. Of all the things that destroy our brain, sugar is the absolute champion. In the end, it leads to insulin resistance, and because of this, neurons experience starvation. After all, the principles of resistance are based on a person having high levels of glucose and insulin, but resistance does not allow insulin and glucose to nourish neurons. If there are no ketones in the blood, neurons experience starvation and all sorts of neurogenerative problems arise. There is so-called type 3 diabetes, this is Alzheimer's disease, and this disease occurs due to severe insulin resistance. In addition, high sugar deprives you of B1. This causes hippocampal atrophy. Number seven:  This may surprise you. Too little stress, if you have no stress at all, can be very harmful to the brain. Why? Because you don't exercise enough. You need a physical activity website to activate genes that affect the brain. There is so-called hermetic stress, which is essentially moderate stress. It makes the body become stronger, more resilient, and adapt to beneficial stress. Here are examples of this: exercise, heat therapy, cold therapy, hypoxia, lack of oxygen from exercise at high altitude. So, moderate stress is very beneficial for us, or so to speak, periodically dosed stress. Intermittent fasting is also a type of stress, because the body does not receive food for a certain period of time. This is a powerful beneficial stress thanks to which the brain can create neurons. Too little stress is just as harmful as too much stress. Hence number 8: high stress levels. If you experience chronic severe stress, mainly mental, or you have had many losses or injuries, this is very harmful to the brain, because it activates some genes in the brain that can turn on dementia, degeneration, inflammation. So, high levels of stress and cortisol can cause atrophy of the hippocampus, which is the main part of the brain associated with cognitive functions, and high levels of stress and cortisol deprives you of B1 Which leads to the same consequences number nine snacking snacking is the opposite of intermittent fasting the antidote to snacking a lot of people snack even on healthy food and they unknowingly create a lot of problems for their brain because to strengthen the brain especially as we age we must do what promotes neuronal regeneration I would even say that snacking is even worse than eating carbohydrates Why is this because not only carbohydrates increase insulin but meals in general increase insulin And when you eat often lightly during the day and before bed you increase your insulin and insulin resistance you will destroy brain cells you will find out that this is a very bad habit I know this because when someone stops snacking what a huge benefit They get in many ways for example a person no longer needs to get up in the middle of the night To urinate frequent urination is a sign of insulin resistance and the simplest remedy for this is giving up snacking especially late in the evening and boom you stop waking up at night a symptom of frequent  urination magically disappears number 10 everything that causes the microflora in the intestines to decrease directly affects the brain, for example, antibiotics And also glyphosate in GMO products By the way, the company Mansanto patented glyphosate as an antibiotic And unfortunately, the earlier in life you encounter antibiotics, for example, in infancy, the worse But that's another topic There is a very close connection between the intestines and the brain Everything that happens in the intestines directly affects the brain There is a nerve connecting the intestines to the brain, this is the vagus nerve One of the side effects of antibiotics is dementia In addition, the vast majority of our neurotransmitters Many B vitamins necessary for brain health are produced by these microbes And number 11 is what you were waiting for Eating grain-fed animal products instead of completely grass-fed animal products You say a minute where you are from this Dr. Berg there is very interesting data which I will tell you about I just took part in an interesting study of nutrients in beef We sent beef from my farm for analysis and  comparisons with beef from many farms across the country in this study compared grass-fed and grain-fed beef in terms of factors that promote health and factors that can cause the development of disease. Look at the first slide we see the total content of phytochemicals, these are phytonutrients, that is, plant substances that are found in beef and in beef from my farm there are much more of them than in most samples, even grass-fed, which is impressive, I will explain why and how I think this is connected, so stay tuned, this is interesting, as you can see, grain-fed meat has very little. In general, phytonutrients are antioxidants and they have many amazing properties, they fight inflammation, fight cancer, and so on and so forth. This slide shows the ratio of omega-6 and omega-3 fatty acids and on average in grass-fed beef this ratio is 3:1. This means that omega-6 is three times more than omega-3 A in  grain-fed beef has an average of eight to one, that is, omega-6 fatty acids are 8 times more than omega-3. And in the beef that I sent for research, the ratio of omega-6 to omega-3 was one and a half to one, so in grain-fed meat there are a lot of omega-6 fatty acids. And this increases the risk of inflammation and, by the way, in salmon, which is rich in omega-3, the ratio of omega-6 to omega-3 is one to one. A couple more slides. They are very interesting in terms of what studies of our animals have concluded. This is the vitamin B3 content, an incredible amount compared to meat, both grass-fed and grain-fed. Yes, it’s interesting. I’ll show you two more very interesting diagrams. In this diagram, we see a very low level of the indicator in Dr. Berg’s beef because this indicator reflects advanced glycation end products. These are very, very harmful things. They contribute to the development of chronic diseases of the brain and heart. They are present in diabetes. What does this mean? This means that if you consume animal products in which there is more  advanced glycation end products this can contribute to poor health and on the last slide we see the level of homocysteine ​​homocysteine ​​is one of the biomarkers of the risk of heart disease look how little homocysteine ​​in my sample and in grass-fed meat compared to grain-fed is interesting this is another reason to eat completely grass- fed meat it is also called 100% grass-fed It's all about proportion we need more omega-3 fatty acids Especially for the brain because 20 percent of all fat in the brain is omega-3 DHA especially a lot in the gray matter When there are a lot of omega-6 fatty acids in food they compete with omega-3 So even if you eat cod liver oil and other foods with omega-3 fatty acids but in your diet too much omega-6 then omega-3 is poorly absorbed That's why it is so important to really increase the amount of omega-3 acids it can reduce inflammation in the brain and greatly improve its health You may have  I have a question why my beef has so many higher phytonutrients than other grass- fed meats. The reason is that in the pastures where my cows graze, the proportion of grass is much lower and the proportion of weeds is much higher, and that's exactly why my weeds are diverse. I have many different types of weeds and I have less grass compared to a typical pasture where cattle graze. There is more grass there. If you think about it, the higher the biodiversity of the grasses that cows eat, the more different weeds and other plants there are with their own microflora, the more diverse the microflora in the cows' intestines will be. Many phytochemicals and vitamins create microflora. So I think I'll do some more research to find out exactly what plant diversity was responsible for such results. Perhaps it's the same for people. If you eat the same iceberg lettuce every day, there will be little benefit. Perhaps you should try increasing the variety of plant species in your diet, whether in the form of a salad or just on your plate. There is excellent research on the connection between plant diversity and the diversity of our microflora, which is very beneficial for health. Since we're talking about brain health, if you haven't watched my other video on this topic, you should watch it.  here it is