Of all the factors that affect our well-being and health, sleep is in first place. But people don’t even appreciate a good night’s sleep until they are deprived of it. There was a period of 12 years in my life. When I slept terribly, there were nights when I didn’t sleep for a single minute. So I really value sleep. I’ll tell you about 12 factors that affect sleep based on personal experience. There is a direct link between sleep and heart function, as well as life expectancy. Lack of sleep can affect food cravings. Blood sugar levels can change simply because you don’t sleep well. Your appetite increases. Cortisol levels worsen your mood. If you don’t get enough sleep, but when you get enough sleep, everything is fine. So, first, let’s talk about cortisol. Cortisol is an adrenal hormone that can prevent you from falling asleep at night. Especially somewhere between two and 2:30 a.m., take more vitamin B1. It must be natural. It can greatly reduce cortisol levels. You need to take long walks every day just to get rid of stress, because stress, of course, activates the release of cortisol. Therefore,  You need to figure out what is actually causing the stress. Maybe you watch too much news on the Tube. Bad news is a very powerful factor. I know people want to know what is happening, but you need to limit the amount of such information. Day two, a very important factor for sleep is vitamin D. If you don't have enough vitamin D, your circadian waves work worse. And by the way, vitamin D is the best antidote for jet lag. It quickly resets circadian rhythms within 1-2 days. You need quite a lot of it. You need from 40,000 to 50,000 vitamin D3. Sometimes vitamin D significantly improves sleep if you take it right before bed. Especially if you have sleep apnea. The next factor is calcium. If you are trying to fall asleep in the evening, and your muscles are cramping and all that, it may be a matter of magnesium, which I will also say, but it may also be a calcium deficiency, because calcium is needed by muscles. In addition, a calcium deficiency makes a person feel tired. Have you ever been so exhausted and tired that you couldn't sleep? The remedy for this is calcium. There are a couple of ways to get calcium. The first is to take Bat with  calcium. Perhaps with calcium and magnesium. Calcium lactate is a good remedy. The second way is to eat more cheese during the day. Only high-quality ones. I like European milk, especially raw milk. A few words about milk. Can you drink milk? Well, if you can find raw milk, that would be ideal. Drink it right before bed. There is also so-called night milk, and you can buy it. This milk is produced at night. A duet of cows at night contains more tryptophan and melatonin in such milk. But if you can't find it, then I recommend something else. Goat's milk kefir before bed without additives. It seems to help well. If you are afraid that this will disrupt your metabolism or interrupt your sleep, as well as calcium. In addition, milk contains a lot of tryptophan. Tryptophan is converted into serotonin and melatonin, and they improve sleep. Now let's talk about magnesium. Magnesium also helps lower cortisol levels. It helps you relax, especially before bed. It helps with muscle cramps that prevent you from falling asleep. Some people take a hot bath with Epsom salts before bed.  This is magnesium sulfate, this is another recipe with magnesium, and there are also oils with magnesium for massage. You can use them to massage your back and tense muscles. The next point is to get enough potassium from food. Potassium is a kind of physiological sedative. It calms the nervous system. A lot of potassium is used in the muscles and in the nervous system. With a potassium deficiency, muscles may not relax properly. You may feel a heartbeat, arrhythmia, which can interfere with sleep and there may be a rapid heartbeat. So, potassium is the main remedy for a rapid heartbeat. If you eat a lot of sugar or other empty carbohydrates, this will cause a potassium deficiency and you may even have a feeling of beating in the inner ear right before bed. This means you need more potassium. And to get more potassium and magnesium, you need to eat more leafy greens. I usually eat seven to 10 cups of greens. If you can eat seven glasses of greens a day, you will get the required amount of potassium and magnesium. Potassium is also excellent at reducing anxiety. If you eat a lot of meat, it kind of stimulates the nervous system, but you don't get the weight you need.  greens minerals magnesium and potassium your nervous system may be a little on edge and you don't have brake pads in the form of magnesium and potassium let's discuss what surrounds you in your room do you have a pillow do you have a mattress if the pillow is the wrong height and your head lies too low or high this can be a problem so it is very worth buying a good quality pillow and not a cheap one that makes your neck hurt and also a good mattress after all we spend essentially a third of our lives in bed I advise you to go to a mattress store lie on them and choose the one you like and about the room itself if it is cold in winter and you can't keep the window open you get less oxygen in the room there may be excess CO2 and excess CO2 and lack of oxygen in itself can interfere with sleep you can just keep a couple of plants in the room to fix this but I keep the window open if possible so I always sleep better as for the temperature people usually sleep better if the room is cool I keep the room temperature around 20 degrees so I sleep better and should I take melatonin I don't recommend it because melatonin helps you sleep but  Melatonin doesn't help you continue sleeping. It's a hormone that produces it. If you take Melatonin, it can potentially create a problem with the gland that should produce it. Instead, you can increase melatonin production with food and light. More than half of sunlight consists of infrared light, and it naturally increases the level of melatonin in the body. Imagine that. Melatonin, which is produced by the pineal gland, has a different function. Melatonin is a very powerful antioxidant. I'll leave a link to a video about this. So, melatonin levels can be increased by infrared light, which passes even through clothing. You can get infrared light even if you sit by the fireplace with a candle or by the fire. And you can use an infrared emitter. I have one like this. You can buy it and irradiate it with infrared light. You can do many other things with it, for example, relieve pain, inflammation, and something else on this topic. If you have fluorescent lamps or spend a lot of time in front of the screen, or with a cell phone or in front of the TV, all these screens emit blue light, which disrupts sleep cycles. Not to mention that cell phones and Computer screens create so-called magnetic fields. These can greatly affect your ability to sleep, especially if they act on you before bed or for a long time, or if this device is near your head while you sleep. The next point is vitamin B12. B12 is great for preventing things like sleep apnea, and B12 is needed for the production of melatonin. So, a deficiency in B12, no matter what it is caused by, can also cause sleep loss. The next nutrient is vitamin B1. Vitamin B1 is good for headaches and Roy's thoughts in your head before bed. I advise taking natural B1 deficiency. It is extremely common; many people have it. If you have never taken it, take it when you have anxiety or nervous tension, and in a couple of minutes you will become calm, relaxed, and immerse yourself in a wonderful sleep. B1 is necessary for the functioning of the brain stem. It is closely related to breathing, and with a lack of B1, breathing can be difficult, especially at night. You may notice that your breathing is very shallow. The cause of B1 deficiency is stress, sugar, and other empty carbohydrates, as well as excess coffee or tea. B1  - it's also an excellent remedy for nightmares and this brings us to the next factor carbohydrates If you consume a lot of sugar and other carbohydrates or alcohol, you deprive yourself of B1, this activates the fight or flight mechanism, that is, the sympathetic nervous system, and it will not let you sleep at night not only because of cortisol but also because of adrenaline. Try to sleep when a tiger is chasing you, you won't succeed. So, the more sugar and other carbohydrates you eat, the higher the insulin resistance and Guess what else happens with insulin resistance, you start going to the toilet frequently at night. To all those who have to get up at night, and I know those who get up 12 times a night, it's terrible. You need to eliminate insulin, because insulin resistance, as well as prediabetes and diabetes, lead to the fact that too much urine is excreted at night and this simply forces you to get up and it's so simple. You just need to change your diet. Another nutrient that improves sleep is zinc. Zinc is closely associated with circadian rhythms and the REM phase, and zinc increases the level of tryptophan and it turns into serotonin and then into melatonin, so sometimes taking zinc before bed can greatly improve sleep. If you have a zinc deficiency, zinc also helps you fall asleep faster. A couple more points about sleep stimulation will not let you fall asleep, so pay attention to this. I drink a very small cup of coffee in the morning and that's it until the next morning. I don't drink coffee if I do this. I sleep very well. The liver should remove coffee from the body. And if there is some kind of liver problem, then caffeine can remain in the body longer than necessary. I am always focusing. And if I wake up at night and can't fall asleep again, I notice that I am breathing rapidly. Breathe slowly and evenly. Make sure that the duration of inhalation and exhalation is the same. Breathe through your nose. Breathe with your stomach. Focus on falling asleep. And lastly, do not eat too late and do not overeat. If your digestive system is overloaded or you are bloated, you will not fall asleep. Try to have your last meal as early as possible and you will see, especially if You have insomnia, which can radically change the situation. I invite you to an anti-stress course. Stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be the cause of excess weight. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and restore a beautiful body. Stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, in the Pro package, you will receive a gift: a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system. I will tell you how the immune system works and what reduces it. I will also give you a list of the best products for strengthening it. I look forward to seeing you at the M course.