What if I told you that saturated fats are not as scary as they are painted, would you believe me? Share your thoughts in the comments. I think after this video you will change your mind about saturated animal fats because without them it is very difficult to stay healthy. Still, soluble nutrients can be obtained from saturated fats. I made a video about this if you haven't watched it. The link is below. These fat-soluble nutrients are necessary for many positive changes in the body. Second, immunity will work much better if there are enough saturated animal fats. Take the same vitamin, and it is very important in the fight against viruses, and vitamin D is essential for immunity. On a low-fat diet, immunity weakens. Third, the development of the fetus is quite important. It is very important for pregnant women to consume enough saturated animal fats to provide the growing child with all the necessary nutrients, especially during pregnancy and lactation. This is necessary. It provides all the raw materials for building the body, everything a child needs, including trace elements, B vitamins, and especially fat-soluble nutrients. The worst thing a mother can do during pregnancy is a low-fat diet, this is a bad idea. 4. Skin is a combination of protein and fat without  the necessary fats, the skin will look older, it will not look young if you want to have young and beautiful skin in old age, you do not need to exclude saturated fats from the diet, the same applies to hair on a low-fat diet, they will dry out, become brittle and lose their brightness 5. the brain, did you know that the brain is essentially fat and cholesterol, you need an idea whose it is omega 3 fatty acid for cognitive functions, I like this memory, focus and concentration sixth, saturated fats produce and release bile salts, what is needed to break down fats is made from cholesterol, bile is taken from cholesterol if you do not eat enough saturated fats, there will not be enough bile one of the symptoms of a low-fat diet gallstones what is it this is a lack of bile due to which cholesterol crystallizes it concentrates, therefore we need fat to release bile seventh, calcium absorption is vitamin D without it, calcium absorption in the body will decrease by 20 times 8. fat in food gives a feeling of satiety and you can observe intermittent fasting more effectively without  fat in food will make you constantly hungry 9 hormones sex hormones estrogen and progesterone testosterone and even cortisol they are all made from fat without fat you will not have the raw materials to produce these hormones mood is affected by some hormones that are made from fat people on low fat diets eat less animal products I know that they have increased anxiety and depression I will leave a link below look 11 bone health why because vitamin D is a fat-soluble vitamin that is needed to prevent osteoporosis we need patience stimulation this softening of bones and rickets 12 gut health for problems with the intestines inflammation or something autoimmune and problems with digestion bloating and all that if you avoid animal fats try not to eat animal products then I do not envy you the inflammation will become even stronger if you have an autoimmune bowel disease then you can try this increase fats not proteins protein should be in moderate amounts and fat and you will notice that the intestines will improve bloating will disappear I remember how I had a lot of problems with the intestines It started when I was about 25 and continued until I was 40. Only then did I start eating more fat. I remember switching to cutlets, meat that contains fat, and suddenly my stomach stopped hurting, it felt good. In other words, you may find that your intestines respond better to animal fats than to other foods. And finally, I would like to say something else. Amazing information. There is a group called Lancet K. Mishin. This group essentially once forced the entire planet to dance to their tune in terms of nutrition. They have a bunch of scientists and their own agenda, and they are mostly politically engaged. This is what they recommend, and you will hear about it more and more often. I can only say that don’t fall for their agenda and advertising. There’s not even a whiff of science there. I’ll leave a link below so you can see that it’s not just me who rejects their information, but also respected scientists. This is their plan for this diet. They want to put every person on the diet. Let’s start with saturated fats. They want you to eat no more than 11.8 grams, which is 96 kilocalories. This is two  with a half teaspoon I'm not kidding at all this is not a joke they think that for your health you should eat only two and a half teaspoons of saturated fat beef lamb pork they recommend eating no more than 14 grams and that's only 30 kilocalories one ounce of meat is 28.3 grams these are their recommendations no joke 14 grams of meat just think about it a day not at one meal a day roughly speaking per day you are allowed to eat meat in one bite a small piece and they all think that this is how much is necessary for health but of course they allow you to eat added sugar h31 grams is 6 teaspoons explain to me how this will help health also explain to me their other recommendation whole grains 232 grams is 811 kilocalories they want you to eat more whole grains for health and less meat and saturated fats please I ask you to comment on this maybe I don't understand something will this somehow help me  To improve health, since we've been talking about saturated animal fats, I think it's appropriate to talk about vegetables. Here's one of my videos about it. Watch it here.