There are always ways to speed up the achievement of results and burn maximum fat almost every week in my live broadcast there is someone who can not lose weight or has reached a plateau So in this video we will look at absolutely all the issues that arise when you can not lose weight and perhaps just one of these issues will allow you to solve the problem and lose weight the way you want what I will tell you about is a little extreme But some need to rise to this level to get the results they need our goal is to put you into fat burning mode and ensure that your body uses as many calories from fat as possible to evaluate this there is an excellent way to measure the level of ketones in the blood you can buy a small device to measure the level of ketones not in urine But in the blood there is Here is a scale and most likely your result will never be higher than 3 unless you do a few more things that I will say usually the ketone level is from 1 to 2, maybe 3 if you are on a nateto diet with intermittent fasting if you add heavy training ketosis will be a little deeper The higher the number on the scale, the deeper the ketosis And if you add long-term fasting, the numbers on the scale will be higher and higher depending on how many days  fasting sometimes people worry about ketocidosis if the number is too high 9.5-10 then this ketocidosis only happens if you have type 1 diabetes you no longer have insulin and you do not monitor your sugar level or forgot to inject insulin But if you produce insulin you will never reach this level I wanted to show this scale and explain How to rise on it as high as possible because of this level in other ways including training and long-term fasting and in this video we will talk mainly about What not to do and not about doing something you will avoid different things this will cause the biggest changes So number one reducing carbohydrates to almost zero this means not eating any berries or nuts except maybe macadamia nuts no yogurt there is sugar in yogurt no kefir no carrots beets corn pumpkin peas or tomatoes you can eat leafy greens but I would not eat any of the listed The less carbohydrates you eat the more ketones you will produce number two no additional fats from food that is no mct oil Why Because  that the body uses MCT oil before using its fat reserves, there will be no proof coffee, and this is essentially MCT oil and butter in coffee, no keto bombs. These are small desserts after meals, just don't eat them. Especially if they are store-bought, because they add all sorts of things to them. We don't need to add fat beyond what is necessary. Eat only the fat that already comes with protein. I would not add anything to coffee. Just drink black coffee without cream of any fat content. At this stage, I'm simply listing everything that could potentially slow you down slightly. If you do all this, success is generally guaranteed. Three no sugar alcohols, these are sugar substitutes. Many use them on Keto, that is, no xylitol retreat. They have no sugar, but they can greatly alter the digestive system. And this can cause bloating and other problems. For the same reason, almond flour is recommended. Many people have a problem with almond flour; bloating occurs, and no packaged keto products are available. They now add synthetic fibers, this new functional fiber, soluble corn fiber.  tapioca and they contain hidden maltodextrin which is not even mentioned in the composition So do not eat any of this and you will not have this obstacle number four going to a restaurant is like a lottery in restaurant dishes there are a lot of oils from seeds they are fried on them they are added to food especially in fast food eateries but in others too when I go to a restaurant I have to read the menu I carefully ask the waiter about these ingredients it's just that my body is very capricious I feel when there is hidden sugar or chemicals in food and after drostanolone I don't feel very well because I know that there was something that my body didn't like So at this stage If you want to achieve excellent results do not go to restaurants Cook yourself to control all this only one cup of coffee a day and no more we don't need excess caffeine it can interfere with sleep and this increases the load on the liver because it has to neutralize caffeine number six apple cider vinegar about 1 tablespoon per glass of water before meals Why The fact is that apple cider vinegar is excellent at lowering blood sugar levels to reduce the so-called insulin resistance apple cider vinegar will help increase acidity in the stomach And this improves digestion So let's move on to the next section yes number seven no more than 230 grams of protein at a time because excess protein causes a surge in insulin typically you need from 85 to 170 grams But no more than 230 grams of protein at a time But since we eat once a day from Monday to Friday Eat a little more than 200 grams of protein 230 grams is fine the type of protein matters protein foods with fat which usually contain lean protein you don't need you need fatty protein such as steak or fatty steak salmon and other fish seafood eggs and you can eat cheese if it is of high quality say organic European cheese from grass-fed cows cheese from raw milk is the best cheese is a good source While no carbohydrates unlike other dairy products such as regular milk kefir or yogurt I also advise excluding protein powders because they are full of all sorts of things and also They are too lean The less fat in the protein the stronger  insulin surge I also advise you to exclude any ready-made cocktails there are many weight loss cocktails and meal replacement shakes in cocktails avoid them they contain ingredients that your body does not need So the next point number eight is one meal a day from Monday to Friday and you do not need to limit calories Eat enough you need nutrient-rich food and on Saturdays and Sundays fast for 48 hours first You will think that this is too much but thanks to this, the improvement in health in all aspects will be incredible Not to mention that your metabolism will improve and you will overcome the level below which the weight has never fallen I think that this is an excellent scheme not only for weight loss but also for health in general and also to fight cancer Be sure to take electrolytes B vitamins and sea salt always when you fast number nine is very important I have a video about how much stress affects weight on metabolism on increasing cortisol you need a so-called detox from stress the main source of stress people So you need to avoid all people who cause you There are actually two types of stress: some improve your mood, others ruin it. Anyone who ruins your mood causes you stress. Pause it for a while and your stress level will decrease. You also need to stop watching the news. Why? Because the news is mostly bad and there is little good news. Protect yourself from bad news as much as possible. Don't watch the news. Don't communicate with those who cause stress, and you will have little bad news. Thanks to this, your mental state will change dramatically. Your stress level and cortisol level will change dramatically. You need to be very busy all the time. Why, in order to avoid excessive thinking, worry, and self-worry, many people, if they have free time, start to overthink and cause themselves stress. And excessive thinking, especially constant analysis of problems, can increase cortisol. Keep yourself completely occupied with something. So that problems don't creep into your head for a while. And also to prevent boredom. The worst thing is to sit idly by when there is food in the kitchen and nothing to do. So, this is number one, as well as physical labor or training 2-3 times a week for one hour, I advise you to do more. physical labor if you can, because it is very healing. Why? Because apparently, labor eliminates mental stress. Even better than training. As for the nature of the training, they should be serious, so that the next day or muscles need to work the whole body. High-intensity interval training is best not just 5 minutes, train until you get tired. This may be beyond your strength without a personal trainer, consider hiring one. Get in the sun as much as possible, just don't get burned. It greatly reduces cortisol. I'll tell you a little story. I once had a patient with a huge belly, and from every vacation he spent in Florida, he returned with a completely flat stomach. He didn't change his diet, but he spent time in the sun. Fresh air, sun and the absence of stress simply lowered his cortisol levels. Get out into nature as much as possible. Number 10: Fermented vegetables. A glass of sauerkraut or kimchi a day will significantly improve bowel function and sleep. What else will I say? If this is not possible, take probiotics before bed. This will improve sleep and help you lose more weight. Number 11: Strengthen Beta cells, what are they? These are the cells in the pancreas that produce insulin. For this, you need foods rich in potassium and magnesium, large portions of greens and vitamin D. Potassium and magnesium are also found in electrolytes. Vitamin D is very important for the pancreas, it helps lower insulin, as does vitamin B1 from nutritional yeast. Potassium and magnesium, along with vitamins D and B1, are very useful for insulin resistance and for the pancreas. And last but not least, sleep if possible. I recommend going to bed at 9:30 pm. Maybe this is harsh, but I go to bed at this time, and such a cycle arises. You go to bed and try to sleep as much as possible. You can wake up during the night, but try to fall asleep again and sleep as much as possible, at least 8 hours. I recently made a video about sleep. This is a very important video. It is about how to regulate the light that affects you. I think you need to watch this video now. Here it is. Watch it.