There are 12 signs that the gallbladder is in trouble, but more often than not, in more than 80% of cases, the symptom is asymptomatic, that is, the absence of symptoms. Most often, people do not even suspect that they have a problem with the gallbladder, but there are no obvious symptoms. I will tell you about many signs indicating what is happening with the gallbladder. The gallbladder is a very, very important organ. It is not some extra organ that we do not need. This is the place where bile is stored so that its concentration can increase. Every time we eat, the gallbladder contracts and bile is released into the small intestine. Bile extracts fat-soluble vitamins and other nutrients and breaks down fat. But this is just the tip of the iceberg. Bile has many other functions. Number one, it kills bacteria, that is, it prevents the appearance of bacteria in the small intestine, thereby preventing their excessive growth and fermentation. And this happens very often: a person eats fiber and a lot of greens and bloating occurs. There is a small intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome, and the probable cause is  Lack of bile, because bile, like an antimicrobial detergent, washes everything away, then bile passes through this entire long tube. And right before the large intestine, it is reabsorbed again. The body is thrifty, it reuses bile, because it is important. But if the consistency or thickness is incorrect, say, it is too thick, then a sediment is formed. Excessively concentrated bile forms gallstones, they can clog the tubes called bile ducts and a blockage occurs. So, I will describe the signs, most of them are symptoms of a lack of bile, which is caused by some kind of blockage, but one of them is a symptom of excess bile, a feature of the gallbladder has been removed. In general, just know that a gallstone is usually a stone made of extremely concentrated cholesterol. This stone appears because a person has a lot of concentrated cholesterol and, most importantly, there is not enough bile so that this liquid is not thick but fluid, that is, it helps break down cholesterol. In fact, a gallstone and bile sediment appear due to I'll tell you more about the reasons for the lack of bile. So, this sediment clogs something, blocks it, and there are stretch receptors in the tubes. After all, they can expand and stretch if they are stretched too much. Visceral pain can manifest itself as a burning sensation, aching pain, or tightness somewhere deep under the ribs on the right, and it can definitely cause nausea. There is a nerve that goes from the diaphragm up to the right and left, too, but we will consider the right side. If something presses on the gallbladder, the pressure is transmitted under the diaphragm and to the phrenic nerve. And from there, the pain is reflected here, right into this area, here, and this can cause such tension that this vertebra will shift, leading to a pinched nerve and pain on the right. I've seen this many times. A blockage can also lead to an overflow of the liver and stagnation in it and cause back pain between the shoulder blade and the spine in the rhomboid muscle. I had this for about 12 years and I didn't know what caused it. I went to chiropractors, this is what I  I don't know, they probably corrected it 5,000 times. I got some relief, but the pain returned again and again. If a chiropractor works with you and you are forced to come to him again and again, you should suspect that the problem is something else. It may be referred pain, and this is usually associated with some food or a problem in the gastrointestinal tract. The intersection with the pancreatic ducts may become clogged. Then the pain will be on the left. So, if it hurts on the left or on the right, there may be sediment in the gallbladder or its ducts. There is also a very good sign that indicates a lack of bile. This is the color of the stool. Normally, it is brown. With a lack of bile, it becomes lighter. It can be pale or even gray. Usually, the stool does not sink because fat is not digested. So, undigested fat accumulates, which is why the stool does not sink. Perhaps this is one of the best signs of a lack of bile. We may not feel it, but we can see it. To fix this, you just need to take more purified bile salts, then the body will have more bile and it will  digest fats another common symptom is itching it can be anywhere and often for some reason it occurs at night the next sign indicates another situation an excess of bile usually this happens after removal of the gallbladder it is impossible to control the secretion of bile, so bile flows constantly and sometimes there is too much of it and here are the symptoms of this diarrhea watery stool and the inability to control bowel movements in this case you need to see a doctor and he will prescribe drugs to slow down the production of bile another sign of problems with the gallbladder dark yellow urine it can even be brown because bile partially consists of dead red blood cells, so it is possible to change the color of urine and stool if there is a gallstone due to which bile goes back to the liver and then to the skin, then jaundice is possible this is when the skin and whites of the eyes turn yellow another symptom is vomiting here Imagine if the bile ducts are blocked and bile goes back into you will feel sick if excess bile leads to diarrhea then a lack of bile leads to constipation because in this case there is no lubrication I think we need to discuss the causes of problems with the gallbladder It's interesting that when someone has gallbladder problems, they are told not to eat fats and to follow a low-fat diet, and this is wrong. Because fats and proteins cause gallbladder contractions and bile secretion, so following a low-fat diet puts a person at risk of developing gallstones. If you have gallstones, it's not harmful for you to eat a little more fat. Thanks to this, more bile will be produced. Other typical causes of this problem include birth control pills, a surge in estrogen due to pregnancy, and any estrogen therapy is another reason. High cortisol levels due to stress or taking prednisone. insulin is another reason. Those who eat a lot of carbohydrates have high insulin levels and are more prone to gallstones. Therefore, many diabetics probably eat a lot of carbohydrates and have more problems with gallstones. Also, certain medications that remove acid from the stomach or block it, such as PI, create a risk of gallstones. This is probably because hydrochloric acid also causes bile secretion. After all, when protein or fat enters the stomach, the liver receives a signal to store enough bile in the gallbladder to digest this fatty piece of meat.  If you remove the acid from the stomach, these signals to the liver may not reach, so sometimes someone needs to restore the appearance of bile by putting the stomach in order, adding hydrochloric acid in the form of betaine hydrochloride. It is important to know everything about the gallbladder and all the possible causes of its problems in order to identify the cause and find an individual solution to eliminate it. As you can see, this problem can have many different causes. There is an interesting relationship between melatonin and bile. In people with low melatonin levels, cholesterol is more easily converted into stone. Chinese medicine uses bile salts to reduce high temperatures. With the help of bile salts, you can reduce inflammation. Bile salts help increase the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins. Vitamins A and B. Bile salts help prevent excessive growth of microbes. Keep them in check. How to eliminate these problems? I recommend taking some form of purified bile salts immediately after meals, one or two capsules, and on an empty stomach. I would take a product called Tutka. Tutka is a special bile salt that works better if taken on an empty stomach because then it thins the bile. It is excellent for many  problems especially from sediment And if you take it with food, it acts more on the food itself and not on what is inside the liver and body, this is usually a gallstone or Wasp fiber, which is found in greens, can also help cope with this problem, it is very useful for the liver, normalizes cholesterol and also reduces the likelihood of cholesterol turning into a stone And the last thing Do not switch to a low-fat diet I already said that fats and proteins increase the production of bile, but I did not say that ketones, a product of burning fat, also promote contraction of the gallbladder, that is, ketones help increase the production of bile and also enhance the contraction of the gallbladder to secrete bile Are you sure that everything is ok with your gallbladder And if there are stones in it, should it be removed And if the gallbladder was removed, how to eat properly to avoid complications How to deal with constipation, colic, bloating and nausea I will talk about this in my course on the gallbladder, sign up at the link below See you