I will give 12 tips for burning fat, anyone can apply them with ease, the goal is to optimize your actions to achieve the greatest effect in losing weight, let's start with number one, you need to consume animal proteins in moderation. I would say that women need a portion of protein the size of a palm and men twice as much, but carbohydrates should be few. After all, if there are a lot of carbohydrates, the body will work on carbohydrates, it will not work on its own fat. The metabolic switch that allows us to use our fat is regulated by the amount of carbohydrates eaten. Carbohydrates should be less than 50 grams. As for fat in the diet, I would not worry about this. There is enough fat, which is usually found in protein foods, this fat will allow you to get rid of the feeling of hunger and cravings for food and start burning fat. Number two, focus not on losing weight as such, but on what underlies this problem, which is insulin resistance. insulin resistance is caused by essentially four factors: excess carbohydrates, too frequent meals, stress, inflammation. When a person constantly eats something that irritates the intestines, this can cause insulin resistance How to understand that you have it. Symptoms of insulin resistance can be a lot of bloating, belching, indigestion, heartburn, and so on. My advice to you is to eat leafy greens as carbohydrates. Greens are the carbohydrates you need to eat. Yes, greens have carbohydrates, but they also have a lot of fiber, and you won’t have to count greens in the carbohydrates you eat. Number three, don’t eat. If you’re not hungry, get rid of the habit of eating by the clock or eating because everyone else is eating. Ask yourself if I’m really hungry. Do I need to eat now or should I not eat for a while? After all, when you cut carbohydrates, the body begins to use more fat, and now you go between meals, you eat your own fat. Although not getting calories from food sounds strange, but you won’t be hungry, you won’t have cravings for food. So why eat if the body is already eating? You’ve caught the wave. So, wait until you’re really hungry. Walk for 5 minutes every hour and come back. Use every opportunity to move. That’s what I do. I live on  I walk up and down hills all over the farm. Exercise and walking are very important for reducing stress and improving sleep at night. It helps burn off cortisol and adrenaline. Number five, avoid grains, and not just grains with gluten, but all grains, even if some grains are gluten-free or have had it removed. These empty carbohydrates in the form of starches and synthetic sugars derived from varnishes cause severe inflammation in the intestines, make the intestines leaky, and can even cause autoimmune disease. So, sugars are obtained from varnishes: synthetic sugars, starches, modified food corn starch, and oils from seeds. In addition, if the intestines are inflamed, the fiber in grains irritates the large intestine and increases inflammation. Because, as a rule, with intestinal inflammation, the balance of microflora in it is disturbed; most likely, this imbalance is the cause of inflammation. If you consume more fiber when the intestines are severely inflamed, you feed pathogens, the balance of microflora is disturbed even more, the situation worsens, and so- called glutamine heals the intestines.  There is glutamine in meat, there is also glutamine in cabbage. That's why cabbage and meat usually go well together. Number six, don't allow yourself to keep any junk food in your home. I've made this a firm rule for myself and don't allow junk food to be in the house. After all, I can give in to temptation and eat it if I'm bored. It's very important not to give in to temptation and not even allow junk food to be around. Talk to your family and try to get them to agree with this. After all, if you keep junk food in the house, you'll probably eat it. Number seven, avoid places where temptation will lie in wait for you, be it a restaurant or some kind of meeting. I would avoid such places, because in such places there are people who encourage you to eat junk food. This happens all the time. Number two, avoid your food. I'm talking about food that has undergone deep technological processing or is packaged in such a way that it has no expiration date; it can be stored. It's always something canned, ready-made, packaged, refined. Number two,  cold therapy what I mean you can take a cold shower an ice bath or you can just spend a lot more time outside in the winter and cool down that's what happens when the body is cold the body has one very important fixed temperature of 36.6 when we find ourselves in the cold the body has to resist with all its might and raise the temperature this is a survival mechanism and it begins to burn a huge amount of calories from the so -called brown fat brown fat is activated by the cold and partially burns white fat and the body begins to spend a lot of calories with the sole purpose of raising the temperature and so you find yourself in the cold you do nothing you don't even need to exercise you are just cold and the body burns more calories depending on how long you are in the cold number 10 adaptogens are also an excellent remedy one of them ashwagandha B1 is an excellent remedy for stress reduction vitamin D helps reduce stress these three remedies are very important 11 avoid glyphosate this is a chemical that is found in homo products I will explain why you should avoid glyphosate and in which products there is a lot of it glyphosate acts as an antibiotic it harms our microorganisms in the intestines And this  It can easily cause inflammation, lead to weight gain, and a host of other problems. Glyphosate is found in large quantities in all cereals, corn, soy, canola, and oils from all of these seeds. Glyphosate is found in all wheat products and in non-organic foods. When you buy chicken, beef, and other foods at the store, what do you think they were fed? Grain number 12. Apple cider vinegar. It indirectly helps you lose weight. Nothing special. Just dilute it with water and drink it. It lowers blood sugar and insulin resistance. And to learn more about how to help yourself and others, check out Dr. Berg's workshop, a coach on intermittent fasting and the Keto diet. More than 70 lessons, notes, tables, and lists. And most importantly, Dr. Berg's thirty years of experience, which you can adopt in 3 months of training. Get a certificate. Become a Keto coach. Help people and achieve great success. Work from home on your schedule. Do what you like. Sign up for the course using the link below.